July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Takeaways and virtual meetups: New normal redefines Kolkata’s club culture||For over 100 days, Kolkata’s elite adda zones – the colonial era clubs – had to keep their doors shut for patrons. Though unlocking has enabled them to reopen, the legendary club culture – patrons enjoying a day at the races, playing golf, meeting up for a drink after work, enjoying exclusive gigs and parties, or going for a swim – has been redefined by the pandemic. With no permission to serve liquor on their premises, strict social distancing norms and the fresh set of containment zone rules, city clubs are trying to make the most of the new normal. CT took a quick trip around the elegant and once-buzzing venues to take stock. Missing the good life: MembersIndrani Ghosh, member of four city clubs for decades, misses the ‘clubbing life’. But she admitted that the fear of the virus looms large. “Things are tense now. Anyone can be asymptomatic, and I might get affected. Though I haven’t been to any of the clubs in the past three months, I am not sure how much longer I can stay away,” she said. For Saptaparna Ray, going to her club on Southern Avenue was a part of her ‘daily life’. “We’d go for a swim, to play badminton, catch up with our friends over lunch or dinner and take part in various club activities. It’s disheartening to be cut off from everything,” she rued. Open with limited facilities: ClubsThe phased unlocking has inspired some clubs to take baby steps towards normalcy, with restricted access and limited functions. While racing and other contact sporting activities are closed, a few clubs are allowing members to take away their signature dishes and alcohol in sealed bottles. For many members, the familiar taste of the club classics, such as the chicken sandwiches, grilled bhetki or prawn cutlets, draws them back to the club canteens for takeaways. For others, it is the missed practice sessions of golf, squash, tennis or badminton, that have resumed at some of the venues. Prashant Jalan, member and one of the golf team captains, is one of the hopefuls. “So far, I’ve stayed away from the club, but I intend to go there in the coming week as I am badly missing my golf sessions,” he said. Virtual socialisingSome have moved their social activities online. Junior VP of one such club known for its jazz festivals and quiz sessions, Leslie D’Gama, said, “I named it distance socialising. We are hosting a number of events online with our musician members, talent shows with children, family quiz contests, sessions with doctors where we discuss wellness, sleep therapy and mental health. Members are active and enthusiastic about it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/takeaways-and-virtual-meetups-new-normal-redefines-kolkatas-club-culture/articleshow/76930107.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Patachitra’s brush with the pandemic||As the pandemic continues to mercilessly strengthen its grip over people across the globe, it has now started reflecting in the country’s folk art as well. The ‘babu culture’ of the 19th century Calcutta just had a brush with the current pandemic in each of the 14 frames of Kalighat Patachitra that artist Anwar Chitrakar has painted during the lockdown. “There are over 100 families in my village, Naya, in Midnapore. All of them are patuyas (artists), who sing and tell stories through their paintings. I wanted to play with the style and stand out,” said Anwar, who has contemporised his paintings with a touch of humour and experimentation. In one of his paintings, an old man is seen saluting a young couple wearing masks. In another, a scared middle-aged couple covers their faces as they talk to a cop. Even the well-being of wildlife is reflected in his humourous series. All of Anwar’s family members are painters, and he learnt the art from his father. “All my forefathers used to sing and paint. After trying out different professions, I got back to painting. We always choose current topics. Maoist attacks, chit fund scam, environment hazards and several other news topics have been a part of my paintings. I even tried to adapt the figure style of Bankura, Purulia and Bihar patachitra frames and added a dash of colour palate from my village,” said Anwar, whose coronavirus patachitra is currently being showcased at a digital exhibition. While Anwar’s paintings follow the 19th century Kalighat pata-style figures, several other traditional patuyas of Naya have integrated the pandemic in their frames and songs. Swarna Chitrakar, a patuya in her fifties, has composed four scrolls reflecting the COVID-19 scare. “While one of my paintings had gone to IIT-Kharagpur, another one was displayed at an exhibition in Delhi. I am currently working on two more. One depicts the story of coronavirus and dengue, and the other one shows how people are reuniting with their families, taking a forced break from their otherwise busy lives, due to the lockdown,” she said. Manu Chitrakar has painted a series of patachitra frames around the pandemic. While one shows how the lockdown has affected everyone, irrespective of their religion, caste and gender, another one shows the collective prayers from different communities. One of his works also pays tribute to the doctors working relentlessly on the frontline. While elaborating, he said, “Patuyas usually capture the current time in their artworks. We have done that too. These tales will continue to live on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patachitras-brush-with-the-pandemic/articleshow/76930182.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
July 13, 2020||India||Indore hotspot where women doctors were attacked heals itself||The first attack on doctors helping Covid patients in India took place in Taatpati Bakhalin in Indore. Today, the area is Covid-free, and visiting doctors are showered with petals. TOI, in association with Facebook, today begins a series of stories of hope and courage, that illustrate how India is fighting back against coronavirusBarely three months ago, the locality of Taatpati Bakhal shot to infamy following the first attack in the country on doctors attempting to attend to Covid patients. Even as other attacks followed elsewhere, Taatpati Bakhal was referred to with derision and indignation. A lot has changed since then. There has not been a single Coronavirus case here in two months and what was once a hotspot — in more ways than one — is now a benchmark in Covid-19 recovery. It’s the elders of the locality who took the lead, and went around counselling residents not to heed rumours and to cooperate with the health teams. Screening teams were escorted by influential people of the locality, who ensured that closed doors opened for them. Nowadays, screening teams are welcomed with showers of flower petals and drum beats. It’s a far cry from the traumatic events of April 1, 2020. Indore had by then emerged as the Covid-19 hotspot in Madhya Pradesh, and Taatpati Bakhal as one of the high-risk zones. Rumours were swirling around in the charged atmosphere and when a health team arrived that morning, they came under attack. Stones were pelted from rooftops and men carrying sticks came charging at two women doctors. This was all caught on video. What was once a quiet locality of 200 homes was suddenly catapulted to front pages and TV screens across the country. The government cracked down hard and charged the suspects under the National Security Act. Then, the healing started. While residents took it upon themselves to spread awareness, the health workers who had been attacked put up a stunning example by returning to the same place to carry on with their work. Dr Zakiya Sayyed and Dr Trupti Katdari said despite the attack, they were determined not to accept defeat. “Be it Covid-19 or rude behavior of people, we were prepared to overcome anything to save lives,” they said. They were in for a surprise. Instead of brickbats, they were showered with apologies, praise and petals. Seniors of the locality were waiting to greet them and escorted them from house to house. “There was a huge positive change in the behavior of the locals. We believe it ended up saving lives,” the doctors said. The densely packed locality — 1,100 people live in a 100 sqm patch — reported 37 Covid cases and a death within the first few weeks. Scores were sent to institutional quarantine or hospital. But for the last two months, it has had a clean slate. One of the people the doctors screened was 75-year-old Jegunnisha Bi, whose grandson was among those arrested for the attack. “After the incident, the entire locality apologised to the survey team. We assured full support to the authorities,” said Jegunnisha Bi, who is now back to running her small grocery shop. “Life should not stop,” she said. This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.Watch Indore hotspot where women doctors were attacked heals itself||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indore-hotspot-where-women-doctors-were-attacked-heals-itself/articleshow/76928123.cms||Sagar Choukse
July 13, 2020||India||Cop accused of being Dubey’s mole fears being killed by UP Police, seeks SC protection||NEW DELHI: Starting a new norm of police seeking protection from police, an arrested sub-inspector on Sunday moved the Supreme Court apprehending danger from encounter specialists in UP Police, who killed gangster Vikas Dubey and five of his associates within a week of the killing of eight policemen in Bikru village on July 3. Accused of being Dubey's mole who tipped him off about an impending police raid that led to heavy firing by the gangster and his associates, resulting in the death of the cops, the sub-inspector of Chaubeypur police station, K K Sharma, and his wife Vinita Sirohi requested the SC for a CBI probe into the July 3 incident on the ground that the deaths of colleagues would make the probe by UP Police biased. Sharma and his wife also feared for their lives after the encounter killings of Dubey and his five associates. Such is his fear of getting killed in an encounter that Sharma requested the SC that he must not be brought out of the jail and that his interrogation should take place inside the prison. "After seeing the incidents of encounters of the alleged accused persons in the present FIR (July 3 incident), petitioner is of the confirmed opinion and has full apprehension that her husband may be eliminated by adopting illegal and unconstitutional means," Sirohi said while moving the petition for her husband and herself. "The incidents of encounters of alleged accused persons named in the FIR fully prove the fact that UP Police have no faith in courts of law and the law of the land and are giving final verdict of punishment by adopting illegal and unconstitutional manners," she said and referred to a pending petition by the NGO People's Union for Civil Liberties which sought a probe into encounter killings in UP during 2016-18. Incidentally, PUCL had moved an application in the SC on Saturday seeking a court-monitored probe into the encounter killings of Dubey and his associates. The arrested sub-inspector and his wife said, "Actions of UP Police and its agencies have proven that no accused is safe even in their custody and such incidents of extra-judicial killings of accused persons have eroded the confidence of the accused as well as the general public from the rule of law and the principles enshrined in the Constitution." Sirohi said Sharma was unable to "come directly before the SC since he is confined to jail and due to lockdown in the whole of UP, he is unable to approach this court directly". She said she was unable to contact her husband and apprehended danger to her life. On the accusation of being Dubey's mole, the petitioner said, "Sharma was directed by his in-charge Vinay Tiwari to remain at the (Chaubeypur) police station and told him in the night that he is going in a team for the arrest of some criminal as per the instructions to him on phone with further instructions to conduct a cross-checking at GT Crossing Road (sic). The contents of the alleged general diary details itself is proof (sic) and speak volumes of the lies being circulated by UP Police. Sharma is being falsely accused of trying to run away whereas it is a matter of record that he was living in the quarters situated within the premises of the police station."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cop-accused-of-being-dubeys-mole-fears-being-killed-by-up-police-seeks-sc-protection/articleshow/76930319.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 13, 2020||India||HC ex-judge to probe Vikas Dubey ‘encounter’||LUCKNOW: A day after setting up an SIT to probe slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s alleged nexus with politicians and bureaucrats, the UP government on Sunday instituted a judicial inquiry by a retired high court judge into the July 10 “encounter” in which he was killed while being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain in a police convoy. The inquiry commission of former Justice Shashi Kant Agarwal will also probe all aspects of the ambush by Dubey’s gang in which eight police personnel, including a DSP, were killed in Bikru village near Kanpur on July 3. The commission will submit its report to the government within two months. To be based in Kanpur, the Agarwal commission will look into all encounters between the police and members of Dubey’s gang between July 3 and July 10, a government spokesperson said. The commission’s brief is to unearth how Dubey and his associates allegedly formed a nexus with police personnel and officials in other departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-ex-judge-to-probe-vikas-dubey-encounter/articleshow/76930440.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 13, 2020||India||In Dubey death, Mayawati finds plank to placate Brahmins||LUCKNOW: Drawing on her tried-and-tested social engineering formula, BSP chief and four-time Uttar Pradesh CM Mayawati on Sunday said the Brahmin community should not have to pay for the misdeeds of slain gangster Vikas Dubey just because he was one of their own. In a series of tweets that reinforced her Brahmin outreach, the Dalit czarina said, “They (Brahmins) are terrorised and living in fear, and this needs to be addressed”. Mayawati advised BJP to avoid politics in Dubey’s name or doing anything that instils fear in the Brahmin community. “The state government needs to regain public confidence and act on the basis of strong evidence,” she said. Brahmins, who form 10.5% of the population in UP, had closed ranks with Dalits and OBCs to hoist the BSP supremo as CM for the fourth time in 2007. The consolidation of upper caste votes, especially Brahmins, paid rich dividends for BSP, particularly in the 80 reserved seats where the party had fared poorly in the past. While batting for Brahmins as being more sinned against than sinning in the context of Dubey’s reign of terror, Mayawati did not lose sight of her Dalit, OBC and Muslim boroughs. She accused the BJP government of targeting people of the three communities in the name of going after criminals. “It is not until the state government is honest and cracks down on goons without discrimination, can the state be freed of crime,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-dubey-death-mayawati-finds-plank-to-placate-brahmins/articleshow/76930489.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 13, 2020||India||Sachin Pilot seethes, believes police probe a bid to hound him out||NEW DELHI: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s ‘strike’ against Sachin Pilot has left the younger leader seething, who sees being asked to join a police investigation into an alleged BJP plot to topple the government as a provocative act intended to corner him by insinuating his role in the events. The deputy CM, who set aside his claim for the top post reluctantly on the urging of the Congress leadership, is understood to be deeply unhappy with the special operations group, which is seen to have powers to tap phones and monitor movements, and the view in his camp is that the “targeting” cannot go on. Rajasthan political crisis: Live updatesPilot has responded to allegations of being a possible catalyst for defections that can facilitate in Rajasthan the BJP’s Madhya Pradesh-Karnataka model by saying that he has worked wholeheartedly to bring Congress to office in the desert state. His camp does, however, wonder if Gehlot is acting unilaterally, taking advantage of an organisational vacuum at the centre, or has some tacit support in Delhi. Read AlsoDesert Storm: Sachin Pilot revolts, says Gehlot govt in minority; dy CM claims support of 30 MLAsBreaking his silence over the political crisis in Rajasthan triggered by the state police registering an FIR over an alleged plot to topple the government and a special police team calling deputy CM Sachin Pilot to join the investigation, Pilot released an official statement saying CM Ashok GehlotAt any rate, Pilot is likely to take a decision — which is not spelt out — soon even as his camp denies reports of him having spoken to BJP chief J P Nadda. He does seem let down, as he “stepped aside” on the urging of Rahul Gandhi, sources close to him said. If there was a suggestion that his time would come, events thereafter have seen Gehlot consolidate his control. Pilot too has taken several potshots at the CM and functioning of the state government. As the drama kicked off by the police FIR over the alleged plot, the naming of Pilot a player in the report and Gehlot’s direct remarks about the deputy CM at a press conference in Jaipur on Saturday has brought in the open the ‘Gehlot vs Pilot’ tussle which has hobbled the Congress government since the start in December 2018. “That’s the straw that broke the camel’s back,” a source close to Pilot said. Read AlsoNumbers in way of a lotus bloom in RajasthanUnlike Madhya Pradesh, the gap between Congress and BJP in Rajasthan is big. CM Ashok Gehlot boasts of the support of 107 Congress MLAs besides 13 Independents, two Bharatiya Tribal Party members and one belonging to RLD. The odds remain steep and BJP also needs to figure out how Sachin Pilot is toAs PCC chief, Pilot fancied himself for the CM’s post during the elections but old warhorse Gehlot was selected by the party leadership after the victory, resulting in heartburn that has been evident over the last one-and-a-half years. Pilot, who is still the Rajasthan Congress chief, was camping in the national capital during the weekend. He is learnt to have spoken to managers close to the party leadership while also pointing out that his supporters were asking him not to take the “humiliation” lying down. Pilot’s camp feels options in the party are being ruled out for him, pointing to similar allegations made during the Rajya Sabha elections last month. Then, Gehlot had voiced fears that BJP was trying to wean away MLAs though Congress later polled all the votes due to it. “They were earlier firing at Pilot by naming BJP. This time, Pilot himself has been named,” the source said, adding, “It is being done deliberately to humiliate him and brand him the villain.” Watch Rajasthan political crisis: CM Ashok Gehlot and deputy CM Sachin Pilot headed for showdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pilot-seethes-believes-police-probe-a-bid-to-hound-him-out/articleshow/76930540.cms||---
July 13, 2020||India||When will we wake up? Kapil Sibal voices angst over Congress crisis||NEW DELHI: As the Rajasthan Congress drama stoked the barely-forgotten memories of government collapse in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, worry lines deepened in party ranks over concerns that the organisation was in the grip of a serious crisis that has not really abated since the Lok Sabah rout while the leadership remained indifferent and in a state of denial. The sentiment was articulated by lawyer-MP Kapil Sibal who tweeted, “Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables?” Another lawyer-MP Vivek Tankha supported the remark. The comments come even as party loyalists have mounted their latest bid to convince Rahul Gandhi to “return” as party chief. Others in the party feel these distractions have seen a steady stream of exits from Congress which do not seem to be halting. The public display of concern reflects how the Congress camp is wracked by heated discussions as leaders argue that the events are rooted in the leadership vacuum arising from Rahul’s resignation as party chief. “Nobody has any clarity on what is to be done. There is no authority,” an MP from a strong Congress turf said. Though he has stepped down, Rahul has not stepped aside. He continues to lead a strongly personalised attack on PM Narendra Modi — which some feel has not worked — while organisational work has not received the attention it clearly demands. Pilot is weighing options. If there is no reconciliation, he may join the BJP or float a regional party. Congress insiders said he was “determined to topple the government”. If it happens, Congress will lose another young turk after Jyotiraditya Scindia, both incidentally close to Rahul. Scindia promptly took to Twitter to say Pilot was being persecuted in Congress which had no respect for talent. Linked to the rudderlessness is the “absentee leadership” in Congress. While Sonia Gandhi was elected the interim chief after Rahul’s resignation, Congress is faced with the problem that party sentiment remains aligned with the first family .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/when-will-we-wake-up-kapil-sibal-voices-angst-over-congress-crisis/articleshow/76930559.cms||---
July 13, 2020||India||Centre not in favour of call to cancel university exams||NEW DELHI: Citing that many states and over 200 universities had already completed their terminal semester/final year examinations, the Centre has told states that assessment for the final year students have to be conducted in the long-term interest of the students. While saying that the government will examine the requests of six states for cancellation of examination of the final year students due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, a senior official at the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) said that the regulations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) are mandatory and central directions take precedence. On July 6, UGC’s revised guidelines directed the higher education institutions that final year examinations would be conducted in the month of September 2020. Speaking to TOI, Amit Khare, secretary, higher education. MHRD said that while only six states have written to it for reconsidering the UGC’s decision on final year examinations, there are 200 universities across the country which have already completed the process. On a few states announcing the cancellation of examinations, Khare said: “The UGC regulations are mandatory and it has been clearly stated that examinations have to take place by September, 2020. Higher education being in the Concurrent List, central directions take precedence. As per the UGC Act, state governments cannot take this decision. UGC and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) have to be implemented.” He said the MHRD and UGC, instead of taking a populist step of cancelling the exams, is concerned about the situation and is taking a long term view in the interest of the batch of 2020. Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Maharashtra, Odisha and West Bengal have written to the Centre saying that conducting exams in the states would not be feasible and on Saturday, Delhi also became the ?rst state to cancel exams after the announcement of the revised UGC guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-not-in-favour-of-call-to-cancel-university-exams/articleshow/76930610.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
July 13, 2020||India||Overharvesting turns ‘Himalayan viagra’ into a ‘vulnerable’ species||DEHRADUN: The world’s costliest fungus — Ophiocordyceps sinensis — also known as Himalayan Viagra, which sells in international markets for upwards of Rs 20 lakh per kg, has entered the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species, the world’s most comprehensive information source on the global conservation status of animal, fungi and plant species. The list which was released on July 9, has placed the fungus, known for its aphrodisiac and rejuvenation properties, in the ‘vulnerable’ category. Citing the reason for placing the fungus in the vulnerable category, IUCN said “its spread has declined by at least 30% over the past 15 years as a result of overharvesting.” The fungus, also known as keeda jadi in Uttarakhand because of its caterpillar-like appearance, is endemic to the Himalayan and Tibetan plateau and is found in China, Bhutan, Nepal and India. In India, it is primarily found in Uttarakhand in the higher reaches of districts like Pithoragarh and Chamoli. Speaking to TOI, Vivek Saxena, India representative of IUCN, said, “The purpose of putting the fungus in the Red List under the ‘vulnerable category’ is to ensure that proper government policies are implemented in order to conserve it so that it remains in the wild.” Meanwhile, the inclusion in the Red List is going to impact hundreds of villagers of Uttarakhand who were dependent on collecting the fungus as their primary source of livelihood. The fungus sells locally for around Rs 10 lakh per kg and goes on to be sold in international markets like China (where it is highly prized) at upwards of Rs 20 lakh per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/overharvesting-turns-himalayan-viagra-into-a-vulnerable-species/articleshow/76930622.cms||Shivani Azad
July 13, 2020||India||LAC face-off: India to push China for maps to clarify claim lines, actual control||NEW DELHI: India plans to push the Chinese side for an exchange of maps in the western sector after the process of disengagement and de-escalation is complete and Indian troops go back to their old patrolling posts. Government officials said this would clarify each other’s claim lines and actual control, which would make management and patrolling protocols easier. China has so far refused to exchange maps in this sector. Even after 22 rounds of talks on the boundary question, it has shown no inclination to exchange maps or clarify the LAC, having exchanged maps for only the central sector. While a resolution of the boundary question is a distance away, the Galwan clashes, India hopes, is sufficient reason to clarify this sector. China’s reluctance to exchange maps led to the suspicion that they want to keep it fluid to be able to change the situation on the ground. India-China stand-off: Complete coverageHigh level government sources said the disengagement was currently underway to get both countries to move their troops back from the forward positions they had moved to in the past few months. This is being monitored closely, certainly by India. This is expected to be followed by a de-escalation by moving back troops and weapons from what is called ‘depth areas’. “It’s not as if we’re conceding territory to them,” an official involved in the negotiations said. The process is expected to take a long time. Meanwhile, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) gave a grant of $1 million to the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) to “strengthen the financial and cultural resilience of the Tibetan people and contribute towards sustained resilience of the Tibetan people’s economic and cultural identity”. This is the first time the Tibetan government in exile has received direct funding from the US (with a nod from India) for development assistance. The Sikyong (prime minister) of the CTA, Lobsang Sangay, was quoted as saying, “The awarding of direct funding to the CTA fulfils a long desired aspiration and represents the culmination of many years of effort since my first term.” This is part of the new elements that have encroached on the India-China relationship. The events of the past couple of months, culminating in the bloody clashes in Galwan Valley, will mean that fresh boundary management rules will have to be worked out between the two sides. “Several decades of confidence building measures and protocols for boundary management, patrolling protocols etc have all been destroyed. We have to go back to the drawing board,” an official said. The degree of mistrust is the highest it has ever been between the two neighbours. Military strategists and China observers said India should avoid the Doklam outcome, where the Chinese built up positions on their side after the disengagement at the face-off site. If this is repeated in Ladakh, it could have serious implications for both sides, but more so for India, which occupies much more hostile terrain than China. Watch India pushes China for maps to clarify claim lines, actual control in Ladakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-push-china-for-maps-to-clarify-claim-lines-actual-control/articleshow/76930654.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 13, 2020||Business||We’re hiring: Companies placed over 200 top execs in 3 months||MUMBAI: The last three months have been tumultuous for businesses, but leadership hiring has remained relatively unaffected. Industry estimates reveal that more than 200 executives have been placed in the last three months, a period which witnessed industries virtually shutting factories in the early part, with demand coming down to zero. Given the anecdotal evidence of large companies announcing appointments of CXOs/CEOs, substantiated with what executive search firms have told TOI, leadership hiring hasn’t stopped at all.Several senior executives and leaders have been hired by leading groups like RPG Enterprises and Wipro. Stanton Chase managing partner Amit Agarwal said, “We track leadership hiring across sectors and what we understand is that more than 200 senior joinings have taken place in the last few months. Some of these search mandates had started in December-January and offers were made by March this year. The best part is neither candidates backed out nor have companies gone back on these offers due to the Covid-19-led business uncertainty.” The demand for top talent continues. One of our senior appointees was made a counter-offer by his current employer. He, however, decided to move on. "Every year around May/June, enquiries from clients on possible hires start to accelerate. “This year, too, action has started pretty much on the same timelines. Of course, the numbers may not be the same as last year—they would be 30% down on a comparative basis. Sectors like hospitality & travel are badly impacted, while some managed to move on with minimal impact. Some are actually doing better, for example, tech infra, insurance, agri & e-commerce,” Stanton Chase managing partner Mala Chawla said. RPG Enterprises president (group HR) S Venkatesh said, “In Ceat, we have hired a global head of sales and built a different set of competencies within the organisation. The position did not exist earlier and we felt we needed someone who will consolidate all domestic and global sales and report directly to the COO. When you get the right candidate, it’s best to hire him/her. Six months down the line, you may not find the right candidate. So when the situation improves in the second half, we would be in a good position to make progress. This is talent investment at its best.” Hiring firms said there has been no change in the manner in which negotiations take place with regard to compensation and other matters. Structuring of compensation packages have, however, undergone a change, said Executive Access India MD Ronesh Puri. “Organisations are keen on increasing the variable pay limits of leadership candidates to nearly 50% as against 30-40% in the pre-Covid era. We are telling companies it’s a good time to hire now because even candidate expectations are slightly muted and much more realistic. Earlier, people would even look for doubling of their pay packets if there was no push factor and they expected a huge premium before considering a plum post. We are in discussion with a number of organisations on new leadership hires as companies are reassessing their current talent and are getting good new mandates as well. But is the market on fire? The answer would be no,” said Puri. “We’re hiring at pre-Covid salaries,” said Venkatesh, adding, “Although Covid-19 is a black swan event, even pre-Covid we were looking at the world becoming increasingly chaotic. We wanted to hire people with a certain set of capabilities. We want our leaders to have a huge amount of resilience, an ability to put up with long periods of uncertainty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/were-hiring-cos-placed-over-200-top-execs-in-3-months/articleshow/76930678.cms||Namrata Singh
July 13, 2020||India||Place 2-child cap for panchayat polls, Union minister tells UP||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan has made an appeal to the Uttar Pradesh government to bring a law and bar those having more than two children from contesting panchayat polls in the state. Several states, like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, have brought their own laws restricting people with more than two children from contesting local body elections. Uttarakhand had also introduced a similar law, but the state’s high court later struck it down. Balyan, who is an elected MP from Muzaffarnagar, made the request in a letter written to UP CM Yogi Adityanath on the occasion of World Population Day on Saturday. Polls to state panchayat bodies are expected to be held in the coming six months. In the letter, Balyan expressed apprehension over the UP’s population — which is now more than 23 crore. He claimed if UP brings this law, it will set a precedent and help bring down the population. “Our state should start a campaign to control the population. And it can be started from the next panchayat poll. Anyone who has more than two children should not be allowed to contest the next poll. On the occasion of World Population Day, I request you to please consider launching this campaign in your supervision,” Balyan wrote. He told TOI later, “When our country got Independence, the population was about 36 crore. It has exceeded 136 crore now. I strongly feel that figure will reach 150 crore by 2050. The time has come to make a law to control the population.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/place-2-child-cap-for-panchayat-polls-union-minister-tells-up/articleshow/76930692.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 13, 2020||Business||Total revamp of Railways on cards, new agenda for key panel||NEW DELHI: The government is looking at a comprehensive revamp of state-run transport behemoth Indian Railways and has ordered a fresh mandate for a high powered panel of secretaries to fast-track innovative financing for its projects, monetising assets of the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation, corporatisation of productions units and monetisation of existing assets. Last year, the railway ministry had set up an empowered group of secretaries (EGoS) for development of 50 railway stations to global standards and permit private passenger train operators to run 150 trains with world class technology over the country’s railway network. The group was headed by Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant and members included the railway board chairman, secretary of department of economic affairs, secretary of ministry of housing and urban affairs and the financial commissioner of railways. The terms of reference of the EGoS included approval of the bidding process, monitoring of bidding and taking decisions to ensure award of projects in a time-bound manner. Now, the terms of reference have been widened and the tenure of the EGoS has been extended by another year. Official said the new EGoS, which will have economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj as one of the members, can also include secretary of corporate affairs, secretary of labour and employment, secretary of department of expenditure and secretary of department of personnel and training. “The EGoS has fulfilled its earlier mandate effectively. There is considerable progress in station development as well as running of trains by private operators and now there is a new mandate to improve railways finances and ensure that new financing options are explored,” said an official who did not wish to be identified. The new terms of reference of the EGoS also include innovative financing of railways projects for increased investment in the state-run transporter, development of railway infrastructure through hybrid annuity and other modes and operationalisation of the Rail Development Authority. The official said there was a view within the railway ministry and the government that there was an urgent need to inject professionalism across the set-up and ensure that funds were better utilised as well as production units were better and professionally managed. The railways has seven production units for manufacturing coaches, wheel and axles, among other things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/total-revamp-of-railways-on-cards-new-agenda-for-key-panel/articleshow/76930696.cms||Surojit Gupta
July 13, 2020||India||Delhi rates to apply in other states for CGHS Covid treatment||NEW DELHI: Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) beneficiaries living in states that are yet to fix Covid-19 treatment charges in private hospitals will pay as per the rates prescribed by the Delhi government until their states fix their own charges. In an official memorandum issued recently, the health ministry directed that CGHS rates for treatment of Covid 19 in private empanelled hospitals in respect of CGHS beneficiaries in a city shall be as per the package rate prescribed by the concerned state government. “In case, no such rate has been prescribed by the state government in any CGHS city, the rates prescribed by the government of NCT Delhi, shall be applicable till rates are notified by the concerned state government,” the memorandum said. According to the charges announced by the Delhi government on 20 June, an isolation bed at a NABH-accredited hospital is Rs 10,000 per day, whereas that in non-NABH hospitals is Rs 8,000 per day. For very severe sickness, the charges for ICU with a ventilator jumps to Rs 18,000 and Rs 15,000, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-rates-to-apply-in-other-states-for-cghs-covid-treatment/articleshow/76930699.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 13, 2020||Meerut||‘Drunk’ cop shoots dead wife, then hangs himself in UP's Baghpat||MEERUT: A police constable, 35, allegedly shot dead his wife and then committed suicide by hanging himself in his house in Baghpat’s Ranchaar village. Neighbours claimed that the constable, Sonu, was a drunkard and often fought with his wife, Sakshi, who didn’t like his habit. On the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, Sonu reached home drunk, and had another round of fight with his wife, police said. A few hours later, neighbours heard a gunshot and went to the Sonu’s house to find if everything was fine, a police officer said. Later, police were called and the bodies were taken away to hospital. Baghpat superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Kumar said, “Sonu was deployed at Police Lines in Saharanpur and was on leave from March. An inquiry has been set up in the matter and the bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/drunk-cop-shoots-dead-wife-then-hangs-himself-in-ups-baghpat/articleshow/76928923.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 13, 2020||Surat||Yadav stirred rows in past too: Police||Surat: Top officials in the city police said that the woman has stoked other controversies too in the past few months. She has completed three years in service. Before lockdown, she had submitted a four-page complaint in Umra police station against a police control room (PCR) van alleging that the vehicle tried to crush her.“The van overtook her in speed as it was going to attend a call. The woman alleged that the van driver attempted to kill her and submitted a written application. She is not cooperating in investigation now,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. Police officers in Varachha police station received multiple complaints against the woman cop in the past 10 days after which her duty was changed a couple of times. “I received multiple complaints about misbehaviour and use of abusive language by her. She was warned and asked to behave properly but she continued it,” said C K Patel, assistant commissioner of police, A division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/yadav-stirred-rows-in-past-too-police/articleshow/76929437.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar becomes 14th state with over 16,000 Covid cases||PATNA: Bihar on Sunday became the 14th state in the country with more than 16,000 coronavirus cases. With 16,305 cases, including 1266 fresh Covid1-19 cases in state on Sunday, Bihar is at the 13th place, just above Assam (16,072) and below Madhya Pradesh (17,201) and Haryana (20,965), as per the data shared by Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday morning. Maharashtra remained on top, followed by Tamil Nadu and Delhi. The state on Sunday reported six deaths, taking the toll to 137. However, the state health department officially reported only 125 Covid deaths so far. Patna district has the highest number of 1,868 Covid cases so far, including 177 in the last 24 hours, the second highest in a single day so far. Patna has reported 800 more cases in a week since July 5. According to health department figures, 1,147 patients have been discharged after their subsequent test reports came negative. The number of active cases in Patna district stands at 706. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said there are 90 containment zones in the district, covering 15,981 homes and 74,476 people. “The maximum 34 containment zones are in Patna Sadar area, followed by 21 in Danapur, 20 in Patna City, eight in Paliganj and seven in Masaurhi,” he said. Meanwhile, antigen test for Covid-19 started at Gardiner Hospital and Rajbanshi Nagar Hospital for symptomatic people on Sunday. Five health workers were tested on the first day. Patna DM said around 2,000 antigen test kits have been provided in the first lot to the hospitals. “Only symptomatic or high-risk contacts will be tested there. Besides, five mobile teams have been formed for antigen testing. They will only conduct tests in areas with high number of positive cases reported, like Khajpura and Paliganj,” he said. Patna was followed by Siwan (98), Bhagalpur (81), Nalanda (78), Nawada (76), Begusarai (76), Muzaffarpur (72), Munger (61), West Champaran (54), Saran (47), Katihar (46), Bhojpur (40), Vaishali (36), Gaya (34) and 29 each in Lakhisarai and Rohtas districts so far as the maximum Covid-19 cases on Sunday are concerned. Altogether 11,953 patients have recovered and the active cases in the state stood at 4,227. Altogether 962 persons have been discharged from hospitals and isolation centres in the past 24 hours. Bihar now has the recovery rate of 73.31%. Three deaths were reported from NMCH-Patna, including that of a 58-year-old man from Dariyapur and another man (60) from Mithapur area. The third deceased was from Bhabhua. Nodal officer at NMCH, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said two Covid-19 patients died late Saturday night. “The man from Dariyapur died due to cardiac arrest. He was admitted on July 8 after testing positive. The Mithapur man died at 10.30am on Sunday. He was a diabetic and suffering from hypertension. A 54-year-old man from Bhabhua had asthma. He was referred to NMCH on July 11 after his report came positive. All the patients were symptomatic. Altogether 44 persons have died at NMCH so far,” he said. PMCH reported two deaths. Its nodal officer, Dr PN Jha, said a man (58) from Buddha Colony and another (48) from Vaishali had died on Friday night. “Their swab samples came positive on Sunday. Both had pneumonia,” he said. DMCH nodal officer Dr Praveen Kumar Singh confirmed the death of a woman (48) from Mahura under Sadar block in Darbhanga. The woman was suffering from acute breathlessness, mild fever and cough. Meanwhile, the first three cases in Bihar were reported on March 22. But the figures crossed 16,000 in just over 111 days. Around 5,194 Covid positive cases were reported in the state in just nine days. An analysis suggests the cases in Bihar doubled in the last 18 days. Altogether 8,032 cases have been reported in the state since June 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-becomes-14th-state-with-over-16000-covid-cases/articleshow/76929605.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 13, 2020||Surat||Surat columnist Nagindas Sanghavi dies at 100||Surat: Popular columnist, writer and political analyst Prof Nagindas Sanghavi died in the city on Sunday afternoon. He was 100. Paying his tributes at the centenarian’s demise, chief minister Vijay Rupani tweeted: “Saddened by the demise of renowned columnist Shri Nagindas Sanghavi. I pray for the departed soul. My condolences. Om Shanti.” Sanghavi, who had received Padma Shri, Indian’s fourth highest civilian honour in 2019 for his contribution, taught political science at the Bhavans College in Mumbai. He was also a teacher at Ruparel College and Mithibai College in Mumbai. Sanghavi has many books to his credit including ‘Gujarat: A political Analysis, Gujarat at CrossRoads’, ‘Geeta Vimarsha’ and ‘Narendra Modi’ among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-columnist-nagindas-sanghavi-dies-at-100/articleshow/76929298.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Count crosses 1.12 lakh, active cases at 19,000 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With 1,573 new cases, the cumulative count of Covid-19 positive patients in the capital reached 1,12,494 on Sunday. While 4,315 are currently hospitalised, 11,059 have been recuperating under home isolation, data shared by the Delhi government in its daily health bulletin revealed. The number of active cases in Delhi has come down to just 19,155 with 2,276 patients recovering on Sunday. Delhi’s death count increased to 3,371 with 37 more succumbing to the virus on Sunday. As per the health bulletin, 2,055 Covid-infected persons with mild symptoms have been staying at dedicated Covid care centres, while 153 are lodged in health centres. “The data reflects that the efforts being made by the government to contain the spread of the virus have been bearing fruits,” an official said. The cumulative count of tests — RT-PCR and rapid antigen detection — conducted in the city touched 7,89,853 on Sunday, which is now calculated at 41,571 per million. The government carried out 9,443 RT-PCR and 11,793 rapid antigen detection tests on Sunday. Authorities have asked district officials to conduct 20,000 rapid antigen tests every day, specially focusing on close contacts of Covid-19 patients and high-risk groups both inside and outside containment zones, special surveillance groups, those visiting hospitals for treatment with influenza-like illness symptoms and severe acute respiratory illness in government and private health facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/count-crosses-1-12-lakh-active-cases-at-19000/articleshow/76929798.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kanpur||Swarms of locusts invade several villages of district||Kanpur: Swarms of locusts invaded several villages of the district including Kakwan, Billhaur and Shivrajpur on Sunday. Agriculture officers swung into action and roped in fire tenders to spray chemicals to ward off the locusts. According to reports, a swarm in an area of nearly three km from neighbouring Kannauj entered Kakwan, Billhaur and Shivrajpur villages of the district on Sunday morning. The locust swarms have been coming in from Pakistan since the last one-and-a- half months and damaging crops along their path. Last month, huge swarms of locusts reached the semi-urban pockets of Kanpur in Katri area close to the Ganga, thereby alerting the police and villagers. The district authorities had the adopted measures to deal with locust attacks. District agriculture officer Ashish Kumar Singh said, “We have been apprising people time and again about the locust attack. We have stock of insecticides, pesticides, and all other measures are in place to deal with locust attacks. We were on our toes as soon as the swarms settled down on crops. Villagers beat drum and burst firecrackers to chase away the insects.” In Hindi parlance, locusts are popularly known as “tiddi dal” which are are migratory in nature and damage crops along their way. They fly during day time and settle down after dusk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/swarms-of-locusts-invade-several-villages-of-district/articleshow/76930125.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata prays for a Mumbai corona patient||KOLKATA: It was an anxious day for Amitabh Bachchan fans in Kolkata even as they took part in yajnas and remained glued to the TV and internet to keep tabs on the megastar’s health updates. Their worries were compounded by the news that two other members of the Bachchan family — Aishwarya and her daughter Aaradhya — had tested positive, too. An afternoon health bulletin, which said that both Bachchan and his son Abhishek were stable with mild symptoms, however, soothed frayed nerves. At Bondel Gate in south Kolkata, some of the megastar’s fans gathered at “Bachchan Dham” — a temple where an idol of Amitabh Bachchan is worshipped — to perform a “mahamrityunjay jap” to pray for his recovery. Yajnas were also conducted at Kalighat and Shyambazar by fan groups. “He is our God, but today, we, the devotees are bowing to the Almighty to help him beat Covid. Several more fans wished to join the puja, but we reminded them of Big B’s message, in which he asked people to maintain social distance. I am sure our prayers will be answered,” said Sanjay Patodia, secretary, All Bengal Amitabh Bachchan Fans’ Association, which manages the temple. But die-hard fans remained worried. “I haven’t slept at all last night and kept checking one online article after another to get the latest updates. With all the co-morbidities he has, I am extremely worried about him,” said Kushal Raj Gupta, who works with the railways. When Pradeep Kumar Jaiswal heard that Big B has been rushed to the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, he sent up a silent prayer for his quick recovery. Scenes from a nippy November morning also started playing out in front of his eyes when the matinee idol sat in front of him and nibbed on crunchy jalebis and puri sabzi prepared in his shop. Jaiswal, 60, is the fourth-generation owner of Mohan Bhandar, a snacks and savouries outlet on SN Banerjee Road where Bachchan shot some of the scenes for ‘Piku’ in 2014. “Even today, when I see the pictures, I can’t believe he had come to my shop and I had the honour of treating him to our delicacies,” said Jaiswal who, like his matinee idol, also hails from Allahabad. “When I told him this, he enquired about how our ancestors came to Kolkata and where our home was in Allahabad,” Jaiswal added. The entire Jaiswal family prayed for the good health of Shahenshah at the puja observed in their house on Sunday morning. “He has to entertain us for several more years,” one of them said. A 23-year-old mixologist from Ballygunge, who claims to have seen ‘Agneepath’ and ‘Akhri Rasta’ at least 70 times, said he has lost his appetite and is itching to fly to Mumbai and sit outside the hospital gates to pray for the actor’s speedy recovery. “To me, he is an inspiration. I wasn’t even born when he was in his prime, but I have grown up watching his movies and started admiring him more and more as years went by. Even at this age, the kind of roles and experiments he does, he can outsmart any actor of our generation. He is a living legend and I am sure he has the superpower to overcome the virus and come out waving at his fans again,” said Rohit, who still cherishes the memory of meeting Bachchan at his Mumbai residence on his birthday in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-prays-for-a-mumbai-corona-patient/articleshow/76929996.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 13, 2020||Patna||Aguwani Ghat-Sultanganj bridge construction work restarts||KHAGARIA: The construction work for the Aguwani Ghat (Khagaria)-Sultanganj (Bhagalpur) bridge across the Ganga near Aguwani Ghat under Parbatta block in Khagaria district has restarted. The foundation of 3,160 meter-long four-lane cable-stayed bridge along with the approach road with an estimated cost of Rs 1,710 crore was laid by CM Nitish Kumar on February 23, 2014 through remote control while addressing a public meeting at the playground of KMD College, Parbatta. The bridge will link NH-31 and 107, connecting Sultanagnj with Khagaria, Saharsa, Madhepura and Supaul districts. After commissioning of the bridge, the burden of traffic on the Vikramashila Setu will be reduced. The bridge will be provided with dolphin view point besides toll plaza facilities.  It was scheduled to be completed within three years of the foundation laying. It was,however, delayed due to a number of bottlenecks such as floods almost every year, non-acquisition of land for approach road followed by about four-months of lockdown. A delegation of the residents of the area led by local JD(U)MLA and former minister RN Singh met the state road construction department (RCD) principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena, who was on a two-day visit to the construction site on January 6-7, 2019, has now asked the RCD engineers and the authorities concerned to get the bottlenecks removed so that the project can be soon completed. Meanwhile, the district administration has acquired 20 acres of land for the construction of approach road on June 30, official sources said. Project director Ashok Kumar Jha said, “The bridge is likely to be completed by the end of June next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aguwani-ghat-sultanganj-bridge-construction-work-restarts/articleshow/76929440.cms||N P Thakur
July 13, 2020||Vadodara||Fatehgunj police station ominous for city cops?||Vadodara: Will the Fatehgunj police station see yet another remodelling of its building in the coming days? After six cops posted in police were booked for custodial death of 62-year-old bedsheets seller on Monday, local cops recalled the days when this premises was considered unlucky. The then police inspector even changed his cabin’s location inside the police station six years ago. In 2010, Fatehgunj police inspector, VS Manjariya was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for accepting Rs 10 lakh bribe for settling a land dispute between two parties. In 2011 and 2012, policemen including three assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) posted there were victims of road accidents. However, the cops got rattled when police inspector RS Dabhi died of heart attack when he was sitting in his cabin in February 2014. The inspector who was appointed soon after shifted the PI’s cabin to another location in the police station.  In fact, the entrance to the police station was also changed. Before 2014, entrance to the police station was on the left of the 15-year-old building. But it was shifted to the front and the old entrance is now used as a parking lot. “Officials posted in Fatehgunj police station then felt that changing the direction of entry gate would help,” said V S Khair, police inspector, Fatehgunj. Sources said that the new entrance was made as per ‘vaastu shastra’ to ward off ominous conditions for the cops posted there. However, the custodial death of Sheikh Babu Nishar has again put spotlight on the Fatehgunj police station. All the six accused cops including police inspector D B Gohil are on the run after Nishar died in the police station on December 10, 2019 while being questioned in a theft case. When asked if he plans to make any changes to the interiors to bring some luck, Khair said, “For us cops, our duty is important and every police station is the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fatehgunj-police-station-ominous-for-city-cops/articleshow/76928131.cms||Tushar Tere
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||31 more found infected in HP, 21 recover from virus||Shimla: Thirty-one fresh cases of Covid-19 were detected in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday. These include 10 from Solan district, six from Kangra, four each from Shimla and Sirmaur, three from Una, two from Chamba and one from Mandi. A total of 21 patients recovered from the virus, including 14 from Kangra district, four from Sirmaur, and one each from Solan, Chamba and Mandi. With this, the number of positive cases in the state has gone up to 1,213, of which 273 cases are active while 916 patients have recovered. The recovery rate is 75.51%. Of the positive cases, 13 persons have migrated out of the state, nine have died of Covid-19 while two patients from Chamba and Shimla districts died of non- Covid reasons. In Kangra district, a 59-year-old man and his 26-year-old daughter from Chatri village of Shahpur tehsil tested positive without any travel history. A 13-year-old girl of Dhan village in Jawali tehsil, primary contact of her Covid positive father admitted in the district covid care centre, Dadh, tested positive. A six-year-old boy from Ghar Harsar village, primary contact of his father also admitted in the district covid care centre, Dadh, tested positive. So far, 1,00,315 persons have been tested for Covid-19. Of them, 98,802 have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/31-more-found-infected-in-hp-21-recover-from-virus/articleshow/76930251.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Most of foreign returnees can’t pay for quarantine||GAYA: Most of the about 13,000 foreign returnees could not afford paid quarantine at notified facilities at Bodh Gaya. Whereas those opting for paid quarantine are put in hotels and guesthouses at pre-fixed rates, those who cannot afford paid quarantine are accommodated in the Nigma monastery and MU campus. According to Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, the government has to spend more than Rs2000 per foreign returnee who cannot afford paid quarantine. As per the SOP notified for foreign returnees, they have to spend seven days under institutional quarantine and another seven days under home quarantine. Gaya, it may be recalled, has been notified as the disembarkation point for foreign returnees who are the residents of Bihar and Jharkhand. Whereas, all Bihar-origin returnees are put under institutional quarantine at notified facilities in Bodh Gaya, the Jharkhand origin returnees are transferred to Ranchi for institutional quarantine. Though, neither the officials associated with the Vande Bharat Mission nor the Airports Authority of India have released separate figures for Jharkhand-origin returnees, reliable estimates say more than 85% of the foreign returnees are from Bihar. Besides, workers who lost their jobs in the Middle East countries on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, students, tourists and other international travellers stranded abroad are being evacuated. According to Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar, whereas Air India and IndiGo have operated special flights under the Vande Bharat Mission, other repatriation and chartered flights have been operated by airlines like Fly Dubai, Jazeera Airways, Kuwait Airlines, Etehad, Qatar Airways, SpiceJet, Air Arabia, Salam Airways, Thai Air Asia, Thai Smile, Myanmar National Airways, Myanmar Airways International. He further said the total number of foreign returnees from May 18 till date was 12,728. Of them, 2180 have been evacuated by Air India and IndiGo under the Vande Bharat Mission. Altogether 82 special flights have been operated at Gaya airport to evacuate/repatriate Bihar-Jharkhand people from abroad. Of these, 10 special flights have been operated by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission. IndiGo has operated 7 special flights under the VBM. The remaining 65 flights have been operated by SpiceJet and several foreign airlines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/most-of-foreign-returnees-cant-pay-for-quarantine/articleshow/76929417.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata pharmacies run out of two key ‘Covid medicines’||KOLKATA: Two drugs used to treat Covid-19 — Remdisivir and Tocilizumab — are fast disappearing from city drug stores. According to sources, fresh supply is expected only near the end of the month. Approved by the Centre, Remdisivir is an anti-viral drug which prevents the replication of the virus. Tocilizumab is a repurposed drug, used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. Both must be administered by doctors based on specific clinical diagnosis. Major pharmaceutical chains in the city said they don’t have any left in stock. “These Covid-19 treatment drugs are not available either at pharmacies or with wholesalers. Manufacturers are directly selling it to hospitals or to patients,” said Rajendra Khandelwal, MD, Dhanwantary Medicare, who added that he had informed Indian Pharmacy Association about the crisis. Frank Ross Pharmacy CEO Gautam Jatia said the supply to Bengal is low because the drugs were being sent to Maharashtra now.. “We hope to get some by Tuesday. But proper supply may start only after July 20.” “I heard that 120 vials of Remdisivir reached Kolkata on July 3, but have been sold out. Drugs are being sold at four-to-five times the market price. We will inform the state about this,” said Sajal Ganguly, general secretary, Bengal Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association. Rakesh Patel, who runs Manav Jot, an NGO, said it will take time for supplies to stabilize while Pankaj Vora, a Bagree Market medicine wholesaler, was clueless about when the drugs would be available. For those suffering from the disease, or have family members who have tested positive, this has led to another problem at a time when they already have too much on their plates. “My father’s condition improved after he was given Remdisivir. But none was available when I tried to get more,” said Monali Banerjee, whose 88-year-old father is in hospital with Covid. Peerless Hospital MD Sujit Kar Purkayastha said his hospital, too, was facing a shortage of this drug. “It is not always available. But it is not given to patients because there is no proof of efficacy,” he said. Sukumar Mukherjee, a member of the state Covid panel, said, “I have heard about the shortage of some drugs used in Covid-19 treatment. I have also heard that medicines, like Remdisivir, are sold at Rs 20,000 — almost four times the MRP. Doctors must know the efficacy of the drug before prescribing.” Rajesh Pramanick, SSKM’s head of physical medicine and rehabilitation department, said Tocilizumab and Remdesivir are undergoing trials as possible treatment options for Covid-19. “But as doctors are prescribing it, they are in huge demand. Doctors must be cautious while prescribing these,” he said.  Debkishore Gupta, microbiologist and CMRI’s head of infection control, however, said Tocilizumab was helping many recover from Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-pharmacies-run-out-of-two-key-covid-medicines/articleshow/76929645.cms||Debasish Konar
July 13, 2020||Patna||Survey begins for another checkpost at Nepal border||PATNA: An integrated checkpost will be built near Bhittha Mor along India-Nepal border in Sitamarhi district to end a recent controversy over ‘no man’s land’. This will be the third integrated checkpost on the porous border after Jogbani-Biratnagar in Araria and Raxaul-Birgunj in East Champaran districts in the state. Officials said it would help improve bilateral trade between the two countries and people’s contact. DIG, SSB (Muzaffarpur sector), K Ranjit on Sunday said initial survey of land was being conducted by an Indian government agency on the directive of the Union home ministry. “A joint team of officials of India and Nepal is monitoring the survey work,” he said. Sources said the construction work would start after the consent of the top officials of the two counties. “The survey report will be submitted to the officials of both the countries for their approval,” a senior SSB official said. Last week, a dispute had cropped up over the construction of a road on Indian side of the border near Bittha Mor after the personnel of Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF) objected to it. The construction of the road, a branch of the national highway 104, was being carried out by the road construction department of the state government. The work was stalled by the border patrolling team of Nepal, which enraged the workers as well as locals. The situation was brought under control after intervention of senior officials of the Sashastra Seema Bal, which has been assigned to guard the porous border. The 51st battalion of the SSB requested the Sitamarhi district administration to facilitate the measurement of the no man’s land. Later Sitamarhi DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma and SP Anil Kumar visited the site. The DM then shot off a letter to the Union home ministry through a proper channel recommending survey of ‘no man’s land’. A survey agency, which works under the ministry of railways, has started the survey work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/survey-begins-for-another-checkpost-at-nepal-border/articleshow/76929402.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Patna||RCP Singh asks JD(U) workers to promote Nitish Kumar’s initiatives||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh on Sunday asked the party workers to take a pledge not to lose even a single seat in the forthcoming assembly polls. Addressing a virtual meet of the JD(U)’s ‘vyavsayik’ cell here, he asked the party’s active workers to visit polling booths in their respective areas at least 10 days a month, meet local residents, share their grievances and tell them about the good works done by CM Nitish Kumar in the last 15 years. JD(U) had contested 101 seats in the 2015 election in alliance with the RJD and Congress and won 70 seats in the 243-member assembly. The RJD had won 81 seats and Congress 27. This time, the JD(U) is part of the NDA along with BJP and LJP. The NDA is yet to finalise seat-sharing for the 2020 election. Recounting the works done by the Nitish Kumar-led government in the state, Singh said the CM not only improved the state’s infrastructure like roads, healthcare facilities and electricity during his last three terms, but also performed exceptionally on the front of financial management. “Because of the CM’s good financial management, Bihar emerged as a revenue surplus state in 2008-09. In 2005, before Nitish took charge of the state, Bihar’s total budget was Rs 23,885 crore. Today, it has increased to Rs 2,11,777 crore. In 2005, Bihar’s per capita income was Rs 7,900. But today, it has jumped to Rs 43,822. The state government has made arrangements for spending Rs 14.35 lakh crore in the 2020-21 financial year. The trading community is getting direct benefit from all these measures,” Singh said. Singh also lauded Nitish for ensuring better road, rail and air connectivity in the state. He called upon the local businessmen to focus on manufacturing, instead of remaining engaged only in trading of different goods. “Bihar has a market of 12 crore consumers. The state has good governance and an unparalleled leadership. The government will provide whatever assistance you want. But you should focus on manufacturing items within the state, which has tremendous opportunity in ready-made garment sector,” Singh told the businessmen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rcp-asks-jdu-workers-to-promote-nitishs-initiatives/articleshow/76929390.cms||Madan Kumar
July 13, 2020||Meerut||Raiding police teams comes under fire, 2 cops injured, criminals flee||MEERUT: Two policemen were injured in an alleged attack by family members and friends of a criminal, who escaped during the raid in Bulandshahr's Kotwali area. The incident took place on Saturday night when a crime branch team went to arrest the accused, Shahid. He was wanted in a murder case. According to police, when the team spotted Shahid, he tried to escape while his brothers and other locals confronted the team. The miscreants pelted stones and also opened fire at the police team. "At least 4-5 policemen in plainclothes had gone to arrest the suspect. As the confrontation began, Shahid fled the scene. Meanwhile, the police team was overpowered by his brothers and others," said Santosh Kumar, SSP Bulandshahr. The chase for Shahid was cut short after he swam across the Kali river in Sarai Qazi area. The retreating police team had to open fire in the air to contain the situation. Two policemen sustained minor injuries in the incident. Based on the complaint of a crime branch inspector, an FIR against Shahid, his three brothers, and 5-6 unidentified suspects has been registered at Kotwali city police station. "We have registered a case of attempt to murder and several raids are being conducted to trace the suspects," SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/raiding-police-teams-comes-under-fire-2-cops-injured-criminals-flee/articleshow/76928939.cms||Piyush Rai
July 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: PES offers fresh suggestion on conducting semester exams||PUNE: The Progressive Education Society (PES) has suggested to the University Grants Commission to allow one year autonomy to NAAC accredited institutions with 3.10 and above CGPA to conduct semester exam of final year students on their own capacity to reduce the burden of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). Gajanan Ekbote, chairman of PES, said all other colleges with lesser CGPA could be considered by SPPU for exams. Ekbote said, “In order to reduce the burden of conduct of the examinations of the parent universities, the colleges and institutes accredited by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC)or National Board of Accreditation with higher grades (CGPA 3.10 and above) should be granted autonomy temporarily for a period of one year, this year. These colleges may be permitted to conduct final last year/semester examinations of the students of various courses. This will reduce the burden of the university from the conduct of examinations point of view.” In his letter to the UGC, he said all other colleges should be considered by the university for conduct of the examinations and the format may be descriptive theory or multiple choice question type. Ekbote also suggested that the examinations may be conducted in an online or offline mode at the nearest centre .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pes-offers-fresh-suggestion-on-conducting-semester-exams/articleshow/76930254.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 13, 2020||Surat||Visitors’ entry from Surat at Valsad tourist spots banned||Surat: To contain the spread of Covid-19 infection, the Valsad district administration has banned the entry of visitors, especially those coming from Surat, at the tourist spots across the district. The ban includes beaches at Thithal, Umbergaon and Nargol.Official sources said the monsoon season draws many visitors at the tourists spots including Wilson Hill in Dharmpur, Tithal beach, Nargol beach, Umbergaon beach and Shanker waterfall. At a time when coronavirus infection in Surat is at its peak, entry of visitors will stay banned at the tourist spots till further notice. District collector, RR Raval said, “Monsoon season attracts many visitors at the tourist spots and beaches, especially from Surat, the hotspot of coronavirus now. It is difficult to maintain social distancing at these spots and thus it has been decided to ban entry of all visitors for the safety of the residents in the district.” Meanwhile, Bharuch district recorded 23 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases in the district to 446 on Saturday. Navsari district recorded 17 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total cases to 255 on Saturday. Also, the union territory of Daman recorded 9 Covid-19 positive cases, out of which eight people were already under the government quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/visitors-entry-from-surat-at-valsad-tourist-spots-banned/articleshow/76929361.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Madurai||HC orders benefits for kin of missing health inspector||Madurai: Dismissing an appeal preferred by the state government, Madras high court has directed the authorities to disburse monetary benefits to the wife of a government employee who went missing 17 years ago in Madurai. S Natarajan was a health inspector at the primary health centre at T Pudupatti when he went missing on May 2, 2003. As he did not report for duty thereafter, disciplinary proceedings were initiated and he was removed from service in 2013. Natarajan’s wife N Ponni had lodged a complaint based on which Thirumangalam town police registered a man missing complaint in 2012. Ponni moved high court seeking disbursal of family pension and other benefits of her husband on the ground that he was presumed to have died. A single judge directed to disburse the benefits to Ponni in 2018. Challenging the order, the state government preferred the present appeal. A division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi observed that police cannot keep an FIR registered in 2012 open till 2020 since it would cause prejudice to the case of Ponni thereby denying her benefits under Rule 49-A of the Tamil Nadu Pension Rules. Hence the judges directed the police to complete the investigation within two weeks and issue a non-traceable certificate to Ponni.Taking cognizance of the fact that Natarajan’s punishment was set aside on March 13, 2020, the judges appreciated the gesture of Dr K Kolandaswamy, director of public health and preventive medicine, for adopting a humane approach to the issue. The judges further observed that Ponni had obtained a death certificate, based on ill-advice, saying her husband died on September 10, 2018. The court was unable to understand how Thirumangalam municipality authorities issued such a certificate. Setting aside the death certificate, the judges observed, “We hold that Natarajan is not a person who has died, but a person who is presumed to have died under Section 108 of the Indian Evidence Act seven years after he went missing in May 2003.”After getting the non-traceable certificate, the court said, Ponni can submit the indemnity bond as mandated under Pension Rules within four weeks and thereafter eight weeks time is granted to the authorities to disburse the benefits. If Natarajan is found to be alive, the properties of Ponni can be attached apart from initiating criminal and other proceedings against her, added the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-benefits-for-kin-of-missing-health-inspector/articleshow/76930252.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 13, 2020||Patna||Flood-like situation in many north Bihar districts||PATNA: Moderate to heavy rainfall in north Bihar and the catchment areas of Nepal for the last three days has resulted in flood-like situation in several areas. Many rivers in north Bihar maintained a rising trend and some were flowing above the danger mark at a few measuring stations on Sunday. A cyclonic circulation lies over east Bihar and its neighbourhood. The water discharge in Kosi river at Birpur barrage was 2,46,295 cusecs and 2,39,000 cusecs in Gandak at Valmikinagar barrage at 2pm, compared to 1,99,165 and 2,15,100 cusecs, respectively, at 6am. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted rainfall with thunderstorm at most places in Siwan, West Champaran, East Champaran, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Sheohar, Saran, Samastipur, Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj, Madhepura, Katihar, Khagaria, Saharsa and Purnia in north Bihar and Patna, Gaya, Nalanda, Sheikhpura, Begusarai, Lakhisarai and Nawada on Monday. A Patna Meteorological Department bulletin on Sunday issued orange alert for Monday with forecast of moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning and heavy rain at few places in Siwan, Saran, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj, Purnia, Saharsa, Madhepura, Patna, Nalanda, Sheikhpura, Begusarai, Lakhisarai, Katihar, Bhagalpur, Banka, Munger, Khagaria and Jamui. It has also issued yellow alert for Buxar, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Arwal, Gaya, Nawada, Vaishali, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, West Champaran, East Champaran and Gopalganj for Monday. Bagmati, Kamla Balan, Lalbakeya, Adhwara and Mahananda rivers were flowing above the danger mark at some of the measuring sites in Sitamarhi, Madhubani, East Champaran, Purnia and Kishanganj on Sunday. The river waters also entered a few villages. Bagmati river was rising at Dheng, Sonkhan, Dubbbadhar and Kataunja in Sitamarhi while the Burhi Gandak also maintained a rising trend at Sikandarpur and Khagaria at 2pm on Sunday. The Kamla Balan was above the danger mark at Jainagar Weir site and Jhanjharpur Rail Pul 88. The Ganga was rising at Digha, Hathidah, Bhagalpur and Kahalgaon and Punpun at Sripalpur. As per a report from Sitamarhi, Bagmati, Lalbakeya, Jhim, Rato and Lakhadei were flowing above the danger mark at many places. The road connectivity between Sitamarhi and Sursand and Sitamarhi and Parihar were snapped near village Sutihara as the water of Adhwara group of rivers overtopped the main road. The Bagmati water is posing a threat to the embankments. Lalbakeya water overtopped the road near Bairgania. Sadar civil SDO Kumar Gaurav and SDPO KV Dhirendra along with officials visited several embankment points of river Bagmati. “We have sufficient boats and other life-saving items in view of rising rivers originating from Nepal. So far embankments are safe and constant vigil is on,” DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma said. In West Champaran, flood fury continued to play havoc in many low-lying areas of various panchayats of Bagaha-1, Bagaha-2, Piparasi, Madhubani, Bhitaha and Thakaraha blocks of Bagaha subdivision. Meanwhile, Raibari Mahuyawa panchayat mukhiya Samsad Ali said the turbulent Masan river was eroding its right bank from Jharamahuyee, Ajamalnagar, Jigana Tola, Tamakuhi. Masan floodwaters continued to spread in the villages. President of flood protection action committee Khalid Kuraisi and former sarpanch of Salaha-Bariyarawa panchayat Nazere Emam said Bagaha-2 block BDO Shashi Bhusan Suman and CO Uday shankar, an assistant engineer of flood protection Bettiah Sachin Prasad and Lok Nivaran Shikayat officer at Bagaha, Mada Prasad, visited the eroding sites on Saturday. Villagers demanded extension of Raibari-Mahuawa protection bund up to Bahuyari Masan bridge.  Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj, Katihar and Purnia are likely to receive widespread rainfall on Monday. Owing to heavy rain in Nepal in the next 24 hours, the water flow in Mahananda, Kosi, Kamla and Bagmati rivers is likely to be high, state water resources (WRD) department minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said on Sunday. A well was being constructed to contain seepage at Lalbakeya marginal embankment near India-Nepal border at Gowabari under Drainage Division, Motihari. (With inputs from Shyam Kishore Singh in Sitamarhi & Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flood-like-situation-in-many-north-bihar-districts/articleshow/76929333.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
July 13, 2020||Surat||Gujarat minister’s son, two friends arrested||SURAT: Prakash Kanani, son of state’s junior health minister Kishore alias Kumar Kanani, was arrested for violation of orders issued under public notification following the controversy that was triggered by the audio and video of a woman lok rakshak police constable Sunita Yadav’s argument with them. Kanani, 37 and his friends Dushyant Godhani, 41 and Sanjay Kakadiya, 42 were arrested in Varachha police station and released on bail later. They were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 114 (abettor present when offence is committed). Police also booked them under the Epidemic Disease Act. “The offence against the minister’s son and his two friends was registered based on the video that went viral on social media,” said CK Patel, assistant commissioner of police, A-division. In the incident, Kanani’s friends were stopped by Yadav near Mangadh cross road at around 10pm on July 8 when five persons were going in a car. Since there was curfew, Yadav questioned them and they informed that they were going for work as their relative is a Covid-19 patient and hospitalized. Since Yadav refused to allow them to go, they called up Kanani and sought help. After Kanani arrived at the spot, there was a verbal altercation between his friends and the woman cop, whose audio and video went viral. Meanwhile, in the audio, the woman cop sounds enraged and starts shouting when someone said, ‘make you stand at the same place for 365 days’. The woman later started abusing them. Earlier, minister Kumar Kanani alleged that the woman cop made only a portion of the entire recording viral. “She abused all those present several times. She should have taken legal actions against my son if he was wrong but the police have no right to abuse people,” Kanani, told TOI. On his part, the minister’s son said, “My father-in-law is Covid patient and hospitalized. I had gone there to check on his health and while returning, I had called up my friend with a car to my house as I needed the four-wheeler. He was stopped while returning by the woman cop and the incident happened when I went there to help him,” Prakash said. “Neither me nor my friend spoke a single word against the woman or police, but due to some unknown reason she abused me,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/minister-kananis-son-two-friends-arrested/articleshow/76929398.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Patna||Ensure hassle-free movement of trucks: Transport secretary||PATNA: State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Sunday asked the DMs of the districts where lockdown is in place in view of rise in number of Covid-19 cases to allow loading and unloading of goods from trucks. Agarwal said there was no restriction in movement of trucks carrying all types of goods, including construction materials. “All the DMs have been asked to ensure that there is no obstruction in movement of trucks carrying goods,” he said. Agarwal, however, added that wearing masks and maintaining social distancing were compulsory for occupants of the trucks. The transport secretary, however, said action would be taken against cargo vehicles in case of overloading. “There is no shortage of essential commodities in any district. The process of transportation of food items and essential commodities is being constantly reviewed at the district level to avoid panic buying,” he said. Meanwhile, president of Bihar Truck Owners’ Association Bhanu Shekhar Prasad said the truck drivers were facing problems in going from one district to another as the police often stop their vehicles on the pretext of search. As far as supply of essential commodities is concerned, people in the city said they are easily available in markets and shops. Ranjana Shah, a resident of Ashiana Colony, said, “At shops, people maintain social distancing and wear mask. However, in vegetable markets, gathering of people is still quite common,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensure-hassle-free-movement-of-trucks/articleshow/76929339.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Expedite industrial corridor, Centre urged||ALAPPUZHA: The state government has approached the Union government for speeding the execution the much-awaited Kochi-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (KBIC) project. Speaking to TOI, additional chief secretary Alkesh Kumar Sharma said that to start the execution of the project, the Union government should approve the state support agreement (SSA) and shareholder’s agreement (SHA) for KBIC. “So, we sent a letter to Union government for speeding up the approval of the agreements for KBIC that is being set up in partnership between the state and Union governments. We requested the Union government to convene the board meeting too. The state government has approved and sent the state support agreement and shareholder’s agreement for KBIC to the Union government. Once the Union government clears it, both the Centre and state will ink the accords and we will speed up the execution of KBIC,” said Sharma. Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) is the present nodal agency for this project. According to Kinfra officials, over 1,800 acres have been identified for the project in Palakkad. An international agency will be appointed for master planning of the land and detailed engineering. The agency will be deployed by National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation. “After the signing of the agreement, we will speed up master planning which will take eight months. After that, we will appoint an engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) agency that will do the construction and development works of the projects. Simultaneously, we will begin attracting investors willing to set up factories in KBIC. Funds for all the developmental projects will be provided by the central government and land will be provided by the state,” said the officials. “It is expected that the first node will attract a total investment of Rs 10,000 crore with direct employment for 22,000 and indirect employment of 80,000 in less than four years from the start of works. The state tax revenue is anticipated to be Rs 585 crore per annum,” said Alkesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/expedite-industrial-corridor-centre-urged/articleshow/76928948.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Patna||Rly colonies being sanitised as engr succumbs to Covid||PATNA: After the death of senior section railway engineer Dhanraj Ram due to coronavirus at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on Saturday, the railways has launched a door-to-door sanitisation drive in its colonies at Khagaul and Patna. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the 160-bed Danapur divisional railway hospital has been converted into a ‘quarantine home’ for the Covid-19 suspects, while 50 beds have been kept reserved in the isolation ward of the hospital for Covid-19 patients. “This railway hospital is the first of its kind in the East Central Railway which has been designated by the railways for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” the DRM said, adding, however, that the state government is yet to declare Danapur railway hospital as a Covid-19 designated hospital. The railways has also kept in readiness 156 beds for the Covid-19 suspects at Madhu Vihar railway colony in Khagaul. “A well-furnished rest house has been built near the railway hospital in Khagaul for the proper rest of doctors and nursing staff. There is also canteen facility for the doctors and nursing staff at the rest house,” DRM said. He added the railways has tied up with the IGIMS-Patna for quick disposal of surgical waste materials of the hospital. “We have also purchased thermal screening thermometers to screen the Covid-19 suspects. Besides, the railways has kept in readiness 4,295 masks , 8,000 litres of disinfectants, 220 litres of sanitiser and 850 N-95 masks at the Danapur railway hospital,” the DRM said, adding PPE kits, masks and sanitiser bottles were distributed free of cost among 1,500 railway employees. Danapur railway hospital chief medical superintendent Dr R K Verma said of the 50 Covid-19 suspects who have visited the railway hospital, 17 had tested positive for Covid-19. “These positive patients were immediately referred to PMCH and NMCH. “Samples of the Covid-19 suspects are collected at the railway hospital and sent to Delhi for test. Each test costs railways about Rs 2,500. It usually takes two to three days to get reports from Delhi,” Dr Verma said, adding people can dial 7369024938 and 06115-282861 for getting assistance from railway hospital round the clock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rly-colonies-being-sanitised-as-engr-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/76929482.cms||Kumod Verma
July 13, 2020||Surat||SMC junior engg succumbs, cases see worst spike at 205||Surat: Bharat Gandhi, a 48-year-old junior engineer with Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)’s election branch, succumbed to Covid-19 at SMIMER Hospital on Sunday. According to SMC officials, Gandhi tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to hospital on July 7. “We lost a co-worker, Bharat Gandhi, on Sunday. He had suffered respiratory failure and had Acute Coronary Syndrome (STEMI) and pneumonia,” said Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health), told TOI. “This is the second death among SMC employees in the last 10 days due to the pandemic. Earlier, sanitary sub-inspector of the civic body’s leprosy department in Khatodra, Girish Bhadrka, 48, had died on July 7. Even prior to him, another 48-year-old employee, Shailesh Bhoyre, sanitary inspector (SI) and a frontline worker posted in the coronavirus hotspot of Maan Darwaja under the Umarwada ward, had died. It was claimed that Bhoyre had passed away due to the severe heart attack but his Covid-19 test was not conducted,” said a senior SMC official. “Till now, 120 SMC employees have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city which include 18 doctors, 20 sweepers, 13 nurses, nine sanitary inspectors and sub-inspectors, seven lab technicians, six ward boys, five peons, one assistant municipal commissioner and five teachers among others,” an SMC official said. Meanwhile, the city reported 205 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest in the state, while three have succumbed to the virus. “Katargam continues to report the highest number with 44 new cases, followed by 31 in Varachha (B), 29 in Varachha (A), 28 in Rander and 22 cases in Athwa zone,’‘ said an SMC official. Moreover, all the eight civic zones have reported above 500 Covid-19 cases as the city crossed 7,000 mark on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-junior-engg-succumbs-cases-see-worst-spike-at-205/articleshow/76929346.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Trichy||Boy trapped between boulders rescued||Trichy: A 12-year-old boy got trapped between boulders while trying to take back his cell phone which fell between them near Musiri in the district on Sunday. He was rescued with minor injuries after an hour-long operation carried out by fire and rescue service personnel along with locals. V Adithya from Mela kothampatti was grazing cattle on Sunday morning when his phone accidentally fell into the natural formation of boulders near his place. However, the boulders moved as soon as he got in between them to take it out, and he got stuck. Fortunately, local people found the boy trapped between the boulders and informed fire service and police around noon. “Adithya was lucky enough to be trapped and not crushed between the rocks,” said station officer R Arivazhagan, fire and rescue service, Thuraiyur. They tied ropes around the boulders and pulled him out in an hour-long operation, R D Brahmanandan, deputy superintendent of police said,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-trapped-between-boulders-rescued/articleshow/76930565.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Surat||“Can minister’s son break rule?” cop asks||In the video, the woman cop asks Prakash Kanani to remove the plate inscribed with MLA written on his car. Prakash removed the board . Yadav then asks him that being a minister's son, by what right can he violate curfew orders. While Prakash tries to convince her that he had merely come for help, she shows him rules about curfew timings. At one point of time, Prakash's friend gets agitated but Yadav tells him to keep quiet. She then tells Prakash to call his minister father. She asks Kanani why his son is using the MLA board in his car. Kanani is heard saying that “his son needed a car urgently and hence he was using it,” in the video. Yadav also asked Kanani whether laws apply to his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/can-ministers-son-break-rule-cop-asks/articleshow/76929419.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Meerut||Ban those with more than 2 kids from contesting panchayat polls: Union minister to UP CM||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan has made an appeal to the Uttar Pradesh government to bring a law and bar those having more than two children from contesting panchayat polls in the state. Several states, like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, have brought their own laws restricting people with more than two children from contesting local body elections. Uttarakhand had also introduced a similar law, but the state’s high court later struck it down. Union minister Balyan, who is an elected Member of Parliament (MP) from Muzaffarnagar, made the request in a letter written to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the occasion of World Population Day on Saturday. Polls to state panchayat bodies are expected to be held in the coming six months. In the letter, Balyan expressed apprehension over the UP’s population-- which is now more than 23 crore. He claimed if UP brings this law, it will set a precedent and help bring down the population. “Our state should start a campaign to control the population. And it can be started from the next panchayat poll. Anyone who has more than two children should not be allowed to contest the next poll. On the occasion of World Population Day, I request you to please consider launching this campaign in your supervision,” Balyan wrote. The Union minister told TOI later, “When our country got Independence, the population was about 36 crore. It has exceeded 136 crore now. I strongly feel that figure will reach 150 crore by 2050. The time has come to make a law to control the population. All governments had tried to control the population and made plans like ‘Pariwar Niyojan’, but to no avail. Now I have requested CM Yogi Adityanath to start a campaign to control pollution from the next panchayat poll.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ban-those-with-more-than-2-kids-from-contesting-panchayat-polls-union-minister-to-up-cm/articleshow/76928926.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 13, 2020||Patna||Varsity exams can wait, say academics||PATNA: The recent directive of the University Grants Commission to complete all the pending examinations by the end of September has few takers in Bihar. Most academics are opposed to the very idea of opening colleges and universities and holding examinations at a time when Covid-19 positive cases are registering an alarming growth in different parts of the state. Aryabhatta Knowledge University’s former vice-chancellor Shambhu Nath Guha said conducting examinations at this critical juncture is not at all feasible. “A vast majority of students, particularly in rural areas, are not in a position to take the online examinations. The entire year should be declared a zero session year and neither examinations nor classroom teaching can be organized in coming months. All students admitted to various courses in the last academic session (2019-20) should be promoted to the next higher class without any examination,” Guha added. State’s former higher education director Nageshwar Prasad Sharma described the whole idea of calling students from their respective places of residence located in remote areas and asking them to take examinations seems “absurd” as no guardian would be ready to make a compromise with his ward’s health for the sake of examination. “Most of our colleges and department are very ill-prepared to hold examinations strictly as per health ministry guidelines,” he said Patna University’s former VC Rash Bihari Prasad Singh said heaven would not fall if the present academic year is declared as “zero year” and students are kept off the classrooms. “College and university students of the state had earlier boycotted their studies and examinations for one complete year during the 1974 agitation led by Sarvoday leader Jayaprakash Narayan. The academic sessions definitely got delayed then but the same were brought back on the track after a few years,” he said. Patna University Teachers’ Association general secretary Abhay Kumar said under the present circumstances it would not be wise to hold examinations. “Students residing in rural areas won’t turn up for examinations until they are assured accommodation in hostels and lodges. Even if they come, the universities would have hard nuts to crack in maintaining their health and hygiene in hostels and private lodges,” he said. Magadh University’s former VC Shamshad Hussain said there is no alternative to classroom learning. “Digital learning can only be used as a complementary tool but it cannot be considered a substitute. At present, it is not possible to open the institutions and hold regular classes,” he added. Former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies Yuvraj Deo Prasad said classes are about imparting knowledge, examinations are about evaluation and competition. “If students have not been taught properly, the question of a formal evaluation should not even arise. The online mode of higher education is yet to pick up in Bihar where most students do not have access to a fast WiFi connection, personal computers, laptops or even a quiet space in their house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/varsity-exams-can-wait-say-academics/articleshow/76929300.cms||B K Mishra
July 13, 2020||Patna||Many pupils worried about CBSE results||PATNA: Thousands of students are waiting with bated breath for the class X and XII board examination results likely to be declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in the coming week. CBSE city coordinator Rajiv Ranjan Sinha on Sunday said the answer copies were evaluated and marks already sent to the headquarters. “They are compiling the marks and the results will be released soon,” he said. Students are worried about their marks as the board cancelled the remaining papers and opted for an alternative evaluation method for all such papers. With several fake notifications making rounds on social media, the students are getting paranoid. Pranav Kumar, a class X student of DAV Public School, said everyday he had to go through the news and CBSE website to check for the results. “Earlier, there was a circular stating that the results to be released on July 11. I spent whole day waiting for the results,” he said. Similar concerns were shared by Samriddhi, a class XII student of Gyan Niketan Girls School. “A lot depend on the results for college selection. I want to pursue BCom from Delhi University and only good score will help me,” she said. “We are already worried about the Covid-19 pandemic and our future. I wish people should not spread rumours about the results,” says Ayush Gupta, a class XII student of Patna Central School. “As the situation is getting worrisome, I think the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) should be conducted online and even all the process of counselling and selection,” he said. Nikita, a class X student of Loyola High School said, “I’m anxious about how they have awarded marks in the pending papers. Taking admission for higher secondary depends on the marks.” The state board and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations have already announced their results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-pupils-worried-about-cbse-results/articleshow/76929315.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 13, 2020||Business||US giant Qualcomm to invest Rs 730cr in Jio||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Reliance Industries (RIL) has raised Rs 730 crore from Qualcomm Ventures by selling 0.15% stake in Jio Platforms, it said on Sunday. The company, controlled by Mukesh Ambani, the world’s eighth richest person, has so far mobilised Rs 1.18 lakh crore by selling 25.24% in Jio to 11 international investors, with the largest slice sold to Facebook. The total money raised by RIL is just Rs 2,000 crore less than the Indian government’s disinvestment target of Rs 1.20 lakh crore for fiscal 2021. The foreign money will help RIL pare its Rs 3.36-lakh-crore debt. Qualcomm Ventures, the investment arm of Qualcomm — the world’s largest supplier of modem chips that connect cellphones and other devices to data networks — has pegged the valuation of Jio at Rs 5.16 lakh crore. This is similar to the valuation assigned by other financial investors to Jio. The investment will deepen the ties between Qualcomm and Jio, RIL said. The US company will support Jio in its rollout of 5G infrastructure and services for Indian customers, RIL added. The deal-making moves form part of RIL’s broader plans to take Jio public in the future. “With unmatched speeds and emerging use cases, 5G is expected to transform every industry in the coming years...As an enabler and investor with a long-standing presence in India, we look forward to playing a role in Jio’s vision to further revolutionise India’s digital economy,” said Qualcomm CEO Steve Mollenkopf. Qualcomm Ventures, founded in 2000, has investments in India covering dairy, transportation and defence sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-giant-qualcomm-to-invest-rs-730cr-in-jio/articleshow/76930042.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||DPI to set up 17 govt English medium schools in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar||MYSURU: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, the department of public instruction (DPI) is planning to double the number of English medium Karnataka Public Schools (KPS) in the district. The department has proposed to set up 17 KPS with classes LKG to Class 12 in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. According to Mysuru deputy director of public instruction (DDPI) Panduranga, the district has 10 KPS currently. “We have proposed 12 new such schools. A proposal in this regard has been sent to the state government. The new schools will be functional soon after we get the approval,” he said. “The idea behind the move is to have at least two such public schools in every legislative constituency,” he added. According to the DPI authorities, KPS have been set up in Mysuru at Kuvempunagar, Siddaramanahundi, Gavadagere, Hemmaragala, Mugur, Manchegowdanakoppalu, Matkere, Hebbalu, Ravanduru and Haranahalli. In neighbouring Chamarajanagar, DDPI is planning to open five new public schools. “We are awaiting the approval,” said Chamarajanagar DDPI ST Javaregowda. “All these public schools will have classes from LKG to Class 12,” he explained. As of now, we have KPS at at Lokkanahalli, Hangala, Yelandur, and Chandakavadi, he added. A big boost for govt schoolsAccording to authorities, the local communities prefer English medium schools over the Kannada medium schools. “ For this academic year, only 30 students will be admitted to LKG. There’s high demand for seats and we need to opt for lottery system in several schools,” said DPI authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dpi-to-set-up-17-govt-english-medium-schools-in-mysuru-cnagar/articleshow/76929403.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Environmentalists stand up to industrial park in Mattewara||Ludhiana: Huge resentment is brewing among social activists, environmentalists and politicians ever since Punjab cabinet approved the setting up of 1000 acres industrial park in Mattewara. People are raising a hue and cry on social media as they are fearing that government will use the land of Mattewara forest area for this project and destroy this forest, which has a variety of wildlife and rare flora and fauna. However, as of now the state government has not cleared about any such plans but according to information available with TOI, out of the approximate 1000 acres which will be used for the indusrial park, 207.07 acres belonged to animal husbandry department, 285.1 acres to rehabilitation department (potato seed farm), 416.1 acres land belongs to gram panchayat Sekhowal, while 27.1 acres is of gram panchayat Salempur (potato seed farm) and 20.3 acres is of gram panchayat, Sailklan. According to social activist and environmentalist Kuldeep Khaira, who is going to start a campaign against the industrial park, “We are totally against setting up of industrial park at the cost of Mattewara forest as the result of destroying this forest will be devastating and it will be impossible to reverse the impact it will have on our environment. Earlier, also thousands of trees were uprooted from the Ludhiana during the expansion work of the roads and citizens were misled that the uprooted trees will be planted in Mattewara forest, which never happened and now they want to eat this forest as well. Earlier, politicians ate “reta bajri” (Sand and stone) now they are hungry to eat the wood of Mattewara forest. But we will not let this happen at any cost and we are starting a social media movement against this. We are already getting huge support from all over Punjab.” According to Ravneet Singh of NGO Eco Sikh, “It is very disturbing to hear that Punjab government is planning to use Mattewara Forest area for industrial expansion. Our state badly needs more green space as the pollution and health risks are rising at an alarming rate. We should preserve and expand forest area rather than finish it. There is only 4% forest area left in the state and in fact, in 2014, Punjab government had decided to preserve and expand Mattewara forest and to develop that as a wildlife refuge. Therefore, we appeal to chief minister Amarinder Singh to please reconsider this decision. We are committed to increasing forest area in Punjab and would be happy to work with Punjab government.” APS Mann, retired professor, said, “It is duty of people of Ludhiana and Punjab to save Mattewara jungle. Already the water bodies of Ludhiana, Sutlej and Buddah Nullah have been destroyed and now this last remaining forest too is on the verge of destruction. If the need arises we should not refrain from starting the “Chipko” movement to save this precious forest. Moreover, why only Mattewara is being targeted when we have availability of land for industrial parks in other areas of the city as well. If we fail to act now and save Mattewara forest the future generations will never pardon us therefore we must act before its too late.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/environmentalists-stand-up-to-industrial-park-in-mattewara/articleshow/76929803.cms||Mohit Behl
July 13, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: 18 more security staff of Patna HC test positive||PATNA: Eighteen more security personnel deployed in Patna high court were tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. A DSP in charge of the high court’s security was the first to be tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. Later, samples of 20 more security personnel were collected. Of them, 18, including eight women constables, were tested positive on Friday. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said samples of 35 more security personnel, including those from Patna Police and special auxiliary police (SAP), were collected on Sunday as part of contact tracing by the health department officials. Ravi said the municipal corporation has been asked to sanitise the high court premises. “Our team will go to high court on Monday for collecting samples of more people. The high court authorities have been informed about it,” the DM said. Meanwhile, one of the senior administrative officers of Patna high court said all offices of the court would remain closed till Wednesday for sanitisation work. “Only two or three sections will function with a handful of staff till Wednesday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/18-more-security-staff-of-hc-test-ve/articleshow/76929492.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 13, 2020||Surat||Umargam gets maximum showers||Surat: Light to moderate rainfall was witnessed in different parts of South Gujarat on Sunday. However, Valsad district’s Umargam taluka received the highest 90 mm rainfall. According to the Valsad flood control room officials, Vapi and Kaprada received 40 mm and 35 mm rainfall respectively. Most parts of Surat city received light rainfall on Sunday. Varachha (A) zone and Varachha (B) both received 41 mm rainfall and was followed by 24 mm in Katargam, 23 mm in Central and Udhana and 21 mm rainfall in Athwa zone in the city.In Surat district, Kamrej recieved 63 mm, Palsana 44 mm, Umarpada 60 mm and Mangrol received 32 mm rainfall.In Navsari district, Navsari received 45 mm followed by Jalalpore 40 mm and Gandevi 25 mm.According to sources, on Sunday the inflow and outflow of water into Ukai dam was 650 cusec. At present the water level in Ukai dam is 319.85 feet as against its 345 feet capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/umargam-gets-maximum-showers/articleshow/76929332.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||Deficit rainfall in Mysuru district has agriculture dept worried||MYUSURU: On the one hand, many districts in the state have witnessed incessant and excessive rainfall following the onset of the monsoon, while many others have had to suffer the short end of the stick as far as the heavens’ bounty is concerned. In Mysuru, where agriculture across an area close to three lakh hectares is dependent on rainfall, the amount of rain recorded in the district until the end of the first week of July is deficient by 8%. Officers in the agriculture department confirmed that rainfall in the district had been below normal in May and June. Interestingly, Mysuru district had recorded excess rainfall, albeit by a very small amount of 2.9mm in April – 64.8mm against its normal quota of 61.9mm. While the deficit in rainfall for the month of May was negligible – 123.2mm against the normal 128.1mm - the shortfall was worrying for the month of June, with the district registering a deficit of more than 26%. The quantum of rainfall that Mysuru was to receive in June was 94.7mm, but data indicates that the district recorded only 69.4mm. What is more worrying is that the trend of deficient rainfall was not arrested in the first week of July, when the agencies concerned registered that Mysuru had received 4.9% less rain than it ought to have under normal circumstances. Barring T Narasipura and Nanjangud, the other five taluks in Mysuru have registered deficit rainfall, including KR Nagar, which is considered the district’s own rice bowl. The district’s agriculture department had been keen on sowing of crops in the kharif season was achieved across 3,95,744 hectares in the district. Data however shows that farmers have completed sowing across a little over half of this figure, which includes both rain-fed and irrigated agricultural land. In addition to jowar, paddy, ragi, maize, millets and pulses, farmers have also planted commercial crops such as cotton, tobacco and sugarcane in various parts of the district. Joint director of the agriculture department M Mahanteshappa said that the deficit in the quantum of rainfall up till that moment would not make a huge difference to the crops that had already been sown, it would be worrisome if the rain continued to play truant in the ensuing months, particularly during the flowering season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/deficit-rainfall-in-mysuru-district-has-agriculture-dept-worried/articleshow/76929793.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers near Chamundi Hills asked to supply cow dug to biogas plant||MYSURU: Cow dung, which was being wasted by releasing it into underground drainage lines, will now be a means of earning money for dairy farmers who live at the foot of Chamundi Hills. The farmers will supply cow dung to a biogas unit which will generate energy from cattle and organic waste. The biogas plant has been planned at Hosahundi village near the APMC market, under the Galvanizing Organic Bio-Agro Resources Dhan (GOBAR-DHAN) scheme. Hosahundi gram panchayat member G B Lokesh said that the farmers are assured to get Rs 2 per kilogram of cow dung supplied to the plant. There are nearly 2,500 houses in Bandipalya, 157 houses in Gudemadanahalli, 150 houses in Yeligehundi, 750 houses in Uttanahalli and around 2,500 houses in Hosahundi villages, which will supply the cow dung generated in their village to the unit. “After LPG cylinders were supplied to the villages, most of the cow dung was released into UGDs by villagers. The biogas plant which generates gas will supply it to the five villages for cooking and other purposes for a cheaper rate than LPG cylinders. The villagers will earn money from supplying the cow dung and save money by paying less for the biogas,” he said. The authorities have identified nearly two acres near the BSNL office for the plant. “As the plant will be close to Hosahundi village, we have requested the biogas to be supplied first to Hosahundi village. The project was delayed due to the lockdown,” Lokesh said. Zilla panchayat president B C Parimala Shyam said that two places, Hosahundi village in Mysuru taluk and Devanuru village in Nanjangud taluk, were identified for setting up the biogas plant. “However, the project was finalised at Hosahundi village. Organisations like The National Institute of Engineering (NIE) Trust, RP Associates and Bhageeratha have expressed their interest in establishing the plant,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-near-chamundi-hills-asked-to-supply-cow-dug-to-biogas-plant/articleshow/76929246.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 13, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: IMS BHU to test Ashwagandha, Yashtimadhu use in Covid therapy||VARANASI: The Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, will start study of using Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) as a test drug for prophylactic use among frontline health workers and Yashtimadhu (Glycyrrhiza glabra) for adjunct therapy with the standard treatment of conventional medicine like allopathy on Covid-19 patients with mild and moderate symptoms. Head of the department of Rasa Shastra, of ayurveda faculty IMS-BHU and centre coordinator for the project Prof. Anand Chaudhary said, “As a part of the project of ministry of AYUSH, Indian Council of Medical Research and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research launched by Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harshvardhan and Dr Rajesh Kotecha, secretary of ministry of AYUSH on May 9, the university was given assigned the task of conducting studies on Ashwagandha and Yashtimadhu.” He said, “Ashwagandha will be tested for study in prophylactic use among frontline health workers of SSL Hospital of BHU and other healthcare workers, while Yashtimadhu will be tested as drug for adjunct therapy with the standard treatment of conventional medicine on Covid-19 patients under treatment in BHU with mild and moderate symptoms.” Chaudhary said, “The ministry, ICMR and CSIR have selected Cadila Pharmaceutical Limited, Ahmedabad and Ardent Clinical Research Services, Pune, as contract research organization (CRO) and nodal agencies for the projects of prophylaxis and adjunct therapy, respectively, to take care of the projects sanctioned to BHU and other medical institutions in Lucknow, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Trivandrum, Gurgaon, Jodhpur and Jaipur.” The objectives of the projects are to explore the efficacy of ayurvedic interventions in Covid-19 patients on standards of conventional biomedical researches, he said adding that each centre has formed joint teams of investigators from both allopathy and ayurvedic faculties. Chaudhary said the consignment of Ashwagandha and Yashtimadhu has been received by BHU while funds for further studies and data collection to be done in six weeks are expected to be allocated within a week. He said that the compiled data of these studies will be submitted for validation on contemporary scientific standards by global health agencies like WHO for the acceptance of ayurveda as a system of medicine worldwide. The ministry agreed to incorporate BHU in this project following the talks between vice-chancellor Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar and Kotecha, he said adding, that BHU, which is among 15 institutions of the country to contribute in this project, is providing level-3 facility at its hospitals for Covid-19 patients while it is also conducting laboratory testing for novel coronavirus infection of many east UP districts. Watch Varanasi: IMS BHU to test Ashwagandha, Yashtimadhu use in Covid therapy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ims-bhu-to-test-ashwagandha-yashtimadhu-use-in-covid-therapy/articleshow/76928535.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Swiss machine to ramp up Covid-19 tests in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Bengal is all set to get a high-end, automated Covid-testing machine from Switzerland that can run about 4,000 swab samples in 24 hours. The COBAS 6800 is likely to be installed at the state-run IPGMER (SSKM) and become operational by mid-August. “Once we start using this machine, the number of Covid tests will go up sharply,” said a health department official. The state had ordered the COBAS 6800 — worth about Rs 3 crore — in May with a set of 50,000 testing kits worth Rs 2 crore. The machine performs high-quality and high-volume RT-PCR test. “This is an automated machine by Roche Diagnostics, where the process of RNA extraction is not required and the testing is fast and reliable,” said Pradip Mitra, former director of medical education, who is now coordinator of Bengal’s Covid management and containment committee. The RT-PCR machines currently being used need RNA extracted from the swab before the test. In addition to taking more time, there is a risk of exposure to the virus during the process. It takes about six to eight hours to get the result. It takes longer if the laboratory does not have an automatic RNA extractor. But since COBAS 6800 eliminates this process, it minimizes the risk of infection to healthcare workers handling the samples. “In COBAS 6800, all that needs to be done is feed the sample to the machine and it churns out the result in about 40 minutes,” said microbiologist Pratip Kundu, director, School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata. In comparison, the existing system takes six to eight hours to throw up the result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swiss-machine-to-ramp-up-cov-tests/articleshow/76930019.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 13, 2020||Allahabad||Rapid increase in Covid-19 cases leaves Prayagraj administration puzzled||PRAYAGRAJ: Detection of around 300 coronavirus cases in a short span of a fortnight days has left the authorities of health department worried who are running from pillar to post to find out exact causes behind rapid spread. Till June 30, the city had recorded only 286 Covid-19 positive cases while the graph on July 11 stood 578. Ironically, around 90 percent of the cases reported between July 1 and July 12 were from the old city, semi urban and posh localities like Civil Lines and the list of infected people also included bank employees, policemen, healthcare professionals. Health officials, however, claimed that teams are working overtime to enlist the areas in urban pockets where maximum number of Covid-19 were reported between July 1 and 12. The door to door campaign being taken out by the health authorities from July 1 to 15 would also help them to list about the patients who came in contact with any positive persons . From July 1 to 11, 277 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city and over 90% of them were residents of either old city or upscale localities like Civil Lines, Tagoretown, Georgetown and Lukerganj. The sudden rise in number of novel coronavirus cases has also put a major dent in Prayagraj district’s recovery rate — which dropped from 72% to 58.47 % till July 11. According to data released by health department, as many as 578 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the city by Saturday night. Of these, 338 patients have recovered and have been discharged, while 18 have succumbed to the disease so far. Health department data shows that on July 1, 2, 3, 4 , 5, 6, 7, 8 , 9, 10 and 11 was 10, 16, 31, 22 ,27, 22, 5, 8 , 52, 49 and 35 cases were reported respectively. A senior health official said, “Officials of health department are focussing on pockets where more positive cases were reported in fortnight and are also taking up massive awareness campaign”. He, however, added antigen rapid test kit has also helped health authorities to speed up testing and as a result, more cases were reported”. Pointedly, of 35 cases reported on Saturday, majority of them from old city and semi urban pockets. The city has now more than 30 new hotspots in Prayagraj within the past one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rapid-increase-in-covid-19-cases-leaves-prayagraj-admin-puzzled/articleshow/76928490.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Collector bats for makeover of Sonar Fort Patwa Haveli||Jaisalmer: Jaisalmer collector Ashish Mehta on Sunday held a meeting of various departments for development and beautification of historical places in the Golden City. He said that there is great scope for beautifying Sonar Fort, Patwa Haveli and other ancient buildings. Everyone should participate to make Jaisalmer a world class city. Mehta along with SP Ajay Singh visited Sonar Fort and Patwa Haveli and inspected Maru Cultural Centre established by historian Nand Kishore. He said that it is our social responsibility to conserve the colourful art, culture, history and ancient musical instruments. The collector visited reading corners being built at various places by the Urban Improvement Trust (UIT). Mehta directed the officers of municipal council and UIT to carry out plantation drive, conserve ancient monuments, develop tourism places so that the city gets a place on the tourism map of India and the world. He instructed the officers to submit proposals for development at the earliest so that discussions could be held and work begun. UIT secretary Anurag Bhargav and municipal council commissioner Fateh Singh Meena apprised the collector about the works and future plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-bats-for-makeover-of-sonar-fort-patwa-haveli/articleshow/76930566.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Pune||NIA, ATS arrest two women||Pune: In a joint operation, a team of Maharashtra State Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) and National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday evening detained two women from Phulenagar in Vishrantwadi for suspected ISIS links. According to the sources, the teams descended in the area late on Sunday afternoon and conducted a search operation. Later, they nabbed two women from the area. Their arrests were shown at Yerawada police station. The entire operation was carried out in high secrecy. An ATS officer, when contacted said, “It is for national security and we cannot disclose any details.” Sources told TOI that the two women were linked to a terror organization in a foreign land. The authorities had watched their activities decided to pick them up on Sunday. "We are questioning them,” the source said.Times News Network||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nia-ats-arrest-two-women/articleshow/76930263.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||‘False positive’ results keep patients in hospital longer, add to bed crisis in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Even as some experts feel that the novel coronavirus might be losing some of its virulence, the dead virus is lingering on in some patients, throwing up ‘false positive’ reports in those who have completely recovered and are in no danger, either to themselves or to others. This is keeping hospital beds occupied longer than strictly required and denying beds to patients who genuinely need them, feel doctors. According to doctors, the ultra-sensitive RT-PCR test has been picking up traces of dead virus proteins, causing the false positives. Hospitals are often ready to discharge these patients, going by remission of symptoms, but the patients themselves are wary of returning home without the final ‘negative’ test, since neighbours and family members remain doubtful. A few even reported being harassed after they failed to produce a ‘negative’ certificate. Last week, for instance, a 62-year-old Covid patient’s family was asked to take her home after she recovered at a private hospital off EM Bypass. Even though the patient was still positive, doctors were convinced it was a false alarm. But her family refused, saying she needed a ‘negative’ to be allowed back into her apartment complex. Both RT-PCR and TruNat tests are so sensitive that they can catch traces of the dead virus’ protein, causing the false positives, said Raja Dhar, Fortis Hospital pulmonologist. “These patients are unlikely to tran-smit the virus and can safely be sent home. But they are reluctant because of the social pressure. Many plead with us to defer release until they test negative,” Dhar told TOI. In another case, a 56-year-old Covid patient stayed back in hospital for 10 days after he had been asked to take a discharge. But the patient refused to leave without a negative report, which, doctors felt, was not necessary. “The patient told us his family would be ostracised in the neighbourhood if they failed to prove that he was negative,” said a doctor at the hospital. The volume of the viral load could also make a patient test positive for longer, some doctors said. “There is no way we can measure the viral load. But it can be assumed that in some patients, the immune system fights the virus better and prevents its replication, reducing the load,” said Arindam Biswas, a consultant at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “This ensures that the patient remains asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and hence recovers quickly. On the other hand, there are those with a relatively weaker immunity, who fail to prevent virus replication and continue to remain positive for a longer time,” he added. As the number of Covid patients gallops and beds turn scarce, ‘false positives’ could be denying treatment to more serious patients, fear doctors. “Every bed is now important, which is why hospitals have been allowed to discharge patients even before they test negative, provided they have recovered from symptoms. So, patients and their kin will now have to be counselled about ‘false positive’ reports and convinced that they must be discharged for the sake of those who need hospital care more urgently,” said a preventive medicine expert. The best way to deal with the issue was to eliminate repeat tests, said Rahul Jain, consultant, Belle Vue Clinic. “It’s no longer mandatory, so patients should be compulsorily discharged once they recover from symptoms. False positives can’t transmit the virus, so it’s safe to keep them in isolation for 17 days from the onset of symptoms,” he said. AMRI Hospitals, which raised its Covid beds to 165 on Saturday, is aiming to reduce the ‘turnaround time’ for each patient to four-five days. Adding beds was not a long-term solution, pointed out CEO Rupak Barua. “Those who recover from symptoms must either return home or shift to a satellite centre that hospitals like us have set up. Patients are scared to leave without testing negative, which is no longer a criterion for recovery. We are telling them that they can continue to wait for a negative report at a satellite centre, but must not occupy a hospital bed unnecessarily. They must realize that beds are limited and must be used for serious patients,” Barua said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/false-positive-results-keep-patients-in-hospital-longer-add-to-bed-crisis-in-city/articleshow/76930561.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 13, 2020||Delhi||This 007 shoots from the lip: The name is Bond & he has a Delhi address||NEW DELHI: It’s one thing to idolise a fictional character, but adopting that name is like being awestruck on an entirely different level. Perhaps, this is what gave birth to Delhi’s own James Bond, the character of the debonair British Secret Service agent created by writer Ian Fleming. Till two days ago, 33-year-old Vikas Kardam was just another ordinary man living in a two-room rented apartment at Nawada Housing Complex in west Delhi with his wife and three-year-old daughter. His fame was limited to his family, friends and neighbours. But ever since he has changed his name to James Bond, he has been attracting a lot of attention. “The word has spread like wildfire. People think it is some kind of a joke, but it’s true,” he told TOI. Unlike his favourite Bond, Daniel Craig, who zooms around in luxurious technologically advanced cars, Kardam moves around on a bike that he had purchased three years ago when his daughter was born. The dissimilarity between the star and the fan doesn’t end there. While the real Bond has the attention of women from across the world, Delhi’s “super spy’s” wife is visibly angry with him for having taken this step. “Her first reaction was of shock. She looked at me with anger, didn’t utter a word and then left the room. It’s been two days since she’s spoken to me. She feels this is going to attract a lot of attention, which will end in all of us getting trolled. But I am ready to face it,” Kardam said. He added that nobody took him seriously when he discussed the idea of changing his name, but now that it had happened, they were all shocked to see his guts. “I haven’t told my parents about this yet. I know they will be mad at me, so I am waiting for the news to reach them on its own to avoid the confrontation,” the 33-year-old said. The original Bond, who is six feet tall, muscular and weighs a little over 70kg, doesn’t quite fit in the Delhi replica’s personality. “Who cares?” Kardam quipped. “The thought of changing my name first occurred to me as a joke too, but the more I thought about it, the more I got certain of doing it. More than my name, Vikas, I felt the name of my favourite star resonated with my personality,” he added. Kardam had been putting a lot of thought into the matter since September 2019 and had even discussed it with his colleagues at his workplace in Gurgaon. “They tried to persuade me into not going ahead with it, but that just strengthened my resolve in doing it. I finally started checking the procedure online and found an office in Rajouri Garden that would facilitate it for me,” he said. “I would have changed my name in April, but the procedure was delayed due to the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown. It was finalised on Friday. I’ll now have to get my name changed on my Aadhaar card, driver’s licence, PAN card, and other documents. I was aware of what tasks I would face once I changed my name. That’s why I won’t have any problems in going ahead with the procedure. I am doing it for the sake of getting the name of my favourite star, James Bond,” said Kardam. Delhi’s Bond became philosophical saying life was too short to worry about a name. “I’m fully aware that I might become a butt of jokes, but at least I’ll be giving everyone a reason to smile,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-007-shoots-from-the-lip-the-name-is-bond-he-has-a-delhi-address/articleshow/76929809.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways start work on rainwater harvesting system||Ludhiana: Taking a crucial step to overcome the woes related to accumulated rainwater across the station premises after heavy rainfall during the monsoon season, Northern Railway authorities will begin maintenance of work of rainwater harvesting system, which is lying non-functional at the city railway station due to lack of proper maintenance work. The decision has been taken to improve the groundwater table as during every rainy season rainwater gets wasted after it gets accumulated on the station premises which gives tough time to passengers passing through the station premises. Northern Railway authorities had installed much needed rainwater harvesting systems on the station premises to sustain the levels of groundwater in 2016 but due to its lack of proper maintenance, it has stopped its working and causing inconvenience of frequent travellers. Although higher authorities of Northern Railway are aware about the fact that this is one of biggest railway station of Ferozepur division but even after this there are no advance facilities for local passengers as they fail to make rainwater harvesting system functional, which is need of the hour to conserve rainwater from getting wasted after flowing into the sewerage. Moreover, passengers have raised serious questions over the working of the local railway authorities by claiming they were least interested in checking the functioning of rainwater harvesting systems installed inside the station premises that fall under Northern Railway zone. Some of the systems were not even covered properly due to which polythene and empty bottles were also being dumped there. A local passenger, Rajwinder Gupta, said the railway authorities were least bothered to conserve rainwater for further utilisation as they didn’t conduct inspection before the arrival of monsoon season to check these system. If systems were functioning then water could not get accumulated during rains which help in improving level of groundwater,” said the passenger. “Due to its improper working, water gets collected on outer parts of station premises because some rainwater harvesting systems that were installed in the past are not functioning properly. The authorities concerned have failed to pay attention towards it,” further added by Gupta. Speaking to Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar, he said that, “The Northern Railway authorities will soon take appropriate measure to make all rainwater harvesting system functional at the city station for giving better services to local passenger because consumption of water is very much high at the city station and to reduce the dependence on groundwater, the railways have planned to make all such system functional for further betterment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-start-work-on-rainwater-harvesting-system/articleshow/76929831.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 13, 2020||Madurai||Prevent illegal extraction of sand in Vaigai: Plea||Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Madras high court seeking to prevent illegal extraction of sand in Vaigai river at Thiruppuvanam taluk in Sivaganga district. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam directed the authorities to file a counter and adjourned the case to a further date for hearing. In the petition, U Seetha, a resident of Thiruppuvanam, stated that due to illegal extraction of sand from Vaigai river and the adjacent patta lands for several years, the groundwater source has depleted at 30 villages. Due to this, residents do not have sufficient water for drinking and agricultural purposes. She stated that prior to 1994, there were nearly 10,000 acres of agricultural land at these villages but at present there are only 3,000 acres as the illegal extraction of sand had resulted in severe water scarcity. She stated that few persons are involved in illegal sand mining in Vaigai river near Kannor village. Excessive sand is being extracted illegally and transported through trucks everyday. Though she submitted a representation to the authorities, no action was taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/prevent-illegal-extraction-of-sand-in-vaigai-plea/articleshow/76930264.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Tusker Thriprayar Ramachandran dies||THRISSUR: Cochin Devaswom Board-owned tusker Thriprayar Ramachandran died due to stomach-related ailments. According to Cochin Devaswom Board (CDB) president A B Mohanan, 64-year-old tusker Ramchandran was suffering with foot-throat disease and constipation for the last several months. The tusker was under treatment for the last one week and died on Saturday night, said Mohanan. “Ramachandran was one of the prominent faces at Thrissur pooram. The tusker had the distinction of carrying the thidambu before the fireworks of the pooram every year,” Mohanan said. “The tusker was famous for his mischievous movements,” he added. In the lockdown period, it was a regular scene to watch Ramachandran walk about in Vadakkunnatha temple ground in Thrissur where Kudamattam usually took place during the pooram. This year, the pooram was cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tusker-thriprayar-ramachandran-dies/articleshow/76928969.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaisalmer administration uses pvt chopper to destroy locusts||JAISALMER: The locust control department and agriculture department on Sunday destroyed swarms of yellow locusts entering into Jaisalmer from Longewala on Sunday. The administration used a private chopper, sprayer and drone to destroy the locusts. There was another big locust attack in Pokharan and Lathi areas in Jaisalmer along with Sanawad in Barmer district. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said the operation to destroy locusts was launched on Saturday in Jaisalmer city and other areas. The locust control department and agriculture department are conducting a survey to get the information of locusts crossing the border. There was information on Sunday about huge swarms of locusts in Pokharan and Lathi areas in Jaisalmer. Locust control department officer Rajesh Kumar said four sorties of a private helicopter were conducted in Basanpeer to destroy the locusts which covered an area of 455 hectares in Khabha and Dedha in Jaisalmer. Apart from this, in Khilona, Motisar and Sankda areas locusts were controlled in 615 hectares. He said in the next three days, locusts will be destroyed in the Pokharan firing range with the help of army officers. These yellow locusts will lay eggs in the next two days which will prove to be a big challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaisalmer-admn-uses-pvt-chopper-to-destroy-locusts/articleshow/76933247.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: 31% Covid-19 cases reported in Ernakulam are from Aluva region||KOCHI: Around 31% of total cases reported in Ernakulam district in the last one week were directly or indirectly associated with Aluva, according to a data on cases reported between July 4 and 11. Of the total 166 cases reported in Ernakulam, 52 were from Aluva municipality and 14 neighbouring local bodies. Also, all the 52 were contact cases and sources of many are still unknown. The highest number of cases in the region was reported from Keezhmad panchayat (22) and of these, 16 were associated with an engagement ceremony. Health experts believe headload workers could be the carriers of the disease at Aluva market. “When Ernakulam market was closed, all transport vehicles carrying vegetables and other goods from outside the state had halted at Aluva market for unloading. Headload workers come in direct contact with drivers and cleaners of these vehicles. Though the infection was first reported in an auto driver, we have learned that a headload worker, who was tested positive later, had developed symptoms during the same period. That’s one of the reasons why believe headload workers could have contracted the disease from those who had come from other state,” said a district health official. Moreover, one third of the cases reported in Ernakulam during these days were from Aluva region, he said. “We expect 65% of the nearly 150 people who attended the ceremony in Keezhmad to be tested positive in the coming days. Aluva is followed by Chellanam, where more cases would be reported soon. Around 197 people from 16 wards in Chellanam panchayat have Covid-like symptoms. However, we cannot conclude that all of them have the disease. It needs to be tested. We have also found that a cluster has developed in Tripunithura region,” the official added. Two Tripunithura natives, including a school principal from Aluva, were tested positive last week. Unlike other clusters, authorities find it difficult to contain the spread of infection in Aluva region considering the nature of jobs people are engaged in in the rural areas. “Unlike Ernakulam market, workers travel long distances to reach Aluva market. Such situation doesn’t prevail at Ernakulam market as most workers stay there itself. Since most workers are from rural areas, it is difficult for us to identify the source and contain the spread. The infected are headload workers, tea shop owner, auto drivers, traders and contingent workers in the Aluva municipality,” said the official. Besides collecting samples of primary contacts of the infected people, health workers have collected nearly 600 samples randomly from headload workers, auto drivers, travel operators and others in Aluva region till Saturday evening. On Sunday, eight cases were reported from Aluva region and 19 from Chellanam. “As there are chances of more cases being reported from Chellanam, two mobile teams have been deployed in the area for sample collection,” he added. Meanwhile, experts say Ernakulam is on the verge of community transmission. “More testing needs to be done in Aluva and Chellanam areas. If there is widespread community transmission, enforcing lockdowns may not help. The whole focus will be on mitigation rather than suppression, which we are currently doing. The district is on the verge of community transmission and there is no question about it,” said Dr Aju Mathew, oncologist and epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/31-covid-19-cases-reported-in-ekm-are-from-aluva-region/articleshow/76929031.cms||T C Sreemol
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer administration uses pvt chopper to destroy locusts||JAISALMER: The locust control department and agriculture department on Sunday destroyed swarms of yellow locusts entering into Jaisalmer from Longewala on Sunday. The administration used a private chopper, sprayer and drone to destroy the locusts. There was another big locust attack in Pokharan and Lathi areas in Jaisalmer along with Sanawad in Barmer district. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said the operation to destroy locusts was launched on Saturday in Jaisalmer city and other areas. The locust control department and agriculture department are conducting a survey to get the information of locusts crossing the border. There was information on Sunday about huge swarms of locusts in Pokharan and Lathi areas in Jaisalmer. Locust control department officer Rajesh Kumar said four sorties of a private helicopter were conducted in Basanpeer to destroy the locusts which covered an area of 455 hectares in Khabha and Dedha in Jaisalmer. Apart from this, in Khilona, Motisar and Sankda areas locusts were controlled in 615 hectares. He said in the next three days, locusts will be destroyed in the Pokharan firing range with the help of army officers. These yellow locusts will lay eggs in the next two days which will prove to be a big challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-admn-uses-pvt-chopper-to-destroy-locusts/articleshow/76930568.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Madurai||Fined for taking pregnant woman to hospital, says auto driver in viral video||MADURAI: An autorickshaw driver posted a video on social media claiming that Madurai city traffic police imposed Rs 500 penalty on him for violating lockdown restriction even after he insisted that he came out only to drop a pregnant woman at hospital for delivery and that he did it for free. As the video has gone viral, the city police have stated that his claim will be verified, and penalty will be withdrawn if it is found to be true. Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha told TOI that he recently came across the video and has instructed his sub-ordinates to cancel the fine if the claims are true. With the intense lockdown in place, auto rickshaws are not allowed to operate in city limits. S Muthukrishnan, 40, from TNHB Colony in Mela Anupanadi said that he could not deny when a pregnant woman approached him go to the Government Rajaji Hospital for delivery on Wednesday. He was stopped at Goripalayam junction while returning and an officer posted there refused to listen to Muthukrishnan and handed him a challan. He said that he even questioned as to how he can pay fine when he has not earned anything in the last four months. “Government is giving out only Rs 1,000 as dole for a month during lockdown, but I have already been challaned for Rs 1,000 in just one week. I am already short of money without any earning. How do I pay the fine? If this continues, no auto rickshaw driver will come forward to help even if there is someone struggling for his life,” he said in the video. In the distressing video, he even said that if this continues, he will have to end his life along with his family members. Muthukrishnan said that he has not only been a law-abiding citizen, but also helping others in need and has never charged a pregnant woman. K Sugumaran, deputy commissioner of traffic, Madurai city, said that there is a general instruction to the officials on the road to be vigilant to make lockdown a success. However, such cases can be very well exempted. The problem in general is that when an auto rickshaw is allowed, other auto rickshaw drivers will start questioning officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fined-for-taking-pregnant-woman-to-hospital-says-auto-driver-in-viral-video/articleshow/76930265.cms||V Devanathan
July 13, 2020||Madurai||Madurai folk make Sunday shutdown a success; intense lockdown till Tuesday||Madurai: On a day Madurai residents wholeheartedly backed a complete shutdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, the government sounded a note of caution and chose to extend the intense lockdown in the district till July 14. Though the lockdown till July 12 midnight was strictly enforced , the decision was taken as cases continued to surge. The extended lockdown will be in effect in all areas within the Madurai corporation, Madurai south, Madurai west, Paravai town panchayat and Thiruparankundram block. The lockdown measures, which existed till June 24, would continue throughout the district from July 15 to July 31, the order said.According to the press statement, the intense lockdown is to be used for conducting more fever camps and also enhancing door-to-door screening. Hence, grocery and vegetable shops and milk booths would be allowed to function from 6am to 2pm. Autos, taxis and private vehicles would not be allowed to ply except for emergencies. The headquarters of banks and financial institutions will be allowed to function with minimal staff from 10am to 2pm. ATMs would function normally.Only takeaway food from hotels and groceries would be allowed for the next two days. However, Madurai hotel owners association has decided to give only takeaways till July 31.Meanwhile, all shops including essential ones remained closed, except for medical shops and milk booths, on Sunday observing the complete lockdown. Police officials were deployed at junctions, where the police teams stopped vehicles and checked the purpose of people’s movements. Only essential workers such as hospital workers, doctors, corporation and government staff and sanitation employees were allowed to go ahead. Those found travelling unnecessarily were booked and fine levied from them. “Just like last Sunday, people cooperated. After 10 am, there was hardly any vehicle on city roads,” a police officer said.Social workers were not stopped by the police and were allowed to feed the homeless people staying on roadsides. G R Sivakumar of Idhayam Trust said that abandoned people and homeless received freshly-prepared food by social activists from various parts of the city. With people getting used to complete lockdown on Sundays, many stocked non-vegetarian items on Saturday itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-folk-make-sunday-shutdown-a-success-intense-lockdown-till-tuesday/articleshow/76930266.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Recalling 1962’s Battle of Walong: How Indian soldiers armed with old rifles held back Chinese forces equipped with automatic weapons for 20 days||NAINITAL: Prahlad Singh Deo was just 20 years old in November 1962 when he reached Walong in the erstwhile North East Frontier Agency (NEFA) known today as Arunachal Pradesh. Deo had been inducted into the Indian Army in January 1962 and after a training of just 10 months, he was on the warfront, joining his batallion, 6 Kumaon, that was stationed at Walong. Another young officer, 29-year-old Prem Nath Bhatia was also in Walong as part of the 6 Kumaon at that time. The battle that the two were going to be a part of, of would go down in history books as India’s only offensive in the 1962 war with China. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/outnumbered-they-held-off-chinese-troops-for-20-days/articleshow/76934872.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/recalling-1962s-battle-of-walong-how-indian-soldiers-armed-with-old-rifles-held-back-chinese-forces-equipped-with-automatic-weapons-for-20-days/articleshow/76928976.cms||Prashant Jha
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Gandhi gyan libraries to be set up in 33 panchayats||Jaipur: The rural development and panchayati raj department has identified 33 panchayats in 33 districts for setting up of Gandhi Gyan Kendra Pustakalay evam Vachnalays with the objective of spreading Gandhian values to the people. These 33 libraries in the gram panchayat will be a model for other villages in the district to follow and set up libraries in their villages. Each library will have at least 1,000 to 1,500 books. “Around Rs 2.4 lakh will be spent for buying books in each library. The books will not be bought through government funds. A list of books has been prepared. It has been sent to districts and they will mobilise funds through donations and contributions. Hence, it is a zero-budget initiative,” said P C Kishan, special secretary, rural development department. “The setting up of these libraries will be completed by October 2 (Gandhi Jayanti) and will be launched on the same day. The objective of these libraries will be to spread Gandhian values by collecting books on Mahatma Gandhi and those written by him. Second, knowledge about poultry farming, agriculture, organic farming etc will also be spread. Third, it will serve as a community place for discussions and meetings. Fourth, it will be used as a training centre for various rural development schemes.” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gandhi-gyan-libraries-to-be-set-up-in-33-panchayats/articleshow/76930570.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||20-year-old woman accuses 4 of rape in Bikaner district||JAIPUR: A 20-year-old unmarried woman in Bikaner’s Deshnok police station area has registered a case of abduction and gangrape against four persons. She claimed that they kidnapped her from her house in early hours of Friday while her family was asleep and sexually assaulted. An investigation was initiated after the case was registered on Saturday. “According to the complainant, around 3:30 am on Friday, one of the accused knocked on her door and when she opened it, he dragged her outside the house after covering her mouth with his hand so she could not cry for help. After this, he along with the other three accused took her in a vehicle where they covered her mouth with a cloth laced with some kind of sedative due to which she was only semi-conscious. While her family was also at home at the time of abduction, they seemed to have not heard anything when she was apparently taken”, said an official of Deshnok police station. The woman alleged that after the abduction, the accused took her to a nearby village where they raped her. “The woman in her statement said that after the rape, the accused took her to Jodhpur and in the meantime, her father had started calling his relatives and acquaintances to find her. When they found that she had been forcibly taken to Jodhpur, the family went and somehow managed to get her back. The woman also claimed that the accused who had knocked on her door planned on forcibly marry her,” said the official. All the accused are from the same village as the girl and she has named them in the FIR. A case of gang-rape has been registered though none of them has been arrested yet. The woman’s medical examination was done and cops are still checking the veracity of the allegations before making any arrests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/20-year-old-married-woman-accuses-4-of-rape-in-bikaner-dist/articleshow/76930572.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Madurai||New DCP city, SP rural, take charge in Madurai||Madurai: Extending cooperation to the Madurai district administration and other departments to tackle Covid-19 infection will be utmost priority, said Sujit Kumar and R Shiva Prasad, who assumed charge on Sunday as superintendent of police (SP) for Madurai rural police unit and deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Madurai city, respectively. Kumar, who served as SP, Coimbatore was transferred to Madurai district in the recent reshuffle of higher officials in the state. He replaces Manivannan, who was transferred as Tirunelveli SP. Kumar said that property-related crimes during the lockdwon have increased in some parts of the state and he will take measures to check if they are taking place in Madurai. Kumar, who is a 2013 batch IPS officer, has completed MA and MPhil in History from the University of Delhi and cleared UGC-NET. He taught history at Motilal Nehru College, University of Delhi for six years before joining IPS. He started his career as assistant superintendent of police (training) at Madurai district for six months. He has also served as deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Coimbatore city, before being transferred as SP, Coimbatore. Prasad, who served as assistant superintendent of police, Virudhunagar, replaced E Karthick, who was transferred and posted as deputy commissioner of police, Flower Bazaar, Chennai. Prasad said he will work to improve public-police cooperation and improve the image of police among public. He said that a feedback system can be created to assess the quality of service provided at police stations and based on the outcome, improvements can be suggested to respective police inspectors. Prasad is a 2016 batch IPS officer and a native of Bengaluru. He has completed engineering in electronics and communications||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-dcp-city-sp-rural-take-charge-in-madurai/articleshow/76930267.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Central library requests readers to discontinue visits||Panaji: In the wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the state’s central library, which had opened its doors to the public in the first week of June, has now requested its readers to avoid unnecessary visits. The newspaper and magazine section, reference books section, study rooms and other sections have been cordoned off once again. “Only special requests will be entertained so that the number of visitors at the library will be restricted,” curator Carlos Fernandes said. “However, writers or researchers, who need to refer to material can be allowed,” he said. Other readers will not be permitted to browse. Visitors are being urged to inform the library staff about their choice of books through the library’s online itinerary instead of personally visiting. The online itinerary allows readers to feed information like book title, author and date of publication, among others. “Readers can also coordinate with us via WhatsApp or email for this purpose,” Fernandes said. Based on the availability, the librarian will inform the reader. After that, the library staff themselves will fetch the book to be handed to the reader. The library had earlier sealed its door to visitors almost ten days prior to the nationwide lockdown in March. After two months, readers could borrow or return books from the lending section after it opened in May. In the first week of June, the library resumed services by implementing social distancing measures and sanitation practices. Compared to the pre-lockdown period, the daily footfalls at the library have fallen from five hundred per day to about ten per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/central-library-requests-readers-to-discontinue-visits/articleshow/76930657.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Defunct collars make Sariska tigers unsafe||JAIPUR: Tigers at Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR), where poaching threat looms large, remain unsafe as the majority of the collars on the necks of the big cats are still defunct. Also, GPS-enabled collars worth approximately Rs 30 lakh, which were proposed to be installed on the big cats, are biting dust for the past two years. According to records available with TOI, collars of only two big cats, ST-10 and ST-13 are functional, while heavy gadgets weighing between 1,400 grams and 2kg are hung around the necks of tigers ST-2, ST-3, ST-6 and ST-9 are defunct. Dinesh Verma Durani, founder and general secretary of Sariska Tiger Foundation said, “Few tiger collars are not working for the past several years. For instance, tigress ST-2 collar’s is dysfunctional since 2011. The gadget should be either replaced or removed.” This is despite the fact that Rajasthan’s top body for wildlife management in 2018 recommended to install advanced radio collars for all tigers at Sariska and their round-the-clock monitoring with separate teams to prevent poaching in the game reserve which had lost all its big cats in 2005. Sources said out of eight GPS enabled collars procured two years ago, the department is waiting to install it on five big cats. “After Tiger ST-16 died due to tranquilisation, the officials are afraid to dart other big cats. However, there is an urgent requirement to collar many young tigers as their movement is recorded near the human settlement and threat of poaching remains a constant.” STR, deputy conservator of forests, S R Yadav said, “We have to seek permission to install the radio -collars on young tigers. The process will be started after permission from National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) is granted. The life of a collar is approximately 2 years and some tigers at STR have it for past several years. It is better not to disturb them.” At present, tiger ST-15 movement is recorded near the Thela region where mining activities are prominently occurring and monitoring without technology’s assistance is difficult in the terrain. Similarly, tigress ST- 8 has made territory near villages, which are notorious for snaring and poaching. STR, which is spread over 800 square-kilometres, is home for 16 adults and 4 cubs. Following the 2018 poaching debacle, the then standing committee of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) directed to replace the obsolete hand-held antennas collar system with the advanced GPS-enabled VHF collars. A project to replace the collars was initiated in 2018 and collars of big cats including ST-9, ST-10 and ST-3 were replaced. Hemant Singh, DFO, posted at STR during that period said, “We received 8 collars from Ranthambore for effective monitoring. After replacing collars of three tigers, attempts were made to tranquilise tiger ST-15, however, they were unsuccessful.” At the times, when project to install collars on tigers for better monitoring was conceived, tiger cubs of ST-12 and ST- 14 were small. However, many expressed the requirement to collar these cubs too after some time as there are 26 villages inside the reserve. An official said, “It’s not necessary to collar all the tigers. Females have a smaller territory and could be monitored by regular patrolling. But young tigers that venture out near human settlements should be collared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/defunct-collars-make-sariska-tigers-unsafe/articleshow/76930571.cms||Ajay Singh
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown gives time out to Delhi zoo inmates||NEW DELHI: While humans continue to remain caged inside their homes due to Covid-19 fear, animals at Delhi zoo are experiencing more freedom in the time of corona. The zoo, which has remained shut for visitors since the lockdown began, is allowing animals to enjoy more time out in the open. The zoo oversaw a change in management during the lockdown period, with a new director--Ramesh Kumar Pandey taking charge. He says his objectives include giving animals more time out in the open, while also making them feel ‘closer’ to their natural habitats. Making enclosures greener and more natural are also part of the Delhi zoo masterplan, 2031. Pandey told TOI that timings for animals to be out in their enclosures had already been increased. Animals were being taken back inside cages only for feeding purposes. Increase in outdoor activities will help the animals stay fit, he added. “Obesity will go down and there will be an improvement in a number of other health parameters. The more the animals stay active, the more it will help them stay healthy. The zoo is also quiet these days as no visitors are coming. That is helping these animals feel closer to their natural habitat,” he said further. The director says they will shift focus on visitor amenities once the zoo reopens. “However, the zoo will not open until the end of July at least. After this, we’ll see the fresh guidelines issued by the Centre. Our focus at present is to look at each animal and provide them the best habitat they need. Each enclosure will be spruced up wherever required,” said Pandey. A zoo source said there are plans to bring in new animals to the zoo as well. However, no exchange is likely to occur during the present pandemic situation. “Agreements may be made with other zoological parks, but getting animals is both risky and unlikely,” the source added. With no visitors entering the premises of Delhi zoo for over three months now, this has been the longest spell the zoo has remained shut since 2016 when bird flu had kept the zoo shut for two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-gives-time-out-to-zoo-inmates/articleshow/76929856.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 13, 2020||Varanasi||Residence, shopping mart, bankaccounts of Mukhtar aide seized||Varanasi: Jaunpur administration and police seized the properties and bank accounts of fish trader Ravindra Nishad, backed by jailed mafia don-turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari, including his house, a shopping mall, vehicles and bank deposits worth Rs 3 crore 71 lakh. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “The joint team of officials of district administration and police raided the properties of Nishad amid tight security arrangements on Sunday. They seized his house, a shopping mall, vehicles and bank deposits worth Rs 3,71,44,968.” Apart from making announcements with loudspeakers, drummers were also engaged to make people aware about the action being initiated against Nishad in Jogiyapur area under the limits of Kotwali police station in Jaunpur district. Nishad, who was booked under Gangster Act following his arrest, owns a two-storey residential building and a shopping complex. Apart from these two immovable properties, two goods carriers and a motorcycle were also confiscated, he said. Two bank accounts having deposits of Rs 5,82,082 and Rs 9,62,886 were also seized. On July 4, continuing their drive against the henchmen of Mukhtar, police had arrested his close associate and fish trade mafia Ravindra Kumar Nishad with banned species of Thai Mangur and other fish worth Rs 12 lakh. SP Jaunpur Ashok Kumar said the action was initiated in joint action of police, food safety and drug administration and fisheries department. Apart from Nishad, his accomplice B Narain Rao of Andhra Pradesh was also arrested. Police seized 25 kg of banned species Thai Mangur, 80 quintals of Rohu and Pyasi fishes and a truck from his godown. Kumar said Nishad was illegally operating fish trade and had amassed wealth. Earlier on Saturday, Varanasi administration and police had confiscated the properties of Mukhtar gang’s sharp shooter Jhunna Pandit in Ramduttpur area. Mukhtar’s henchmen, relatives and shooters are facing the heat as police have launched a crackdown on organised crime. Mukhtar’s henchmen were booked under Gangster Act and sent behind bars in Mau, Ghazipur and other districts of the region. Government land encroached by them in Ghazipur was freed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/residence-shopping-mart-bankaccounts-of-mukhtar-aide-seized/articleshow/76928567.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Varanasi||No contact tracing in 72% Covid cases as tally crosses 800-mark||Varanasi: The rapid spurt in number of Covid-19 positive cases, crossing the 800 mark, in the district, coupled with the inability of health and district officials in tracing contacts of most new Covid-19 infected patients have turned the situation really grim in the densely populated city. When TOI went through the records provided by the district administration as well as the chief medical officer, it came to light that contact tracing could not be achieved in 72.72% Covid cases. Adding to the worries is the increased frequency of deaths due to the pandemic in the city. The officials are still tight-lipped on whether the city is facing the threat of community spread now, and are looking forward for the death audit committee’s meet on July 16 to finalise strategies to check casualties due to novel coronavirus infection. Chief medical officer Dr V B Singh admitted that contact tracing in most of the new Covid-19 positive cases could not become possible due to which vigil on influenza like illness (ILI) has been increased. However, he refused to comment on the possibility of community spread in the district, saying it can be decided only by the state level committee. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Arrival of migrants and some other reasons led to the rise in Covid-19 cases, hence the increasing figures are not a matter of serious concern for us. We are prepared to tackle this challenge. But, increasing fatalities, especially in the last fortnight, are surely a matter of concern. We are waiting for the outcome of death audit committee’s meeting to finalise a strategy to check the Covid-19 casualties.” Regarding the schedule of the meeting, the CMO said that it is proposed to be held on July 16 and would be presided over by the director of Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University. On the basis of reports received by him in 27 Covid-19 deaths registered in the district so far, the CMO said, “Comorbidities have been detected as cause in 50% of these deaths. Many patients of cardiac, renal disease, pancreatitis, head injury and other ailments had been admitted to hospitals for treatment but were found Covid-19 positive after their death. The proposed meet will clear actual reason behind all the deaths.” The officials are struggling hard to minimise the casualties and ensure early detection of infection for timely treatment, but the number of awaited reports from the BHU lab has remained above 1,500 for past many days. The CMO said, “Around 300 samples are being tested at BHU lab while around 150 samples are being tested per day in four private hospitals and pathologies.” DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said issue of increasing number of tests had been discussed in the last meeting with BHU authorities. As the number of active cases is going above 300, officials have started increasing the facility of hospitalisation, especially at level-1 facilities. The DM said that in L-1 facility, 65 beds were available at ESIC, 150 at Ayurveda College and 100 at DLW hospital. The hospitals of army and North Eastern Railway of 50 beds, each, are also being utilised now for L-1 facility while more hospitals including private can be taken by administration in case of further requirement. In L-2 facility 100 beds are available at DDU district hospital while BHU is running L-3 facility with 100 bed capacity at present. In case of further requirement, BHU officials have assured to utilise up to 300 beds for L-3 facility in its Super Speciality hospital. Box: Alarming rise in Covid cases in Kashi# 132 new Covid-19 positive cases registered between July 8 and 11 # Contact tracing could not be done in 96 cases # First Covid-19 positive case reported in Varanasi on March 22 # Covid figures touched the mark of 100 by May 18 # Figures rose to 200 in 16 days, in next 15 days it touched the mark of 300 # Gap of days in registering a rise of 100 Covid cases started reducing after June 19 when figures reached 400 mark in 8 days only # Frequebcy of detection of Covid cases increased. Rise of hundred cases registered in five to three days from June 27 # Frequency of Covid-19 deaths increased in June. #Total toll in dustrict 27 so far||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-contact-tracing-in-72-covid-cases-as-tally-crosses-800-mark/articleshow/76928788.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 13, 2020||Vadodara||12 laboratories notified for coronavirus testing||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) notified 12 laboratories in the city for Covid-19 testing on Friday night. The number of tests in the city is expected to go up significantly with antigen and antibody testing also being notified. The diagnosis of Covid-19 was presently being done using only the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests. The GMERS Hospital, Gotri and the SSG Hospital started rapid antigen testing from Friday. The remaining laboratories will start doing it soon. The rates for various kinds of tests for Covid-19 have also been capped in the laboratories. While eight laboratories will be conducting the tests locally, the remaining four laboratories will be collecting samples and sending them to Ahmedabad or Surat for testing. The rates for antigen and antibody tests vary from Rs 750 to Rs 1,400 depending on the type of tests if the person being tested visits a laboratory. The rates range from Rs 1,100 to Rs 1,650 if the samples are collected at home or at hospital. Sources said that the criteria for testing had also been relaxed significantly and doctors will now be able to get testing done more extensively. Also, the results are available much faster in antigen or antibody tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-laboratories-notified-for-coronavirus-testing/articleshow/76928176.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Rajkot||Diamond workers now polish odd jobs to bring sparkle in life||Rajkot/Surat: With the pandemic robbing the sheen off their livelihoods, Surat’s diamond polishers from Amreli are now seeking refuge in the shelter of their ancestral professions back in their homesteads. Amreli district administration estimates a total of nearly 2.33 lakh diamond workers have returned home from Surat owing to lack of jobs in the pandemic-affected diamond sector. Back home, the hands that wielded the emery wheel efficiently, now try to polish different odd jobs to a new sparkle. “When there was no work left in Surat, I was forced to migrate to Amreli, my hometown, uprooting my family of 10 members with me. My ancestors were hair dressers. My father had taught me the art in my childhood, which now I will have to reintroduce myself to. I have no options but to get hands on in my ancestral profession and set up a hair cutting salon,” said Deepak Mesuriya, recalling his heyday as a polisher living in the diamond city’s Varachha area. And so does Jagdish Koli, who repairs punctures of tyres of two-wheelers and four-wheelers with the same keen eye that made the rough turn into a diamond in his nimble hands. “I was optionless, but as I knew how to repair punctures, I opened a roadside puncture repair shop,” Koli told TOI. The recession had not only hit small-time polishers, but even the bigger officials like Bhautik Naseet, who was a manager in a diamond unit in Surat, but had to return home to Amreli. But his is a story that paints the actual mess most of the migrants are in at present. While they have lost touch with ancestral skills, there is no requirement for their present ones. “Management is my only skill asset. I can do nothing else and so have taken up work as a labour contractor here. The unit where I was working shut shop and now, I don’t want to return to the corona-infested city any more,” said the man whose dreams didn’t cut big in the rough market.Gabharu Mudhava has taken up animal husbandry and now trades in cow and buffalo milk — his ancestral profession. Kamlesh Patel has returned home to be a farmer cultivating groundnut in his farm, and sowing hopes of doing better than what he could as a diamond worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/diamond-workers-now-polish-odd-jobs-to-bring-sparkle-in-life/articleshow/76928959.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala Police to procure Rs 1.73 crore worth ammunition||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After facing severe criticism from Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) for mismanaging ammunitions, state police are set to purchase another sizeable number of ammunitions soon. The government has given clearance to police to purchase 3,75,000 ammunitions worth Rs 1.73 crore. The ammunitions will be purchased from ammunition factory, Pune, and ordnance factory, Varangaon. The purchase includes 9mm ball cartridges which are the ammunitions for the pistols. As many as 1,50,000 units will be purchased in this category for pistols, which is the most common weapon used by police for civil policing. The purchase also includes 25,000 units of 0.22mm rimfire cartridge (which is a type of metallic firearm cartridge), 1,00,000 units of 7.62mm Nato ball M-80 CTN-packed cartridges and 1,00,000 units of 7.62mm ball A-7 cartridges. The 7.62mm ball ammunitions are used in antipersonnel role by infantry that can be fired from semi-automatic rifle and light machine guns. These bullets, which have a shelf life of 18 years, have a lead core inserted inside a gilding metal jacket. In June last year, police had procured 42 AK 103 assault rifle, hundred 7.62mm assault rifle TAR, two light-armoured troop carrier with underbelly ballistic protection and an anti-mine protector for counter-insurgency operations for all-round protection, with a central assistance of Rs 5 crore. In addition, police will also procure 10 multi-shell launchers, more than three lakh cartridges and 500 fragmentation grenades. In 2018-19, police had procured 200 units of 7.62mm self-loading rifles (SLRs) to its collection from Ordinance Factory, Thiruchirappalli, at a cost of Rs 1.59 crore. Also, 200 sub-machine gun (9mm carbine 1A1) from small arms factory Kanpur were also procured. However, police had to face severe criticism from the CAG this year when it audited police’s arms and ammunition stock for the last few years, citing that as many as 12,061 live cartridges are ‘missing’. According to the CAG’s report, 1,835 units of 5.56mm cartridge for INSAS rifles, 1,578 units of 7.62mm A7 cartridge for AK-47, 8,398 units of 7.62mm M80 rifles for self-loading rifles and 250 units of 9mm drill cartridges were missing from the ammunition stock of the state police. The CAG had also remarked that as many as 25 Insas automatic rifles are also missing. However, police had retrieved the ‘missing’ cartridges and rifles from its units and found that the reasons behind the arms and ammunitions were ‘missing’ was the mismanagement of records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-to-procure-rs-1-73cr-worth-ammunition/articleshow/76929058.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Madurai||Elcot IT park in Madurai to be made Covid care centre||Madurai: Elcot’s IT park facility in Vadapalanji in Madurai, is to be converted into a 1,000-bedded Covid care facility to help treat more patients, as the number of cases is steadily rising in the southern districts. Minister for revenue, IT and disaster management, R B Udayakumar, inspected the IT park on Sunday, to review the conversion process. He said that the chief minister was taking all steps to ensure that the spread of Covid-19 is controlled in the district. At present, there are 1,400 beds for Covid treatment at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), 450 in other taluk hospitals and PHCs and 850 in private hospitals. Apart from these, Covid care facilities have been established in 21 colleges and educational institutions in Madurai.Now, a full-fledged 1,000 bedded facility is being established in the Vadapalanji IT park, in the first floor, in coordination with the District Rural Development Agency and engineering department.The minister also said that testing has been enhanced in Madurai district, which has helped detect more cases. Seventeen thousand tests had been done throughout the district from July 4 to 10. As many as 1,985 tests were done on July 4, 1,320 on July 5, 2,093 on July 6, 2,095 on July 7, 3,053 on July 8, 3,024 on July 9 and 3,436 on July 10. The minister said that about 9 to 15 % of the people who are being tested were testing positive daily. The early detection is also helping in treating them and posing less challenge to the doctors, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elcot-it-park-in-madurai-to-be-made-covid-care-centre/articleshow/76930274.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Madurai||Devil in the detail: Sathankulam locals want town name changed||MADURAI: Perhaps it’s the devil in the name that has cast its spell on our town, lament residents of Sathankulam that has drawn global attention over the alleged custodial deaths of Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks in the last few weeks. ‘Sathan’ in Tamil refers to devil; same as ‘Satan’in English. Advocate A K Venugopal, a resident, said the town was known as Thirukolundupuram or Veera Marthanda Nallur till the 17th century. In southern regional Tamil dialect, ‘sathu’ refers to trade of consignments transported by bullock carts, and ‘kulam’ is a place of trade or market. “The name ‘Sathukulam’ may have got transformed into Sathankulam over the years,” Venugopal said, adding that the town was a centre for trade between Sri Lanka and India. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: Satan in its name, a town wants to change itWatch Why Sathankulam residents want its name changed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/devil-in-the-detail-sathankulam-locals-want-town-name-changed/articleshow/76930272.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
July 13, 2020||Kanpur||17-yr-old girl found murdered in Unnao; Accused held||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: A 17-year-old girl was found murdered near an agricultural field in a village under Makhi police station in Unnao district on Sunday morning. Barely few hours after the crime, police arrested the accused, identified as Sushil for being allegedly involved in the murder. The family members of the girl told police that the girl's boyfriend was the prime suspect as the two were not on good terms for the past few months. “We have arrested Sushil and questioned him to ascertain the motive for committing the crime. He said that after a brief courtship, she started avoiding him and to teach her a lesson, he killed her,” said a police official. “On Sunday morning Sushil hid in the nearby fields, and as soon as the girl left her house, he waylaid her near the field and after an altercation attacked her with a machete on her head and other vital body parts, and fled after the incident”, said a police official. The locals spotted the body and informed her family before alerting the police. Police rushed to the spot and shifted her body to mortuary”, the police official added. The girl has been in a relationship with Sushil for the past few months. But their relationship had recently turned sour over some issue and the girl was trying to come out of it, police said. Sushil had allegedly been pressurising the girl to continue the affair. There are reports that he had threatened her to harm her and her family if she dared to walk away, police said. “An FIR has been lodged under relevant sections of the IPC. We have arrested the accused and his interrogation questioning is underway. The body has been sent for the post-mortem examination and forensic examination of the spot was conducted. We are taking statements of the kin of the accused. Cops have been posted at the houses of both the victim and the accused,” said SP (South) Dhawal Jaiswal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/17-yr-old-girl-found-murdered-in-unnao-accused-held/articleshow/76930135.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kanpur||Ex-SSP Kanpur tore Dubey’s history sheet, claims senior scribe||Kanpur: More startling revelations came to fore with regard to gangster Vikas Dubey, who had killed 8 policemen in Bikru village. The latest case is related to tearing of his history-sheet by the then SSP. In 2009, the then SSP Kanpur Anand Swaroop, courted controversy by tearing the history sheet of gangster Vikas Dubey saying that those who had given up crimes a long time ago also have the right to live. In 2009, when there was the BSP government in the state, senior journalist Sunil Gupta, who covered the event, said that the then SSP Kanpur, Anand Swaroop, prepared a list of the history-sheeters who had said goodbye to crime. "The list had names of people whose history sheets were open, but they had not committed any crime for a long time. The reason given for this exercise was that many times in case of any crime in the district, police also harass the old history sheeters who have no connection with the crime. Most of the history sheeters in this list were people between the ages of 60 and 80 years. Vikas Dubey who was 40–45 years old at that time was also invited in this programme where the then SSP tore the history sheet", Sunil Gupta said. According to Vikas Dubey’s history sheet, there are 60 cases registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ex-ssp-kanpur-tore-dubeys-history-sheet-claims-senior-scribe/articleshow/76930191.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kanpur||Cop injured in encounter tests positive for Covid-19||Kanpur: A constable, who escorted gangster Vikas Dubey from Ujjain to Kanpur and was injured in the encounter with the don, tested positive for Covid on Sunday. The cop, who was undergoing treatment at LLR Hospital, Kanpur, has been quarantined. However, samples taken from the gangster’s body for Covid test before his cremation, showed he did not carry the virus. Remaining 17 policemen and STF commandos in the convoy have also tested negative. The constable was travelling in the same vehicle that toppled over near Bhaunti area in Sachendi on the Kanpur National Highway, forcing an encounter after the don wriggled out and snatched a gun from inspector Nawabganj, Ramakant Pachauri. “The sample report of the constable came late Saturday. He has now been isolated in a Covid ward of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. We are now in the process of launching the contact tracing exercise,” said Dr R B Kamal, who’s treating the injuring cops. At least 1,000 people, including top police officers had visited the hospital ward to meet injured cops and they have been advised to undergo a Covid test. Senior police officials ADG Zone Jai Narain Singh, IG range Mohit Agarwal, district magistrate Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari, SSP Dinesh Kumar, besides media personnel had visited the ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-injured-in-encounter-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76930148.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Funds for workers diverted to pay salaries to Delhi govt staff: CAG||NEW DELHI: Diversion of funds meant for welfare of construction workers, mostly migrants, to pay salaries of staff and drivers in Delhi government; loss of over Rs 4,800 lakh due to failure to pay income tax returns inviting penalty and recovery; and improper maintenance of data leading to blockade of funds and hardship to workers. These are some of the irregularities flagged by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in its latest audit of the functioning of Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers (DBOCW) Welfare Board that keeps a cess fund meant for migrant and construction workers and is supposed to use the money in emergency situations, such as Covid-19 crisis. The CAG audit covering the period 2016-18 has been filed in Delhi high court by standing counsel, Gaurang Kanth, as part of the national auditor’s response to a PIL seeking a CBI probe into alleged misappropriation in the Rs 3,200-crore cess funds maintained by the Board. According to the CAG report, the cash-rich Board (it collected approximately Rs 186 crore in 2016-17 and Rs 200 crore in 2017-18 only from the cess on construction companies) failed to properly renew registration by migrant construction workers, denying them benefits of various schemes. The auditors found that the Board lost out on Rs 700 lakh because it failed to file income tax return on time for the assessment year 2006-07. It invited an interest of Rs 433.17 lakh and a penalty for concealing income to the tune of Rs 275.69 lakh which the Board was forced to pay. Similarly, the Board again paid Rs 4,893.79 lakh as interest due to delay in filing income tax return and failure to pay advance tax, despite being recognised as a charitable institution. As per the report, the Board has not been filing I-T returns after the financial year 2007-08, leading to a whopping demand of Rs 9,807 lakh being imposed by the tax authorities. In 2018, after losing tax appeal, the Board paid the amount. The CAG report found that an “irregular expenditure” of nearly Rs 88 lakh was made by the Board to trade unions to promote and encourage registration of more and more construction workers with it. The report says there is no such provision in the Act to pay money to trade unions. The CAG scrutiny also revealed that over Rs 13 lakh was paid for vehicles along with drivers attached to Delhi government’s labour ministry. “The amount used out of the cess fund for payment on petrol, driver’s salary and maintenance of vehicles was inconsistent with the Board Act,” the report notes. The CAG further highlighted that the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 makes it clear that no Board shall, in any financial year, spend more than 5% of its total expenses on salaries, allowances, officers and other employees or to meet other administrative expenses. Yet, it found in its 2016-18 audit that the Board’s administrative expenses ranged from 16.59 to 5.89%. The high court is likely to take up the report in its next hearing this month while hearing the PIL filed by an NGO Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Smriti Sansthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/funds-for-workers-diverted-to-pay-salaries-to-govt-staff-cag/articleshow/76929874.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Varavara Rao’s life in danger: Family||HYDERABAD: The family members of poet and member of Revolutionary Writers Association, Varavara Rao, who is currently lodged at Mumbai’s Taloja Jail, expressed deep concern about his ‘deteriorating’ health on Sunday and requested the Maharashtra government to shift him immediately to a corporate hospital. They alleged that the state is trying to kill him. Rao (81) has been in jail since 2018 for his role in Elgar Parishad case, which is now being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). “His life is of utmost concern to us right now. Our present demand is to save his life. We demand the government to shift him to a better hospital or allow us to provide him the required medical care. We want to remind the government that it has no right to deny the right to life of any person, much less an undertrial,” Varavara Rao’s wife Hemalatha and his children said while addressing an online press conference on Sunday. They said that during their occasional conversation with him over phone in the last few weeks, he has been ill and this was corroborated by his co-prisoner. “He is occasionally showing signs of loss of memory. His co-prisoner said he needs immediate medical care for not only physical but also neurological issues. The confusion, loss of memory and incoherence are the results of electrolyte imbalance and fall of sodium and potassium levels leading to brain damage. This electrolyte imbalance can be fatal. Taloja Jail Hospital is not at all equipped to handle this kind of serious ailment either in medical expertise or equipment,” the family members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/varavara-raos-life-in-danger-family/articleshow/76929865.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Defence minister to visit Atal tunnel this week||Manali: Before Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicates the under-construction Atal tunnel to the nation in September, defence minister Rajnath Singh will visit the tunnel this week. Sources said Rajnath may visit Manali on July 17 to review ongoing works nearing completion. The defence minister is scheduled to land at Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment helipad at Bahang near Manali from where he will go to Dhundi by road to take stock of works in the tunnel. Sources said Rajnath will hold a meeting with BRO officials and instruct them to complete the work on time besides taking up other issues. Border Roads Organisation (BRO) officials are frequently visiting the tunnel site ahead of the minister’s visit. BRO director general visited the tunnel last month while the additional director general came on Sunday. The director general is expected to visit the tunnel again this month. Mechanical and electrical works in the tunnel are in final stages and will be completed by August end. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had also visited the tunnel and held a meeting with BRO officials on July 2. Then defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman visited the tunnel on October 15, 2017 to take stock of works in the tunnel after completion of boring. Rajnath Singh’s visit to the tunnel amid India-China tension in Ladakh is seen as crucial. After missing many deadlines, BRO is leaving no stone unturned to ensure all remaining works are complete before August 31. Modi has frequently expressed his wish to inaugurate the tunnel himself. BRO, Himachal government and Centre are preparing for his visit. The 8.8km-long Atal tunnel will bypass the 13,050ft high Rohtang pass, reducing the distance between Manali and Leh by 46km. The tunnel is strategically very important for the Indian Army as it will facilitate easy access to Ladakh by reducing travel time by 3 to 4 hours. It will also provide year-long connectivity to Lahaul valley of Himachal. The tunnel will also be the longest motorable tunnel at this altitude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/defence-minister-to-visit-atal-tunnel-this-week/articleshow/76930270.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Marginal decrease of 0.72% in area under snow cover in Himachal: Study||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh’s State Centre on Climate Change has mapped the geographical extent of area under snow during winter season in the state, using satellite data of different resolutions. Based on the analysis of snow cover mapping during 2019-20 (October to May), a marginal decrease of about 0.72% was found in area under snow as compared to the area during 2018-19. The study found that total average area under snow had decreased from 20210.23 sq kms in 2018-19 to 20,064.00 sq kms in 2019-20. The studies, done under the aegis of HP Council for Science Technology and Environment (Himcoste), are mapping seasonal snow cover in terms of its spatial distribution in different river basins during the winter months (October to May). The findings are an important input to understand the contribution of snow in catchments to sustain the hydrology of river basins. The study found that during peak winter months, the snow cover area reduced gradually from February, which may affect the runoff patterns during summer months. More snow cover has been observed in the Satluj basin in winter (November to January) than in the Beas and Ravi basins, whereas Chenab basin has not shown much change during this period. An analysis of summer months (April and May) reveals that the Chenab basin has snow cover in about 87% of the total area in April and about 65% in May. In other words, snow in about 65% of the total basin area would melt during the next ablation months (June to August) and contribute in the runoff. Likewise, the Beas basin has about 49% of snow cover impact in April and about 45% in May. So, snow in about 4% of the total basin area has melted between April and May and about 45% of the basin area would be available for water requirements from snowmelt during the summer months. The Ravi basin has snow in about 44% of the total area in April and about 26% in May. While snow in about 18% of the total basin area has melted out between April and May, only 26% of the total area would be available for meeting the water requirements from snowmelt during the next ablation months. Likewise, the Satluj basin (Baspa, Pin and Spiti) has snow cover in about 72% of the area in April and about 50% in May. Effectively, snow in about 22% of the basin area has melted between April and May and the remaining 50% would meet the water requirements from snow during the next summer months in 2019-20 Director (environment science and technology)-cum-member secretary, Himcoste, D C Rana said that considering the present trend of winter snowfall in Himachal, winter precipitation was mapped in all the basins namely Chandra, Bhaga, Miyar, Beas, Parvati, Jiwa, Pin, Spiti and Baspa using Advanced Wide Field Sensor (AWiFS) data having spatial resolution of 56 mts from October to May. During 2019-20, snowfall was estimated and analyzed with reference to the average value of the total area under snow in each month from October to May in 2018-19. He said that in 2019-20, winter in the south eastern part of the state had more snow covering, mainly the Satluj basin, as compared to Beas and Ravi basins, whereas the Chenab basin did not show much change in the snow cover area when compared with 2018-19. Box: Rivers and seasonal snow cover Himachal Pradesh receives winter precipitation in the form of snow at the higher altitudes. About one-third of the state’s total geographical area remains under thick snow cover during the winter season. Most major rivers like Chenab, Beas, Parvati, Baspa, Spiti, Ravi, Satluj and its perennial tributaries originating from the Himalayas depend upon the seasonal snow cover for their discharge dependability. Besides, the snow cover also helps in controlling the accumulation and ablation patterns of the glaciated regions in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/marginal-decrease-of-0-72-in-area-under-snow-cover-in-himachal-study/articleshow/76930269.cms||Anand Bodh
July 13, 2020||Hubballi||Ghazal session on Facebook Live celebrates Malala’s birthday||HUBBALLI: Although celebrating the birthdays and birth anniversaries of politicians and film stars is passé in India, the Adarsh Kannada Balaga in Akkalkot, a small village in Maharashtra’s Solapur district, on Sunday decided to commemorate the birthday of a modern icon, Malala Yousafzai, the child rights activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner, who was born on July 12. The organisation organised ‘World Peace Ghazal Session’, a programme that was telecast on Facebook Live, wherein ghazal writers and singers from Karnataka, Maharashtra and Kerala rendered their compositions. Nirmala Shettar from Hubballi, Umar Deveremani of Raichur, Chetana Kumble from Kasaragod in Kerala, Ramesh Gabbur from Gangavathi and Basavaraj Aladi from Pune were among those who recited ghazals that called for and celebrated global peace. Dastageer Dinni, in his keynote address for the session, recalled Malala’s courageous battle against elements that opposed education for girls. “She survived an attempt on her life, and emerged on the global stage as an activist. It is necessary that we celebrate Malala’s courage to highlight the need for education and peace,” he said. Girish Jakapure and Malikjan Shaikh, among the organisers of the session, said that the event had been organised to spread the word of peace through the ghazal session. “We asked the poets to recite one ghazal on the theme of global peace, while the other could be on a subject of their choice. The ghazals that were rendered had themes of nature, struggle for equality and love in them. It was watched by more than 6,000 people across the world,” the duo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ghazal-session-on-facebook-live-celebrates-malalas-birthday/articleshow/76928164.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS men attacked MP Aravind: BJP||Warangal: The Bharatiya Janata Party warandal district chief has alleged that some TRS activists tried to obstruct the convoy of Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Aravind at Hunter road on Sunday when he was going to visit the MGM Hospital after conducting a press conference at BJP Warangal Urban district office. The TRS activists allegedly surrounded the convoy and raised slogans against Aravind. Efforts were also made to damage the wind-shield of his vehicle and drag the driver as well as the security guard out. After about 20 minutes, the local police reached the spot and took the activists into custody at Subedari police station. They were released after Aravind left the Bhadrakali temple. MP Aravind cancelled his visit to MGM hospital due to the incident. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-men-attacked-mp-aravind-bjp/articleshow/76929877.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 13, 2020||Madurai||As more pregnant women test positive, docs advise caution||Madurai: Since June 21, around 120 pregnant women have tested Covid-19 positive in Madurai district. As cases continue to increase, gynaecologists have urged pregnant women to follow precautions and stay safe from the viral infection. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), so far 75 deliveries of Covid-positive pregnant women have been carried out while 40-45 patients are still awaiting deliveries. “In the case of pregnant women, sooner the patient gets admitted to hospital after testing Covid-19 positive, the better the chances of successful recovery. To ensure better care, we have segregated asymptomatic and symptomatic Covid-19 positive pregnant women to different areas. We have a separate area for those nearing delivery term as well,” said Dr N Sumathi, head of the department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, GRH. Currently, all Covid-19 positive pregnant women in the district are being treated only at GRH. “Pregnancy is known to be a hypercoagulable state (an abnormally increased tendency toward blood clotting). Covid-19 is also hypercoagulable associated with an increased risk of maternal venous thromboembolism (a life-threatening complication). However, currently, no evidence suggests that Covid-19 causes congenital abnormalities to the baby or miscarriage,” explained Dr S Nischintha, consultant gynaecologist and obstetrician, Holistic Care for Women. Gynaecologists also noted that the risk is more if Covid-19 positive pregnant women have co-morbid conditions like obesity, diabetes and hypertension and such patients should be monitored round-the-clock. All pregnant women in the district must now get tested for Covid-19, one week before their delivery due date. “Pregnant women when they first get admitted to the Covid-19 ward are often afraid and get stressed. But, seeing others making recovery encourages them. Our doctors also talk to them while making rounds to allay their fears, educate them and provide support. We test all newborns for Covid-19 and also keep high risk mothers admitted for 10 additional days to thoroughly monitor them,” said Dr Sumathi. After delivery and subsequent discharge, new mothers are advised to take precautions like hand sanitisation when handling their child. So far, there is no evidence that Covid-19 spreads through breast milk and hence newborns can either be safely breast-fed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-more-pregnant-women-test-positive-docs-advise-caution/articleshow/76930276.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Sirsa magistrate’s steno, aide held with heroin||Times News NetworkLudhiana: The Ludhiana unit of Special Task Force arrested a stenographer of a Sirsa magistrate and his accomplice with 580g heroin on Sunday. The recovered contraband is worth Rs 2.90 crore in international market.Sanjay Nagpal, 27, of Ram Colony, Sirsa, and Dheeraj Kumar, 41, of Guru Nanak Nagar, Khairpur, Sirsa, were nabbed near Sahnewal bridge while they were waiting for customers.STF AIG Snehdeep Sharma said Dheeraj has been a Sirsa magistrate’s stenographer for the past 10 years and Sanjay is unemployed. The two are drug addicts and took to the trade three years ago to fund their addiction. During interrogation, the accused told the STF that they procured heroin from drug peddler Rahul of Dwarka, Delhi, and sold it to addicts.The AIG said Sanjay is already facing trial in a case of drug peddling lodged against him in Fatehgarh Sahib.A case has been registered against them under the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sirsa-magistrates-steno-aide-held-with-heroin/articleshow/76929053.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam faces fish shortage as harbours, markets remain shut||KOCHI: The closure of four major fishing harbours and three main markets in Ernakulam in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases has led to fish shortage in the district. Any fish coming in are being sold on roadsides or at smaller markets. Fisheries department officials said that there was no other option but to close down as landing centres and fishing harbours are places where people gather and it is very difficult to control crowd when catches are brought in. The district administration and health department had closed down the four harbours — Munambam, Kalamukku, Thoppumpady and Chellanam due to the fear of community spread. The main markets — Ernakulam, Aluva and Chembakkara — which are also the wholesale points for fish being brought from different landing centres have also been closed. With these main points closed, traditional fishermen will probably sell their catch in smaller markets or in unorganized sale points. “We didn’t have any other option. Since there is no total fishing ban as such, whatever catch the traditional fishermen get from the coastal waters and inland waters will be sold. They will be able to get some good price because right now we cannot allow any organized sale because of the possibility of crowding. In a fish landing centre, it is virtually impossible to prevent crowding. The department had been working with the police but we could not control it much. Closure for some days is the only option now since positive cases have been reported from the fishing community,” said fisheries department joint director (central zone) M S Saju. “Lots of people who were at Kalamukku were really scared because in the landing centre, nobody can stay away when boats or trucks arrive with catches. Now, some fish will be available because a few of the traditional fishermen are going. Prices also will shoot up, but it can’t be helped in the present condition,” he said. The fisheries sector in the state has been bearing the brunt of fall in marine catches for some time now. A study on the economic impact on fisheries sector during the lockdown period by researchers at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) put the daily loss at Rs 58 crore in the state. The total accumulated loss in terms of fish catch, landing centre and retail value realization as well as loss in export revenue was estimated at Rs 3,481 crore. The per day loss of fish catch was estimated at 14,000 tonnes while the retail centre value realization was estimated at Rs 44.8 crore per day amounting to Rs 2,690 crore in 60 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-faces-fish-shortage-as-harbours-mkts-remain-shut/articleshow/76929084.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Poonthura welcomes health workers with open arms||Thiruvananthapuram: Poonthura sported a friendly look when health workers reached the testing centre at the coastal area here on Sunday. Two days ago, a mob had misbehaved with the medical team, which halted the collection of samples. On Sunday, people lined up along the street leading to the centre, cheered and showered flowers on the team. Poonthura was declared a critical containment zone on Friday. The medical team, on their way to the swab collection centre, was targeted by people, who were protesting the alleged ill-treatment at first-line treatment centres and the non-availability of essential food items. It was alleged that some people coughed and spat into the car ferrying the medical team. The incident sparked strong sentiments against Poonthura residents. On Sunday, residents stood on terraces and on sideways, showering flowers on the vehicle transporting the medical team. The team was also welcomed with bouquets at the collection centre. “Friday’s incident was really unfortunate. It happened because of two-three persons. We recognize and acknowledge that mistake and it was totally unacceptable. The doctors were scared to come here after the incident. We welcomed them with flowers and cheered them to show that the parish and the entire community are with them. Isolated incidents shouldn’t deter the team and we are here to support them,” said Poonthura St. Thomas Church vicar Fr Bebinson. The district medical officer had written to authorities seeking police protection for conducting further sample collection at Poonthura. The officer also held talks with the vicar and the church offered to provide service of two volunteers to assist the medical team in collecting the samples. Dr Padmanabhan, who resumed the sample collection at Ayush centre, Poonthura, said that the gesture from the community has reinforced the confidence of the medical team in serving the community. “All issues have been addressed. We have resumed sample collection on a good note. It was great to see people welcome us with flowers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/poonthura-welcomes-health-workers-with-open-arms/articleshow/76929054.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Dadi of Shaheen Bagh’ not for protest till Covid abates||NEW DELHI: She is one of the three feisty elderly protesters who came to be popularly known as “dadis of Shaheen Bagh” emerging as one of the faces of the long-drawn sit-in against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in southeast Delhi. However, now that there are fresh murmurs of the protests resuming after almost three and a half months, when it was ended owing to the outbreak of the pandemic, 75-year-old Sarwari Begum doesn’t support its revival until the threat of the virus is gone. The septuagenarian, a native of Deoband in Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, told TOI, “This pandemic is Allah ka kahar. It is in His hands to set it right. Such pandemics break once in 100 years and take time to go. Right now, the priority is to ensure safety of all by maintaining social distancing and staying indoors. This is not the time for protests. A protest like the Shaheen Bagh sit-in, once resumed, will attract people from all over and lead to unnecessary crowding. This will make social distancing impossible and expose everybody to the risk of the novel coronavirus infection. The concern now is to protect our own life and our loved ones and keep livelihoods intact.” The other two dadis (grandmoms) of Shaheen Bagh, are 90-year-old Asma Khatun, a native of Sitamarhi in Bihar, and 82-year-old Bilkis, who is from Bulandshahr in UP. The trio braved the biting cold in winter to join the protest and took the lead in articulating the anti-CAA stance on media channels. Begum argued that with the anti-CAA sections already having effectively conveyed objections and concerns to the government, and with Supreme Court also seized of the matter, it was only fair to wait for their decision. “The government must try and come up with a solution that takes all sections of the society along. The court should hear the matter and give its decision early, keeping in mind our stance,” she added. The 75-year-old said that after the Covid-19 threat had passed, the government and the anti-CAA sections could sit together and find a mutually acceptable solution through dialogue. “We hope the government will address our concerns and not force us to go back on protest,” added Begum. Asked specifically about her objections to CAA, Begum said that while she wasn’t against the persecuted “minorities” from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan being given Indian citizenship, the devil really was the Act seen in conjunction with National Population Register (NPR) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). “We are demanding that CAA-NRC be rolled back. Let the status quo remain,” she stated. Incidentally, while the NPR exercise, due to start on April 1 alongside Census 2021 stands postponed due to the pandemic, the government had clarified earlier that it had not initiated any discussion on NRC yet. CAA rules, too, were yet to be notified. On the common refrain that NPR and NRC were a conspiracy to deny citizenship to Muslims and banish them to “detention camps”, Begum said the concern that those without necessary documents would face harassment applied equally to all communities. “There are millions in this country without papers to prove their origin, birth and residence. They may be Muslims, Hindus or any other community,” she added. Reminded that no decision had been taken on initiating NRC, Begum said it was the fear created in the minds of Muslims due to CAA that was prompting the protests. “The government didn’t reach out directly to us to explain the nitty-gritty of CAA and exact status of NRC, which only aggravated the apprehensions,”added the septuagenarian. “As far as I’m concerned, I have a voter ID and Aadhaar card. I have no fear that I will be asked to leave the country. But I do feel the government could have done more to allay our concerns,” she said, adding she appreciated LG Anil Baijal reaching out to Shaheen Bagh protesters and “giving us due respect and importance”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dadi-of-shaheen-bagh-not-for-protest-till-covid-abates/articleshow/76929896.cms||Bharti Jain
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Negligence lens on 3 hosps after HS examinee’s death||Kolkata: The bereaved parents of an 18-year-old HS examinee, who had reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday morning and died later in the day after at least four hospitals allegedly refused him admission, have lodged an FIR with Belghoria police station on Sunday against the authorities of two government hospitals and a private nursing home alleging negligence.After receiving the complaint, a police team went to the nursing home near Belghoria’s Rathtala More on Sunday afternoon and questioned some officials of the hospital management. Police were also checking the CCTV footage installed inside the nursing home.A senior official from Swasthya Bhawan, Salt Lake, however, said they were seriously looking into the allegations against two government hospitals in this case.More than 40 hours have passed after the boy had died at a government hospital in Kolkata on Friday evening. But the parents didn’t receive the body of their son with the final report till Sunday evening.A resident of Ichhapore’s Netaji Pally in North 24-Parganas, the boy was first taken to a hospital in Kamarhati early on Friday after he had developed acute breathing trouble. Then the couple took their son to the private nursing home in Belghoria where doctors allegedly refused to check him till the parents sought police help. Within minutes the boy was allegedly declared Covid positive on a hand-written paper and asked to go to a state-run Covid hospital. The family then took him to a government hospital in Kamarhati where he was left unattended for hours, his parents alleged. He was finally taken to the government hospital in Kolkata with the help of police, where the authorities first allegedly refused to admit him saying there was no intimation from the health department. After waiting for over five hours, his mother threatened to kill herself if her son wasn’t admitted. The authorities finally took in the boy. But he died at the hospital around 9.45 pm.Ananda Roy, DCP, Zone II, Barrackpore commissionerate, said, “We have received a complaint and registered a case under section 304A IPC (causing death by negligence). An investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/negligence-lens-on-3-hosps-after-hs-examinees-death/articleshow/76929883.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||5 buffaloes electrocuted, minister orders for compensation||Karnal: Five buffaloes of a farmer died on Sunday due to electrocution and three more suffered serious burn injuries in Jhinda village of Karnal district after a high tension wire fell on them. Farmer Surat Singh said the incident took place in the wee hours on Sunday, when a live wire fell on the cattle yard, which killed his animals, including three Murrah buffalos. The farmer said the condition of a buffalo, which received burn injuries, is critical. Taking a serious note of the tragic incident, Haryana power and new and renewable energy minister Ranjit Singh ordered the officials of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam (UHBVN) to investigate the matter and compensate the farmer as per the policy of the department. Surat Singh confirmed that the power minister assured him over phone of proper compensation. "The buffaloes died as a live wire broke and fell on the wall of the cattle shed. A report will be submitted to the office of superintending engineer for compensation," said Gagan Pandey, executive engineer, UHBVN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-buffaloes-electrocuted-minister-orders-for-compensation/articleshow/76930273.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kanpur||Diabetics are more prone to Covid-19 infections, say doctors||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: Diabetes patients should be alert as out of the 35 deaths recorded in the city, 17 were diabetics. Diabetic patients are more prone to Covid-19 infection, say doctors.  Vice- principal of GSVM medical college, Prof Richa Giri said diabetes patients fall easy prey to coronavirus. “Patients are coming to the hospital in a comorbid state due to uncontrolled sugar. Following their critical state, they are being shifted to the intensive care unit of the hospital. Diabetics are also attacked by other diseases too”, she said. Following a spike in the number of infected persons, there is a great rush at the Neuro Covid wing at LLR hospital where serious corona patients are being admitted and treated. According to LLR hospital sources at present out of around 139 infected persons being treated here, 54 of them are diabetics. The LLR hospital authorities have taken the services of some specialist doctors to bring out diabetic patients from difficult positions. As many as six infected diabetic patients who are being treated at the neuro covid and maternity wing of LLR hospital while sharing their views in their case history said that they had got infected as they did not use masks. Prof Apoorva Agarwal,ICU in-charge of neuro covid hospital claimed that coronavirus was now more dangerous for people who are diabetics. “They get infected when their sugar level is high”, he said. The experts have advised the diabetic patients not to venture out without wearing a mask and not allow the sugar level to increase. According to doctors, the sugar level of diabetic patients, who are below 50 years, should be 80 mg/dl to 140 mg/dl. To keep the sugar level under control, they should check their sugar daily and never skip their medicines--tablets or insulin, said a doctor. “Stay at home, take precautions and take medicines daily”, the doctor further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/diabetics-are-more-prone-to-covid-19-infections-say-doctors/articleshow/76930215.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Mystery shrouds 10-year-old’s death in Alipore||KOLKATA: A 10-year-old girl was allegedly found dead at her New Alipore home under mysterious circumstances. According to cops, the girl — a resident of E Block — was standing near the window of her residence at 3pm on Friday when, according to her family, she suddenly saw something and fainted. She was rushed to the Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Her mother claimed that she looked terrified. Neighbours who stay close to the flat told cops that they had not heard any screams from the house. Police sources said the family had also initially asked the doctors not to carry out the postmortem. But when the hospital insisted, they relented. Top officials, probing the case, said there are certain findings from the initial post-mortem that has convinced them to question the child’s kin in detail. Doctors, who treated her indicated that there was a single faint mark on her neck. “But whether it was homicidal in nature, will be established only after we get the post-mortem report,” said an investigating officer, adding that the family members have so far given inconclusive statements due to their present mental state. “We have sought all her previous medical records. Given the circumstantial evidence, we need more investigation,” said an officer at Lalbazar, refusing to divulge any details. Sources said the girl’s mother and a youth, who had access to the house, are likely to be questioned. The New Alipore police, however, refused to share the name and occupation of the child’s parents, claiming them to be classified information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dwaipayan-new-alipore-girl-death-12-07-2020/articleshow/76929878.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||After winning corona battle, 54-yr-old DCP is back to work||Ludhiana: After defeating Covid-19, deputy commissioner of police (law & order) Ashwani Kapur, 54, is ready to join duty on Monday.Kapur had contracted the virus on June 25 from his orderly, a Punjab Home Guard. For two days, the official was admitted to a hospital and then shifted to home quarantine. While speaking with the TOI, Kapur said, “A positive attitude, a healthy diet and breathing exercises helped me trounce Covid-19. At my age, the disease could have affected the vital organs had I not been a teetotaller and non-smoker.” Kapur was earlier supervising the work of sending migrants back to their home states by Shramik trains. About the 17-day quarantine period, he said, “I was in hospital for two days. I was shifted to my house after doctors ascertained that there was no risk to my life. The first thing I told myself was to stay optimistic and that these 15-17 days were ‘me time’. Every day, I would wake up in the morning, meditate and prayer. It was followed by a healthy breakfast comprising fruits too. In the evening, walks and breathing exercises kept me busy. Besides the multivitamin tablets doctors had prescribed, I had kadha and tulsi water. I spent rest of the time watching TV news and talking to my friends.” He has a word of advice. “Everyone must take utmost care, as the disease is infectious. It goes undetected in many cases, as people are asymptomatic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-winning-corona-battle-54-yr-old-dcp-is-back-to-work/articleshow/76929047.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 13, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports record 1,241 Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths; 211 test +ve in Central region||Madurai/ Trichy: With 1,241 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest-ever single day spike in the region, and 18 deaths on Sunday, south Tamil Nadu’s overall tally has climbed to 19,386 cases and 235 deaths. Madurai district once again reported the highest number of cases (319) on Sunday and five deaths, which took the overall district total past the 6,000-mark. Meanwhile, the central region has recorded 211 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 4,750. Two more Covid-19 related deaths were reported from the region. In Madurai, 319 Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday comprised 185 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 83 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 14 frontline workers, 12 pregnant women and 25 others who were set to undergo various medical procedures. Out of the five deaths recorded on Sunday, four cases were Covid-19 patients with various co-morbid conditions who died at private hospitals in Madurai. Meanwhile, a 73-year-old woman with chronic kidney disease, hypertension and cardiomyopathy, who was referred from a private hospital, died of Covid-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital on July 10. At the same time, as many as 401 Covid-19 patients were discharged in Madurai on Sunday after full recovery, including 71 from government health facilities, 82 from private health facilities and 248 from Covid-19 care centres and home isolation. The district Covid-19 tally in Madurai has climbed to 6,078 cases, including 3,372 active cases and 116 deaths. In Virudhunagar, 246 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded on Sunday, taking the tally to 2,073 cases, including 1,138 active cases. It became the third district in the southern region to cross 2,000 Covid-19 cases after Madurai and Tuticorin. The district during the past week has witnessed a steep rise in cases due to clearing of huge number of backlog of samples after testing was ramped up. Virundhunagar also reported four Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, which took the death toll in the district to 16. In Madurai, a 60-year-old man from with hypertension died at GRH while another 66-year-old man died at a private hospital, both of whom were from Virudhunagar. A 75-year-old man from Virudhunagar with co-morbidities died at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on July 4. A 59-year-old man from Virudhunagar, also with co-morbid conditions, died at Ramanathapuram Government Headquarters Hospital on July 11. With 136 fresh Covid-19 cases in Tuticorin on Sunday, the total cases in the district climbed to 2,261. The district also reported three more Covid-19 deaths. Two Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions died at Tuticorin Government Medical College Hospital whereas a 52-year-old man from Tuticorin with coronary artery disease died of Covid-19 at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Ramanathapuram and Theni reported two Covid-19 deaths each on Sunday. Two patients with co-morbid conditions died of Covid-19 at Ramanathapuram Government Headquarters Hospital. With 75 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Sunday, the total cases in the district climbed to 1,849. Meanwhile, a 57-year-old man from Theni with diabetes and hypertension died of Covid-19 at GRH in Madurai. Another 57-year-old man admitted to Theni Medical College Hospital also died of Covid-19 taking the overall death toll to 18 in the district. Theni also reported as many as 115 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, which took the district total to 1,729 cases, including 1103 active cases. One Covid-19 death each was reported in Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli. A 69-year-old woman with various co-morbidities died of Covid-19 at Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital taking the district death toll to six. With 104 fresh Covid-19 cases, Kanyakumari now has a total of 1,306 cases. During the past week, the district has reported around 100 fresh Covid-19 cases per day. On the other hand, Tirunelveli reported 123 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the district total to 1,758. A 63-year-old man with diabetes and coronary artery disease died of Covid-19 at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, taking the death toll to 11 in the district. Trichy district recorded 103 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the district tally to 1,504. A 69-year-old man admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on July 9, died on Saturday. He tested positive on Friday, officials said. The total number of deaths recorded so far in the region has climbed to 38, officials said. A 64-year-old female from Thanjavur who was admitted to the medical college hospital on Friday died during the evening hours on the same day. In Nagapattinam, the new positive cases recorded on Sunday were six, which included a medical officer who went to Chennai for Covid-19 duty and an army man. Fresh Covid-19 cases were also reported in Sivaganga (75), Dindigul (31), Pudukottai (45), Karur (5), Tiruvarur (11), Thanjavur (36), Ariyalur (4), Perambalur (1), and Tenkasi (17) on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-record-1241-covid-19-cases-18-deaths-211-test-ve-in-central-region/articleshow/76930284.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Steel factory gutted in major fire incident in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: A major fire broke out early Sunday morning at a steel factory on Link Road in Jagadhri town of Yamunanagar district on Sunday. The entire unit was gutted. Sources said the fire broke out following heavy rain. It is suspected to have been caused by short circuit. Factory owner Naresh Kumar said he received information about the fire at about 6am. Fire brigades reached the spot and doused the flames after about two hours. Yamunanagar fire officer Parmod Duggal said the factory did not have a fire no objection certificate (NOC). He said a fuel tank kept inside caught fire. “We received information at 5.45am and fire tenders were rushed to the spot from Jagadhri and Yamunanagar fire stations. We used foam to douse the fire as it was caused by oil. We managed to control the fire in about two hours and no one has been injured,” said Parmod. He added that a notice would be issued to the factory owner as the unit did not have an NOC from the fire department. Factory owner Naresh said, “The factory was closed at night. We suspect that rain caused a short circuit and sparking. First, the wires caught fire, then motors and then it reached the fuel tank, following which it engulfed the entire unit. We have suffered losses worth lakhs. The exact amount will be ascertained later. We lost fuel worth about Rs 10 lakh, furnace worth about Rs 15 lakh, sheds, motors, and others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/steel-factory-gutted-in-major-fire-incident-in-yamunanagar/articleshow/76930278.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Khadi sector shifts focus to mask production||KOZHIKODE: Thousands of workers employed in Khadi sector who have been hit hard by lockdown are now engaged in making one crore face masks. They are hoping that a recent order by Kerala government directing government departments and educational institutions to purchase handmade khadi face masks from Kerala Khadi and Village Industries Board (KKVIB) would come to their rescue in the Covid-19 times. Principal secretary of general administration department K R Jyothilal had last week issued a circular to heads of departments to purchase face marks from the Khadi board as the board has started large scale manufacture of masks. Following the order of the government, police, health and industries departments have placed orders for khadi masks, KKVIB officials said. K A Ratheesh, secretary of KKVIB, said the government order has come as a big relief to the sector as there has been a sharp decline in the sales of products sold through 45 showrooms under the board. “The government order authorizing departments to purchase masks from us will enable them to buy masks without tender procedures. The board has readymade garment-manufacturing units in all districts. As the sales of the readymade garments were affected following the lockdown, the units now are being used to manufacture masks. Already, we have a stock of 10 lakh masks and we plan to manufacture one crore masks, hoping that there would be significant orders coming from government departments and educational institutions,” he added. Khadi board officials said they were producing both doubled-layered and triple- layered masks. The price of double-layered masks is Rs 15 per piece and Rs 13 when at least 100 pieces are purchased together. “As khadi masks are natural, 100% handmade and reusable, it helps in absorbing moisture content,” he added. Many cooperatives in the khadi sector were hit by the back-to-back floods during the last two years and the Covid-19 lockdown this year hit the workers hard. Apart from the 6,000 employees linked to units under the board, the sector has been providing indirect employment to another 15,000 people. The production units have started producing khadi dothis, shirt material and other clothes for the Onam season, which is the major annual business season for the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/khadi-sector-shifts-focus-to-mask-production/articleshow/76929092.cms||K R Rajeev
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Slum, building, locality shrug off containment tag in 30 hours||KOLKATA: Satyam Towers in posh Alipore, a slum on Motilal Basak Road in Kankurgachhi and a neighbourhood in Doctor Girindra Sekhar Bose Road in Kasba may not be having too many things in common. But all three zones have managed to come out of the containment zone list less than 30 hours of finding themselves barricaded by cops. These areas were declared as containment zones on Thursday but were no longer on the list the following night. Getting rid of the containment zone tag in less than 30 hours is quite an achievement by any standards, especially at a time when the virus is spreading fast across the city. While patients recovering and returning home remained the biggest reason of this success, residents, administrators and law enforcers also worked in co-ordination — much before the official declaration of the lockdown — to ensure social distancing was followed properly. In all these zones, the real action began last Monday — exactly a week ago — the day officials at Nabanna, KMC headquarters and Lalbazar hinted at a possible lockdown in some parts of the city. Take the example of Satyam Towers. “The barricades had come up by Tuesday, two days before they the state published the new containment zone list. Each of us marked the day the last case got reported and promised to do everything so that no fresh case is reported. The cops restricted entry of outsiders, we began sanitizing the lifts. Only people engaged in essential services were issued special passes,” said a resident. For KMC and cops, the challenge was to compel residents to abide by stricter Covid guidelines. Intensified cop patrolling and the KMC administration reaching households with the purpose of conducting sample random tests — all effectively helped reduce the number of containment zones, claimed officials. “We urged residents to stay at home. Keeping in mind the elderly people of G S Bose Road, we engaged volunteers who handed over essentials at the doorsteps,” said Bijan Lal Mukherjee, ward coordinator in the Kasba locality. A similar story was repeated at Motilal Basak Road. “Since unlock days, we had even been playing football and socializing. All that has stopped. The local club and party members are keeping a strict vigil,” said Sajal Haldar, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/slum-bldg-locality-shrug-off-containment-tag-in-30-hrs/articleshow/76929889.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Hackathon to focus on post-Covid policing||KOCHI: From technologies that aid predictive policing using big data analysis to tools that help investigators crawl the Darknet for proactive monitoring of nefarious crimes, Kerala police is looking to tap emerging technologies through the fourth edition of a hackathon titled ‘Hac’KP’ to be held as an online event in August. The hackathon organised by Cyberdome is focusing on new technologies in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, which is redefining life and lifestyles, as police would have to go beyond traditional policing, Cyberdome officials said. Kerala Police Cyberdome is the technological research and development centre of Kerala police department. Hac’KP’s theme “#Code_the_Future_of_Policing” aims to develop technologies that can equip police by creating solutions for future smart policing. Cyberdome is also looking at solutions for Open Source Intelligence (OSINT), which involves collecting data from public and open sources for intelligence purposes, intelligent log analysis and development of automated malware analysis tools for mobile applications. However, the theme does not aim to limit innovations from computer science/coding domain alone. Cyberdome began accepting applications for participation in the virtual event on July 7 and submissions would close on July 19. The teams would be formed by July 31 and they would be able to start development work on August 1. Product evaluation would be from August 10 to 14 and winners would be declared on August 15. While the first prize winner will bag Rs 5 lakh, those in second and third places would be eligible for cash awards of Rs 2.5 lakh and one lakh respectively. In addition to countering cyber threats, the event also focuses on finding innovative solutions to bring in positive and holistic digital transformation in governance and civil safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hackathon-to-focus-on-post-covid-policing/articleshow/76929116.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Drop in ticket fares of special flights to UAE||KOZHIKODE: Fares of Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights to enable stranded non-resident Keralites (NRKs) to return to UAE have dropped significantly after more airlines, including UAE-based carriers and other Indian airlines, also announcing schedules in the Kerala-UAE sector. As many as 52 Air India Express flights are operating from four airports in the state to UAE starting Sunday till July 26, which will have UAE residency permit holders returning to that country as passengers. For instance, the fares of Air India Express flight from Karipur airport to Dubai (for July 17) which stood at Rs 29,650 on Saturday morning dropped to Rs 17,930 by Saturday night. Fares of VBM flights from other airports in the state to the UAE have also dropped. While Air India and Air India Express had announced repatriation flights as part of VBM from India to UAE on June 9, UAE-based airlines like Emirates and flydubai along with Indian carrier SpiceJet announced flights in the sector on July 11 leading to drop in fares of VBM flights to UAE. Dubai-based budget carrier flydubai had made available tickets in the Karipur-Dubai sector at a rate of around Rs 18,000, while SpiceJet also announced flights on Saturday from Karipur and Kochi to Ras Al Khaimah in UAE at fares ranging from Rs 12,000 to Rs 14,000. Following the fare drop, now tickets of Air India Express flights are available in the Kochi-Dubai sector for around Rs 12,800. The first flight of Air India Express from Karipur Airport to UAE which took off Sunday morning had low passenger numbers with just 26 adults and one child in the flight which had 189 seats. However, Air India Express officials said that there has been good demand for the flights in the dates after July 15. Air India had on Thursday said that ICA approved UAE residents from India can travel on VBM flights operated by it and Air India Express on India-UAE sector from July 12 to July 26. Until now, VBM flights operated by Air India and Air India Express were flying empty out of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/drop-in-ticket-fares-of-special-flights-to-uae/articleshow/76929132.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Father kills pregnant teen to save ‘family’s honour’, police take DNA sample to trace culprit||NAINITAL: Bageshwar police has said that the 17-year-old pregnant girl in Mantoli village of Kanda block who passed away last week was killed by her father in order to save the “family’s honour”. The girl is suspected to have been raped that led to her pregnancy. Police officials said that they have arrested the girl’s father and have charged him with murder. Speaking to TOI, Suneeta, the circle officer (CO) of Kapkot area said that the teen lived with her grandparents, and their home was barely three kilometres away from her parents’ house. She had gone to the hospital on last Tuesday with her grandmother where the doctor said that she was pregnant. “Her grandmother informed her father. He subsequently reached her grandparents’ house on Tuesday evening and got enraged but he left after sometime. However, he returned around 5 am, entered the room where the girl was sleeping and strangled her,” the CO said. Later in the morning, the man told the villagers that his daughter had committed suicide and he buried her in the village. “We had been informed by the hospital on Tuesday that a teenage girl was pregnant. Therefore, it could be a case under the POCSO Act. However, when we inquired the next day, we found out that the girl was dead and already buried,” Suneeta said. As reported by TOI, the police reached the village on Thursday and after taking permission from the district magistrate (DM), they exhumed the body, which was later sent for post-mortem. “The post-mortem report made it clear that the girl had been strangled. After investigation and questioning the grandparents and parents, the entire episode came to light,” the police said. Officials, however, said that they are yet to find the alleged culprits that sexually assaulted her. “We have taken the DNA sample of the foetus, and are investigating who raped the girl. The investigation is on and the culprits will be caught soon,” Suneeta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/father-kills-pregnant-teen-to-save-familys-honour-police-take-dna-sample-to-trace-culprit/articleshow/76928219.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Virtual classes help less than 50% in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: “Masterji, I remain out of house these days in view of paddy sowing. Please call after four-five days,” this was the response a parent in the Hansi sub-division of Hisar district to the teacher who called him to get an update of online classes about a Class VII student. According to teachers, it is really difficult to get feedback from the students of Classes I to VIII. The common responses received by the teachers in Haryana schools include lack of balance in the mobile phone of parents, dependency of three-four children on one mobile phone, parents out of home, and inability to download videos/large files on account of poor network in the village. As all the parents do not have phones and smartphones, they have given the WhatsApp number of their neighbours or other family members. “Many a time, it is seen when the person attending the call virtually threatens not to call on this number because of estranged relationship with the family of the students,” said a teacher. The another problem in online teaching in Haryana is that most of the students belonging to migrant families, have left to their native place. It is most evident in the state-run urban schools, especially those located in the districts like Gurgaon, Faridabad, Panchkula and Panipat. The online classes in Haryana started from April 11 in view of the lockdown. TOI spoke to several teachers and senior officials of the education department, who accepted that hardly 50% students are getting benefits of online classes. The problem is more in Class I to VIII. However, the students of Class IX to XII are not only receiving the lecturers and online material but many of them are even contacting teachers for any clarification. For every class, a WhatsApp group has been created by the teachers in which the class-in charge has the responsibility of sending the schedule pertaining to the classwork and subject-wise teachers have been sending the lecturers in the form of videos or other related material. The online work is also monitored by the faculty members of District Institutes of Educational Research and Training (DIET) and other senior officials by making calls on the mobile numbers of each student. Some lectures are also delivered on TV via EDUSAT for which teachers have to inform students about the timings. However, poor availability of power in rural areas is hampering the idea. Most students of village schools are from family of farmers or from lower strata that remained engaged in wheat harvest and cultivation of paddy and its sowing later on. Those from lower strata are engaged in labour work under MGNREGA and carry their mobile phones with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/virtual-classes-help-less-than-50-in-hry/articleshow/76934193.cms||Ajay Sura
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Potholes pop up in city roads, making commute dangerous||Ludhiana: The rainfall had lead to deepening of potholes and are testing the patience of city residents. In places, it has become difficult to gauge the depth of the potholes covered in water, leading to vehicles getting stuck in them. Apart from these potholes turning risky for the lives of two-wheeler riders or rickshaw pullers, driving through potholes proves costly affair, as cars especially need to be serviced after getting stuck. However, the officials claimed that they will not be able to do anything right now, as it is raining. They said any road work can be taken up only after rainy season. Areas like Civil City, Chander Nagar, Jassian Road, Kesarganj Mandi, Raikhy Cinema Chowk, Shivpuri, New Shivpuri, Sanglan Wala Shivala, Rahon Road, Dholewal Chowk, Sandhu Colony and Laxmi Nagar, the roads are in pathetic condition. Former Congress councillor Parminder Mehta said, “For the last three days, I have seen people falling near Kesar Ganj Mandi daily due to potholes. A day before yesterday, a rickshaw puller lost his balance. One senior citizen received minor injuries.” He said on Sunday a rehdi puller walked into a pothole without realising there was one and lost balance and his rehdi toppled. He claimed that it is happening in many areas where people are becoming victims of these potholes, but the authorities are sleeping. Meanwhile, a commuter, Jatinder Singh, who is a civil contractor, claimed that he is constructing houses at Jassian Road and he has to reach there daily for monitoring the work but the road is in bad shape and due to deep potholes it becomes difficult to drive. He said due to frequent rainfall, the potholes have deepened and water gets accumulated, making commuting very dangerous. Another commuter Neeraj Verma said, “In some areas, road caving incidents are taking place while in other areas deep potholes are created. City roads are not safe enough to drive.” He said in every rainy season, waterlogging takes place and patch work being done by the civic body gets washed away. Superintending engineer of bridges and road department of municipal coporation, Parveen Singla said, “As of now it is difficult to fill the potholes with bitumen due to rainy season, but we will start filling the potholes with bricks, debris and tiles so that water cannot accumulate.” He said he has taken a round in the city and potholes are created at new locations and the patch works done by the civic body are intact .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/potholes-pop-up-in-city-roads-making-commute-dangerous/articleshow/76930287.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||State to receive Rs 150cr to enhance water supply infrastructure||Panaji: The state has received Rs 150 crore under the Jal Jeevan Mission to create infrastructure and enhance existing ones to ensure 24X7 water supply to all households in the state by 2024. “We will put up 1MLD, 2MLD and 5MLD plants in each taluka. We will also upgrade the water treatment plants under the same scheme,” PWD minister Deepak Pauskar told TOI. The work under the mission will commerce from October, the PWD minister said. “The Jal Jeevan Mission will exist till 2024 and we will provide people of the state 24X7 drinking water by 2024. We will get Rs 150 crore as the first instalment for setting up and upgrading water treatment facilities in the state,” Pauskar said. The state will have to bear 50% of the cost of setting up and upgrading these plants. Pauskar said that the Union government will sanction the remaining money as when the state submits the detailed project reports. “In the first phase will take up upgradation of water treatment plants at Canacona, Sattari, Bardez, Dharbandora and Sanguem,” he said. Under the mission, new water treatment projects have been taken up at “St Andre and Shiroda at the cost of Rs 9.5 crore and Rs 6 crore, respectively”, Pauskar said. Launched by the Prime Minister in 2019, the Jal Jeevan Mission aims at ensuring that every rural household has drinking water supply in adequate quantity on regular basis. The ministry of Jal Shakti is working closely with states and union territories to achieve the mission objectives. Goa’s entire rural population will have water connections by 2021 and the state could be one of the first to achieve the Centre’s Har Ghar Jal mission, Union minister for Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, had said. The Union minister also had said that Goa is an ideal state to use sensor-based IoT technology to monitor on real-time basis water supply in every village with a modern command and control system in Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-receive-rs-150cr-to-enhance-water-supply-infrastructure/articleshow/76930670.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Dug up Rahon Road causes inconvenience, officials say lockdown delayed project||Ludhiana: The ongoing sewerage laying work at Rahon Road has left the commuters in a tight spot, as one side of the road is dug up and has become a major burden for traffic on the other side, creating traffic jams. The officials, however, claimed that the work is being done at fast pace and 60% is almost complete when, due to rain, they had to stop the work for sometime. Due to lockdown, the work to install new sewerage line at Rahon Road got delayed and only in May they could start it. Now, the road is dug up and is creating problems for the commuters, especially when there is rainfall. A daily commuter passing through Rahon Road Sanjiv Joshi complained if during lockdown this work , had got delayed then officials should have waited for the rainy season to get over. He said due to waterlogging already Rahon Road is infamous among people and now due to this ongoing work problems have increased. Another commuter Gurdeep Singh said, “The officials do not consider the difficulties of general public and work according to their convenience. True, we needed a break from choked sewerage which had resulted in overflowing of filthy water on road, but they could have laid the new sewerage line before or after rainy season. Now, we have crawling traffic at this stretch.” Superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell of municipal corporation, Rajinder Singh said, “We had started this work on May 12 and it is July 12 and in two months 1,400 metres sewerage line is laid down already. Total line planned is 1,900 metres long.” He said they will have to leave the trenches for sometime so that sand could settle down otherwise proper road could not be constructed after rainy season. He claimed that they have opened the road for traffic. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar said, “The public is getting restless for no reason. There will be some difficulties initially when we build something. The project is moving at a fast pace and very shortly it will get completed and then these people will have no waterlogging problem in this road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dug-up-rahon-road-causes-inconvenience-officials-say-lockdown-delayed-project/articleshow/76930288.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||50 persons test positive in dist||Kochi: Ernakulam on Sunday reported the highest single-day spike in Covid cases with 50 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of these, 41 cases infected through contact and the rest from other states and abroad. Of the total contacts cases reported on Sunday, around 19 are related to Chellanam and the remaining from Aluva region. The total cases reported from Chellanam reaches 30. With this, triple lockdown has been implemented in the panchayat, which is already a containment zone. “Houses are situated very close to each other and population density is also high. Most of the area is waterlogged and houses are situated in remaining land. Most of the cases now reported are from eastern part of the panchayat, where the harbour is situated,” said panchayat president Mercy Josey. As many as 329 people are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and first-line treatment centre at Angamaly in the district. As many as 13,365 people are under quarantine, including 11,622 in home quarantine. The rest are in paid quarantine facilities and at Covid care centres. A total of 367 are under observation in Ernakulam. Around 463 samples, collected as part of routine sampling, were sent for testing on Sunday. Results of 540 samples came on Sunday and of these 50 tested positive. Results of 1,265 samples are awaited. Private laboratories collected 1,725 samples for testing on Sunday. Covid control room received 423 calls. Health workers conducted awareness campaign in ward level by visiting 3,820 houses. Telehealth helpline provided services to 499 people, who are under observation, through video call. Details of 80 drivers and cleaners of 80 transport vehicles, which reached markets in Ernakulam, were collected and no one showed Covid symptoms. Meanwhile, Choornikkara and Chengamanad panchayats have been declared as containment zones. Madathil parambil Lane, Kennedy Mukku in division 33 of Thrikkakara, Pallil Road area in ward nine of Cheranelloor and division 34 of Kalamassery have also been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/50-persons-test-positive-in-dist/articleshow/76929134.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||With 51 new cases, Bidhannagar sees highest single-day spike||Kolkata: The number of Covid cases in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area touched a new single-day highest on Sunday with 51 new cases. The total number of Covid cases in Salt Lake now stands at 844. The civic authorities are trying to conduct contact-tracing to find out the reason behind the massive spurt in cases over the past one week. Since June 30 — when the Covid figures stood at 480 — another 364 new cases were reported from Bidhannagar civic body area between July 1 and July 12. The fresh cases since June 30 are higher than the total 339 cases reported in June. The number of active cases in Bidhannagar civic body area stands at 521.Civic officials said that they were worried over the matter as to how some people, specially the elderly, who apparently did not step out of their homes in the last few months, got infected.Also, previously it was seen that only a single member of a family, who had travel history or have been going out of the house frequently for work purpose, was getting infected. But in the last 14 days, multiple members of one or multiple families, residing in a block or locality are reported to be getting infected together.“The way Covid figures are increasing rapidly, it seems the affected persons are coming in close contact with people who are asymptomatic. We are trying to trace the source of contact,” said a civic official.As the lockdown in containment zones entered its fourth day on Sunday, some of the markets have started off with the plan to keep shut on alternate days. Civic authorities have started circulating a message for people residing close to the containment zones, stating what they should do and what not to help the affected families.Residents living close to the containment zones said the streets adjacent to the demarcated zones were more or less empty, but they also said added there were hardly any police vigil near the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-51-new-cases-bidhannagar-sees-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76929904.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vadodara||MSU students seek review online exams||Vadodara: MS University’s Faculty of Arts’ students have urged the authorities to reconsider their decision of conducting exams in online mode and based on multiple choice question (MCQ) format. Going by the representation made by nearly 140 students, the nature of papers of subjects taught at the faculty demands a descriptive, creative and analytical paper style instead of MCQ or objective format. In a letter addressed to the MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas, the students have questioned the feasibility of conducting online MCQ exam. “As per the choice based credit system (CBCS), the unit-wise distribution of topics allows the students to omit certain chapters from a unit. The probability of questions from an omitted chapter is very high in a MCQ paper. Also, the MCQ pattern of examination inhibits the students of such disciplines to exhibit their true potential,” the representation stated. Other issues raised by the students included the lack of access to proper internet, technical issues with website and lack of proper reading material with students due to sudden shutting down of campus. “We are not demanding cancellation of exams. But we are demanding a more credible, reliable and effective way of conducting exams with a comprehensive marking system that puts all students at an equal bar in terms of evaluation,” said a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-students-seek-review-online-exams/articleshow/76928432.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Low water pressure leaves several Panchkula areas dry||PANCHKULA: Low pressure of supply water is troubling the residents of Panchkula in this hot weather as several sectors in the city went without water on Sunday morning. Even when the water came for about half-an-hour after repeated complaints, the pressure was extremely low, residents said. According to them, there was no fresh water supply at their houses in sectors 12A, 14, 15 and 19, and Industrial Area Phase-I and II. As they started calling the officials concerned, the issue was partly resolved around 9am, but the supply again stopped soon, they alleged. In several other sectors, the residents complained that they have been facing the issue of low pressure since June. Water fails to reach even the first floor, causing much trouble to those living beyond ground floor. Citizens Welfare Association president S K Nayar said, “Fresh water supply is supposed to come for four hours in the morning and four hours in the evening. But, now it comes for half the duration. Besides, there is no fixed time of fresh water supply. Today, there was no supply in the morning.” The sectors facing low pressure issue are 2, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12A, 15 and 19. In sectors 21 to 28 situated along the Ghaggar river, the situation is worse. The officials of Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) say they are making all efforts to resolve the issue. The latest spell of low pressure of water supply started around a week back and the situation gets worse if there is power outage, said Randeep Singh, a resident of Sector 11. Another resident M K Mittal also echoed his view. He, however, also blamed the people, who waste water on washing cars and gardening. R P Malhotra, the Fora (Federation of Resident Association) president, said, “This problem occurs every year during the summer season. The authorities must do something for a permanent solution to the problem.” When contacted, a Huda official also blamed those wasting water on washing their vehicles. “Otherwise, we have adequate water,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/low-water-pressure-leaves-several-panchkula-areas-dry/articleshow/76929893.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Unequal footing: E-Lessons fail students’ test in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Forced by Covid-19 pandemic to stay away from schools, students are struggling to cope up with remote education, which is fast becoming the new norm. All the schools in the state are shut since March 13, and will remain closed till further orders, disturbing the academic schedule and activities. To make up for lost teaching hours, the Punjab education department has been pushing for e-learning by making efforts to reach to students through different mediums. The multimedia-based e-content of the prescribed curriculum for pre-primary to senior secondary classes, designed by teachers, is being shared on WhatsApp groups. Teachers also share assignments, quiz and other information related to studies with the students through these groups. Soft copies of the textbooks have also been uploaded on the state education board website. However, lack of internet connections, smart phones and computers, has emerged as a major hurdle for students, especially from economically weaker sections (EWS). There have been reported three separate tragic incidents of students committing suicide apparently for not being able to attend online classes for want of smartphone. While opposing the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) directing universities and college to conduct final year examination, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh recently acknowledged that a large section of the students in Punjab, especially in rural areas and among the backward communities, did not have access to “affordable and uninterrupted internet connectivity”. National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) survey on ‘household social consumption: education’ has pointed out limited access of the internet, especially in the rural areas. Only 9.4% of households in the rural areas of Punjab have computers, while 39.4% have internet connectivity. The urban areas are relatively better placed with 26.7% of households having computers, and 57.1% having access to the internet. In rural areas, 42.46% have mobile internet subscribers, as per data of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI). General secretary of master cadre Washington Singh said the e-content was regularly being shared with the students on WhatsApp. “However, a big chunk of students do not have smartphones and those who do are facing net connectivity issues,” he said. Sharing his experience, Gurpreet Singh, press secretary of Teachers’ Democratic Front (Digvijay Group), said he started online classes for his students on Zoom but was forced to discontinue after two weeks due to poor response. “Out of 60 students, only four were attending the class and they also stopped after a while due to resource constraints,” said Gurpreet. The tragic incidents of three students killing themselves for not being able to attend online classes for want of smartphones has made parents panicky and they have started taking loans from microfinanciers to purchase internet enabled phones for their wards, he added. Those lucky enough to have resources to access e-content are struggling to cope up with the absence of the classroom experience. Jasanpreet Kaur, a student of Class XI, rued, “The teacher-student connection is missing and learning becomes difficult when there is no interaction between student and teacher. Right now, students are on their own.” The Right to Education Act mandates 800 instructional hours in an academic year in the primary section, and 1,000 hours in the secondary section. There are over 26 lakh students enrolled in about 20,000 government schools. Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar said Covid-19 outbreak had led to unprecedented circumstances and despite that the department had been making all out efforts to reach out to the students through all the available options, both online and offline. “Besides delivering the learning content through online mode, the students are being taught their lessons on television and radio,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unequal-footing-e-lessons-fail-students-test-in-punjab/articleshow/76934737.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 13, 2020||Rajkot||‘Will reclaim all eight seats in byelections’||Rajkot: A day after being appointed as the working president of Gujarat Congress, Hardik Patel, on Sunday visited Khodaldham in Kagvad near Rajkot. The Patidar leader paid obeisance at the grand temple of Leuva Patels’ community deity Khodal Mata before taking charge. Talking to reporters, Patel said that he and fellow party members will visit 16,000 villages of the state and chalk out a list of problems being faced by the people. “We will come out with solutions to these problems for the 2022 assembly elections,” said Hardik, who described the upcoming municipal elections as semi finals and by-elections to eight seats as quarter final for the party. Hardik, who also met Khodaldham Trust chairman Naresh Patel and his son Shivraj, said there are a host of issues including poor health and education infrastructure, which can badly expose the ruling BJP. He said the last three decades of BJP rule in the state has been nothing but dictatorial. Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic, Hardik said everyone including the middle-class and poor have been badly hit by the viral outbreak and the Congress promises to provide better healthcare infrastructure on coming to power. Taking a dig at the BJP’s ‘development’ plank, the feisty leader said, “Development does not only mean building roads and bridges. It means individual development and improvement in quality of life of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/will-reclaim-all-eight-seats-in-byelections/articleshow/76929165.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||45-year-old Kolkata traffic volunteer dies of Covid-19||KOLKATA: A 45-year-old civic volunteer of Kolkata traffic police, Subrata Das — serving with the east traffic guard — lost his life while battling Covid on Sunday. He is the third personnel associated with Kolkata Police who died after contracting the virus and the second from the traffic wing. A resident of Beliaghata, Das was hospitalized on June 30 with mild symptoms. He was shifted to Beliaghata ID Hospital a few days after his condition turned critical and he had to be put in ICU and ventilation. The civic volunteer did not suffer from any comorbidity. The east traffic guard covers some of the worst affected zones of Karaya and Ballygunge. DCP traffic Rupesh Kumar later tweeted mourning his demise. At least 20 more Covid positive cases have been reported in the force in the past 48 hours and they include the OC, who was in charge of the largest quarantine centre here. A total of 545 personnel have so far tested positive. A total of 431 have recovered so far with a total number of active cases at 114. The worst affected is the south suburban division — its Kasba police station reported seven cases, Jadavpur reported six. The Garfa police station has so far reported 16 cases, all of whom have now recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/45-yr-old-traffic-volunteer-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76929910.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Make in India not possible without support to MSME, manufacturing sector||Ludhiana: Making India Atam Nirbhar and a $ 5 trillion economy is not possible unless government support micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) and manufacturing sector. MSME sector is the back bone of Indian economy and provides a wide range of services and is engaged in the manufacturing of over 6,000 products ranging from traditional to hi-tech items. India has very low industrial base when compared with other Asian countries and the MSME has high potential to develop and grow. In order to ensure the effective growth and development of the MSMEs, budget of ministry of MSME needs to be increased. At present it is Rs 7,572 crore for 2020-21, it should be increased four times the present budget so that ministry can give maximum support to the industry. MSME schemes for technology upgradation, manufacturing upgradation like CLCSS & TUF should be given more attention and making schemes easily accessible will help the industry to upgrade itself. There is a huge shortage of good tool rooms and technology centres and therefore cluster support limit must be increased from present Rs 20 crore to Rs 50 crore for common facilities. As far as custom duties are concerned, they should be structured in a way that duties on raw material like steel and plastic should be lower and for ready products like bicycle & its parts, auto parts, sewing machine, it should be higher so that rather than exporting raw material, Indian industry should export more value added production. It will give more jobs and more growth. Anti-dumping on raw material like steel and plastic must not be imposed. Government must instead facilitate availability of raw material at lower price. In China, steel is approximately Rs 7,000 per tonne, cheaper than India — that’s why India cannot compete China in many steel products domestically and internationally. Indian labour laws should be designed to make labour result oriented, skilled and more labour productive. In China, even if the labour is expensive, their productivity is three times higher than that of Indian labour. Skill development Central budget allocation 2020-21 is Rs 3,000 crore, but industry is not getting adequate skilled manpower, industry should be facilitated with skill development centre within factories to make skill development more effective . Transportation cost is very high in India, for domestic as well as for import and export, too. For example, shipping of a container from Ludhiana to sea port Mundra or Nhava Sheva and loaded into vessel, it takes seven to eight days. This should be reduced to 48 hours. Railway freight for containers is very high, approximately Rs 55,000 for 20 feet container, carrying 20 tonne, which means freight of Rs 2,750 per tonne, which is very expensive. Liquidity is another major issue for the MSMEs, as without working capital businesses cannot survive. It would be in best interest of the industry if banks start lending 35% of the turnover of the businesses, as working capital to MSME. At present, banks sanction only 10% to 20% of the turnover. Collateral security coverage of 50% should also be considered in the criteria for the loan sanctioning to the MSMEs. Loan for capital goods, purchasing machinery for expansion and technological upgrading should have no bar for performing units. CIBIL score should be relaxed for MSMEs for one year. If even half of these recommendations are implemented by the government, then the MSME units will definitely become ‘atma nirbhar’ and will end up not only giving Indian economy a big push, but will also topple countries like China in global markets. (Writer is auto and agri components manufacturer and also the president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/make-in-india-not-possible-without-support-to-msme-manufacturing-sector/articleshow/76930296.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers take loans for survival||Hyderabad: From taking gold loans to borrowing money from relatives and running alternate businesses, faculty members from technical institutions are doing everything possible to make ends meet. Despite 25 years of teaching experience, SN Rao, who worked as a professor in a technical institution, is now finding it difficult to fend for his family. “I was terminated without notice in March. I have submitted a complaint to the university’s grievance cell and the board of technical education. But there has been no response,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-take-loans-for-survival/articleshow/76929908.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||‘Public fail to practise social distancing’||KOCHI: Despite health department and district administration issuing warnings to maintain social distancing, people often violate this. Except at the urbane spaces within Kochi, majority of the population living outside the city circles is yet to come to terms with practising social distancing. The Ernakulam District Residents’ Association Apex Council (Edraac) said that they have issued a circular about maintaining social distancing and following Covid-19 protocols for containing community spread. “Public is yet to understand the gravity of the situation. Edraac has issued a circular instructing people on the need to follow protocols. People are crowding at various places, and it is becoming a common phenomenon,” said Edraac president P Rangadasa Prabhu. He said that citizens are being confined to their homes for a long period of time. “Parents have a tough time dealing with children, who insist on going out to schools, picnic or entertainment. The real test is in surviving these pressures and staying safe,” he added. While shops and commercial establishments in the city insist on customers wearing masks, using sanitizers and following the queue systems, this is not practised at most places in the outer areas. “The customers are generally known to the grocery shops or corner shops in rural areas. Customers are also known to each other. Hence, it is assumed that people living in that small locality are not affected. They tend to ignore the fact that they interact with outsiders when they go for work or move out for any other purpose and also come into contact with surfaces, which could have been touched by an infected person,” said Unnikrishnan Petta, a resident of Tripunithura. Moreover, even when visuals of sick people being rushed to hospitals and the struggle of health workers in other countries are beamed on televisions, no such alarming footage from the state are shown. “So far we have not encountered what Europe or America has gone through. Even the scenes from Chennai and Mumbai seem distant. It could be one of the reasons why a large section of the public demonstrates such a casual approach,” Seena S, a school teacher. She said that neither the government machinery nor officials “can babysit”. “The people have to own the responsibility to remain safe,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/public-fail-to-practise-social-distancing/articleshow/76929192.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludh-Chd highway still stuck in places, NHAI says Nov end now||Sanghol (Fatehgarh Sahib): It will still take some time before Ludhiana-Chandigarh national highway will be completed, as authorities are yet to get road constricted at several spots, including many in Ludhiana district. National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials aver that they expect the project to be completed by November end. TOI found that in Ludhiana district work is yet to be completed near Neelon area, Ghulal area and Samrala byepass whereas it is to start at Bhaini Sahib where flyover is to be constructed. Even the bridge on the road near Bondli is not completed. The felling of about 70 trees near the underbridge close to Samrala and Machhiwara road is pending and the road remains narrow at the place. TOI also found that the road stretch near a pipe factory near Hedon remains narrow, as widening has not been started till now. Beyond that there are small stretches where road is yet to be constructed completely. At Sanghol where Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has got work stopped, the widening of road is yet to take place even as the road construction agency has placed cemented structure on the edges of the road. Even the road construction is to be completed at Khant Manpur in Fatehgarh Sahib district. Besides road is to be constructed at Bhago Majra in Mohali district besides work is pending on a flyover in Kharar area. NHAI project director K L Sachdeva said they have completed 69km out of 76km road project and remaining will be completed after they get the land for road construction. He added that despite the Covid crisis, they have managed to get work on the project done. NHAI officials said as of now they are facing 50% shortage of labour as the workers who left to their native place after the curfew and lockdown didn’t return. They added that instead of meeting September deadline, the project may be completed by November end. A NHAI officer asking not to be named said the award is to be announced for the acquisition of land for Bhaini sahib flyover and hopefully they will get the land for the road project after which they will get work started there immediately. He added that the trees at Neelon area will be cut in a day or two as they have got final approval for the same from the ministry concerned. “There are minor pending works in Ghulal area, which will be completed soon. Also, we have got permission for felling of trees on Samrala bypass and the work should start there soon besides work on the road near Bondli bridge is also nearing completion. ASI has agreed to allow us to work at Sanghol where Buddhist Stupa is near the road and we have already traffic on that stretch. As far as Khant, Manpur and Bhago Majra is concerned, the matter is in court and we will start work there once we get that land,” said NHAI officer. “We will also get the flyover construction work near Kharar done by November end,” he added. NHAI officials said even as they have started two toll plazas on the road, one near Ghulal and another at Bhago Majra, they are charging toll for just 69km of road length and the toll rate will increase once project is completed. Even as the Ludhiana Chandigarh road project is yet to be completed, people living along it said it will benefit them but are not happy with “unrealistic toll”. “We do feel that the road once completed will shorten the distance between Ludhiana to Chandigarh and our travel time. This will help farmers and students, among others who can travel to these cities in shortest possible time. However, we want that till the time road construction is completed, they should not charge toll. Also, the toll rate should be reduced as it is on the higher side,” said Neeraj Sihala, a villager from Sihala village in Samrala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludh-chd-highway-still-stuck-in-places-nhai-says-nov-end-now/articleshow/76930291.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Malls and multiplexes can’t wait to reopen doors||CHENNAI: It is going to be almost four months since malls and multiplexes have been shut in Tamil Nadu. The problem is — they are open elsewhere, including Delhi, that is facing a bigger scare from corona, and Bengaluru, where the Covid numbers are steadily on the rise. The Tamil Nadu government has been relaxing norms for industries and standalone retail showrooms, but has stopped short of shopping malls. Mall developers, already forced to waive off rents for the lockdown period and further discounts staring at them when they open, are knocking at the doors of the state government. Mutliplexes, which account for a large share of the footfall that the malls attract, too are trying their best. Representatives of Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) have met the officials of the Tamil Nadu government to impress upon the need to reopen. "Shopping in a mall will be much safer that in a high street. Everyone has to follow the rules and the mall management will be implementing it strictly, since any fault will lead to closure," said Mukrim Habeeb, director & CEO, Marina Mall on OMR in Chennai. The SCAI has brought out a lengthy SOP guideline for malls across the country. "From sanitisation and restricted timing for malls, we will have multiple checks in place. On their part, the retailers and partners too will undertake their own checks. We have to doubly make sure and avoid any trouble. Or else, the government will close the mall," said Munish Khanna, chief revenue officer, Express Avenue (EA) in the city. SCAI last week addressed a letter to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. "Given a choice, we will be keen to open everything. They bring revenue. But it is also a fact that malls and multiplexes represent the lifestyle segment. When the government is fighting a pandemic, they could well be the last on the reopening list," an official in the state finance department said. The government may be playing it safe. "It is a difficult time for malls and multiplexes, especially in Tamil Nadu where they remain shut, even while they are up and running in the north. Revenues come only when customers come. Even in cities where malls and multiplexes have opened, business is only in the 25%-30% range. Even if it is lifestyle, it is also about livelihood. On an average, each large mall employs around 3,000 people. The longer it takes to reopen, the harder it gets to bounce back. The closure will set back malls and multiplexes by at least one year," said Shubhranshu Pani, managing director-Retail, JLL. Tamil Nadu has been placing a lot of stress about not running airconditioners even while allowing large textile and jewellery showrooms to open. But JLL’s Pani dismisses that as a non-issue. "In states, where malls have opened up, they went back to the government and its PWD arm to determine the temperature and humidity to be maintained. Air changes are being done once in two hours instead of eight hours. These are norms that mall owners and retailers have accepted. There is a cost, but it has to be done for public safety," Pani said. Multiplexes too are waiting in the wings. "It will be a staggered opening. Expectations are that malls would be allowed to open in August and multiplexes in September. We will take anywhere up to 30-45 days to streamline operations," said Udeep Reddy, MD&CEO, Mayajaal Entertainment, which owns India’s largest 16-screen multiplex with 3,000 seats. "We were surprised when the state relaxed norms from July 6, but did not allow malls to reopen. Movie theatres were the first to close and will be the last to reopen," he said. "How did you predict that there’s going to be a pandemic and malls and cinema halls would remain closed for long," is the question that Abirami S Ramanathan, who owned Abirami Mega Mall, is forced to answer these days. To redevelop his mega mall, he had shut it down and the building pulled down by September 2019. "After approvals, when we were about to begin construction, the lockdown happened. When norms are relaxed, we are facing labour shortage," Ramanathan said. Leading distributor, exhibitor and multiplex operator Tirupur K Subramanian puts it simply, "No one knows when the cinema halls will reopen and when trade will pick up. Normalcy will return only when people start moving around without masks." He pegs the losses to the nearly 1,000 cinema screens in the state at Rs300 crore-Rs500 crore so far due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/malls-and-multiplexes-cant-wait-to-reopen-doors/articleshow/76929905.cms||D Govardan
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Cops arrest 2 drug peddlers, seize 47kg ganja||LUDHIANA: Khanna police have arrested two drug peddlers and seized 47kg ganja from them on Ludhiana-Delhi highway. The accused were identified as Rinkal Kumar of Sunil Nagar on Jassian Road in Ludhiana and Krishna Kumar of Shrampur in Bhagma Kehmoor of Bihar, now residing at Ganesh Nagar in Mudiana Kalan of Ludhiana Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Khanna, Harpreet Singh on Sunday said as part of special campaign against the gangsters and drug trafficking, a police party of Khanna police was present at a check post opposite Pristine Mall in Khanna for checking of suspected vehicles and persons on Saturday. He added that police party saw a car coming from Gobindgarh. Police officer said sub-inspector Vijay Kumar stopped the car and on asking the person sitting on driver seat, identified himself as Rinkal and other person as Krishna. He added that after searching the car, police recovered the consignment in presence of deputy superintendent of police, investigation, Khanna Manmohan Sarna. The police said the accused were booked under various sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 at Khanna city two police station. They added that accused have been arrested and are still being questioned. Police officials said there is a possibility of major disclosures from the accused during their sustained questioning. They added that police records are being scanned to ascertain whether the accused have previous cases against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-arrest-2-drug-peddlers-seize-47kg-ganja/articleshow/76930301.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Now, Guleli citizens’ body backs IIT project||Valpoi: While there is strong opposition to the setting of the proposed IIT project in Melauli village in Sattari taluka from various sections of society, few former village representatives of the surrounding panchayats are in the favour of the project. Speaking to reporters in Valpoi on Sunday, the Guleli Panchayat Jagruk Nagrik Samitee lashed out at the Melauli villagers for opposing the IIT project. The former sarpanch of Guleli village panchayat, Vishant Nabar, said that “the Melauli villagers have to sacrifice something for the betterment of their village”. “People must not always see what they will get in return, they need to sacrifice something without any expectations,” Nabar said. Shyam Sangodkar from Murmune said that if an IIT is set up in Melauli then “all the problems of the village will be automatically solved”. “Melauli will get better roads, better facilities, like proper water supply, proper electricity, phone connectivity, etc,” he said. Those opposing the project have not yet understood what an IIT means, Sangodkar said. Ashish Desai, a member of the samiti, said that if the IIT is setup in Melauli then the villagers will not have to go to Usgao and Ponda in search of network and internet facilities. “All the developmental activities will be carried out as the Melauli will become a prestigious educational hub,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-guleli-citizens-body-backs-iit-project/articleshow/76930675.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Hotspots move from north to Chennai centre||CHENNAI: Royapuram and Tondiarpet are no longer the hotspots, focus has shifted to zones in the city’s central region. While the percentage of active cases in Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar and Teynampet zones is higher than that in Royapuram and Tondiarpet, corporation officials maintained that it is not a cause for concern. “For starters, there are no active clusters in these zones like earlier. The high number of cases is due to increase in testing numbers and identifying those with ILI (influenza like illness) symptoms through fever camps. In zones 4 and 5 (Royapuram and Tondiarpet), our intervention started much earlier and hence, the results,” noted a senior official with the city corporation. Of the 17,989 active cases in the city, the maximum are in Kodambakkam (2,481), followed by Anna Nagar (1,941) and Teynampet (1,760). Zonal staff in the zones told TOI that no new interventions have been planned by the civic body yet, but that the existing measures will be intensified. “We will be increasing the number of fever camps gradually. If the number of swabs taken is increased, there is naturally going to be a rise in cases. But most of them are asymptomatic and were infected by contacts,” said an official from zone 8 (Anna Nagar). According to data provided by the corporation, since May 8 until Sunday, the corporation has conducted 16,106 fever camps attended by more than 10 lakh people. While the number of ILI cases and the swabs taken are higher for Tondiarpet and Royapuram zones, the percentage of positive cases was higher in Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam. For instance, only 1,290 of the 9,529 ILI cases (13.54%) deducted through fever camps in Tondiarpet returned positive, while almost half the ILI cases tested positive in Anna Nagar. According to the data, 2,364 of 4,753 ILI cases recorded in the zone tested positive, accounting for 49% of positive cases. Corporation officials noted that while fever camps and other interventions are uniform across the city, in Tondiarpet and Royapuram zones, they had to do aggressive interventions such as decongestion as the zones have a significant slum population. If not for those early interventions and shifting people from narrow streets and slums to wedding halls and corporation schools, the zones alone had the potential to record 1,000 cases a day, said a corporation senior official. The official said it is only a matter of time before the central regions too show a drop in percentage of active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hotspots-move-from-north-to-city-centre/articleshow/76929920.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Firm to begin trash collection from today||Jaipur: After hours of negotiations between BVG Company and Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) officials, workers will start door-to-door garbage collection from Monday. BVG Company, responsible for door-to-door garbage disposal in the city, went on strike from Saturday after JMC failed to clear the dues. The tussle over payment issues has been a long standing problem between the two. Till last year, the firm owed more than Rs 80 to JMC. Though none of the parties revealed the amount due at present, work will resume on Monday. Chetan Patil, a BVG official said, “Some payment issues with the JMC officials have been going on for a while. A meeting was held on Sunday and after assurance by officials, we will start functioning from Monday.” JMC officials have assured that the issue had been resolved and work will start. Due to the strike, hoopers stopped plying in areas like Moti Dungri, Hawamahal-East, Sanganer, Mansarovar and Civil Lines. Santosh Kothari, a resident of Haldion ka Rasta said, “For a long time, hoopers have not been coming regularly for garbage collection. They used to earlier come 3-4 times a week. Now with the strike, it has become even more difficult. Officials should improve the condition of sanitation which is degrading.” Around 550 hoopers ply in the entire city. JMC had asked BVG Company to increase the number of vehicles, but that has not been implemented. In outer areas of the city like Kho Nagoriyan, Amber and Jai Singhpura Khor, hoopers don’t ply regularly. In ward No. 49, not a single garbage collection vehicle has visited the area in the last six months according to the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firm-to-begin-trash-collection-from-today/articleshow/76930578.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Camp held to de-stress frontline workers||Coimbatore: In a bid to de-stress frontline workers in Valparai and keep them motivated, a special camp was conducted in the hill town recently. Organized by the Valparai municipality, the camp was attended by sanitary workers, police personnel, health department staff as well as other government employees, who were involved in Covid battle. The participants, numbering about 100, were taught breathing exercises to bring down the stress levels. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/camp-held-to-de-stress-frontline-workers/articleshow/76930306.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Carcasses of poisoned canines exhumed||HYDERABAD: More than 60 carcasses were exhumed from two pits dug up to bury dogs that were allegedly poisoned and killed in Proddutur village of Khammam district in the recent days. The deaths, which triggered an outrage among animal activists earlier this week, forced officials to exhume the bodies and send them for post-mortem. The incident came to light after one of the residents, Prem Kumar, saw two men on a bike inject his pet dog before he could catch them. Animal activists who have worked along with the police to exhume the bodies say that nearly 150 dogs were poisoned over the course of three days. “We are still awaiting the post-mortem reports. There is no way the villagers can procure lethal injections without the sarpanch’s involvement,” said Venkat Sharma, founder, Maa Animal Care, an animal welfare organisation in Khammam. Experts are also questioning the availability of controlled drugs and lethal injections which are being easily procured by the villagers. Speaking to TOI, Dr K Shashikala, South India coordinator of Earth Quotient said, “The poison they are injecting in these animals comes under the category of controlled drugs. It is not only illegal to be having them if you are not a doctor, but it is also illegal to use them to kill dogs. Where and from whom did the culprits buy them?” While the sarpanch was unavailable for comment, SI R Uma said, “A few villagers said they killed the dogs because they were attacking their children. We have registered an FIR and will take action once we get the PME reports.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/carcasses-of-poisoned-canines-exhumed/articleshow/76929924.cms||Moulika.KV
July 13, 2020||Rajkot||Two parole returnees in Rajkot jail test Covid positive||Rajkot: Two convicts who had gone on parole returned with coronavirus infection to Rajkot Central Jail on Sunday. With this, Rajkot Central Jail recorded its first Covid-19 case. According to the jail authorities, two convicts — Vinod Lakshman (44) and Rajkumar Govind (35) — had gone to their residences in Bhavnagar after obtaining parole from a high committee formed by the state government. In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the government had constituted a high committee which decided to grant parole to the prisoners in different jails across the state whose conduct had been found good. In Rajkot Central Jail, Vinod and Rajkumar were granted parole along with more than 100 prisoners. “After the prisoners returned to the jail, we put them to Covid-19 test in which Vinod Lakshman and Rajkumar Govind tested Covid-19 positive,” said an official from the health department of Rajkot Municipal Corporation.Meanwhile, the jail authorities have kept the two convicts at the government’s quarantine facility at Mangal Pandey School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-parole-returnees-in-rajkot-jail-test-covid-positive/articleshow/76929196.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt teachers condemn suspension of Gurbachan Singh, demand reinstatement||Ludhiana: The Democratic Mulazam Federation District Committee Ludhiana held a meeting to discuss the education department’s move to suspend the Maths teacher of Amloh Road Khanna. They strongly condemned the unjust suspension of teacher Gurbachan Singh. District president Rupinderpal Singh Gill said, “Gurbachan was an honest and hard working teacher dedicated to his students and the subject. There is widespread resentment among teachers over this unjustified suspension.” He demanded that the illegal suspension of Gurbachan be revoked and reinstated immediately. Jasveer Singh Akalgarh, Kulwinder Singh Chhokaran, Sukhwinder Singh Leel, Ramanjit Singh Sandhu, Rajinder Jandiali, Hardeep Singh, Kewal Mangat, Jangpal Singh, Manpreet Singh, Kuljinder Singh and other had attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-teachers-condemn-suspension-of-gurbachan-singh-demand-reinstatement/articleshow/76930304.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation asks 1,500 bank branches to suspend non-essential services||CHENNAI: In a bid to prevent senior citizens and others from crowding banks frequently to update passbooks, Greater Chennai Corporation has written to 1,500 bank branches in its limits to stop providing non-essential services. This includes withdrawal of small amounts of money too. GCC commissioner G Prakash told mediapersons on Sunday that they will be issuing instructions to this effect under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, very soon. The measure is to reduce crowding to prevent spread of Covid-19. “There is no need for people to get their passbooks updated now. They can access the information on their mobile phones. Also, people can use ATMs for withdrawal of small sums of money. We live in the state capital, there are many ATMs around and options such as netbanking for making transactions,” Prakash said. This will cut footfalls at the banks by at least 80%, he added. The civic body chief also stated that mobile incinerators would be introduced in the city within 10 days to aid in the disposal of biomedical waste such as gloves and masks that are being produced in huge quantities. In the past 100 days, the civic body has collected 300 tonnes of biomedical waste from the houses of isolated Covid-19 patients, Covid care centres, screening centres, and such places. This is currently sent to the incinerator on the outskirts of the city in Athipattu. “The mobile incinerators will be obtained through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. We dispose the biomedical waste properly as it poses dangers for our ground-level staff such as conservancy workers,” Prakash said. Regarding herd masking, Prakash said the number of people wearing masks has increased in the city. “70-80% are wearing masks, but youngsters are still cavalier, think they will not get the infection,” he said. Covid-19 prevention work will continue for five more months, Prakash said. Responding to another question, Prakash said around 375 staff of GCC have been infected with Covid-19, of whom 120 have recovered. This included the zonal health officer of Kodambakkam, where Prakash was addressing the reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-asks-1-5k-bank-branches-to-suspend-non-essential-services/articleshow/76929926.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Rajkot||Three arrested for firing at Jamnagar builder||Rajkot: In the sensational firing case in which three assailants had fired upon builder Girish Der in Krishna Park Society near Lalpur bypass on the outskirts of Jamnagar on July 3, have been arrested on Sunday.Police said the accused, identified as Sanjay Barad, Hitesh Zala and Pravin Tako, had fired two rounds at Der (50) allegedly at the behest of multi-crore land scamster Jayesh Ranparia. No bullet, however, had hit Der. In retaliation, Der, too had fired three rounds from his licensed revolver, though nobody was hurt. “The accused were traced on basis of their cellphone location at the spot of the crime at the time of the incident as well as on basis of CCTV footage from cameras installed near the spot. Footage shows the accused riding in on two motorcycles,” said K K Gohil, sub-inspector with Jamnagar local crime branch (LCB). Ahmedabad anti-terrorist squad (ATS) received a tip-off about the hideout of the accused, following which the ATS arrested Barad and Zala from Sutrapada and Pravin Tako from Junagadh. The ATS handed over the custody of the accused to the Jamnagar LCB. “We are seeking the remand of the accused to find out the amount they received from Ranparia for the alleged for the contract killing. We also have to seize the firarms used in the crime,” added Gohil. In his complaint, Der had alleged that the assailants had been sent by Ranparia, the land scamster who had allegedly plotted the murder of advocate Kirit Joshi, who was stabbed to death by Ranparia’s henchman Hardik Pujara below Jyot Tower opposite Town Hall in Jamnagar on the night of April 28, 2018. Before Joshi’s murder, Ranparia had absconded to Dubai Joshi was fighting cases against Ranparia for his land scams worth more than Rs 150 crore. Ranparia men had also fired at the house and car of Parshottam Rajani, a professor with Jamnagar Mahila College on November 15, 2019. Rajani had refused to cow down before Ranparia when he had demanded Rs 1 crore extortion amount. The bitterness stems from Rajani selling off a few plots in Krishna Park Society going against Ranparia’s wishes, which irked the latter as he had staked claim to the property. In fact, after he allegedly got Joshi killed, Ranparia also sent out a warning to builders in Jamnagar, warning them not to sell any plot in Krishna Park Society. However, Der went againt the warning and started construction work on some of the plots there which he had purchased from one Mahesh Varotaria. This led Ranparia to hold a grudge aginst Der and also the plot to map an attack on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-arrested-for-firing-at-jamnagar-builder/articleshow/76929205.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Used masks, gloves on roads pose health risk||Coimbatore: At a time when government authorities have been going all out to ensure that people wear face masks in public places, the disposal and handling of used masks and gloves leaves much to be desired. Single use masks and gloves can be found scattered across the entire stretch of Gandhipuram second level flyover, only one among several localities where masks and gloves can be found scattered all around. A sanitary worker said he has been picking over ten used masks – mostly single use masks – from the roadside daily for almost a month now. “Often, used masks are found on main roads, residential areas and in storm water drains,” he said. Workers like him are tired of asking the general public to segregate and wrap used masks before handing it over to them. “While some families go to the extent of disinfecting the used masks before wrapping it in multiple covers, there are people who just dump it along with degradable waste. Instead of segregating it, they just give us an excuse or the other. As we would be questioned by our superiors while handing over the waste for treatment, we are left with no option but to segregate it by ourselves,” said another sanitary worker.  Acknowledging that used masks are often found mixed with solid waste, a source privy to the waste management said, “since day one, the corporation has been asking the public to segregate and wrap used masks and gloves before handing it over to the workers. The workers in turn have been asked to handover biomedical waste separately to their supervisors. But neither the public nor workers have followed instructions properly.” Pointing out that used masks are also infectious and harmful to handpick, the source said that it is high time adequate measures were taken to streamline collection and disposal of biomedical waste. A senior official from corporation said, “Things can be properly implemented in the city only with the cooperation of the public. Behavioural change should take place and community participation should increase to attain good results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/used-masks-gloves-on-roads-pose-health-risk/articleshow/76930308.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||HC junks petition on RU V-C selection process||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court dismissed a writ petition challenging the procedure to select vice-chancellor of Rajasthan University (RU). The court said it will refrain from entertaining the petition as it believes the UGC Regulations 2018 will be considered and applied in the selection process that is in progress. The HC bench, comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta, dismissed the petition for being pre-mature. The petition was filed by one C S Meena, a probable candidate for the V-C post. In the petition, he alleged that guidelines of UGC were not followed during the selection process. “In the advertisement for RU V-C post, it has been mentioned that eligible person having ‘equivalent position’ can apply for the post. However, the term ‘equivalent position’ has been omitted by the UGC in 2018 regulations which should be followed while appointing the new V-C,” argues Meena in the petition. There have been many objections raised in the past one month on the process of search committee. Meena had earlier written to governor Kalraj Mishra, raising concerns that professor P C Trivedi, a member of vice-chancellor search committee and a former botany professor of the university cannot be part of the process according to the UGC rules. Similarly, another member of the search committee and UGC nominee G D Sharma, had raised objections and written a letter to the university registrar that he was given a short notice before the meeting organised on July 7 and July 8. He said that this is a deliberate attempt from keeping him away from the procedure of selection. Yadav is acting V-C of RU Professor J P Yadav has been given charge of RU V-C till the final selection is made. He will take charge on Monday at 10 am. Former V-C R K Kothari had retired on July 11. Yadav is the current principal of Commerce College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-junks-petition-on-ru-v-c-selection-process/articleshow/76930582.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: One more held for murder of Titagarh student crusader||KOLKATA: The third accused in the murder of Titagarh student crusader Toufik Ali was arrested on Sunday. Police said with the arrest of Danesh Sheikh, all the three miscreants involved in the murder of the 21-year-old are now in police custody. On Saturday, local gangster Arif Iqbal alias Chottu his aide Suraj Ali were arrested for killing Toufik on Friday night. They were sent to police custody for 10 days by a Barrackpore court. Danesh was also remanded in police custody for 10 days after being produced in a Barrackpore court on Sunday afternoon. Three armed goons led by Chottu arrived on motorcycles and fired six rounds at the 21-year-old in front of his house in Titagarh’s Uranapara. Toufik had protested against the gang’s anti-social activities in the locality. “Chottu and his gang members were involved in several crimes in the locality. Toufik, who had organized a protest movement to oust the gang, also got Chottu and some of his aides arrested about one year ago. After being released from jail, Chottu had threatened the 21-year-old with dire consequences several times,” an investigating officer said. The crusader’s father Haider Ali said he had feared an attempt on his son’s life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-more-held-for-murder-of-student-crusader/articleshow/76929921.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan political crisis: Union minister holds Gehlot responsible for mess||JAIPUR: Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Sunday said the Congress government in Rajasthan was attaining the expertise of holding hostage their own MLAs while referring to the crisis in the government related to a section of missing MLAs holed up in Gurgoan and speculations over Sachin Pilot joining the BJP. The minister said the state government since its inception had been focussing on providing refuge to its party MLAs in the state while ignoring the welfare of the state. “Their focus is more on the internal rift than serving the people of the state. They are sending out notices to each other. The state has seen how they planned a 10-day trip for their MLAs ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections in a hotel and now again they are doing it at the cost of the general public,” he said. BJP vice-president Om Mathur said the crisis in the government started since the beginning. “Somebody (Pilot) who worked hard for years and gave everything to the party was ignored at the eleventh hour,” said Mathur. He said the entire issue had been created by Ashok Gehlot,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/union-min-holds-gehlot-responsible-for-mess/articleshow/76930583.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||India among nations without publicly available air quality data||Nagpur: Nearly half the countries of the world do not produce publicly available air quality data, with India being one of the defaulter nations, reveals a latest study. Titled the ‘Open Air Quality Data: The Global State of Play’ and released by Washington DC-based international NGO OpenAQ, the study examined 212 countries and found 109 governments, 51% of total, are not producing air quality data of any major pollutants, while 103 are. “They are also thought to be some of the worst countries for outdoor air pollution, which leads to 4.2 million deaths every year — with 90% of deaths in low and middle-income countries,” the study stated. It highlighted how over half of the world’s population has no access to official government data on air quality. This is despite the fact that 9 out of 10 people breathe air containing high levels of pollutants, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). The research is being supported by scientists at Nasa, who use the OpenAQ system. “While a number of major national governments such as Pakistan, Nigeria and Ethiopia do not produce any national, public air pollution data at all, other major powers such as China, India, Russia, Philippines, Brazil and South Africa do not share the data in a fully open and transparent manner,” it stated. According to the report, India is one of the 13 most populous countries, with populations over 50 million, in which real-time air quality data are produced in some format, but not in a fully open manner on a national level by the government. It further points out that in many highly polluted countries, there are often the least amount of open air quality data available from governments. “Basic access to air quality data is the first step to improve the air we breathe. By providing access to fully open data, governments can enable the power of civil society — from scientists to policy analysts to activists to tackle the problem together. This will unlock the maximum potential and impact of government data, encourage innovation, and mobilize communities to act,” said Christa Hasenkopf, an atmospheric scientist who founded OpenAQ. Dr Sarath Guttikunda, the founder of UrbanEmissions.info, an independent research group in India, said, “Removing the hurdles of formats, cumbersome access issues, and variations in way data is presented by various countries, OpenAQ makes it easier for the public, researchers, and even public bodies to understand the geographical patterns in air quality over time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/india-among-nations-without-publicly-available-air-quality-data/articleshow/76930315.cms||Manka Behl
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||CPI: Restore snipped CBSE lessons||Hyderabad: Communist Party of India (CPI) has condemned the decision to drop various chapters on national, secularism among others from CBSE syllabus and demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensure these chapters are restored back in the syllabus immediately. CPI state secretary Chada Venkat Reddy on Sunday said the chapters which have been dropped were crucial for the younger generation to learn the democratic, university in diversity, national and secular fabric of the country.“The government has dropped crucial chapters on the pretext of the pandemic. The Centre has taken a unilateral decision, which is bad. It should be withdrawn immediately. If the chapters are to be dropped to reduce the syllabus... wide consultations should have been conducted,” Venkat Reddy said. CPI also demanded that poet Varavara Rao be immediately released. “CM K Chandrasekhar Rao should use his offices to ensure Varavara Rao is released. His health has deteriorated and his kin are worried,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cpi-restore-snipped-cbse-lessons/articleshow/76929928.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Parents told to keep watch on kids||Kochi: Cases of drug use among teenage students have increased during the lockdown in Ernakulam, said excise officials and Vimukthi counsellors. More than 60% of calls received at the Vimukthi counselling centre over the last few months were related to drug addiction among teenagers. Psychologists said drugs, especially ganja, are easily available due to drop in enforcement activities. Moreover, sales of ganja and drugs through online platforms have increased. Psychologists warned that, as students are not going to school, parents should be monitoring them as surveillance by teachers, student police cadets, student protection group, peers, excise and police have been hampered by the pandemic. “In most cases, parents say they had no clue about their children’s drug addiction. Some students, during the counselling said they started using ganja during lockdown. Children are no more under the direct supervision of teachers and peers. Parents too are ignorant about their activities. Even if the drug use is found out, many parents leave it mere warnings. These times are crucial and parents are the only ones who can monitor their children now,” said Shijo Antony, Vimukthi counsellor, Ernakulam. He added that the blind-trust put on children by certain parents should be stopped. “Last week a parent told me that they found out her son’s contact with his peer who uses ganja. When questioned, her son said he kept contacts to moralise the other guy and make him stop using ganja. She trusted him and ignored the issue, but later, she found her son too using ganja at home,” he said. Excise officials said there is an increase in the drug inflow into Ernakulam from other districts and states as the enforcement activities have been affected by the pandemic. Officials said they have directions to minimise physical contacts during inspection which is affecting the effectiveness of checking. “Moreover, the risk of getting infected is comparatively higher during vehicle checking and officials are apprehensive about detailed inspection. Formalities behind conducting Covid-19 test of the accused, the mental stress that officers go through while handling such accused, overcrowded prisons etc., are other factors that stop officers from taking strict action. Peddlers are taking advantage of the situation to compensate for the business loss they faced during the initial months of lockdown," an excise officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/parents-told-to-keep-watch-on-kids/articleshow/76929228.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Irrigate every farm land: Telangana CM KCR to officials||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday directed the officials to prepare an action plan to extend river water to agricultural fields that have remained unserved by irrigation projects built by the state government on Godavari and Krishna rivers. “Huge money has been spent and we have overcome numerous hurdles to complete irrigation projects. If the fruits of these projects are to reach every farmer, then water from these projects should reach up to the last ayacut,” CM KCR said at a review meeting on Sunday. He said that the top priority is to create irrigation facilities that will reach the last farmer. “Ensure that two crops are cultivated on 30 lakh acres in a year under Sri Ram Sagar project (SRSP) as 2 tmc of water can be released into SRSP from Kaleshwaram project. Store 25 to 30 TMC of water in SRSP,” the CM told officials. KCR further instructed officials to identify tanks in the state which are not getting water from irrigation projects and supply water to them within six months. “Only 90,000 acres can be irrigated from Yellampally water and give water to remaining ayucut from SRSP,” he said. As the water availability has increased from Kaleshwaram, officials were told to study and take up works to enhance the water holding and discharge capacity of canals to supply water to every acre of agricultural land. “Water received during the monsoon should be stored in larger quantities by releasing it from irrigation projects to fill up tanks, check dams and reservoirs to improve the ground water levels in lakhs of borewells,” he told the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irrigate-every-farm-land-kcr-to-officials/articleshow/76929932.cms||Roushan Ali
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Covid hits activities of Vimukthi||KOCHI: The lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 has affected activities of Ernakulam excise division’s Vimukthi cell, functioning for supporting de-addiction from alcohol and drugs, as the public awareness programmes and campaigns, including those in schools, have come to a standstill. The anti-drug day (June 26), which usually witnesses many activities, including the Kochi Vimukthi marathon, passed without any events. Meanwhile, the number of counselling cases reported at the centre in Kacherippady excise complex has increased during lockdown. However, people now prefer telephonic counselling due to the pandemic fear. So, the department has now planned to strengthen its activities online by conducting webinars, videoconferences. “The two main objectives of the cell are creating awareness and helping de-addiction through counselling and medication. Awareness was created through several public activities implemented with the help of student police cadets, anti-addiction clubs of schools and colleges, national service scheme, Kudumbasree, state library council, anti-alcoholic organizations, different student, youth and women’s organisations. But due to the lockdown, all such activities had to be stopped. Now, we are planning to launch online activities to promote the vimukthi campaign though it is less effective and challenging. But it is the only option now and activities like webinars, online talks with school students etc., are being planned,” said A S Ranjith, deputy excise commissioner, Ernakulam. The vimuktihi counselling centre in Ernkulam has not been functioning on all days as both officials and patients prefer telephonic counselling. During the first three months of lockdown, the centre received 358 calls seeking counselling assistance, mainly for alcoholism and ganja addiction. Only very few cases among these, that needed direct consultation and counselling, were attended at the centre and the rest were dealt through telephonic conversations between the psychologist and people who need counselling. “During the initial days of lockdown, most calls were regarding alcohol withdrawal syndrome due to closure of bars and bevco outlets. While mild cases were dealt through telephonic counselling, severe cases were referred to nearby hospitals with the help of excise officials. But now more cases of ganja addiction are being reported as many had started using the contraband during lockdown. Work pressure, lay-offs etc., were cited as reasons by many for getting into drugs. If enforcement and awareness activities are not strengthened, the narcotic menace will increase,” said Shijo Antony, vimukthi counsellor, Ernakulam. The counsellors also said online and telephonic counselling are less effective and the strain involved in telephonic counselling was much higher. “Each call spans over 30 minutes on an average and sometimes it goes up to an hour. As the number of calls increases, the time we spent on phone too goes up. Counselling, which revolves around the person’s emotions, feelings and anxieties, is always effective when it happens face-to-face. But now we have no other option,” said Antony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-hits-activities-of-vimukthi/articleshow/76929209.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Crane tyre burst kills man filling air into it||Chennai: A 27-year-old man died after the tyre of a crane burst while he was filling air into it using a compressor in Avadi on Saturday. Police said the deceased, Sandeep Takur, worked at a firm that rented out cranes, mainly to construction firms. “The firm remained closed throughout the lockdown and was reopened only last week. Sandeep, who has been working there for the past year, was asked to check the tyres as business resumed,” a police officer said. Sandeep was using a hydraulic air compressor to fill air in one of the crane’s tyres, when it burst. He was thrown away in the impact and burst unsettled the huge amounts of dust that had accumulated in the space. On hearing the noise, three other employees of the firm came to his rescue and found him in covered in dust. “Soon after they helped him up, Sandeep began to vomit and fainted seconds later. He was rushed to a private hospital nearby, where he died without responding to the treatment,” the officer added. Police said he was trained for nearly a year on how to use the compressor and that he was wearing all protective gear — ear mufflers, gloves and safety goggles. The Avadi police have registered a case and are investigating the reason for the burst. Sandeep’s body has been sent for postmortem and police are waiting for the report to know the exact cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crane-tyre-burst-kills-man-filling-air-into-it/articleshow/76929931.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Rajkot||Lawyer circulates ex-girlfriend’s obscene pics, booked||Rajkot: An advocate was booked on Saturday night for allegedly circulating obscene photographs of his ex girlfriend and her video calls on WhatsApp and social media in Dhrol of Jamnagar district. Police said the accused, identified as Hemant Chawda (32), had committed the crime as his girlfriend married another man. “Chawda had clicked his girlfriend’s obscene photographs which he allegedly sent to his girlfriend’s brother, brother-in-law and other family members and relatives,” said an official from Dhrol police station. “Ever since his girlfriend got married eight months ago, Chawda had allegedly been sending her messages threatening to break her marriage. We’ve booked Chawda under section 507 of the IPC dealing with issuing threats and section 66 (E) and 67 of the IT Act,” official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lawyer-circulates-ex-girlfriends-obscene-pics-booked/articleshow/76929229.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Video of lionesses crossing river goes viral||RAJKOT: An old proverb says cats (read lions) and water don't mix, but if they would have seen this video, the wise men’s words would have surely met its waterloo! For, the agility shown by three lioness while swimming almost 200 metres across the Shetrunji River near Rawal Dam in Gir East, would stun many into disbelief that even the royal feline can get more than its feet wet. A video of this incident has gone viral on the social media. Video: Three lionesses swim almost 200 metres across the Shetrunji River near Rawal Dam in Gir East of Gujarat. https://t.co/rJp6unlgzl— TOIRajkot (@TOIRajkot) 1594611969000Anshuman Sharma, deputy conservator of forest, Gir East, who shared the video on WhatsApp and social media, said: “It is a myth that the lions can’t swim. This video clearly breaks this myth and shows how the lions love to swim. This video was shot by beat guard R S Sarla.” “The lionesses apparently crossed the river to prey on deer,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/video-of-lionesses-crossing-river-goes-viral/articleshow/76929251.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hubballi||Absence of regular vice-chancellor at Karnatak University hampers administration||DHARWAD: There has been inordinate delay in the appointment of a regular vice-chancellor (VC) to Karnatak University (KU). It has been more than a year since the post of vice-chancellor at KU fell vacant, and the state government is going at a snail’s pace in appointing a new regular VC. In the last one year, the varsity was managed by three acting vice-chancellors. The post fell vacant in June 2019 with VC Pramod Gai retiring. High drama that prevailed in nominating the university’s representative in the search committee delayed the commencement of the process of selecting a new VC, after which senior professor S A Shiralashetti was appointed the acting VC. He retired due to superannuation on January 31 this year. Professor T M Bhaskar succeeded him, only to retire on June 30. He was replaced by prof Shivappa, and his tenure as the acting VC ends in August. Since senior-most professors are appointed as acting VCs, their term will be short as they will be nearing retirement. “As they don’t have powers to take major decisions, many major issues go unattended. Some VCs, not liking to invite controversies, leave the issues to their successors. In the process, the administration suffers,” said a former vice-chancellor. With BJP taking over the reins at Vidhana Soudha, the search committee was reconstituted. It is yet to meet and shortlist the names of three candidates for the top post. Sources said the committee is likely to hold a meeting on July 15, and scrutinise the applications of the aspirants. Along with a dozen professors from KU, executive director of Karnataka Higher Education Council S A Kori, director of Karnataka State Higher Education Academy S M Shivaprasad and professors from other universities are in the race for the post of VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/absence-of-regular-vice-chancellor-at-karnatak-university-hampers-administration/articleshow/76929090.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: MLA arrested after passerby is shot at in clash over land||CHENNAI: Police arrested seven people including the Tiruporur MLA on Sunday, a day after a passerby was injured in a gun-firing incident at Sengadu village near Tiruporur. The incident occurred during a clash between supporters of L Idhayavarman, the MLA, and AMMK’s Imayam Kumar, police said. While the arrested – Idhayavarman, his brother Nirmal, brother-in-law Vasanth, driver Kandhan, Ramesh, Vasudev and Yuvaraj – are being questioned, police have booked 70 others including Idhayavarman’s father Lakshmipathy. A single barrel breech loading gun and a pistol were seized from the MLA and his father who were also booked under the Arms Act. An attempt to murder case was registered against Kumar. On Saturday afternoon, Imayam Kumar lodged a complaint with the Tiruporur police saying Idhyavarman’s men had dug up a part of his land without his knowledge. The villagers, however, alleged that Kumar did not have a pathway to his land and had tried to encroach upon a temple land when the MLA’s men dug it up to prevent him from laying a pathway. Later, Idhyavarman, Lakshmipathy and about 50 others attacked Imayam Kumar. His car was fired at a bullet injured Srinivasan, a police officer said. When a police team reached the spot, Lakshmipathy claimed he had fired at a passerby, Srinivasan, but the victim in a statement said Idhyavarman had shot at him. Srinivasan was taken to a hospital but went missing after his discharge, police said, adding that three bullets were fired – two hit a car and the other injured Srinivasan. Investigations revealed that the gun licences of the MLA and his father were yet to be renewed. Police are searching for Srinivasan, suspecting that the MLA’s men could have confined him somewhere. “We will be able to get clarity only after questioning Srinivasan,” said an officer. Fisheries minister Jayakumar condemned the incident and said the accused should approach police to resolve issues instead of taking the law into their hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mla-arrested-after-passerby-is-shot-at-in-clash-over-land/articleshow/76929938.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara hits 3,000 mark in Covid||Vadodara: Vadodara city and district continued to witness spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Sunday. In yet another spike, 75 persons tested positive since Saturday evening after which the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 3,000 mark. With the city and district registering yet another single-day high, the total number of positive cases touched 3,069. The number of tests conducted in a day have also increased. Within 24 hours ending on Sunday evening, 519 samples were tested. The new cases surfaced from Rajmahal Road, Fatehpura, Hathikhana, Tarsali, Raopura, VIP Road, Mandvi, Wadi, Manjalpur, Tandalja, Akota, Vishwamitri, Harni-Warasiya Ring Road, Old Padra Road, Atladara, Gajrawadi, Gorwa, Panigate and Diwalipura areas within the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. In Vadodara rural, the new cases surfaced from Dabhoi, Bhilapur, Padra, Karjan and Dodka. The north zone remained the worst hit with the addition of 14 new cases and the number has touching 998. This is followed by the east zone that saw addition of four cases and total tally touching 714. The total number of cases in city’s south and west zones have touched 578 and 275 respectively with addition of 17 and 21 new cases within the last 24 hours. In Vadodara rural, too, the number of positive cases touched 470 with 19 new individuals testing positive. The authorities continued to be in denial mode when it came to deaths. Officially, the death toll of Covid-19 positive persons remained at 57 even as several other patients, who have tested positive and were suffering from other ailments, have passed away. Currently, there are 779 active cases in the city. The condition of 600 patients is said to be stable while 141 are being treated with oxygen support and the rest 38 are under ventilator or BiPAP. Sunday also witnessed the discharge of 102 patients including 31 from government hospitals, 70 from private and one from home isolation taking the total number of discharges to 2,233. There are 1,151 patients who are under quarantine. Of these, 1,053 are under home quarantine, 85 at government facility while 13 others are under quarantine at paid facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-hits-3000-mark-in-covid/articleshow/76928472.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan Reddy inspects Gandhi Hosp||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday said that the Telangana government and authorities of Gandhi Hospital must instill confidence among the people of the state in state-run hospitals. The Union minister was speaking after visiting Gandhi Hospital, the largest dedicated Covid-19 facility in the city, to take stock of the ground situation. He said elected representatives should also be treated at government hospitals if they test positive for Covid-19 and urged the state government to resume services at TIMS in Gachibowli. Expressing concern over the less number of tests being conducted in the state, he said he has spoken to health minister Etela Rajender and other officials on the issue. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-reddy-inspects-gandhi-hosp/articleshow/76929937.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Robot plan on paper, no relief for cleaners from septic tanks||GURUGRAM: When Gopal Das, 37, entered the eight-foot-deep sewage in the city recently without a mask or gloves, his concern was not the filth or his hygiene; he just wanted to take home the mere Rs 300 that his contractor would pay him once the job was done. “For some it is nauseating, but for me it is my only source of livelihood. I make around Rs 10,000 every month and try to send home as much as possible,” said Gopal, who is from West Bengal and stays here with his cousin. Despite stringent laws that prohibit the employment of a person to clean sewers and septic tanks, and even with the deployment of three robots to do the job, manual scavenging is rampant in the city. Last year, CM Manohar Lal Khattar had announced that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be the first in north India to overhaul its system of cleaning sewers and septic tanks by deploying robots. However, the job is still done by many workers and the robot plan remains on paper. On Saturday, another worker was seen cleaning a clogged sewer in Krishna Nagar Colony with his bare hands. “My entire family has been in this job. And since we are from the lower caste, we are not hired for any other work where we will have to mix with other people. So I don’t complain,” Gopal said, adding that even though they are promised gloves, masks, boots, oxygen support suits and helmets, they never get it. He added, “Before lockdown, I used to get work every 20 days a month and for Rs 500 but now my income has gone down a lot.” Sub-contractors told TOI that earlier they would deploy around 30 workers every month across the city, but the number has now come down to around 10. They, however, don’t consider it illegal and said that these are government works that are sublet to them. While the administration chooses to look the other side, politicians also turn their back on the promises they made while addressing election rallies. Pardeep Gochchi, president of Haryana Gramin Safai Karamchari Union said that the promises were to attract votes. “Our men still enter drains and sewers without any safety unit. Even during lockdown, sanitation workers were not given masks, sanitisers and PPE kits even for cleaning Covid wards and while disinfecting colonies,” he said. However, a senior MCG official said that sanitation workers don’t clean septic tanks and manholes manually in the city, but they are deployed to clean open drains. “None of our sanitation workers are allowed to clean septic tanks and manholes. We have three robots and deploy them for these purposes. Private contractors keep flouting rules and we have started conducting random checks to nab them. We have a mechanism in place to probe such matters,” he added. According to media reports, over the past three years, around 11 sanitation workers in the city lost their lives while cleaning manholes, something that is a punishable offence under the Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/robot-plan-on-paper-no-relief-for-cleaners-from-septic-tanks/articleshow/76929944.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Residents concerned about aged staff||Kochi: As the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing by day, residents of apartment complexes and housing communities have raised concern over the health of senior citizens, who are employed at such societies. Though elderly citizens are directed to follow reverse quarantine, they are often seen violating norms and arriving at their workplaces. “It is not safe to work at places where elderly people have to frequently interact with outsiders. All delivery is done at the gate and the watchman is entrusted with the job of collecting it. Moreover, electricians, plumbers, maids and contingent workers frequent the flats. Despite the instructions given to apartment owners’ association to disinfect common areas and lifts on a regular basis, it is not being carried out,” said Satish Kumar, a resident of a flat at Elamkulam.  Lack of cooperation between flat owners is often cited as the reason for the lopsided cleaning work done. Most residents agree with the need to carry out disinfection at regular intervals, however, when it comes to sharing of increased maintenance expenses, not all are willing to cooperate. “When youngsters are employed, they will naturally demand a higher pay. For the elderly, it’s a matter of livelihood so they will stick to their workplace without causing any ruckus,” said the president of a housing community at Gandhi Nagar. The elderly who are employed at these places too confirm that they are worried about their health. They say that at housing communities and flats they do not have to do any heavy manual labour and it provides them a livelihood. They say that their work generally consists of keeping log of visitors, check parking and keeping track of other employees working on the premises. “Sanitizers and masks are provided to us. However, almost all visitors report at our desk. Insisting on testing temperature of visitors would only result in a tiff,” said Mohanan C, a watchman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/residents-concerned-about-aged-staff/articleshow/76929238.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP silent over Pilot’s move||JAIPUR: With the storm brewing in the Congress, the state unit of the BJP is following a policy of wait and watch. Senior party leaders including state president Satish Poonia got calls from central party leaders in Delhi taking an update on the issue while others remained glued to their TV sets and calling their sources in the national capital to get the latest on speculations of Sachin Pilot joining the BJP. Rajasthan political crisis: Live updatesReacting on the FIR filed by the SOG, BJP state president Satish Poonia says that it is unfortunate to see that SOG which comes under the CM Ashok Gehlot forms the conversation between to common man held on June 13 the basis of the FIR. “The complaint of luring their MLAs was filed on June 9. How come the incident happened after the complaint was filed with SOG and ACB,” said Poonia. The party, which had aggressively held back-to-back meetings and a press conference to take on the Congress on Saturday to counter the allegations of horse-trading and toppling of the Gehlot government, has chosen to remain silent on Sunday. Most of the leaders chose not to speak on Pilot joining the BJP. They are hoping of major breakthrough latest by Monday. Read AlsoNumbers in way of a lotus bloom in RajasthanUnlike Madhya Pradesh, the gap between Congress and BJP in Rajasthan is big. CM Ashok Gehlot boasts of the support of 107 Congress MLAs besides 13 Independents, two Bharatiya Tribal Party members and one belonging to RLD. The odds remain steep and BJP also needs to figure out how Sachin Pilot is to“The central event related to the subject is happening in Delhi. We don’t want to react until and unless we get the confirmation of any development from Delhi. If anybody joins our party in Delhi, naturally the announcement has to come from them,” said a BJP leader. Read AlsoDesert Storm: Sachin Pilot revolts, says Gehlot govt in minority; dy CM claims support of 30 MLAsBreaking his silence over the political crisis in Rajasthan triggered by the state police registering an FIR over an alleged plot to topple the government and a special police team calling deputy CM Sachin Pilot to join the investigation, Pilot released an official statement saying CM Ashok GehlotSenior leaders like Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore and state BJP chief Satish Poonia remained in touch to prepare for every situation. They spent the day interpreting the statements of Congress leaders in the state and political developments. “The drama is sponsored by the Congress which has nothing to do with the BJP. It has been cleared by us on several occasions. It will be unfair us to comment on their party’s internal matter until they drag BJP or we see that it is affecting the governance,” said a party leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-bjp-silent-over-pilots-move/articleshow/76930588.cms||---
July 13, 2020||India||Numbers in way of a lotus bloom in Rajasthan||NEW DELHI: Even as the current political situation in Rajasthan is being compared with Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka where Congress governments made way for BJP, the saffron party faces heavier odds in the desert state with a more daunting numbers gap. Unlike Madhya Pradesh, the gap between Congress and BJP in Rajasthan is big and has grown after Ashok Gehlot, seen as an astute political player, took over as CM. After having finished just short of the majority mark, Congress acquired numbers by engineering, much to Mayawati’s chagrin, merger of the BSP MLAs. Gehlot now boasts of the support of 107 Congress MLAs besides 13 Independents, two Bharatiya Tribal Party members and one belonging to RLD. Read AlsoDesert Storm: Sachin Pilot revolts, says Gehlot govt in minority; dy CM claims support of 30 MLAsBreaking his silence over the political crisis in Rajasthan triggered by the state police registering an FIR over an alleged plot to topple the government and a special police team calling deputy CM Sachin Pilot to join the investigation, Pilot released an official statement saying CM Ashok GehlotIn a crunch situation, he will get the support of the two CPM MLAs, taking his tally to 125. What, however, is not so easily assessed is the likely impact of significant desertions if led by Sachin Pilot. This might unsettle a seemingly solid castle if MLAs feel that rebellion will be rewarded and a receptive Raj Bhawan allow a rival formation to take a floor test. The odds remain steep and BJP also needs to figure out how Pilot is to be accommodated, if at all, given former chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s looming presence in state politics. Read AlsoSachin Pilot seethes, believes police probe a bid to hound him outRajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s ‘strike’ against Sachin Pilot has left him seething, who sees being asked to join a police investigation into an alleged BJP plot to topple the govt as a provocative act intended to corner him by insinuating his role in the events. Pilot had set aside his claim for theIn Rajya Sabha elections, the two Congress candidates got the support of 123 members (one minister and one CPM MLA could not vote because of health reasons).On the other hand, BJP has 70 MLAs and enjoys the support of Nagaur MP Hanuman Prasad Beniwal’s three MLAs. Its two candidates got the support of 74 MLAs. If there is a crunch, Independents often break for the party likely to take the helm and switch sides though many of those in Rajasthan are said to be Gehlot loyalists who entered the fray as rebels with his tacit support. Besides, many believe that Gehlot played up the threat of cross-voting in RS polls only to corner Pilot and to show the leadership that he alone could be trusted to deliver the goods in Rajasthan. Watch Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot at helms, BJP faces heavier odds in managing numbers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/numbers-in-way-of-a-lotus-bloom-in-rajasthan/articleshow/76930731.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Childline holds web open house for kids||Kochi: With schools yet to be reopened, child care services which are unable to conduct their monthly open house interactions are now turning to online meetings to conduct student interactions. Childline, in collaboration with the district legal services authority, on Sunday held such a web open house to talk to the children and look into their complaints under their project ‘My Childhood’. The meeting was held for schools in the Eloor area. Earlier, a similar web open house was held for students at Thrikkakara area. Child care workers say that students have been seeking information in the meets, on cybersecurity and reasons for suicides among children. “Due to the pandemic, the government system is facing difficulties in communicating with children. As a solution to this, the district authorities decided to conduct a web open house to talk to the children and look into their complaints. This might be the first time in India that such an open forum is being held on a virtual platform,” said Childline coordinator Resmy Mampilly. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/childline-holds-web-open-house-for-kids/articleshow/76929260.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Buying property in south Delhi to be costlier||NEW DELHI: The sale and purchase of properties in south Delhi is likely to get more expensive as South Delhi Municipal Corporation has approved a proposal to increase the rate of duty on transfer of property from this financial year. The proposal was approved in a standing committee meeting on Friday and will be placed before the house for final approval soon. Transfer duty is levied by municipalities on transfer of immovable properties within its limit. It is calculated on the registered sale value of property in addition to stamp duty. At present, the transfer duty is 3% of the property is transferred in the name of men and 2% for women. Now, the civic agency has approved a rate of 3% for women and 4% for men. That means for a property costing Rs 1 crore, there will be a difference of Rs 1 lakh in the duty amount. Earlier, SDMC charged a uniform rate of 5%, but in 2011-12 the rates were reduced on the directions of the then Delhi government. “Now the financial aid from the government has reduced drastically and SDMC is going through severe financial crisis. Therefore, it has been proposed to increase the transfer duty by 1%,” stated the proposal. The civic body attempted to increase the transfer duty rates last year as well, but the plan was rejected by the standing committee in the wake of assembly elections scheduled in Delhi. However, it was successful in increasing the education cess on all properties by 1% (of calculated property tax amount). The increase of transfer duty will add a revenue of Rs 25 crore annually, said an SDMC official. “Transfer duty is the biggest source of revenue for corporations. In the financial year (2019-20), SDMC earned Rs 721 crores from transfer duty, Rs 630 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 518 crore in 2017-18,” said an SDMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buying-property-in-s-delhi-to-be-costlier/articleshow/76929947.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens divided over action against Chinese companies||Nagpur: Citizens are split about action against Indian companies with Chinese investments and want Chinese directors in such companies to resign. Small businesses are also divided on the impact of severing of economic ties with China. Nearly 49% citizens say Chinese firms should be allowed to sell products in India only after an undertaking stating no personal or aggregate data is shared with China. These are some of the findings of a survey conducted by LocalCircles, country’s leading social media platform. The central government banned 59 Chinese apps including TikTok, Cam Scanner, WeChat etc in the interest of national security. The ban was imposed under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, citing privacy & security issues about data of Indian users being transferred to servers outside India without permission. LocalCircles conducted a survey to understand people’s sentiments on Indian companies with Chinese investments, Chinese MNCs operating in India and also the impact on small business (start-ups, SMEs and entrepreneurs) if economic ties with China were severed. The survey received over 19,000 responses from citizens while 3,341 responses were received from small businesses spread across 243 districts of India. Over the last several years, hundreds of Indian companies have raised capital from Chinese investment firms or companies. To a question if any action should be taken against Indian companies with Chinese investment — 30% said action should be taken only if Chinese ownership is 10% or higher, while 29% said action should be taken on companies with any Chinese ownership, and 27% said no action should be taken on such companies but Chinese directors must resign. Only 11% said that no action should be taken against any such company. Overall, people seem to be OK with not taking action against Indian companies with Chinese investments but want Chinese directors to resign from the boards of such companies. Chinese investment giants like Alibaba Group, Tencent, Steadview Capital and Didi Chuxing dominate investments in over 18 of the 30 Unicorn companies in India. Some of these include Bigbasket, Zomato, Delhivery, Byju’s Flipkart, Make My Trip, Paytm etc. To another query whether action should be taken against Chinese manufacturers selling products in high volumes in India — 35% said such sales should be completely barred while 14% said they should only be allowed to sell ‘Made in India’ products and 25% said such companies should only be allowed to sell made in India products if no data sharing is taking place with China. However, 20% said all product sales should be allowed for all products if no data sharing is taking place with China and if Chinese directors resign. Only 4% said all products sales should be allowed if no data sharing with China is taking place and 2% said sales should be allowed as is. “Overall, it appears that 49% believe that if Chinese multinationals are to sell products in India, the personal as well as aggregate data of Indian customers must reside in India and not go abroad to the China headquarters of the company,” said Akshay Gupta, general manager of LocalCircles. Over 3,000 Indian small businesses were also asked if India cuts economic ties with China, what will be the impact on their business in the short-term. In response, 7% businesses said that it will have an extremely negative impact while 20% said it will have a somewhat negative effect, 10% said it will have an extremely positive effect while 14% said it will have a somewhat positive effect. However, 42% said it will have no impact on their business. Gupta says this shows that small businesses are split on whether India should cut ties with China or not as 27% are saying it will have negative impact while 24% are saying it will have a positive impact. A large number of Chinese imports are used as raw material for industries such as electrical machinery, pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, chemicals etc. A ban on Chinese imports will hurt all these businesses at a time when they are already struggling to survive in the middle of the economic slowdown and Covid-19 pandemic. Similarly, many start-ups were in discussions with Chinese investors to raise capital and practically most of those discussions have gone cold now. Survey Demographics * 19,000 plus responses were received from citizens while 3,341 responses were received from small businesses spread across 243 districts of India * 62% respondents were men while 38% respondents were women * 59% respondents were from tier 1, 28% from tier 2 and 13% respondents were from tier 3 & 4 and rural districts * Citizens want government to take practical action like removal of Chinese directors from board of Indian companies * People want Indian citizen’s data at personal and aggregate level with Chinese multinationals be stored in servers in India instead of China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-divided-over-action-against-chinese-companies/articleshow/76945846.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Pilot revolts, says Gehlot govt in minority||Jaipur: The leadership tussle between Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and deputy CM Sachin Pilot is headed for a showdown with Pilot claiming that the state government no longer enjoys a majority even as the Congress legislature party was scheduled to meet on Monday morning. Breaking his silence over the political crisis in Rajasthan triggered by the state police registering an FIR over an alleged plot to topple the government and a special police team calling Pilot to join the investigation, the deputy CM released an official statement saying Gehlot had lost majority. He claimed over 30 Congress and some Independent MLAs had pledged support to him. He has also refused to attend Monday’s meeting. Pilot was in Delhi over the weekend and is learned to have met former Congressman Jyotiraditya Scindia, who recently left the party to bring down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. The political activity gathered pace with deepening speculation that BJP will support Pilot’s rebellion even though the contours of the arrangement were not evident. It now remains to be seen how many Congress MLAs show up at the CLP meeting on Monday and if Gehlot is able to rein in the flock. Gehlot has seemed determined to take the simmering feud with Pilot to the endgame stage after police arrested two BJP-linked men, filed an FIR about an alleged plot to topple the government and served a notice on Pilot to join the investigation. The formation of a special operations group, usually associated with anti-terror or anti-organised crime cases, to probe the matter was nothing less than a declaration of war. Gehlot's "strike" at Pilot, virtually accusing him of plotting to topple him along with BJP, was seen as a preemptive hit or a move to underline Pilot's lack of options. Sources close to Pilot indicated he was not going to take things "lying down" and would reveal his hand on Monday. The Congress legislature party meeting is scheduled at the chief minister’s residence in Jaipur at 10.30am on Monday. Gehlot initially called the meeting late on Sunday night but rescheduled it after the Congress central leadership directed general secretary in-charge of the state, Avinash Pande, CWC member Randeep Singh Surjewala and senior partyman Ajay Maken to reach the state capital to handle the crisis. The meeting on Monday is intended to be a show of strength by Gehlot amid allegations that BJP was attempting to topple his government by indulging in horse-trading of MLAs. Amid reports that MLAs loyal to Pilot were camping in Delhi, three youngsters — Danish Abrar, Rohit Bohra and Chetan Dudi — returned to Jaipur and expressed faith in Gehlot’s leadership before the media on Sunday. There were reports of some MLAs being at a five-star resort in Manesar near Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-revolts-says-gehlot-govt-in-minority/articleshow/76930591.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Reverse migration of workers leads to increase in land lease rates in districts||HYDERABAD: The Covid-induced lockdown and subsequent reverse migration of workers have made agriculture a sought-after activity, however, this has led to an increase in rates of land on lease in several districts in the state. In many areas, the rates were doubled when compared to the rates during the last three to five months. “I wanted to take four acres of land on lease in addition to the two acres I have, the rate was earlier Rs 4,000 per crop season per acre, now I have to pay Rs 8,000,” said Vikram Kumar of Kanudkur mandal in Rangareddy district. The rates have been doubled even for parcels of land with poor irrigation facility. “In our village, where there is good irrigation facility, land is in high demand, people are even ready to pay Rs 25,000 per acre per crop season, which earlier used to be Rs 15,000,” said NV Reddy, a farmer in Kothapally village of Shaligowraram mandal of Nalgonda district. One of the main reasons for the trend is that many land owners who used to lease their land now want to cultivate crops themselves. “Even if someone wants to cultivate crops on lease basis, the land is not available,” said B Ramulu, member, Rythu Swarajya Vedika of Warangal and Jangaon districts. Another interesting trend observed is increase in farm labourers unlike earlier. “With many migrating to villages from Hyderabad, farmers are able to get labourers easily at good rates. Though there is no drop in the rates, those who have gone from Hyderabad are given more work. There is likely to be abundant work for farm labourers till October and November,” observed P Raghuma Reddy, a farmer in Alair, Warangal district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reverse-migration-of-workers-leads-to-increase-in-land-lease-rates-in-dists/articleshow/76929942.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Police video to counter rising e-fraud in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The sudden rise in incidents of cyber crime, especially in the Covid period when business transactions are mostly being carried out online, has forced the Kolkata Police to announce a slew of measures. Initial probe has revealed a 15% rise in such cases in June in comparison to March, when the lockdown had begun. The trend continues in July. “The KYC fraud is common and rampant now. We are getting multiple cases each week across all police stations,” said Murlidhar Sharma, joint CP (crime). The detective department released a video last week, warning Kolkatans about rising cyber fraud cases, especially online KYC frauds, which has already started trending on social media. The video takes the user through various steps, where a fraudster first sends SMS on KYC updates, claiming that their e-wallets might be suspended unless they follow their instructions and “complete the KYC formalities”. The video then takes one through various processes,by which the accused manages to convince the victim to deposit a nominal amount along with the OTP to finally dupe him or her of thousands. “The KYC fraud is most common these days. Yet, we find educated people share their personal details. So, we decided to circulate this video and warn people not to fall into the trap of these fraudsters. We believe that some members of the Jamtara gangs that specialize in cyber crime are now trying to set up their base in and around the city,”said an officer from the anti bank fraud section.  “There are around 10 complaints daily about such fraud attempts our Twitter and Facebook accounts. This is irrespective of the FIRs registered daily,”said a detective department officer. “My father, a senior citizen at in Kolkata, has been duped by a group of people of over Rs 1.5 lakh. A general diary has been lodged by him. Need your help please,” wrote Sourav, a complainant on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kp-video-to-counter-rising-e-fraud-in-city/articleshow/76929946.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Case load soars in western districts||COIMBATORE: The western districts recorded 279 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the region to 4,665. While Coimbatore logged the most number of cases among the eight western districts with 117 new cases, Salem came second with 98 cases. Two deaths were also notified in the region on Sunday, one each from Coimbatore and Erode districts. The one from Erode was that of a 33-year-old man, who died on July 8. Suffering from diabetes, asthma, hypertension and obesity, he was admitted to Perundurai Government Medical College and Hospital on July 6. The patient died of respiratory failure, viral pneumonia and other comorbidities, according to the bulletin. So far, the region has recorded 32 Covid deaths, with Coimbatore toping the chart with nine, followed by Salem with seven. According to health officials, out of the 4,665 cases, 2,647 are undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals. Even among the active cases, Coimbatore and Salem continue to have the highest numbers. While Salem’s total case load was way above Coimbatore, the number of active cases is more or less the same. While Coimbatore has 930 active cases, Salem has 988 cases. Erode, which reported 20 new cases, comes a distant third with 207 active cases and 389 total cases, followed by Dharmapuri and Tirupur, which reported 17 and three new cases, respectively. Dharmapuri has 146 active cases and Tirupur 118. In terms of total cases, however, Tirupur is ahead with 297 cases. The growing case load has started putting health officials on their toes. The health machinery that was till now focussing largely on prevention and containment measures, has a reason to worry on the infrastructure front too. They say they are aware of the challenges and ramping up beds in hospitals and Covid care centres. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/case-load-soars-in-western-dists/articleshow/76930343.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Tribals condemn murder of former cadre by Naxals||Nagpur: A sizeable number of people from Bhatpar hamlet of Bhamragarh taluka in south Gadchiroli on Sunday hit the streets against Maoist violence following the cold-blooded murder of ex-Maoist Munshi Tado. Tado was killed in an agricultural field by the Maoists who labelled him a special police officer (SPO) who worked as an informer for security forces. Tado and his wife Jaini had settled at Bhatpar after deserting Maoist movement around sometime back. It’s learnt, they worked for National Forest Indravati border (NIB) formation of the Maoist. They had left the armed guerrilla movement after growing disillusioned with it. The couple had not surrendered before the district administration or police but was staying in the village where earned livelihood by working on a farmland. They also have a daughter. It’s learnt, the villagers marched to the Dhodraj armed outpost to voice their angst and organized a rally raising slogans. SP Shailesh Balkawade said that Tado was neither a SPO nor had any link with police department at any level. “It was just a brutal murder of an ex-Maoist by those in the dalam. The villagers were probably shocked after Tado was murdered without any intimation or discussion,” said Balkawade. “The Maoist generally inform the villagers through mock trial at Kangaroo courts which they run in their own random manner especially if someone were to be targeted. In this case, the villagers were kept in the dark about their motive,” said the SP. Balkawade said it was surprising to see villagers raising strong slogans against the Maoists to criticize the violence. “There have been spontaneous protests against Maoist violence in the last couple of years. Tribals are condemning violence against humanity and development activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tribals-condemn-murder-of-former-cadre-by-naxals/articleshow/76930349.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Congress MLAs return from Delhi, express faith in Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Ahead of the ministers and Congress MLAs meeting at the chief minister’s residence around late on Sunday night, the ruling party presented three of its lawmakers, who returned from Delhi in the day, before the media. Danish Abrar, Rohit Bohra and Chetan Dudi, the three young MLAs seen by many as loyalists of deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, told reporters that chief minister Ashok Gehlot being the CLP leader, they have faith in his leadership. Abrar and Dudi said they have residences in Delhi so had gone there, while Bohra said he was in the national capital for business purposes. The three MLAs asserted that none from the BJP contacted them amid the ‘horse trading’ row. Dudi said, "Animals and commodities get sold, not the humans. We have faith in the leadership of Gehlot." A day earlier, Gehlot claimed that the BJP was trying to buy MLAs like ‘goats in a mandi’. Bohra said, “I am a 4th generation Congressman in my family which has been with the Congress for past 90 years." Abrar said, "There can be groupism but when it comes to the party, we all are united and follow the Congress leadership decisions." A couple of Congress MLAs, including G R Khatana (Bandikui), Rajendra Bidhuri (Begun), Rakesh Pareek (Masuda), Inder Raj Gurjar (Viratnagar) and P R Meena (Toda-Bhim), were still untraceable till late on Sunday. All are likely to attend the CLP meeting called at the cheif minister’s residence at 10.30am on Monday. Cabinet ministers Harish Chaudhary, Raghu Sharma and Pratap Singh Khachariyawas claimed there was no threat to the Congress government in the state. "Rajasthan Congress is united under chief minister Ashok Gehlot. We do not need sympathies of people like Jyotiraditiya Scindia who is traitor," said Sharma, health minister Sharma. "Everyone’s faith is in the CLP leader (Gehlot) and CLP deputy leader (Pilot). Scindia is a sinner," said Khachariyawas, the transport minister. "BJP has committed error in understanding Rajasthan. Its conspiracies that worked in Maharashtra and Madya Pradesh will not work in Rajasthan," said Chaudhary, the revenue minister. Earlier in the day, sports minister Ashok Chandna urged party MLAs to take a lesson from the recent developments in Madhya Pradesh. "Any person who crosses the party line will not be respected anywhere in the world. This is not the time to lose the respect earned over generations," Chandna said, without naming anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mlas-return-from-delhi-express-faith-in-gehlot/articleshow/76930589.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Trichy||Trichy’s active Covid-19 cases double in a week, local transmission on||TRICHY: Until a month ago, Trichy city recorded active Covid-19 cases in two digits and positive cases were reported only from 70% of the 65 wards of Trichy Corporation. But now, the active cases started doubling in a week and all the 65 wards have started reporting positive cases. Apart from the damages caused by the influx of returnees from hotspots, local transmission is also adding to the number of infections. As on July 8, the number of active cases in Trichy city was 157. In just four days, it has surged to 308. During the corresponding period, the number of total positive cases has also increased by 36%. From reporting 15-30 new positive cases per day until last week, Trichy city in the past three days records 70 fresh cases on average. Employees of shops and commercial establishments in the city including textiles and jewellery showrooms testing positive and spreading the infection to their family members were one of the main reasons of the spike. Frontline workers including sanitary staff and paramedical professionals getting infected Covid-19 is also cited as another cause. While authorities blamed Chennai returnees for the spurt last month, they acknowledge that local transmission is happening now. Traders, skilled workers and even government employees with no travel history to hotspots test positive. “A financier in Ariyamangalam travelling within the city had contracted Covid-19 two days ago. Now, four of his family members also tested positive,” said, a corporation official highlighting the local spread. At least seven cases with travel history to Madurai tested positive in the last three days. Increased testing is cited as another reason for the surge in cases. From testing only 600 people per day, the district has increased the number of tests to 1,400 per day in the last two weeks. The number of tests in Trichy city also increased from 300 per day to 600. The corporation has planned to establish more containment zones to prevent the spread. After imposing a massive containment zone covering three wards in Srirangam, the corporation has established four small containment zones in the last two days. “Even for three positive cases, we will establish a containment zone. Fever screening at the doorstep is also expedited for early interventio. With public cooperation, we can contain the spread,” S Sivasubramanian, Trichy Corporation commissioner told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichys-active-cases-double-in-a-week-local-transmission-on/articleshow/76930342.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 13, 2020||Mumbai||Aishwarya, daughter also test +ve, pick home isolation||Mumbai: Actress Aishwarya Rai Bachchan (46) and her daughter Aaradhya (8) tested positive for the coronavirus on Sunday, a day after her superstar father-in-law Amitabh Bachchan and actor husband Abhishek were hospitalised with the infection. The mother and daughter, both asymptomatic, decided to self-isolate at home by giving BMC a declaration. Amitabh’s actress wife, Jaya, tested negative, as did their daughter Sweta Bachchan Nanda and her family. Municipal officials said that in the family, only Abhishek had been stepping out for dubbing work. The condition of Amitabh (77) and Abhishek (44) was said to be stable at Nanavati Hospital, where they were admitted on Saturday. Dr Abdul Samad Ansari, head of critical care at Nanavati, said that their line of treatment was supportive therapy for now. “The senior actor is stable and doing well clinically. His symptoms are mild at this moment. His vitals and appetite are fine. Same is true for Abhishek,” said Dr Ansair. “It’s probably the fifth day since Amitabh’s symptoms have surfaced. In Covid patients, the peak impact is seen by the 10-12th day, but not in everyone. Many only have mild symptoms,” he added. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said Amitabh’s oxygen saturation levels were above 95%, which was the normal range. The BMC put up posters outside all four Bachchan family bungalows in Juhu— Janak, Jalsa, Pratiksha and Vatsa— announcing a ‘containment zone’. Aishwarya and Aaradhya are believed to have isolated themselves in Jalsa. Abhishek, on Sunday evening tweeted: “Aishwarya and Aaradhya have also tested COVID-19 positive. They will be self-quarantining at home. The BMC has been updated of their situation and are doing the needful. The rest of the family including my Mother have tested negative.” Four municipal teams comprising 20 staffers were deployed to sanitise the bungalows and screen everyone. Officials said they had traced 28 high-risk contacts, all bungalow workers, after screening and collected their swabs for testing. The 28 bungalow staff members had been quarantined at Janak, which the family also uses as an office. Officials said there was adequate space in the bungalow to quarantine them. Sources said the senior Bachchan had experienced breathlessness on Saturday morning, following which he contacted his doctor, who advised the Covid-19 test. According to information uploaded on the Indian Council of Medical Research website, the samples of Amitabh and Abhishek were collected around 4pm and reports were available in four to five hours, but hospital sources said their samples were collected on Saturday morning. Bachchan’s treating team comprises gastroenterologist Dr Jayant Barve, Dr Ansari and head of imaging, Dr Deepak Patkar. “They would be receiving an anti-viral and an immunomodulatory agent,” Dr Ansari said, declining to say whether the Bachchans would be given the in-demand experimental drug remdesivir. While the doctors did not comment on how soon the Bachchans might be allowed to go home, Abhishek said on Twitter: “My father and I remain in hospital till the doctors decide otherwise. Everyone please remain cautious and safe. Please follow all rules”. Assistant municipal commissioner of K-West ward Vishwas Mote said many cases were coming from buildings, societies and private premises. “They need to take all safety precautions at their end to control the spread,” Motes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aishwarya-daughter-also-test-ve-pick-home-isolation/articleshow/76930585.cms||Vijay V Singh
July 13, 2020||Shimla||‘In HP, if notes don’t reach children, teachers do’||SHIMLA: Given the tough geographical conditions, providing education to students during Covid-19 pandemic has become a major challenge for the state government. The students locked up in ther homes across the length and width of the state and many of them in the areas where internet connectivity is still unheard of has only made things more all the more difficult. Yet, the education department claims to have managed to reach around 90% students through WhatsApp groups and television. In remaining places, help is being taken of radio broadcast and teachers’ individual efforts to deliver the study material at the door steps of students. Following the pandemic outbreak, all 18,000 schools across the state were closed, affecting 9 lakh students. To ensure students are taught at their homes with the help of online medium, the programme, ‘Samay 10 se 12 wala, har ghar bane pathshala’ (Every home will turn into school between 10 am and 12 o’clock) was launched. Through which digital content was provided to all the students by their teachers daily through WhatsApp groups to keep students engaged.  The education department also created the digital content, including informative videos, innovative teaching methodologies for teachers to help them continue learning and develop their professional skills during this period. Around 98% elementary schools and 90% high schools were connected with higher authorities, whereas 66% students of elementary schools and 72% students of higher schools were connected through WhatsApp with their teachers. After finding that many students residing in the remote locations of state were not part of WhatsApp groups due to non-availability of internet connections and many poor students could not afford smartphones, the state government also started airing the lessons through television on daily basis. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said a three-hour slot per day on Doordarshan Shimla focussed on Classes X and XII, while online classes were also being conducted by teachers via WhatsApp and centralised website. He said efforts were on to start teaching module through All India Radio to ensure maximum coverage. Higher education director Amarjeet Kumar Sharma said online teaching facility provided to students received good response. “Now, we are working on starting the online education from July 13 onwards. ,” he said, adding that in six districts of state — Una, Kangra, Hamirpur Bilaspur and Solan — online study had ensured reach up to over 90% students, while in the remaining reach was between 72% and 75%. In tough geographical areas like Lahaul-Spiti, Pangi-Bharmaur regions of Chamba district and Kinnaur district, teachers have been directed to prepare handmade notes and deliver them to children at their homes with the help of the school management committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-hp-if-notes-dont-reach-children-teachers-do/articleshow/76934900.cms||Anand Bodh
July 13, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Case load soars in western districts||COIMBATORE: The western districts recorded 279 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the region to 4,665. While Coimbatore logged the most number of cases among the eight western districts with 117 new cases, Salem came second with 98 cases. Two deaths were also notified in the region on Sunday, one each from Coimbatore and Erode districts. The one from Erode was that of a 33-year-old man, who died on July 8. Suffering from diabetes, asthma, hypertension and obesity, he was admitted to Perundurai Government Medical College and Hospital on July 6. The patient died of respiratory failure, viral pneumonia and other comorbidities, according to the bulletin. So far, the region has recorded 32 Covid deaths, with Coimbatore toping the chart with nine, followed by Salem with seven. According to health officials, out of the 4,665 cases, 2,647 are undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals. Even among the active cases, Coimbatore and Salem continue to have the highest numbers. While Salem’s total case load was way above Coimbatore, the number of active cases is more or less the same. While Coimbatore has 930 active cases, Salem has 988 cases. Erode, which reported 20 new cases, comes a distant third with 207 active cases and 389 total cases, followed by Dharmapuri and Tirupur, which reported 17 and three new cases, respectively. Dharmapuri has 146 active cases and Tirupur 118. In terms of total cases, however, Tirupur is ahead with 297 cases. The growing case load has started putting health officials on their toes. The health machinery that was till now focussing largely on prevention and containment measures, has a reason to worry on the infrastructure front too. They say they are aware of the challenges and ramping up beds in hospitals and Covid care centres. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/case-load-soars-in-western-dists/articleshow/76936886.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Booth level Covid survey to start in 9 high case intensity areas||MANGALURU: In a move to determine the extent of the spread of Covid-19 locally, especially in pockets reporting high number of cases, Dakshina Kannada district administration is all set to initiate booth level testing in nine mapped areas from July 13. The mapped areas include eight wards in Mangaluru City Corporation and urban local body areas of Ullal, Bantwal and Puttur. The testing will be preceded by a short intense training session. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh told TOI that the survey will follow the three Ts – tracing, tracking and testing — through block level committees set up for the purpose. The booth level officers used for election duties aided by teachers, ASHA workers, local volunteers and a beat policeman will be entrusted with this task to ensure that vulnerable persons are isolated at homes. The move will also usher in greater community participation in controlling the pandemic, said MJ Roopa, additional DC. Training will be imparted to around 300 volunteers who during the survey will be suitably clothed in PPEs, carry pulse oximeters to check oxygen saturation levels and also stress on the need to isolate the vulnerable, especially the elderly at home, Roopa said. The urban development department on Thursday issued a detailed eight-page note on how the ward level task force will operate in urban local bodies across the state. The BLCs will function under these ward committees and coordinate with resident welfare associations. People with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness will be identified as part of the survey and directed to undergo health check-up, she said. A call on using the newly acquired rapid antigen test kits during the survey will be taken and a detailed SOP will be drafted for it shortly, Sindhu said. “There are issues on what should be done if persons test positive with this test and means of scientifically disposing the test kits that the field survey team will use,” the DC said. A RTPCR test that is the gold standard for Covid-19 detection will have to follow a positive report with rapid antigen test, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/booth-level-covid-survey-to-start-in-9-high-case-intensity-areas/articleshow/76928322.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Notices sent to 16 political leaders to record statements in the alleged horse-trading case||JAIPUR: The Special Operation Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police has sought time and venue from 16 political leaders including chief minister Ashok Gehlot, deputy CM Sachin Pilot, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi and independent MLAs to record their statements in the alleged horse-trading case against BJP. This list of notices also include Bagidora MLA Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya and Kushalgarh MLA Ramila Khadiya, both of whom were named in the FIR against two persons who were arrested by SOG for alleged horse-trading of Congress MLAs. Ashok Rathore, the ADG of SOG and ATS said, “The notices for recording the statements were sent on Friday and in that we have simply asked the persons to tell us the time, venue and date as per their convenience so that the statements can be recorded.” The notices served to Gehlot, Pilot, Joshi and others dated July 10 read, “A case under IPC sections 124 A and 120 B has been registered and in this investigation, your statement needs to be recorded. Hence we request if you could give us time, venue and date for the same so that the statements can be recorded.” The notice was signed by Hariprasad, ASP, ATS, who is the investigation officer. The language in the notices served to the political leaders remained same with only the names being changed. Gehlot also took to Twitter to acknowledge that the notices have been served. “In the complaint received by SOG of horse-trading of Congress MLAs by BJP, I, deputy CM, chief whip and few others have received notices to give our statements. It should not be misinterpreted by certain sections of the media.” This move came after two persons, identified as Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh Chouhan, were arrested by the SOG over an alleged criminal conspiracy to topple the present state government. The officials claimed that based on this conversation, the two were arrested under IPC sections 124 A (sedition) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) though according to officials that duo had no criminal history. They had mines in Udaipur and Ajmer. Both the accused were sent to two days of police custody on Saturday evening and will be produced again in court on Monday.Their samples were also taken on Sunday to test for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notices-sent-to-16-political-leaders-to-record-statements-in-the-alleged-horse-trading-case/articleshow/76930590.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Sub-registrars breathe easy as fewer runaway couples show up, marry||CHENNAI: Amid all the hardship that the Covid-19 pandemic has unleashed, many sub-registrars in Chennai and suburbs heave a sigh that they don’t have to deal with couples who elope and turn up at their offices asking to register their marriages. The virus has kept people at home and left lovers with few chances to run away together. The sub-registrars say it’s not that they have anything against these cupid-struck couples, but often the officials get dragged into police and court cases as a result. “Either the bride’s family or the groom’s kin complains to the police against us. Then we have to convince the police that there was no mala fide,” said a sub-registrar, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Sources in the registration department say such marriages are registered more in Chennai and suburbs than in other parts of the state, often because couples run away to the city to get away from their families. The sources said such marriages account for around 5% of the total marriages registered every year. For marriages to be registered under the Special Marriage Act, details of the bride and groom have to be put up on the notice board of the sub-registrar office concerned for a month for people to raise objections, if any. For weddings solemnized at temples, the couple has to produce a receipt from the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Department. “The couple would marry in a small temple and head for registration office to register their wedding without appropriate documents,” said a registration official. However, said registration department sources, it’s not just such marriages. They expect a 50% drop in marriages registered across the state across religions because of the coronavirus outbreak. About 1.32 lakh marriages were registered in Tamil Nadu under four Acts during the financial year 2019-2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sub-registrars-breathe-easy-as-fewer-runaway-couples-show-up-marry/articleshow/76929948.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana wants forest land in tiger corridor for upgrading roads||HYDERABAD: Telangana has sought nod from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF) for upgrading five roads that cut through the Kawal tiger reserve in Komuram Bheem-Asifabad (KB-Asifabad) district. The state wants around 13 hectares of forest land to be alienated for the purpose. As per MoEF documents in possession with TOI, all the five roads to be upgraded fall in Komuram Bheem-Asifabad district and forest land in Kagaznagar. The state’s panchayat raj (PR) department has submitted proposals for wild life clearances. Around 7.4 hectares of forest land in Kagzanagar has been proposed for diversion by PR department for upgradation of the existing mud road to BT from Etiguda to Agarguda via Gundeoally. Similarly, a road from Etiguda to Talai has been proposed for upgradation, where three hectares of forest land in Kagaznagar would be diverted. For upgradating the existing mud road to BT road from Gangapur to Korisini, the PR department sought diversion of around 1.7 hectares forest land in Kagaznagar division. The road has been proposed for improving connectivity to Gangapur village, where school children were ending up as agricultural labour. Also, for upgrading mud road from PWD Road to Kaniki, 0.4 hectares forest land has to be diverted in favour of PR department. Meanwhile, another proposal to alienate 195 hectares land in the eco-sensitive zone of Shivaram wild life sanctuary in Manthani district has been submitted for a mine for the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL). The company proposes to mine 33.4 metric tonnes of coal for which diversion of non-forest land in Shivaram sanctuary was required. SCCL said in the proposal that mining will boost industrial activity and there will be no impact on environment or wildlife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-wants-forest-land-in-tiger-corridor-for-upgrading-roads/articleshow/76929945.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 13, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: From business hubs to local markets, all stay shut in Covid battle||BHOPAL: Sunday brought back haunting memories of the initial days of Lockdown-1 -- eerie silence on roads, closed shops and establishments, no vendors by the roadside and even home delivery of grocery, edibles and posts prohibited. There was one more thing similar to the Lockdown-1 days. Voluntary compliance to the lockdown order. There was less presence of police force on the roads like those days, less pickets and less checking, too, as people simply didn't venture out of their homes. District collector, Avinash Lavaniya, too, appeared to be happy at people’s support to the Sunday lockdown order. “We had full public support and they were appreciative, too, of the measure,” he told TOI. He didn't concede to the fact that police presence was less on the roads, but admitted that voluntary compliance was more and therefore, police didn't have to resort to coercive methods to check traffic on the road or disburse the crowd anywhere. When asked how one day of lockdown in a week would produce the desired result -- breaking the chain of coronavirus infection that the administration is focusing on -- Lavaniya said that the lockdown on Sundays serves more than one purpose. “On the one hand, it would check assembly of people at a place, which is common on Sundays. You can close the market, but who would stop families from going to Kerva dam? At the same time, it also sends across a strong message that the problem is very much alive and we need to be cautious,” he said. Emergency services, traffic on the state/national highways, staff of a certain type of industries (continuous process unit) and vehicles carrying them, people going to airports, railway stations and bus stands and those coming home from there, Sanchi milk parlours and medical shops were exempted from the lockdown. Petrol pumps were also open. As it started raining towards the evening, whatever police force was there on the roads also had to leave, but roads continued to be deserted till late evening even after the showers had stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/from-biz-hubs-to-local-markets-all-stay-shut-in-covid-battle/articleshow/76930341.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Chemist succumbs to Covid, newlywed son fights for life in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A day after recording the highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases, the city on Sunday witnessed the highest number of deaths in a day with four patients, including a 47-year-old chemist, losing battle to novel coronavirus infection. The chemist had contracted infection at the wedding ceremony of his younger son just 17 days back. The newly-wed son (22), who also got infected, is battling for life and is on oxygen support. The Sunday deaths took the toll to 33 since the outbreak on March 11. While a patient died in April, three succumbed to infection in May and 16 in June. The surge in the transmission rate has also increased casualties in July with the first 12 days witnessing 13 deaths -- one every 22 hours. Another cause of concern has been that the number of middle-aged victims are rising. Earlier, most victims were elderly with comorbidity. On Sunday, three out of four casualties were of patients between 30-50 years age group. A resident of Indiranagar, the chemist organised his younger son's marriage on June 5. The bride and her family came from Gonda. The ceremony was held at a guest house in Gomtinagar. Later, he and his newly-wed son developed influenza-like-illness. The father-son duo got themselves tested when they came to know that a bride’s relative, who had also attended the wedding, was detected Covid-19 positive. After their test report came positive, both were admitted to KGMU on July 4. Later, five close relatives of the chemist also tested positive. “It is not clear who is the spreader, but eight persons, who were in the ceremony, have been found to be infected so far. This was the second case in the city within 15 days where infection spread in a wedding ceremony,” said a senior officer involved in contact tracing. "The chemist’s symptoms were moderate, but he was put on a ventilator after his blood oxygen levels deteriorated on Wednesday and due to respiratory failure he died on Sunday," said Dr Sudhir Singh, KGMU spokesperson. Another death in KGMU was of an 83-year-old Covid-19 patient who died after battling with the infection for 18 days. Resident of Indiranagar, the elderly had hypertension and was admitted to ICU with breathing difficulty and fever, said Dr Singh. Two other Covid-19 deaths occurred in RMLIMS. A 35-year-old man from Chinhat died due to hypoxaemia within four hours of admission. His test report that arrived after death confirmed the novel coronavirus infection. “He had breathing difficulty for some time, but could not gauge that it was Covid-19 symptom and came to the hospital late. He was gasping for breath at the time of admission with critically low blood oxygen levels,” said RMLIMS spokesperson Dr Srikesh Singh. Besides, a 47-year-old man from Faizabad Road died due to respiratory failure following severe pneumonia. He had been in the ICU since July 7 after being diagnosed with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chemist-succumbs-to-covid-newlywed-son-fights-for-life/articleshow/76930356.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Cops raise money for 5-year-old girl’s open heart surgery||CHENNAI: A police head constable and the inspector of the station he works at managed to raise Rs 5 lakh for the open heart surgery of his five-year-old neighbour. The girl, who suffers from multiple life-threatening heart abnormalities, underwent a seven-hour surgery and was discharged on Saturday. Kavishka was diagnosed to have multiple heart conditions including dextrocardia (abnormal position of the heart) at birth. Her father Karthik works as a salesman in an electronics shop in the city and the family lived in Guduvanchery. P Senthil Kumar, head constable and writer at the Nandambakkam police station, had befriended Karthik when he moved tot he neighbourhood two years ago. While Kaviksha had undergone three angiograms and was under regular medication, during a recent checkup, the doctors treating her insisted that she needed another angiogram. “Karthik’s financial condition worsened during the lockdown so he kept postponing his daughter’s treatment,” said Senthil. The constable, who learned about the situation, arranged for Rs 30,000 initially. But Kavishka’s health condition deteriorated and the doctors said she has to undergo an open-heart surgery immediately to remove a block. “The surgery cost Rs 5 lakh. Karthik was hesitant to seek help and did not tell how dire the situation was. I came to know about the condition from a neighbour,” said Senthil Kumar, who then appraoched his station inspector M Thangaraj. Thangaraj stepped in and decided to crowd source the money. He contacted a private hospital at Nandambakkam and scheduled the surgery after collecting an initial amount of Rs 45,000 from the personnel in the Nandambakkam station. He arranged the remaining amount from people he knew. “I am happy that our timely help could save the child’s life. I hope seeing this, others come forward and help those in need,” said inspector Thangaraj. Kavishka was hospitalized and underwent a seven-hour surgery on July 1. She was discharged on Saturday night. Watch TN cops raise money for 5-year-old girl’s open heart surgery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-raise-money-for-5-year-old-girls-open-heart-surgery/articleshow/76929950.cms||Sindhu Kannan
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||NMC fixes q-centre complaints with micromanagement||Nagpur: Stung by series of complaints regarding contaminated food, sanitation and poor facilities at quarantine centres, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has achieved near-zero complaints even as it started more facilities with increase in number of Covid cases and suspects. During April and May, the civic body had been facing daily trouble from quarrelling inmates who would complain of delay in getting food, water, and milk for kids beside dirty rooms, broken fittings and toilets. The situation has changed completely now. Even as four more quarantine centres were started since June, complaints have almost disappeared at all the nine facilities, say nodal officers. What led to the turnaround was setting up a WhatsApp group to instantly address each complaint. The group comprises additional municipal commissioner, sub-divisional officer (SDO), tehsildar, assistant municipal commissioners of each zone, NMC health officer, nodal officers of centres, PWD officials and the stakeholders involved in running the facilities. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said the idea was micro management of quarantine centres for instant response. “Earlier, it was difficult to manage with complaints pouring in from all sides,” he said. Once all stakeholders were under same roof, all activities at quarantine centres started getting coordinated through this group named ‘Quarantine Centre Group’. From timely delivery of food and water to fixing electrical fittings or furniture, it became a matter assigning it to concerned person. “For example, as soon as the breakfast is ready, the caterer sends an alert and the logistics in charge leaves to pick up the parcels. Similarly, if there is increase or decrease in requirement of food packets because of admissions and discharge, the caterer acts accordingly as he already has been intimated through the group,” Joshi said. Food had been at the centre of all controversies taking place at the quarantine centres. “Presence of officials from electrical, PWD, sanitation, administration ensured affairs remained smooth,” said Joshi. The NMC’s decision to hand over the responsibility of providing food to religious group Radha Saomi Satsang Beas also proved a game-changer. The group has been providing total 7,000 packets for breakfast, lunch and dinner since May last week. The WhatsApp group has also helped in checking untrue claims on social media. Recently, a snack item with cockroach went viral on social media. However, when it was put in the group to verify, it turned out to be a hoax. “After another two days, the same photograph was shared as coming from another centre,” Joshi laughed. On May 30, TOI had reported how the satsang was taking care in preparing food with complete hygiene. The satsang is not charging any money for serving the food. Tackling The Numbers Centre name ——— ————————Capacity Pachpaoli police quarters —————- 600 VNIT ————————-—————- 600 Symbiosis —————— —————- 300 Vanamati——————- —————- 90 Raj Nagar quarters ————————- 120 RPTS quarters—————- ————- 100 NU lower hostels——— —————- 200 Ravi Bhavan —————————— 70 Morris College hostel ——————— 90 Total —————————————— 2,170||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-fixes-q-centre-complaints-with-micromanagement/articleshow/76930376.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Lockdown leaves art college models in a spot||KOLKATA: With art colleges being shut, the models who help students do ‘life studies’ are in dire straits. The government gives a monthly financial incentive of Rs 1,500 to them. The situation is bad for most of the models who are out of work and have no regular income. Many of them are ageing and have to bear huge medical expenses too. Take the case of Shobha Biswas. The 60-year-old has had a long tryst with the Government College of Art & Craft. She had started work at the age of 12. Today, she gets a financial incentive of Rs 1,500. But that’s hardly enough for her. Her son, who used to work in a company that deals with plastic, can no longer go there because the local train services have been suspended. “All the models are at home. Our work is restricted to the colleges. Everything is shut and there is no hope of reopening in the near future. We have been only doing life studies. At my age, what alternative do I have?” she asked. Sexagenarian Phoolkumari Das, who is one of the oldest and extremely respected models in the art fraternity, told TOI that she has received Rs 2,500 from art college students. “That was in June,” she said. At the Government College of Art & Craft, a model would get Rs 850 a day for portrait studies. Their timing used to be between 10am and 4pm. The rate would go up to Rs 1,000 if it involved nude studies. According to Pradosh Paul, who approached the chief minister for their pension scheme, this trend of doing portrait studies with models in the painting department is on the decline. “Before lockdown, they would get at least 10 days of work in a month. The numbers were higher earlier. The syllabus is changing and the accent is less on model studies. During our college days, such studies couldn't be done unless we had models. Today, many have access to internet and photographs. Last year, I had collected money and created a fund and distributed it to 18 models. To 16 of them, we had paid Rs 15,000. For the other two male models, we paid Rs 10,000 each. The pension scheme is on. Apart from Shobhadi and Phoolkumaridi, I have spoken to other models too. I know how difficult their situation is during this lockdown. I would urge art college teachers to take personal initiatives to help them,” Paul said. According to Indrani Routh, a student of Rabindra Bharati University, “Both current and former students of three art colleges of the city have collected funds for 27 models. In June, we gave each Rs 2,500. However, we understand that they need a lot more to meet their monthly financial requirements.” Biswas is diabetic and needs insulin. “My legs ache because of long hours of standing. The moment I lie down, I have an excruciating pain in my legs. I live in Bandel. My house is next to the railway station. With trains not running, I am completely locked at home. I need at least Rs 5,000 for my medical expenses. If I stop taking insulin a day, my head starts reeling,” she said, adding that it is a financial challenge to run her family of five during lockdown. On Saturday, a male model called up Paul. “His name wasn’t in the list of those who get the pension. He has medical expenses and is struggling,” Paul added. Sixty-year-old Sunil Das has been modelling at the Government College of Art & Craft, The Indian College Of Arts And Draftsmanship, Birla Academy of Art and Culture, Rabindra Bharati University and Indian Society Of Oriental Art since 1990. “I receive the pension of Rs 1,500 that is disbursed every two months. Last month, some art college students helped me with a fund of Rs 2,500. I am a bachelor and just need Rs 3,000/Rs 4,000 a monthly. But earning that too is difficult because at this age, I can’t do anything else,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-leaves-art-college-models-in-a-spot/articleshow/76932806.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Seething Rajasthan deputy CM believes efforts on to hound him out||NEW DELHI: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot's ‘strike’ against Sachin Pilot has left the younger leader seething, who sees being asked to join a police investigation into an alleged BJP plot to topple the government as a provocative act intended to corner him by insinuating his role in the events. The deputy CM, who set aside his claim for the top post reluctantly on the urging of the Congress leadership, is understood to be deeply unhappy with the special operations group, which is seen to have powers to tap phones and monitor movements, and the view in his camp is that the "targeting" cannot go on. Pilot has responded to allegations of being a possible catalyst for defections that can facilitate in Rajasthan the BJP’s Madhya Pradesh-Karnataka model by saying that he has worked wholeheartedly to bring Congress to office in the desert state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/seething-dy-cm-believes-efforts-on-to-hound-him-out/articleshow/76930596.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Average Covid testing improves slightly in Jaipur to 1,622 cases a day||JAIPUR: After the appeal from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to increase the number of Covid-19 tests, the health department has claimed that it has increased testing from 15,000 to 20,000 daily in the state. In Jaipur, the average number of Covid sampling has increased slightly in July (till Saturday) in comparison to June and May. In the first 11 days of July, the health department has taken 17,842 samples from different parts of the city for a daily average testing of 1,622 samples. The daily average testing of suspected Covid cases was 1,528 in June and 1,510 in May. More samples were taken in May in comparison to June. In May, samples were drawn from 46,829 people, but in June, they had taken only 45,846 samples. ICMR has emphasised that with the start of Unlock 2.0, focus will continue to be on saving lives and protecting livelihood as more and more economic activities are expected to pick up gradually. Since ‘test-track-treat’ is the key strategy for early detection and containment of the pandemic, it is important to augment Covid testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/average-covid-testing-improvesslightly-in-city-to-1622-cases-a-day/articleshow/76930595.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Gurgaon||GMDA to digitise its land records by July-end||GURUGRAM: The GMDA has started identifying and demarcating all of its land assets through a process of GIS mapping, a senior official said. The process will include marking of survey monuments at every 500 metres which will allow the metropolitan authority to keep a track of all its land thereby checking the encroachments. The official added that the survey started has around a few weeks back and is expected to be completed by July end. “We face an issue every time there is an anti-encroachment drive because there are a lot of loopholes in the revenue records themselves. There are also differences between the land records of two government departments, hence, we have initiated this exercise to demarcate the land accurately,” he said. Other than the demarcation, the process will also lead to an online record of all GMDA’s lands in the city. The main objective, the official said, is to ensure that they don’t face issues while freeing land from encroachments and it can only be done with accurate land records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gmda-to-digitise-its-land-records-by-july-end/articleshow/76929952.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Firms allow online internship for IIT-Kharagpur students||KOLKATA: Almost all companies that come to IIT Kharagpur for campus placements have responded to the institute’s request to offer online internships to their students. Due to the pandemic, it is impossible for the students to visit the companies for internships. Keeping this in mind, the institute started offering internship in-house to the pre-final year students. However, there were many, who were still interested in corporate internships, and the institute had written to the companies for offering online internships. All 1,250 pre-final students across departments are engaged in online internships now — 587 of them are interning in 110 companies, making up for 80% of the companies visiting the campus for final placements. Since these internships started late, the institute has allowed students to complete them by August 20, again an unusual relaxation, given the situation this year. However, most students are likely to complete their corporate internships by the end of July or by the beginning of August. In other years, the internships are completed by June. According to rules, every pre-final year student of B Tech, dual degree and integrated programmes have to go for an eight week long internship in academics or industry, outside the campus. Their performance is added to their assessment credit points. Almost every company that comes for placement on the campus across sectors like, IT, manufacturing, iron and steel, petrochemicals, mining, financial analytics, internet security, data management and artificial intelligence has offered online internships to students, confirmed the faculty run Career Development Centre of the Institute. Students were chosen through online applications and interviews. They have also been given projects/problems online and these will end with digital interviews and review of their submissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/firms-allow-online-internship-for-iit-kgp-students/articleshow/76932671.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||As cases spike, availability of beds shrinks to 300 at 13 Covid hospitals||Lucknow: Availability of beds in 13 Covid hospitals in the city is coming down rapidly with the steep rise in cases this month. With an average of 150 Covid patients being reported in the city every day, district authorities on Sunday pressed panic button and decided to add 4,000 more beds within a week and provide more medical facilities. As on Sunday evening, only 300 beds were vacant in seven government hospitals and six private medical institutions selected by the district administration for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “In all, these hospitals have about 1,500 beds, of which 1,200 are already occupied,” said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. Three medical facilities – SGPGIMS, KGMU and RMLIMS – are also admitting patients from other parts of the state besides those from the city. Only these institutes offer super-specialty treatment to critical patients, while the remaining are for asymptomatic, mild and moderate cases. According to health officials, out of 115 beds for Covid-19 at SGPGIMS, 68 were occupied till Sunday evening. Similarly, only 20 out of 100 beds are vacant at KGMU, while 91 beds out of 100 are occupied at RMLIMS. In Era’s Lucknow Medical College, only 47 out of 300 beds are vacant. Similar situation was reported from other facilities. “In the next couple of days, we will add 1,600 beds – 1,000 at Haj House and 600 at five private hospitals. Similarly, 2,400 beds will be set up at TS Misra Medical College, GCRC Institute, Sardar Patel Dental College, Awadh Shilp Gram and two technical institutes – SR Institute of Management & Technology and RR Institute of Engineering,” the CMO said. Dr Agarwal said the additional beds would be for patients with no or mild symptoms. Private hospitals will be charged as per the guidelines of the state government. Similarly, 447 rooms have been arranged at five hotels which can be booked by patients. Asked if there are enough doctors and paramedics to manage so many patients, the CMO said medical teams comprising 5-7 personnel, including a doctor, will be deployed at all medical facilities being created for Covid-19. “Since asymptomatic or mild symptom patients do not require constant monitoring, a team will be deployed for 50-100 patients. The team will check vitals like oxygen levels and blood pressure. If the condition of a patient deteriorates, he/she will be shifted to Covid-19 hospital,” he said, adding that private doctors would also be roped in, if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/as-cases-spike-availability-of-beds-shrinks-to-300-at-13-covid-hospitals/articleshow/76930370.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Delay in Covid-19 test results raises concern in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The delay in announcing test results of 51 attendees of a wedding, which was held at T. Oranalli village near Ooty on June 24, more than a week after collecting throat swabs from them have raised concerns, especially after two of the attendees were tested positive for Covid-19 after their death. Earlier, an 85-year-old woman attendee was tested positive for the virus a week after the wedding. A resident of T. Oranalli, she is undergoing treatment in the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Meanwhile, a 75-year-old man, who was a close relative of the bride, died on Saturday at Athikkal village. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said throat swabs were collected from the man earlier and test results were awaited. If he is found to be infected, it would be the third Covid-19 death to be reported from that wedding function. While more than 100 people had attended the event, health officials have so far traced only 51 attendees and collected samples from them for testing. Officials started tracing them after the 85-year-old woman tested positive. Delay in test results has caused panic among the people, who say if there are positive cases among them, the chances of them infecting others are high. “It will lead to more and more cases. And this function could be the second Covid-19 cluster in the district,” said a source, requesting anonymity. When asked about the delay, a health official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Around 1,000 samples are sent to the ESI Hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore daily from the Nilgiris. Those hospitals also receive samples from Coimbatore and Tirupur districts. Based on the capacity of the labs, results are released.” The Ooty government headquarters hospital has now been equipped with a lab for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction testing for Covid-19. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “It is mainly to avoid delay in test results. The lab has a capacity to test 150-200 samples a day.” Meanwhile, five more people tested positive for the virus in the district on Sunday, taking its tally to 183. The district has 89 active cases now. The new cases are from Naduvattam, Ketti, Devarsolai and Main Bazaar in Ooty. Two of them – a 40-year-old man and a 60-year-old man from Ketti area – are primary contacts of the public relations officer of the private needle manufacturing company who has infected more than 100 people in the district directly or indirectly. Two others were tested positive in Coimbatore. One of them is a 47-year-old man from Naduvattam. He has been undergoing treatment in a hospital there for the past 10 days. The second case is a 35-year-old pregnant woman from Devarsolai who went to Coimbatore for delivery. The remaining new case is a 22-year-old woman, who is a primary contact of an earlier case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/delay-in-covid-test-results-raises-concern-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76930364.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
July 13, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh tops in loan scheme for street vendors, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Corona pandemic has affected the street vendors involved in small business the most and the state government stands beside them and would support them in this hour of crisis, said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Chouhan was holding talks with the street vendors in the state through video conferencing from Mantralaya on Sunday. Chouhan said MP tops in implementing the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PM Swa Nidhi) scheme, which is aimed to help the street vendors to continue their business and to expand it. Chouhan said that maximum benefit of the scheme will be given to small businessmen like vegetable vendors, people running chaat shops and related to tailoring works, besides tea sellers in the state, so that all these can be saved from the burden of interest and can conduct their business smoothly. The government will lend full support to the people doing small businesses to and help them tide over economic difficulties. Under the scheme an interest free loan of Rs 10,000 with guarantee from the state government is being provided to the street vendors. On timely repayment of the loan, next year the beneficiary would be entitled for a loan of Rs 20,000. The Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Nidhi Yojana has been launched to provide benefit to beneficiaries of 378 urban bodies of the state. So far, 15,500 cases have been approved in the state and interest free loan of total Rs 15.50 crore has been approved. As many as 8.70 lakh street vendors have registered under the scheme of which 1.76 lakh have been issued with proper identity cards. Chouhan also interacted with the vendors on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-tops-in-loan-scheme-for-street-vendors-says-cm/articleshow/76930351.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Bhopal||Offices turn Covid hotspots: 50 cases diagnosed so far in Bhopal||BHOPAL: About 50 of the recent Covid-19 cases in Bhopal have been diagnosed in office buildings, according to health department reports. The new hotspots to be controlled need a lot more than social distancing and just wearing a mask. Experts are calling for measures to improve ventilation in such buildings. In offices, which have centralised air-conditioning, there is an urgent need for proper disinfection of concealed artificial ceilings and other sources of infection, like computer keyboards, wired mouse and even phones. “Any building space should allow for 12 to 15 air exchanges in an hour. In other words, the entire air should pass through. Besides there is a need for ventilation and air exchange filters should be checked,” said Gandhi Medical College (GMC) professor, department of respiratory medicine, Dr Lokendra Dave. The direction of airflow from air-conditioning ventilation can lead to droplet transmission, going by a study reported by the Guangzhou Centre for Disease Control and Prevention. The study mirrors the infection spread in various government offices in Bhopal, where more than four dozen people have tested positive. A number of offices are disinfecting artificial ceilings as well. Bhopal City Link Limited (BCLL) took the measure. Till date, not a single employee in the office has tested positive. The Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) office has reported eight cases in the last three days. “There are numerous studies that show how a mobile phone can have more bacteria than a toilet seat. It is all up to the individuals to keep safe. COVID-19 can be stopped by simple protective measures,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/offices-turn-covid-hotspots-50-cases-diagnosed-so-far/articleshow/76930363.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 13, 2020||Vadodara||Four injured in leopard attacks||Vadodara: Four persons were injured in a leopard attack at their home on Saturday midnight. With this fresh attack, the number of people injured in leopard attacks reached nine within just three days in Dahod district. Forest officials said that the leopard first entered the house of Bodiben Sangodiya at around 11pm at Khajuri village and attacked the woman. An hour later, the cat attacked two brothers identified Rajesh Ninama and Mithun Ninama and around 1.40am it attacked another man in Zabu village, Sukhiya Ninama. All the victims are recuperating at Zydus Hospital in Dahod town. “The woman and one of the two siblings have been injured the most. The woman was bitten on her face and behind her ears while the two other victims were bitten on their hands,” said M K Parmar, range forest officer of Vansiya Dungri range. After Saturday midnight’s incidents, forest department has placed three cages in Vansiya Dungri and Dhanpur ranges. On Thursday and Friday too, five people in Dhanpur taluka were attacked. “It could be the same leopard as the manner of attack in all the cases is same and the two ranges are at close proximity,” said Rajesh Purohit, range forest officer of Dhanpur range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-injured-in-leopard-attacks/articleshow/76928602.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Aurangabad||As Covid cases rise, Nanded imposes 8-day lockdown||Aurangabad: Nanded has become the latest district from Marathwada region to opt for a complete eight-day lockdown starting from Sunday midnight until July 20. The local administration has cited the increasing number of Covid-19 cases as one of the key reasons for imposing the lockdown. Already in an attempt to break the chain of the contagion, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Parbhani districts are undergoing second phase of lockdown imposed by their respective district administrations. In Parbhani district, the lockdown was supposed to end on Sunday midnight; however, the collector issued fresh orders extending the lockdown period by another three days. On the other hand, in Nanded district, the administration has decided to take a humanitarian view and allow essential services to operate between 7 am and 10 am. District collector Dr Vipin Itankar said that home delivery of essentials, including vegetables, milk, LPG and water jars will be allowed while following all the preventive and precautionary norms. The administration has granted conditional permission for banks to operate while barring entry of civilians in banks. The latest order by Itankar clarified that vegetable and fruit carts would be allowed to cater to people while visiting localities during the allowed hours. However, markets have been restrained from functioning. Nanded superintendent of police Vijaykumar Magar said that movement of all vehicles, except emergency services, has been banned during the lockdown period. He warned of strict action against those found stepping out of homes without any valid reason. “Even those who are part of emergency services will have to wear their respective uniforms and carry valid identity cards with them,” said Magar. Meanwhile, health authorities said that Nanded has so far registered 616 Covid-19 patients, of which, 375 have been discharged and 211 are currently being treated. So far, the district has reported 30 Covid-19 casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/as-covid-cases-rise-nanded-imposes-8-day-lockdown/articleshow/76929955.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 13, 2020||Vadodara||Delhi-based supplier cheats pharma exporter of Rs 14 lakh||Vadodara: A city-based pharmaceutical exporter was cheated of Rs 13.6 lakh by a supplier from Delhi and his marketing manager.Exporter Nayab Ali Dholkawala, living at Race Course Road, and having office near Gendigate, lodged a complaint at Wadi police station on Saturday night.Dholkawala told the police that he had to export Albendazole 400 mg tablets, which are used to treat parasitic worm infestations, to Africa. He contacted Sushil Kumar of SK Sales and Marketing in Delhi for the medicines’ raw material. Police said that Dholkawala’s representative had gathered details and literature of SK Sales and Marketing during a pharma exhibition held in Greater Noida in November last year.Kumar and his marketing manager Ruchi asked Dholkawala to transfer Rs 13.6 lakh to his account promising to send 1,000 kg of raw material for manufacturing of the drug. Dholkawala transferred the money through RTGS on December 11 and the raw material was sent on December 25 to a laboratory in Daman where Dholkawala used to get his medicines manufactured. However, the raw material sent was for ‘veterinary use’ and another consignment was sent next month. In his plaint, Dholkawala said that the second consignment too was also not proper as it did not have mention of usage and the packaging was also not done properly. So Dholkawala asked the marketing manager to send their firm’s quality control manager. But instead he was warned by the Delhi-based firm that they will file a case against them for harassing their female employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/delhi-based-supplier-cheats-pharma-exporter-of-rs-14-lakh/articleshow/76928640.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Erode||Erode: Blind man finds his savings are all old notes||ERODE: A visually impaired man and his disabled wife had the shock of their lives when they learned that their hard-earned money, to the tune of Rs 24,000, would be of no use to them since they were in demonetized currency notes. K Somu, 54, of Pothiyamoopanur near Anthiyur in Erode district and his wife Palaniammal, 46, had earned the money selling incense sticks and doing all sorts of odd jobs over the past several years. The two had been rendered penniless since the lockdown as they could no longer sell incense sticks in public places. Ever since the lockdown they have been living on the government dole and charity by people in the neighbourhood. The couple have no children. “We had almost forgotten the cash reserve we had. We had saved the money for our twilight years and had given it to my mother,’’ Somu told reporters, holding the demonetised notes in his trembling hands. Palaniammal said while she often accompanied Somu when he went out to sell incense sticks, she would also undertake menial jobs in the locality to earn some more money. The cash – nine notes of Rs 1,000 denomination and 30 notes of Rs 500 – was saved over several years. When the notes were demonetised, Somu’s mother was still alive. The aged woman, who has since passed away was not aware of the government’s decision nor it struck Somu or Palaniammal to convert the currency notes. A few days back, the couple stumbled upon the savings and took it to a nearby bank on Friday when the staff explained them about demonetisation and that the notes are no longer valid. “They said since it has been more than three years since the notes were declared invalid we could not deposit or convert them,’’ Palaniammal said. Somu and Palaniammal have now sought the help of the government to convert the currency notes and have sent a memorandum to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy. A senior district administration official said that the authorities had just got to know about the plight of the couple and would seek government advise to help them out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-blind-man-finds-his-savings-are-all-old-notes/articleshow/76930385.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Aurangabad||248 new cases in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad district witnessed a surge of 248 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 8,464. Of the new cases, 188 are from within the civic body limits, while 60 are from rural parts of the district. Currently, the district has 3,049 active patients and 5,061 people have successfully recovered from Covid-19. The day also recorded three Covid-related deaths, taking the total number of Covid-19 fatalities to 354 in the district. Civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, however, expressed confidence in overcoming the Covid-19 crisis with the help and cooperation of the people. On Sunday, several teams of the civic body carried out 1,764 antigen tests in different parts of the city as well as the entry points. They found 106 positive patients. Depending on their condition, the patients were immediately moved for treatment. On Saturday, one of the teams had reportedly run out of antigen kits. Meanwhile, the city police continued to keep a strict check across the city, while ensuring action against anyone caught stepping out of their home without a valid reason. Even police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad, along with three deputy commissioners and other subordinates, patrolled the city streets. Assistant commissioner of police Nagnath Kole said during the day, 25 cases under section 188 of the IPC were registered against those found violating the lockdown orders. In addition, 190 vehicles were detained by the traffic police teams in the four traffic divisions of the city, while 334 people were collectively fined of Rs 81,500 under the Motor Vehicle Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/248-new-cases-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76929956.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Locust attack: Farmers claim damage to crop, Lucknow administration says losses insignificant||LUCKNOW: The locust swarm that hit Lucknow on Sunday damaged crops in some parts of the district. While farmers claimed that crops on about 500-600 bigha land were damaged, the district administration denied any significant loss saying that the pests did not stay in Lucknow for long. The locusts entered Kakori from Unnao around noon and left towards Barabanki by 2pm. State spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Alok Verma claimed that according to farmers’ feedback, paddy, peppermint and mango crops in 500-600 bigha land got damaged. “Damage to paddy crop has been reported from Chinhat, Sarojininagar and Gosainganj while mango orchards and rose flower farms bore the brunt of the attack in some parts of Kakori. Similarly, peppermint was hit at a few places in Barabanki. Wheat drying in the open at few places was left useless as locusts’ droppings fell on it,” he said. Mango crop in Malihabad, however, was spared. “Locust swarm did not show up in Malihabad,” said Insram Ali, president of All India Mango Growers’ Association. Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram said the administration had made preparations in advance. Agriculture officer OP Mishra said an advisory was issued to villagers in advance hence they beat utensils and drums to scare away the locusts. “Chemicals were sprayed at a few places to protect crops while it was not required in rest of the places,” he said. Prof Omkar, a faculty member at zoology department of Lucknow University, said the desert locust could cause heavy damage to crop. “Spraying of insecticides in other areas might have diverted them towards Lucknow. Other factors responsible for migration include winds, favourable weather and climate change,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/farmers-claim-damage-to-crop-admin-says-losses-insignificant/articleshow/76930391.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Clarion call from Bamu for cancelling final yr exams||Aurangabad: Different stakeholders associated with Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) have been demanding the cancellation of the university-level examination for the final year students citing the Covid-19 outbreak that is taking a turn for the worse with each passing day. In a letter written to the UGC, Bamu senate member Jitendra Dehade said, “The examinations will see mass gatherings and a large number of students will travel from one place to another, exposing them and their families to the risk of contracting Covid-19.” Stating that Maharashtra government had shown foresight in cancelling the examinations, Dehade said the UGC decision to conduct examinations would have irrevocable adverse effects and that promoting students on the basis of their performance in the previous years was a wiser decision. Yuva Sena, the student wing of Shiv Sena, has demanded that the admission process for the next academic year be started by promoting students instead of holding examinsations. “The UGC has reversed the government decision to cancel examinations even though the Covid-19 tally is hitting new records every day. Considering the current situation, the UGC should cancel the final-year exams and start the admission process as early as possible by giving average marks to the students,” said a release by the Yuva Sena. A senior Bamu faculty, who did not wish to be named said, “Going by the current situation, it is popular demand to cancel the examinations. Nobody wants to take the risks associated with conducting examinations in a traditional manner. Any other option such as online test is welcome.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/clarion-call-from-bamu-for-cancelling-final-yr-exams/articleshow/76929957.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Fate of Jadavpur University’s Tagore repertory project hangs in balance||KOLKATA: A Tagore repertory in the city conceived to cater to a multilingual audience and modelled after the Royal Shakespeare Company in London may not see the light of day. The Union ministry of culture has recently asked JU to return the Rs 4.5 crore it had released as the first instalment for the Rs 15-crore Tagore Cultural Complex project in 2015. The Centre’s letter has fueled fears that JU might lose the project. TIt had been gathering dust for the past three years despite fund support from the Centre and the state. Jadavpur University, the nodal agency for the project, could do little during this time other than selecting the site, preparing the architectural plans and doing the primary soil testing. The university was busy all this while replying to queries from the Centre. JU English professor Ananda Lal had conceived the project, presented the plan to the committee in Delhi and headed the project till he retired in 2017. The project had as centerpiece a state-of-the-art thrust-stage auditorium, an open-air amphitheatre and two smaller studio theatres for flexible and experimental productions. “Such spaces do not exist in Kolkata and there are not many even in India. This complex could have been an artistic hub and a popular hangout in south Kolkata. The architecture plan was done by Fatehpuria and Bose Associates following the principles of Tagore’s stagecraft,” said Lal. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has added to the fear accusing JU of sitting on central funds for years together. Ghosh in his recent tweet has uploaded a content stating that the Union government wants the money back and has imposed 10% penalty cost on the university, for its failure to implement the dream Tagore project. The fear is not without reason. JU sources said the university has asked the plan executing agency Mackintosh Burn Ltd to suspend work till the Centre gives a go-ahead to the project. The university hasn’t had a meeting of the working committee set up for the prestigious project after November 2019. The meeting prior to that was held two years before November 2017. The university hasn’t progressed an inch in executing the plan on the open space of the JU third campus at the erstwhile National Instruments Ltd opposite the main campus. JU Comparative Literature professor Samantak Das and head of the TCC working committee didn’t deny the delay but held that it was an outcome of “complications” both within and outside. “The ministry of culture has been sending queries from time to time. JU has been replying to all the queries. Even an independent team from the Centre came to the university in September 2018 and did a fact check. Our vice-chancellor went to Delhi in September 2019 to thrash out the problems before the work begins. We got a verbal assurance from the Centre that it will give the go-ahead soon. On the contrary, the Centre wrote to JU asking to return the money. I can only say we are ready with the plan. We can complete the first phase of the project within two years,” Das said. The university isn’t giving up. “The Union Ministry of Culture has sent some queries on the project. The vice-chancellor has replied to those queries. I am not aware if the Centre has written to the VC after that. As far as I know the project is on,” said JU pro-VC Pradip Kumar Ghosh. The university has sought the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s sanction for the construction plan and also for the fire safety clearance. The Union Ministry released Rs 4.5 crore as the first instalment of the sanctioned funds to the West Bengal government in 2015. For reasons unclear, it reached JU a year after in 2016. The state government also released Rs 1 crore along with the central transfer for the project. Problems started after the university appointed Mackintosh Burn to execute the project plan. “The second firm made major changes to the original plan with little regard to Tagorean vision,” Lal said. He pointed to 16 such deviations from the original plan that had earlier received praise from the Union Ministry of Culture. However, there is a view to the contrary. “The first firm after getting the initial approval from the Ministry of Culture submitted a plan far above the Rs 15-crore sanction for the project. Mackintosh Burn then appointed a second architecture firm whose execution plan has been vetted by the JU architecture department,” a JU officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fate-of-jus-tagore-repertory-project-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/76932882.cms||Saugata Roy
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Man hangs self before cops could arrive||NAGPUR: Sanket Pantawane, 30, was found hanging from the grill of his bathroom using his vest which he had torn to shape it like a loop to slide his head through it. Pantawane ended life at his home at Naik Nagar in Ajni on Saturday. The cops had reached the place to intervene into the matter after a neighbour had alerted them hearing the noise of a scuffle among family members. It is learnt the cops found Pantawane’s wife Ashwini seated outside the house to evade being beaten up by her husband who was apparently drunk. As the cops were inquiring about the dispute from Ashwini, Pantawane had already hanged himself. As he was not responding from inside the bathroom, the cops and family members broke in to find him hanging. Police said Pantawane, a tractor driver, was addicted to liquor and also drugs. He used to torture his wife. The latest dispute had taken place after Ashwini refused to allow him to drink at home. Ajni police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-hangs-self-before-cops-could-arrive/articleshow/76930398.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Para-karate champ is a vegetable seller now||Ludhiana: The struggle of earning a livelihood amid the crisis triggered by Covid-19 pandemic has forced an international para-karate player to give up his dream of running karate coaching classes for young players in Khanna to take to selling vegetables on the roadside.From performing at various international karate tournaments for the disabled to selling vegetables at a roadside stall, the career of Tarun Sharma (27) has taken a huge dip. Following the imposition of lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic spread, Sharma was forced to shut down his coaching academy owing to the poor financial condition of his family and start selling vegetables.Sharma had first shot into limelight when he won two medals — one Gold and a Bronze — in Hungarian International Karate Championship 2020 held in Budapest, Hungary. Apart from that, he also clinched a Gold and a Bronze in Karate Global World Cup 2019 in Dublin, Ireland.The local para-karate player had also sought support from the state government to continue his sports activities to fulfil his dream of becoming the world’s best handicapped karate player, but to no avail.Speaking to TOI at his vegetable stall, Sharma said, “It’s been six days that I started selling vegetables on the roadside. I felt this is the only way I can survive the current crisis. I shut down my coaching academy for budding players, as I was unable to earn anything from there for the past four months.”He comes from a humble background, with his father being a daily-wage worker and the mother a housewife. “In the last three-four months, we have lost all our savings in meeting the household expenses and paying back the loans taken to join international sports tournaments.”He said he had not imagined even in his dreams that one day he would be selling vegetables to eke out a living. “I won seven to eight international karate championships in the past few years to make my country proud, but due to the lackadaisical attitude of the state government towards sportspersons, I had to leave sports and stand on the road with vegetables.”He further said, “The state government had promised me a government job after I grabbed medals in international championships, but they have failed to keep their promise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/para-karate-champ-is-a-vegetable-seller-now/articleshow/76929307.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 13, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Kids climb atop trees, tanks for online classes||PALANPUR: At the first sight, it looks like these children in hamlets of Banaskantha district are engrossed in some mobile games. Perched atop water tanks, overseeing the villages, they are desperately searching for some clues. Indeed they are, but just that they are clueless on how to attend the online classes as there is no mobile network in these villages. Some children, including girls, climb up the trees near their houses early in the morning and sit on the branches for hours, hoping to catch the mobile network. By the time, the mobiles can get some network, the classes are over. In the hilly terrains of Amirgadh and Danta talukas, laptops and desktops are out of bounds for the poor. Many students do have access to smartphones, but they are of no use for education purposes, unlike their counterparts in cities and towns who enjoy an unbridled network. “I climb on to rooftops and trees to get some mobile coverage. But it hardly helps. Studying online is impossible,” says Rahul Gamar, a student in Dhanpura village. The situation prevails in nearly 15 villages of the two talukas. “Our school is teaching online but there is no mobile coverage and net connectivity in our village that makes it impossible for us to study, ” rues Sagar Dhrangi, a Class XI student of Lok Niketan School in Virampur, four km from Dhanpura.  Mayabhai Rana, principal of a government primary school principal in Dhanpura said, “We have 16 teachers and 350 students. We are trying our best to reach out to maximum students through online classes." My both children are studying but I don't have a mobile and there is no network coverage ,” said Bachu Gamar, a farmer in Dhanpura village. Mukesh Chavda, in-charge district education officer (DEO), “Our teachers will be going house-to-house to solve the problems of the students and distribute home-learning material.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kids-climb-atop-trees-tanks-for-online-classes/articleshow/76929319.cms||Pramod Panwar
July 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Highest case load in antigen tests, Sohna set for lockdown||GURUGRAM: The district administration is likely to impose a lockdown in Sohna for a week from Monday after nearly 120 people in the area tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 12 days through antigen testing. The city has a total of 23 health centres where 17,056 antigen tests were held between June 30 and July 11. Out of these, 1,045 were conducted in Sohna. A total of 117 people, or nearly one-third of Gurugram’s 357 Covid-positive results, came from Sohna. The district administration had declared seven areas of Sohna as containment zones two days ago after it witnessed a spike in Covid cases last week. Now, the entire area will be treated as sealed, said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. The CMO said that movement will be restricted. “We have proposed that Sohna, where we have been getting more cases, be shut down for a week to break the infection cycle. We have also proposed that all commercial activities be stopped in the area during this period,” said Dr Yadav. He said that health officials will aggressively test people and isolate those who test positive. “Teams will screen each house,” he added. Sohna’s positivity rate has been rising. On July 5, a total of 32 people tested positive there and the positivity rate was 6.2%. This rose to 10.83% by July 9, by which time a total of 868 antigen tests had been conducted and 94 people had tested positive. Two days later, this number further rose to 117, and the positivity rate climbed to 11.2%. Sources in the health department said this was a worrying sign, and blamed lack of testing, contact tracing and active surveillance for the spike in cases that Sohna is now witnessing. “No testing was conducted in Sohna in May and till mid-June. We started conducting tests only after analysing data from Aarogya Setu app in mid-June. Merely demarcating an area as a containment zone won’t solve the problem. Continuous efforts have to be made to identify positive cases at the earliest and start treatment,” CMO Yadav said. Officials from the Gurugram district administration said they are analysing the situation. “We will take measures according to the data provided by the health department,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/highest-case-load-in-antigen-tests-sohna-set-for-lockdown/articleshow/76930387.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Employee held for realtor’s murder||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Sunday arrested Manish, 30, a resident of Rachi Colony, BRS Nagar, for killing his employer at his office on Malhar Road a day before.Shamsher Singh Atwal, 60, a realtor and resident of BRS Nagar, had hired Manish a few days ago. Atwal’s wife Pupinderjit Kaur, along with her family members, reached his office when he did not answer her repeated calls on Saturday night. As the office was locked from inside, the family broke open the locks and found Atwal lying in a pool of blood. Assistant commissioner of police (Civil Lines) Jatinder Chopra said, “Manish is changing his statements. On Saturday, he was saying that he killed Atwal because he was involved in an illegal business. When we asked him to share details of the illegal business and proof, he said nothing. Now he says that he had asked Atwal for an advance payment to payback his father’s debt of Rs 1 lakh, but he refused. Manish’s father is an electrician in Sunet village. On Saturday night, Manish was to collect a payment of Rs 1.25 lakh from a client of Atwal. He then decided to kill Atwal and take that payment.” “On Saturday evening, Manish stabbed Atwal with a knife. Atwal resisted, snatched the knife and tried to attack Manish. While thwarting the attack, Manish received injuries on his fingers. He then overpowered Atwal and stabbed him multiple times. Thereafter, he took Atwal’s car and got himself admitted to a hospital,” the ACP added. The police are questioning Manish to know if there is another motive behind the murder. A case has been registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/employee-held-for-realtors-murder/articleshow/76929321.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Aurangabad||3 cops fined for violating norms||Aurangabad: Cidco police has slapped fines on three policemen for violating lockdown norms. This is the first time in the current lockdown that policemen have ended up facing action. The action has attracted appreciation from senior police officers who are of the view that this will send a message to the people within and outside the police department. Two of the three policemen belong to Aurangabad rural police which has its headquarters in the vicinity of the TV centre area where Cidco police have set up a bandobast and checking point. One of them was found using mobile phone while riding a motorcycle while the other one was caught speeding on his two-wheeler. The third policeman was found riding double seat. When contacted, Cidco police station’s inspector Ashok Giri confirmed the action and said that probe has been initiated against the three for violating traffic norms. He said, “During the current lockdown, only those stepping out either under emergency situations or services have been granted exemption. Though these men belonged to police department, they were not on duty at the time of facing action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-cops-fined-for-violating-norms/articleshow/76929960.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 13, 2020||Chennai||60% Tamil Nadu MSMEs do not employ guest workers: IIT Madras survey||CHENNAI: Contrary to the notion that exodus of guest workers during this period has put a stop to work, a survey by IIT Madras shows that more than 60% of Micro Small Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Tamil Nadu do not have guest workers on their rolls. Of the 1,200 units that were part of the study, only 7.5% of them employ more than 50% guest workers. The study throws light at the large local workforce employed by industrial units. Of the 96 lakh workforce in the sector, it is expected that the guest workers would constitute around 10% to 12%. The labour shortage is undeniable but it is specific to certain sectors and regions. “There is an impression that MSMEs in Tamil Nadu are heavily dependent on guest workers. This finding is going against the conventional notion and shows that a majority of enterprises employ local workers,” said Subash Sasidharan of department of humanities and social sciences,, who is one of the researchers. “The guest workers are employed in sectors like textiles, knitwear, construction, brick kilns and light engineering. They are mostly employed in unskilled jobs,” he said. Some regions like Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Coimbatore and Tirupur will face labour shortage due to the exodus of guest workers. “But, other parts in Tamil Nadu may not have such shortage,” Sasidharan said. The enterprises taking part in the survey are spread across industries. One-fourth belong to Chennai region, 15.6% were based in Hosur in Krishnagiri district, while 9.1% of them were based in Madurai and 7.2 of them based in Coimbatore district. The researcher said the pandemic is the opportunity for the state government to make use of the domestic workers and to support programmes that enhance skills of workers. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) president R Ramamurthy said some sectors like foundry and textile employ more than 60% guest workers in unskilled jobs and domestic workers fill the remaining jobs. “In engineering factories, domestic workers constitute more than 60% of the workforce. Around 60% of MSMEs are able to manage without guest workers. There are 30% to 40% MSMEs affected due to the exodus of guest workers,” he said. This is the right time to skill the local workforce, feels Ramamurthy. “We have to establish a centre in each district with the help of rural development and skill development centre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/60-tn-msmes-do-not-employ-guest-workers-iit-m-survey/articleshow/76929958.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 13, 2020||Mumbai||We’re hiring: Cos place over 200 top execs in last 3 months||Mumbai: The last three months have been tumultuous for businesses, but leadership hiring has remained relatively unaffected. Industry estimates reveal that more than 200 executives have been placed in the last three months, a period which witnessed industries virtually shutting factories in the early part, with demand coming down to zero. Given the anecdotal evidence of large companies announcing appointments of CXOs/CEOs, substantiated with what executive search firms have told TOI, leadership hiring hasn’t stopped at all. Several senior executives and leaders have been hired by leading groups like RPG Enterprises and Wipro. Stanton Chase managing partner Amit Agarwal said, “We track leadership hiring across sectors and what we understand is that more than 200 senior joinings have taken place in the last few months. Some of these search mandates had started in December-January and offers were made by March this year. The best part is neither the candidates backed out nor have the companies gone back on those offers due to the Covid-19-led business uncertainty.” The demand for top talent continues. One of our senior appointees was made a counter-offer by his current employer. He, however, decided to move on.” Every year around May/June, enquiries from clients on possible hires start to accelerate. “This year, too, action has started pretty much on the same timelines. Of course, the numbers may not be the same as last year—they would be 30% down on a comparative basis. Sectors like hospitality & travel are badly impacted, while some managed to move on with minimal impact. Some are actually doing better, for example, tech infra, insurance, agri & e-commerce,” Stanton Chase managing partner Mala Chawla said. RPG Enterprises president (group HR) S Venkatesh said, “In Ceat, we have hired a global head of sales and built a different set of competencies within the organisation. The position did not exist earlier and we felt we needed someone who will consolidate all domestic and global sales and report directly to the COO. When you get the right candidate, it’s best to hire him/her. Six months down the line, you may not find the right candidate. So when the situation improves in the second half, we would be in a good position to make progress. This is talent investment at its best.” Hiring firms said there has been no change in the manner in which negotiations take place with regard to compensation and other matters. Structuring of compensation packages have, however, undergone a change, said Executive Access India MD Ronesh Puri. “Organisations are keen on increasing the variable pay limits of leadership candidates to nearly 50% as against 30-40% in the pre-Covid era. We are telling companies it’s a good time to hire now because even candidate expectations are slightly muted and much more realistic. Earlier, people would even look for doubling of their pay packets if there was no push factor and they expected a huge premium before considering a plum post. We are in discussion with a number of organisations on new leadership hires as companies are reassessing their current talent and are getting good new mandates as well. But is the market on fire? The answer would be no,” said Puri. “We’re hiring at pre-Covid salaries,” said Venkatesh, adding, “Although Covid-19 is a black swan event, even pre-Covid we were looking at the world becoming increasingly chaotic. We wanted to hire people with a certain set of capabilities. We want our leaders to have a huge amount of resilience, an ability to put up with long periods of uncertainty. We want people who are able to bounce back fast, people who have been through crisis situations and bounced back. We are also building these capabilities into our competency model internally.” For both company and candidate, Agarwal said it’s mostly the capability and career growth that matters the most. “In any case, those days where CEO-level candidates received massive hikes and huge joining bonuses are over since the last couple of years. At least 2-3 CEOs agreed to be placed because the role was meatier than the compensation,” said Agarwal. The only change now in the entire hiring process is the role of digital interaction. “Earlier, a video call with a CXO candidate used to be the first step in a leadership hire. Today, the entire process is done through video meetings, including the offer negotiations. In cross-border hires, travel has been completely eliminated, resulting in serious money saved on costs of business class travel as well,” said Chawla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/were-hiring-cos-place-over-200-top-execs-in-last-3-months/articleshow/76930598.cms||Namrata Singh
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Labourer beaten to death by neighbour||NAGPUR: Pradeep Udapure, 28, was allegedly thrashed to death by his neighbour Satish Waghmare at Chikhli slums on Saturday. Udapure’s body was found near the railway track. Police said Udapure, a labourer, had earned the wrath of Waghmare, having two criminal cases against him, for having abused him and his wife. According to police, both Udapure and Waghmare were under the influence of alcohol when they picked up a fight. Waghmare and his accomplice kicked and punched Udapure until he collapsed to the ground. The assailants later picked him up and dumped the motionless body near the railway track. Kalamna police, which were alerted by Railway Protection Force (RPF), had tough time identifying the body and ascertaining whether it was an accident or murder. Following a tip-off, Waghmare was rounded up when he spilt the beans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/labourer-beaten-to-death-by-neighbour/articleshow/76930401.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress MLA from Bundelkhand switches back to BJP||BHOPAL: In a major setback to Congress ahead of bypolls to 24 seats, its MLA Pradyumna Singh Lodhi rejoined BJP on Sunday. Congress is down to 91 in the 230-member Vidhan Sabha. A close confidante of BJP veteran Uma Bharti, Lodhi is believed to have been in touch with her for the past month. On Sunday, he called on CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan at his residence where he and state BJP president VD Sharma welcomed him into the saffron fold. “I had submitted my resignation to pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma on Saturday (July 11). Today, the resignation was accepted. My mentor Uma Bharti ji guided me. I decided to join BJP for development of my area,” said Lodhi. Within hours, Lodhi was appointed chairperson of Civil Supplies Corporation with status of cabinet minister. Congress accused BJP of “murdering democracy by misusing money power”. Lodhi had joined Congress ahead of the 2018 assembly election. A former BJP Kisan Morcha leader from Bundelkhand, he had contested the 2018 assembly elections on a Congress ticket and defeated the then minister Lalita Yadav in Bada Malhera constituency by over 15,000 votes. Lodhi’s resignation comes four months after Jyotiraditya Scindia rebelled with 22 Congress MLAs, pulling down the Kamal Nath government. Lodhi, who had reportedly been seen weeping when Nath announced his resignation as CM on March 20, said he joined BJP for the betterment of his region. He said that when he approached CM Chouhan on Saturday to sanction an irrigation scheme in Bundelkhand, he quickly approved it. “BJP is pro-development and I am hopeful that other schemes, like Bunder projects and diamond mines, will also be taken up swiftly,” he said. CM Chouhan said Lodhi took a “bold step, which is rare”. “Pradyumna Lodhi seeks development in Bundelkhand. It is difficult to quit a post and party for public interest. I welcome him to BJP and assure that all development work will be undertaken in Bundelkhand,” said Chouhan. Sharma said BJP is always for development and would ensure early completion of all projects. Scindia also welcomed Lodhi to BJP. “I heartily congratulate Pradyumna Singh Lodhi ji for quitting Congress and joining the BJP family,” tweeted Scindia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-mla-from-bkhand-switches-back-to-bjp/articleshow/76930384.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Locust Swarms Fly Past Several Areas Within Hrs||Lucknow: When the city skyline turned hazy around 1pm, many took it is an approaching dust storm, but as the wave came closer, people realized it was the swarm of locusts which had invaded the city after damaging crops in other parts of the state. As the little winged creatures zoomed past one locality after the other, the silence of lockdown was broken with the bursting of fire crackers, clanging of utensils and police sirens to scare away locusts. Farmers on the city outskirts lit fire to create a shield of smoke to save their crops from damage. Police and fire brigade took positions at Lohia Path, Hazratganj and Parivartan Chowk using water cannons and blowing horns and sirens to drive away locusts, thousands of which hovered at low levels. Employees of Lucknow Municipal Corporation combated the attack with ‘band-baja’ (musical band used in marriage processions) to drum out the short-horned members of the Acrididae family. Locusts entered the city towards Unnao and flew over Dubagga, Vikasnagar, Mahanagar, Pantnagar, Indiranagar, Aliganj and Sitapur Road among other localities and disappeared after about two hours moving towards Barabanki, leaving behind their droppings in areas they moved through. Arun Suri, a retired banker and a resident of Aliganj, said: “For a second, I felt it was a swarm of dragonfly or some big size honeycomb has broken. When it came closer, I realized it was a locust swarm. The sky turned dark in patches. I have witnessed something like this for the first time in the city.” Amrita Agarwal of Chowk said, “I had been hearing about locusts attack only in news but when they reached close to my balcony, I got panicked and immediately closed all doors and windows. Residents of my society started bursting crackers and beating utensils. I had to clean locusts’ poop that had filled my balcony.” “I was putting up clothes on the terrace for drying when I witnessed a swarm hovering over my head. I ran inside and brought mosquito spray to stop locusts from destroying my terrace garden. They remained there for 15-20 minutes and then left,” said Sarojini Singh, a housewife in Triveninagar. Another resident of Aliganj, Akriti Spencer said: “It was a repeat of March 22 when people were clanging utensils. The only difference was that this time it was not for saluting corona warriors but to scare away locusts.” “I used a butterfly catcher for catching locust for my research while my friends captured the insect for social media. Some even posted selfies with the creepy creature,” said Abhishek, a student of MSc at Lucknow University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/locust-swarms-fly-past-several-areas-within-hrs/articleshow/76930399.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Aurangabad||State wildlife board with 29 experts formed||Aurangabad: After a gap of of over a year, the Maharashtra State Wildlife Board (MSWB) has finally been reconstituted with 29 members on board who will be headed by the chief minister and the chief wildlife warden, who will be the member secretary. With the new board of the MSWB now in place, nature lovers have sought proper attention to wildlife issues in Marathwada. Speaking with TOI on Sunday, Yadav Tarte Patil, one of the expert members on the panel, said effective check on different types of wildlife crime in Marathwada and other parts of the state would be one of the key agendas. “Wildlife crime involves poaching and illegal trading and infringement on the rights of wild animals at large. These types of crime often go unchecked due to lack of effective mechanism. A special cell at every district level to keep vigil on such crimes will be proposed,” he said. Patil said the alleged misuse of The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, was major issue to address for protecting wildlife. “Some bogus beneficiaries try to misuse legislation and claim their right on the forest land. A section of political leaders support such claims due to vote-bank politics. The issue will be brought to the notice of MSWB for effective remedy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-wildlife-board-with-29-experts-formed/articleshow/76929968.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops trace missing dog after 12-hour operation||KOLKATA: A mongrel, which had got lost around 6pm on Saturday after coming to the Maidan in his owner Mehar Huang’s car for his daily exercises, was rescued in a 12-hour operation by the police on Sunday. The mongrel Hudy that came to the Maidan from Topsia was seen moving towards the TAOI pond with dense water-hyacinth around him. By 8pm on Saturday, the TAOI grounds in the Maidan area was teeming with rescue workers — cops, firemen and disaster management groups — responded to the calls of the dog lover who keeps strays at her house. But the team failed to trace the mongrel on Saturday night. In the early morning of Sunday, the Maidan police relaunched the search along with Huang, resident of an apartment on Topsia Road and they sought the help of the disaster management group again. They rescued the mongrel alive and reunited it with his owner. Cops said Hudy was doing well, though it was seemingly in fright. An enquiry by the police revealed that Huang had sent her two dogs for a workout with her driver. The driver said that Hudy, who had gone near the pond with the other dog, did not return even after he had called out his name.  “Despite the Covid times, we had come together for the rescue of the mongrel. We had put in a massive effort on Saturday and I was disappointed when Hudy could not be traced. On Sunday morning, when we took the owner to the spot where the dog had reportedly gone missing, we finally traced him,” said a senior officer who led the rescue team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-trace-missing-dog-after-12-hr-op/articleshow/76929967.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 13, 2020||Trichy||Youths repair road at E Pudur in Trichy with crowd-funding||Trichy: Fed up after repeatedly approaching the civic body to repair a damaged residential road, a group of youths in Trichy have refurbished a road during the lockdown through crowd-funding. They filled the potholes to make the road in E Pudur locality falling under ward 39 motorable for Krishnapuram residents.Krishnapuram Youth Association that refurbished the residential road said that they had been demanding Trichy Corporation since a year to relay the damaged road. However, the civic body has delayed the redevelopment work citing the pending underground drainage work. Residents said that the bad condition of the road often resulted in people falling from vehicles, particularly the senior citizens.Meanwhile, as Covid-19 lockdown came into effect, around 35 youths including college students and graduates associated with the youths’ association decided to refurbish the road. Through crowd-funding, the youths collected Rs11,000 for refurbishing the Krishnapuram road that connects three streets that is home to 120 families. “We purchased soil, gravel and cement in minimal quantity to fill the potholes. For about three days last week, our members contributed two-three hours each to make the road motorable,” A Manivel, member of the association, said. The youths had relayed the road’s surface with concrete mixture. Since a portion of the materials purchased for the work is left with the association, youths said that they will periodically repair the 50-feet long road in case of damage due to rain. Since the patchwork was temporary, the youths urged the civic body to redevelop the residential road professionally. Trichy Corporation has assured them to repair the damaged Krishnapuram Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youths-repair-road-at-e-pudur-in-trichy-with-crowd-funding/articleshow/76930406.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Totladoh dam over 80% full with 2.5 months of rains ahead||Nagpur: Residents of Orange City need not bother about water supply till next rainy season. The main source of water, Totladoh dam, is over 80% full while its downstream reservoir Kamptee Khairi has about 85% storage. Overall, the storage of major dams in Nagpur division is 50% with over two-and-a-half months of rainy season still remaining. Sources in Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) said that if catchment area of Totladoh receives even average rainfall, the gates of the dam will have to be opened in the coming weeks. The situation is not uniform in the division. Dina dam in Gadchiroli and Kalisarar in Gondia district do not have any live storage. Khindsi dam in Nagpur district has only 18% storage. The major dams of Amravati division have about 37% storage. Upper Wardha dam in Amravati district has the highest at 57.33% while Bembla and Pus dams in Yavatmal district do not have any live storage. JG Gawali, superintending engineer of VIDC, said Totladoh had 70% storage in May-end. “The storage increased due to rainfall in catchment area of Totladoh as well as upstream Chaurai dam. When Chaurai got 65% filled, they released water in Pench river, which increased Totladoh’s storage. We are storing more than necessary because of last year’s experience. There was no rainfall till August end and we had to reduce release of water from Totladoh,” he added. Gawali further said VIDC’s target was to have 100% storage in Totladoh on October 15. Last year, the city faced water cuts for some weeks as Totladoh and Kamptee Khairi had gone dry. Totladoh did not have live storage till August 11, 2019, and the city was facing a bleak future on the water front. However, it rained so much after that, VIDC had to open all 14 gates of the dam on September 10. Following constant discharge of water from Totladoh reservoir, VIDC was forced to open 12 out of 16 gates of Kamptee Khairi dam too on September 13. The last time Totladoh gates were opened was in August 2013, when the upstream Chaurai dam was still incomplete. It had not rained well in 2018 and Totladoh’s live storage had been exhausted by May 2019. INFOGX Dam ——————- % Storage Totladoh —————- 81.32 Kamptee Khairi ———— 84.91 Khindsi —————- 18.05 Gosikhurd ————— 25.58||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/totladoh-dam-over-80-full-with-2-5-months-of-rains-ahead/articleshow/76930405.cms||Ashish Roy
July 13, 2020||Nashik||5 arrested for transporting marijuana||Nashik: Adgaon police have arrested five people for transporting 32kg of marijuana in a private vehicle. According to police, they got information from their sources about the suspects involved in transporting marijuana from Dhule to Mumbai. “A team laid a trap on the Mumbai-Agra national highway and intercepted the vehicle. The suspects were produced before the court and have been remanded in police custody till Tuesday,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-arrested-for-transporting-marijuana/articleshow/76929983.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Social media abuzz with locust memes||Lucknow: Social media was abuzz with memes on locusts attacks on Sunday, soon after the insects took over the city skyline. While many were seen clanging ‘thaalis’ and bursting firecrackers to chase away the insects, others uploaded videos and photographs of the swarms. The entry of insects also stirred some excitement into an otherwise sultry and dull Sunday afternoon because of the weekend curbs. Videos and pictures of locust swarms went viral on social media within seconds of their arrival. The hashtag #Locustattacklucknow was trending on Twitter throughout the day. Twitter user @SummaiyaAli posted a video of the swarm with the caption: “The famous #locustattack makes appearance in #lucknow. Our neighbour: Ye sab Pakistan se aa rahi hai. My bro: Pehle bol dete inse, nihari le aati. (sic)” Sharing a picture of a pair of the locusts, @Pita_Shri tweeted: “#lucknow Couple Goals. (sic)’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/social-media-abuzz-with-locust-memes/articleshow/76930403.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Two elderly women die, 31 positive cases reported||TNNLudhiana: Two elderly women, including one from Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 in the city on Sunday. Meanwhile, 31 positive cases were reported from the district on the day. The positive patients include five healthcare workers and three foreign returnees.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said a 90-year-old woman from Malerkotla died at DMCH. Besides being Covid-19 positive, she was diabetic, hypertensive and a heart patient.About the other casualty, he said a 60-year-old woman from SBS Nagar breathed her last at the civil hospital. She had respiratory problems.The civil surgeon said with these two casualties, the number of deaths in Ludhiana district has reached 32 and those of outsiders stands at 28.The health department said till now 43,315 samples of suspected patients have been taken. Of the 1,049 samples sent on Saturday, reports of 864 came as negative and of 185 were pending.The department said of the other 31 pending samples, 15 were negative, six would be retested and 10 were positive. Of these 10, seven were from Ludhiana district and one case each was from Gurdaspur, Mohali and Hoshiarpur. The Ludhiana cases include two each from Fatehgarh Jattan and Sant Nagar, one each from Rajewal, Aggar Nagar and Model Town. They said of the 27 positive reports received from private hospitals and laboratories, 24 patients were from Ludhiana and one each from Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and Himachal Pradesh. Officials said of the cases from the district, two each were from Rahon Road, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Khanna and Jamalpur, one case each from Bains, Vishal Nagar, Pakhowal Road, Mall Road, Haibowal Kalan, Mullanpur, Sunet, Sekhowal near Basti Jodhewal, Daherka, Janakpuri, Baba Mukand Nagar, Hata Mohammad Dyal near CMC, SBS Nagar, Basant Avenue and Rajewal.The department said besides, six from outside the district were also reported positive.Health department officials said till now 1,331 patients from the district and 252 from outside have tested positive. As many as 939 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Sunday and 73 rapid response teams screened 350 persons, of which 266 were isolated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-two-elderly-women-die-31-positive-cases-reported/articleshow/76929335.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||1 million fed in 100 days in Kolkata, districts||KOLKATA: Over 100 days, four “Langar on Wheels” have been moving beyond the walls of Gurdwaras around Kolkata and outside providing cooked food to nearly 9,300 people daily. In this effort, they have been able to feed over a million people since the lockdown came into effect on March 25. “Amidst the fight against coronavirus, sharing and caring is the need of the hour. Since the outbreak of the virus we have been on the streets first feeding people with a pledge that no soul shall sleep hungry in Kolkata during such extraordinary situation”, said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, general secretary of Behala Gurdwara and chairman of IHA Foundation. Sources said special kitchens were set up to cook food with all safety precautions. Volunteers reached out to people with food and other essentials like tarpaulins, medicines and dry ration in Sunderbans, Diamond Harbour, Nagendra Bazar, Indira Pally, Khalpar, Adaldarpara, Kapathat, Bishnupur, Howrah, Bakhrahat and other places in South 24 Parganas. The effort also caught the attention of Kolkata Municipal Corporation. KMC chairperson Board of Administrators (BoA) Firhad Hakim has appreciated the efforts of Behala Gurudwara for their relief work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-million-fed-in-100-days-in-city-districts/articleshow/76929984.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Covid Hospital gets intensive treatment unit; Clafasio still in ICU||Panaji: Although cases are soaring, half of the beds in the 220-bedded Covid hospital in Margao are occupied. The hospital currently has around 110 patients. Its six bed intensive care unit (ICU) however is filled to capacity. Two patients in the unit are on ventilator while four are on non-invasive ventilator (NIV). Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias continues to be in the ICU. The patients in the ICU all have comorbid conditions including diabetes, hypertension, chest condition, blood dyscrasia, multiple myeloma and respiratory distress syndrome among others. The hospital has also set up an intensive treatment unit, next to the ICU, in place of its old paediatric ward. Its new paediatric ward has now been moved to the ground floor. “Since all paediatric patients were presenting with mild disease and since the paediatric ward has never been full we did a rethink and reorganised the ward,” in charge of the hospital, Dr Ira Almeida, said. The hospital has treated around 40 children including infants till date. A team of doctors for the newly set up intensive treatment unit have already reported to the hospital but the nurses are awaited. Walk in interviews for the nurses are scheduled on Wednesday. “Till then we hope to start on a small scale. The intensive treatment unit will be for those who require non invasive ventilation and for anyone who is serious and requires specialised care. Those who require invasive ventilation and are very critical will be shifted to the ICU,” Dr Almeida said. The hospital which has a provision for one dialysis unit, is in the process of bringing in another dialysis machine. There are 75 ports for piped oxygen in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hospital-gets-intensive-treatment-unit-clafasio-still-in-icu/articleshow/76930605.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Man held for killing friend in Sangli||Kolhapur: Sangli rural police have arrested a man for killing his friend who had married the former’s sister a few months ago in Kavathe Piran village. According to police, the accused, Nikhil Sutar, arrived at the police station with the murder weapon and surrendered. “We are investigating the case and also looking at the honour killing angle. The victim, Onkar Mane, and suspect were good friends. We have arrested Sutar under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” a police officer said. “Sutar’s sister had eloped with Mane and got married privately as they belonged to different castes. We are also investigating the involvement of Sutar’s family in this crime,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-killing-friend-in-sangli/articleshow/76929993.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur: Constable injured in Vikas Dubey encounter tests Covid positive||KANPUR: A constable, who escorted gangster Vikas Dubey from Ujjain to Kanpur and was injured in the encounter with the don, tested positive for Covid on Sunday. The cop, who was undergoing treatment at LLR Hospital, Kanpur, has been quarantined. However, samples taken from the gangster’s body for Covid test before his cremation, showed he did not carry the virus. Remaining 17 policemen and STF commandos in the convoy have also tested negative. The constable was travelling in the same vehicle that toppled over near Bhaunti area in Sachendi on the Kanpur National Highway, forcing an encounter after the don wriggled out and snatched a gun from inspector Nawabganj, Ramakant Pachauri. “The sample report of the constable came late Saturday. He has now been isolated in a Covid ward of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. We are now in the process of launching the contact tracing exercise,” said Dr R B Kamal, who’s treating the injuring cops. At least 1,000 people, including top police officers had visited the hospital ward to meet injured cops and they have been advised to undergo a Covid test. Senior police officials ADG Zone Jai Narain Singh, IG range Mohit Agarwal, district magistrate Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari, SSP Dinesh Kumar, besides media personnel had visited the ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/constable-injured-in-dubey-encounter-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/76930411.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen create worker pool to ease labour pangs at units||Ludhiana: “If you have an apple and I have an apple and we exchange these apples then you and I will still each have one apple. But if you have an idea and I have an idea and we exchange these ideas, then each of us will have two ideas.”― George Bernard ShawThis idea of GB Shaw has found meaning at Ludhiana factories that are facing a massive labour shortage due to a large number of workers going back to their home states. The city businessmen put their heads together and came up with a plan of a pooling system. The available labour is combined in teams to work in different shifts in different factories. Both factory owners and labourers are in a win-win situation. Businessmen are getting adequate labour for production and workers are getting extra wages.Speaking to the TOI, Sushil Kairpal of VH Dyeing, who has formed a group of factory owners who have pooled their labourers, said, “Ever since the factories were allowed to operate after lockdown, we have failed to get even 50% of labour at a single dyeing unit. All of us were suffering badly and no unit was able to function. After a lot of brainstorming, three units of our locality decided to pool their workers so that all of us can operate our factories for two days in a row, alternatively. The system will continue till 15-20% more workers return to Ludhiana and every factory has at least 70% labour strength.”Sukhwinder Singh, a garment manufacturer from Shivpuri, said, “There is a huge labour shortage in the garment sector and not even the big labour contractors have workers these days. As a result, the garment factories are not able to meet the little orders they have. So, we joined hands and combined our labourers. Now, for three days we run our factory and for the other three days my neighbour does. This is a favourable situation for us as well as the labourers.”Ram Khilawan, a worker at Sukhwinder’s factory, said, “Earlier we were not able to make good money as we did only an eight-hour shift and that also not daily. But ever since the two factories have joined hands, we are earning overtime by working more than eight hours and for at least six days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-create-worker-pool-to-ease-labour-pangs-at-units/articleshow/76929343.cms||Mohit Behl
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Imposter dupes Haibowal Kalan resident of Rs 1.6L||Times News Network Ludhiana: The Division 5 police have booked a man for duping a Haibowal Kalan resident of Rs 1.6 lakh by claiming to be the chairman of the Punjab State Human Rights Commission. Later, the victim found that the accused was the head of an organisation named Punjab Human Rights Protection Council. The accused has been identified as Kunwar Onkar Singh Narula, 45, of Ludhiana. Victim Rajesh Kumar Modgil of Raghuveer Park said he had filed a court case against a man in a cheque bounce case. As the man was declared a proclaimed offender, he did not get his payment. In August 2019, Narula met him at the district courts and introduced himself as the chairman of the Punjab State Human Rights Commission. He told him that the human rights commission had links with Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and assured to help him get his money back. Modgil said the accused asked him to give Rs 1.6 lakh as fee, which he paid in instalments. After getting the money, the accused stopped talking to him. Thereafter, he found that the accused had his own organisation named Punjab Human Rights Protection Council. Modgil then lodged a police complaint. Division 5 police station ASI Kuldeep Singh said following an inquiry, the police booked Kunwar Onkar Singh Narula under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC and were trying to trace him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/imposter-dupes-haibowal-kalan-resident-of-rs-1-6l/articleshow/76929350.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolhapur||63 new cases in Kolhapur, Satara reports no new case||Kolhapur: A total of 63 Covid-19 cases — highest spike in a day — were reported across Kolhapur district on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 1,244. Of the 63 cases, 13 were reported in the textile town of Ichalkaranj where a complete lockdown has been imposed till Tuesday. In Kolhapur city, a total of 10 people tested positive for the contagion with six alone from Tarabai Park area. BJP alleges corruption BJP state president Chandrakant Patil on Sunday alleged huge corruption by the state government while implementing several Covid-related measures. “Huge corruption has been committed in buying of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, providing meals to those in quarantine facilities, buying of masks and setting up Covid care centres. Also, the state government has misused funds released by central government. We will raise these issues during the monsoon session of state legislature,” Patil said. 3 dead in Sangli Three women — two from Miraj and one from Sangola distirct in Solapur — died of Covid-19 on Sunday while undergoing treatment at Sabgli’s Bharti Hospital. With this the total number of deaths due to the infections has reached to 19. Also, nine new cases were reported in Sangli district on Sunday. “The district’s tally stands at 641, but there are 304 active cases,” a health official said. No cases in Satara Satara district reported no Covid cases till 6pm on Sunday. The total number of cases in the district is currently at 1,695 of which 593 are active. 88 cases in Solapur city With 88 new cases on Sunday, Solapur city’s taly of Covid-19 patients increased to 3,249 of which 1,176 are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Five people also succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 303. Meanwhile, rural parts of Solapur reported 33 Covid cases along with two deaths on Sunday. The active cases, however, stand at 474.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/63-new-cases-in-kolhapur-satara-reports-no-new-case/articleshow/76930000.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Delhi||All that jazz: Online yoga, art and theatre classes help students let their hair down||NEW DELHI: When online classes began after the summer vacation, 12-year-old Kuhu Aeijaz found it was not only English or maths, but also art, dance and theatre. The boy particularly enjoys the art and dance classes as the teacher randomly asks the class to perform on video. With school shut till July 31, schools now provide activity classes online too, giving students their fill of yoga, judo, taekwondo, jazz dance, boxing, and many others. “They are called hobby classes and are not fixed,” explained Aeijaz, a Class VIII student at Springdales School, Pusa Road. “The teacher records a video and shares her screen with us. In theatre classes, the teacher asks us to remember monologues from Shakespeare’s play and then teaches us the delivery.” Sohani Wadhawan, a Class V student of Richmondd Global School in Paschim Vihar, spend 40 minutes every morning on activity classes. “They are done very nicely and I enjoy being part of the classes. With such classes, learning at least feels more like school,” said the 10-year-old. Most parents were unsure about online activity classes when given the schedules. “Who would have thought these classes could be delivered online?” said a parent. “We were apprehensive that the schools would charge us fees for these classes, but so far nothing we haven’t been billed. The children too are enjoying the activities.” Nitisha Anand, mother of Rivaan, who is in prep class, thinks it is a great idea to have these classes. Rivaan, who studies in Bhatnagar International Foundation School, begins his day with yoga, jazz dance, and sometimes physical education classes. “For the yoga class, the teacher plays soft music and does the asanas. It is fun to see my son copying the posture,” said PR professional Anand. “Though Rivaan is not learning much, at least he feels energised and happy to attend the academic classes. The teachers must be making a lot of effort to make these videos and ensure uninterrupted streaming.” School principals are clear that activities are important for a child’s development, especially when they cannot come to school. “The children engage with each other during activities and this helps them develop their human side,” said Ameeta Mulla Wattal, Principal, Springdales, Pusa Road. Wattal added that the school allowed these breakout sessions after every period so that the students involved themselves in some physical exercises between classes to avoid sitting in one place for over 35 minutes. “We are bringing the parents into it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-that-jazz-online-yoga-art-and-theatre-classes-help-students-let-their-hair-down/articleshow/76929999.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 13, 2020||Trichy||Over 40 with symptoms sent for Covid test||Trichy: The door-to-door screening being carried out by Trichy Corporation has covered more than 28,000 houses in the past five days. More than 40 people with Covid-19 symptoms were referred to urban primary health centres for testing. In Ponmalai zone, 24 people, including seven who had returned from other states were referred. “The returnees have been told to be on home quarantine,” a sanitary official said. In Srirangam, around 1,700 houses were screened on Saturday, in which five returnees were identified. In K Abishekapuram zone, around 4,500 houses were surveyed between July 6 and 11, in which 13 people were referred to undergo test. In Ariyamangalam, 932 houses were surveyed and three were referred. Officials said the drive would continue throughout July.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-40-with-symptoms-sent-for-covid-test/articleshow/76930417.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Misusing pass will lead to its cancellation’||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai on Sunday said that the daily commute passes issued to workers and office-goers will be cancelled if the pass holders are found roaming in public after returning from work. “Hundreds of people from the border talukas have been issued daily passes with validity till July 31 to commute for work in Sangli and Satara districts. However, it has been found that upon returning, the people do not stay at home rather move around in their locality and that too without taking precautions. Desai said that the such people are testing positive for covid and in such cases contact tracing becomes difficult. “The cases are increasing in Shirol and Jaisingpur tehsils. I have ordered the local authorities to ensure that action is taken against those misusing the commuting passes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/misusing-pass-will-lead-to-its-cancellation/articleshow/76930001.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: SIT starts probe from ground zero, scans slain minister Santosh Shukla’s file, speaks to brother||LUCKNOW: The three-member special investigating team (SIT) set up by the Uttar Pradesh government began its probe on Sunday into sequence of events leading to the Bikru ambush, how the slain gangster Vikas Dubey managed to stockpile arms and also track his wealth and assets. The team comprising additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy, additional director general, Police Awas Nigam, Hariram Sharma and deputy inspector general of police, J Ravindra Goud went to Bikru village in Chaubeypur and visited ground zero. The members reached the site at 11 am and interacted with villagers. They also went to Chaubeypur and Shivli police stations to check criminal records of Dubey, who was killed in encounter on July 10. During the visit to Shivli police station, the team met at least 15 residents, including Manoj Shukla, brother of slain BJP minister Santosh Shukla, who was shot by Dubey inside Shivli police station in 2001. Others who flocked to the thana included eyewitness to the murder of school principal Siddheshwar Pandey and Lallan Bajpai, who survived several attempts on his life. Police sources said, SIT specifically cross-checked the file of slain BJP minister Santosh Shukla and spent time interacting with the slain minister’s brother, Manoj Shukla. The team also spoke at length with Bajpai, who was Dubey’s target at Shivli police station, but shot Santosh Shukla. Talking to reporters, Manoj Shukla said, police did nothing although the murder happened before 25 police personnel and an FIR was lodged. “Though the gangster was killed, his aides deserve strict punishment,” said Shukla.  Later, the SIT reached Kanpur circuit house at 4pm and will be camping in Kanpur Nagar district. The SIT has to submit a report by July 31. As per instructions, the SIT first started the probe into FIR number 65/2020. The government has specifically instructed the SIT to probe case number 65/2020 registered in Chaubeypur on March 13, 2020. This is the same FIR lodged against Vikas Dubey for which slain Bilhaur CO Devendra Mishra had on March 14 written letter to then SSP Kanpur Nagar apprising him about the nexus between then SO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari and gangster Dubey. In his letter, Mishra had mentioned that the charge of extortion was removed from the FIR against Dubey by investigation officer Azhar Ishrat on the instruction of Tiwari. This letter was given to media by the deputy SP’s daughter after his death. IG Lucknow range, Laxmi Singh had been assigned the probe to check the veracity of letter, whether it reached SSP office and how was it leaked to media. She had submitted her report to UP DGP and recommended an SIT probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-starts-probe-from-ground-zero-scans-slain-min-shuklas-file-speaks-to-brother/articleshow/76930426.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Pvt schools charge fees for admissions through RTE||Kolhapur: Some private schools from Kolhapur city are demanding exorbitant fees from parents for admitting their wards in schools under the Right to Education (RTE) quota. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has ordered an enquiry into the alleged complaints made by parents. According to government rules, students from poor families can secure admission in private schools under 25% RTE quota. Fees up to Rs 17,000 is paid by the government every year till the student is promoted to the eight standard. There are over 140 schools in the city who have to abide by RTE rules. Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s administrator for primary education Shankar Yadav said, “Private schools, citing various facilities, charge exorbitantly from the parents. The RTE admissions are carried out online and the state government pays fees for each of these students only after their admission. We have found that the private schools delay the admission process in some or the other way. We have been asked by civic chief to call upon the schools for hearing and take strict action accordingly.” Yadav said that obstructing admission process may cost the schools permission to operate. He said the government pays the fees for tuition and books and not for the other facilities such as transport charges for special buses. Kalshetti has appealed to the parents to come forward and register complaints with the grievance redressal committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pvt-schools-charge-fees-for-admissions-through-rte/articleshow/76930017.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Youths crowd open grounds to play group games||Kolhapur: With the threat of Covid-19 looming large in the city, a large number of youths are still flocking to the open grounds to play group games like cricket and football. This scenario stands in stark contrast to the district administration orders which permits citizens to perform individual physical activities in the playgrounds without compromising on social distancing. The youths congregating in the playgrounds are not only flouting social distancing norms, most of them are also spotted withot masks, thereby increasing the chances of infection spread. There are 17 containment zones in the city from Covid-19 cases have been reported. While the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is implementing strict lockdown in the containment zones, the playgrounds near the zones are full with youths from nearby localities. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “I have ordered to enforce strict lockdown. People should stay at home as they may get infected. Parents should not let their children out for some days. I have asked the local staff who can take help of the policemen to ensure no one comes to the public places such as gardens, walking tracks and playgrounds.” The ward-level committees have been asked to ensure youths do not indulge in group games in the open grounds. However, the committees have local representatives and civic staff who do not want to confront the youth—mainly students attending schools and colleges.It has been observed that even the policemen have stopped coming to the grounds to disperse the crowd. “Self discipline can only help us slow down the growth rate of Covid-19. We are planning public participation to spread awareness about the precautions that need to be taken and what is allowed and what is banned for the safety of public at large,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/youths-crowd-open-grounds-to-play-group-games/articleshow/76930018.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Strict lockdown in containment zones’||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to impose strict lockdown in containment zones across the city. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said that the proposal of 100% lockdown demanded by corporators has been ruled out; however, he has decided to enforce strict lockdown in all the containment zones in the city. He said that there are a total of 17 containment zones where strict lockdown will begin from Monday, adding that more zones will be added to the list if cases continue to emerge. Meanwhile, civic authorities have also expressed concerned over the rising number of coronavirus cases. “We have no other alternative than to enforce strict measures in containment zones. People have been advised not to step out of their homes at any cost, except in emergency situations. The zones will be completely sealed, the process for which has begun in some localities. We will shut all the markets in these zones and no one will be allowed to move out without any emergency purpose,” Kalshetti said. The civic chief has asked officials to bring down the number of Covid cases by August 15. He has asked the ground level staff to get people with even the slightest symptoms checked. The containment zones are sealed up to 100 sq m, the expanse of which is likely to be increased to ensure safety of people from the concerned localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/strict-lockdown-in-containment-zones/articleshow/76930022.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD receives Rs 16 crore in one month, 2.5 lakh devotees turn up||TIRUPATI: A month after Lord Venkateswara temple reopened on 11 June, 2,50,176 devotees have offered worship at the temple, according to Anil Kumar Singhal, executive officer, TTD. The temple has received Rs 16.73 crore in Srivari Hundi last month. The executive officer also said during the last month, 2,99,562 people booked for darshan under slot sarva darshan (SSD - current booking) and Rs 300 special entry darshan (online booking). Out of this, 6,1471 devotees absented themselves due to various reasons, 2,50,176 turned up. “The TTD trust board had decided to allow more than 12,000 devotees in a day. We noted that roughly 2,000 devotees are absenting themselves after booking darshan tickets. We appeal to people to book tickets only if they can complete their pilgrimage. This will allow others to book their darshan slots’‘, said Singhal. The executive officer said though there is financial stress all around because of the lockdown, average Hundi donation per devotee reported at the Tirumala temple has registered an increase compared to last year. While the average hundi donation received per devotee this year is Rs 620, it was Rs 428 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-receives-rs-16-crore-in-one-month-2-5l-devotees-turn-up/articleshow/76929408.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia orders audit of two more DU colleges over reports of irregularities||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has ordered the department of higher education to conduct an audit of two Delhi University colleges, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and Laxmibai College, following complaints of financial irregularities from students, teachers, parents and governing body members. Shaheed Sukhdev College is 100% Delhi government-funded college, while Laxmibai is partially funded. In a letter on Friday, Sisodia, who is also the education minister, said, “I have received multiple complaints regarding financial irregularities in these colleges... These (complaints) alleged financial irregularities in tendering processes and purchases by these two colleges. This is an extremely serious matter.” The directorate of higher education has been asked to get the accounts of the last two years audited, preferably by a Comptroller and Auditor General-empanelled auditor. The compliance report is to be submitted within 15 days, the letter stated. “Strongest action must be taken against officials concerned if any irregularities are found in the audit,” it added. The principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College, Poonam Verma, said, “The letter hasn’t reached us yet. Regarding the complaint, I can’t refute what must be in his knowledge. However, we have not received any such complaint and logically such complaints should also come to us.” She claimed that the audit was complete till 2019 at both central and state levels. “They want to do it again, we have absolutely no problem.” The principal of Laxmibai College, Pratyush Vatsala, also said she had not received the letter. “Audit is a regular process and everyone has to go through it. If there were complaints, I haven’t been informed about it,” said Vatsala. A few days ago, a similar audit was ordered against Bhagini Nivedita College. A governing body (GB) member then alleged that the audit had been ordered as Delhi government’s nominee did not become the GB chairperson. However, a government official had refuted the allegation. At Shaheed Sukhdev College, a university nominee is the chairperson. At Laxmibai, the GB election is yet to be held as a former chairman, Anmol Panwar, has moved Delhi high court against Delhi University after it asked Delhi government to reconsider his name. Panwar, who was renominated as a member of the college, has claimed that once a name has been nominated by government, the university does not have the power not to approve it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-orders-audit-of-2-more-du-colleges-over-financial-allegations/articleshow/76930031.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 13, 2020||Delhi||CBSE results: A good year for private schools too in Delhi||NEW DELHI: While a majority of Delhi’s private schools witnessed a 100% pass percentage, many of their students managed to get perfect scores in certain subjects. This was one of the reasons for the jump in the number of students scoring 95% and above—from 17,690 in 2019 to 38,686 this year. Top scorer of Sanskriti School, Chanakyapuri, Laksh Gupta scored a perfect 100 in maths. Similarly, at Manav Sthali School, Rajendra Nagar, 16 students got a perfect 100 in multiple subjects, such as mass media studies, maths, economics, etc, while three psychology students at The Indian School managed the perfect scores. The results were similar at Amity Pushp Vihar where students got a perfect 100 in subjects, such as English, political science and psychology. At three branches of Amity International School in Delhi –Saket, Pushp Vihar and Mayur Vihar— 146 out of 389 students scored 95% and above in their best of four. At DPS Vasant Kunj, of the 466 students who appeared for the exam, 105 which is 22.53% of the Class XII students, managed to get marks of 95% and above. At Alhcon International School, 34 out of 177 students were able to achieve the feat of crossing the 95% mark. The private schools in the capital’s East region saw a high percentage of students (63,648) appearing out of the 64,187 which had registered. In the West region, 37,966 students appeared out of the 38,159 which had registered. There were some exams that could not take place due to the Covid-19 pandemic and students were awarded marks after different assessment methods. Principal of The Indian School, Tania Joshi was unimpressed with this. Though happy with the overall score, she said that “some kids were disappointed as they felt that they could have managed to do well if the exam were held.” However, for such students disappointed with the marks, there is an opportunity to sit for the optional improvement exam. But according to Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon group of schools, the results are good this year and many students may not think of appearing for the improvement exams. His school saw 34 out of over 170 students scoring more than 95% and above. Ameeta Wattal of Springdales, Pusa Road, also said that most students would accept the CBSE results and not opt for optional exams. “The results have been very child-centric and sensitive towards how students have given their board exams. While it is hypothetical to guess the situation in the future with the way the pandemic is going, I believe there would be anxiety among students about the optional exams. And since the results have been good, students may not take that option.” She also praised Central Board of Secondary Education for not releasing the merit list. “To release names of toppers would have been unfair as there were several exams, which students could not sit for.” Not just private schools, Shiv Nadar Foundation's ‘VidyaGyan’, a leadership academy for economically underprivileged and meritorious students from rural Uttar Pradesh, also saw good results with their student Devesh Sharma of the humanities stream becoming top scorer with 99.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-good-year-for-private-schools-too/articleshow/76948871.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Min: Hold ‘puja’ at rivers to ward off flood threat||Lucknow: To check the flood threat in the state, jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh has issued a bizarre directive. He has directed field staff of the irrigation department to hold regular 'puja' (prayers) at rivers whose water levels have started rising due to rains. The minister issued these directives on Sunday during a video conference with filed staff to review works to check the flood menace. A press release issued by the jal shakti ministry specifically mentioned his directives for performing 'puja' at swelling rivers. The minister has also asked the field staff to maintain a round the clock vigil at vulnerable points and keep updated the state headquarters. The staff has been directed to send videos and photos of flood prone zones to the head office and deploy security guards in adequate numbers to avert any untoward situation. An official spokesman, who issued the press release, told TOI that the minister had advised the field staff to hold prayers at rivers and offer flowers as has been done by villagers living near rivers. “It is not a new tradition. Hindus consider rivers as goddesses and worship them. The field staff should also do the same to contain floods,” said the spokesman of the minister. Just before the onset of monsoon the jal shakti minister had toured the state and inspected dams and rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-hold-puja-at-rivers-to-ward-off-flood-threat/articleshow/76930434.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Covid patient leaves home after testing positive, booked||GURUGRAM: A Covid-19 patient has been booked for allegedly absconding to Fatehabad from Gurugram. The health department filed a complaint on Sunday at Sector 37 police station under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. According to an official, the 28-year-old patient was under home isolation after he had developed Covid symptoms. “After he was tested positive by the health department he allegedly left Gurugram. The health department has demanded to search for the patient for further precautions,” the official added. The patient is employed at a wine shop at Bikaner Chowk in Hari Nagar area where he resides as well. “Our team had called him to inform that he is Covid-19 positive but he instantly switched off his phone and fled from his house. He is a native of Fatehabad. He was not supposed to venture outside his house. We have filed a police complaint against him,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. The health department will also take action against people who have shared fake numbers and addresses with the labs while submitting their samples. “We are taking help from other civic agencies to ensure that people who get tested share valid identity card and phone numbers,” the CMO added. Last week, seven private labs in the city were served show cause notices by the health department for incorrect and inadequate contact details of Covid-19 patients. According to MCG data, around 200 people who had submitted their samples to private labs for Covid-19 test are untraceable in Gurugram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covid-patient-leaves-home-after-testing-positive-booked/articleshow/76930460.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 13, 2020||Noida||Noida: Bridge planned to ease jams at Parthala Chowk hits hurdle||NOIDA: Parthala Chowk — one of the busiest junctions in the city — may soon have a flyover that will ease the traffic congestion in the area. While Noida has already floated a tender for its construction, it is caught in a difficult situation due to the “unique design” of the project. The six-lane flyover has been planned at the intersection of Vikas Marg and the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad (FNG) Expressway. The consultant hired by the Noida Authority to come up with the design of the flyover has recommended a cable-stayed bridge at the roundabout. However, construction firms have raised apprehensions regarding the design citing a lack of experience. Explaining the reason for the design — the first in the city — project engineer Mukesh Kumar Vaishya said, “Normally, span-length of flyovers run between 30 metres and 60 metres. But at the FNG, the flyover needs to have a minimum span-length of 75 metres. Hence, experts from Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS) came up with an idea of constructing a suspended bridge at Parthala Chowk.” The tender for the project costing Rs 83 crore was floated on July 2. The engineers from the authority later discussed with around six contractors who wanted clarifications. Nearly 700-metre-long, the flyover at the crossing is much-needed for over 1.25 lakh motor vehicle owners who cross the stretch daily. During peak hours, 18,000 to 20,000 vehicles cross the stretch per hour. The road connects Noida to Noida Extension. The completion of FNG and an upcoming metro station near the crossing in Sector 122 is expected to add to the traffic chaos. “As per the design, a 150-metre-long span has to be suspended through cables over the Parthala roundabout. We have not taken such work in the past. That is why we thought about checking with the officials on whether they can consider alternatives,” said an engineer from a private construction firm. The other design suggested was a bowstring bridge with a 150-metre-long span. Vaishya said that the bidders have time till July 21 to respond to the tender. “Meanwhile, we are identifying companies that have experience in constructing suspended bridges,” he added. Once awarded the contract, the firm would have to complete the flyover within 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/bridge-planned-to-ease-jams-at-parthala-chk-hits-hurdle/articleshow/76930142.cms||Shalabh
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University aspirants waiting for clarity on ECA admissions||NEW DELHI: Days after M Venkaiah Naidu, the Vice-President of India who is also the chancellor of Delhi University, urged DU to continue with admissions under the extra-curricular activities (ECA) quota, several students have approached the authorities seeking an update. In a webinar organised by Rajdhani College on Sunday, several students sought an update from the university. A DU official said a meeting was held on Sunday to discuss Naidu’s recommendation. “Lots of modalities will have to be followed to start ECA admissions. First, the guideline on how the admission will be done has to be fixed. Then there are technical issues concerning the portal. We are discussing it,” he said. DU’s decision has been challenged in Delhi high court, which has sought the university’s response. The next hearing is on July 22. As per the current schedule, the last date for admission registration is July 18. Aspirants are now an anxious lot. “Will there be an update in the ECA categories admission? Please inform us,” Anandi Sharma asked through several messages as there was no reply. Another candidate, Ragini Sharma, also posted a message seeking definite information. The DU admission committee had decided against holding trial-based ECA admissions this year due to Covid-19, barring those against NSS and NCC certificates. Up to 5% seats are reserved for students under the sports and ECA quotas, where eligible candidates are allowed 15% relaxation in the cutoff. Several artistes, including Birju Maharaj and Rajya Sabha MP Sonal Mansingh, have petitioned the university and the Vice-President to reconsider the decision. Naidu held a meeting with the pro vice-chancellor and the dean of colleges on Saturday. Several statutory body members have also pointed out that such a crucial decision needs approval of the academic and the executive councils. “These are part of the university statutes. Even the VP has asked them to consider now,” said Rajesh Jha, an EC member. “The standing committee is part of AC and decisions taken by it have to be approved by the council. But the VC has only called an AC meeting once in the past two years,” said Pankaj Garg, a former AC member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-aspirants-waiting-for-clarity-on-eca-admissions/articleshow/76930039.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 13, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Shubham Mishra arrested for ‘rape threat’ to stand-up comedian||VADODARA: The cybercrime cell of Vadodara police arrested Shubham Mishra, who had allegedly posted a video on his Instagram account allegedly hurling rape threats at stand-up comedian Agrima Joshua. The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Sunday sought immediate action against a Barodian for hurling abuses at Joshua. Twenty-six-year-old Mishra had on Saturday posted a video wherein he is seen sitting in a car and hurling abuses at Joshua who had reportedly made some remarks on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s statue to be constructed in Maharashtra. Her video of April 2019 went viral on social media in the last two days following which Joshua received a lot of flak along with support online. Joshua removed her video and had even apologized after Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had directed the police to take legal action against Joshua for her remarks on Shivaji Maharaj. “We have filed FIR against Joshua under the IT Act and other relevant acts,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime) Mishra on Saturday posted a video where he used crass language for Joshua and allegedly gave rape threats. Stand-up comedians like Kunal Kamra came out in her support and sought action against Mishra, whose father runs a security firm in the city. In a letter to Gujarat director general of police (DGP) Shivanand Jha, the NCW said it has been tagged in a video posted on Twitter in which the man can be seen hurling abuses and giving rape threats to the woman. “The NCW is committed to creating safe online space for women and ensuring cyber security to women and is perturbed by the rise in use of cyberspace to instigate crime against women,” NCW chairperson, Rekha Sharma said in the letter sent late on Saturday night. “Considering the sensitivity of the matter, it is requested that the immediate action shall be taken as per the Information Technology Act, 2000, against the miscreant and a feedback be apprised to the Commission,” Sharma said. Mishra, who is HSC failed and stays in Atladara area, deleted his abusive video and has posted a long apology on his Instagram account. Mishra apologized to Joshua in his post and said claimed that he didn’t give any rape threat. He said that he felt deeply ashamed for making such a derogatory video and therefore deleted it. Mishra has promised online that he will go live on Monday to talk further about the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-shubham-mishra-arrested-for-rape-threat-to-stand-up-comedian/articleshow/76928687.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||TATR chokes villagers’ income to free forest land of encroachments||CHANDRAPUR: Discontent is brewing among villagers in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) buffer following alleged pressure tactics of cutting down the livelihood sources adopted by the park authorities to clear the agricultural encroachments on forest land. While guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar has advised the department to be considerate and take action only after investigating the Forest Right Act (FRA) claims of the encroachers, park management is firm on evicting encroachers by choking their source of income through tourism. “Buffer authorities had come with a posse of around 70 forest personnel and JCB to remove encroachments by two farmers from Agarzari around eight days back. However, they were rebuffed through united efforts of the villagers. Since then, the authorities have closed Agarzari safari circuit, butterfly garden and eco-park run by villagers,” charged Harish Kodape, sarpanch of Agarzari. He maintained that the encroachers have been tilling the land for the last several years. Their FRA claims are still pending with the district-level committee and collector had assured no action will be taken against them till the claims are finalized, he said. Kodape informed that 12 Gypsy owners, 12 drivers and around 25 guides have lost their livelihood due to closure of Agarzari gate. Over 30 women attached to two self-help groups that run the butterfly garden and eco-park too have lost their income. Similarly, many villagers appointed at forest kutis too have been removed, he alleged, charging the buffer authorities of using pressure tactics. The sarpanch claimed earlier the buffer authorities had closed Junona circuit for three months after villagers had denied giving agricultural land for afforestation. Similarly, around six Gypsys from Kolara village too have been banned from safari as their owners are involved in forest encroachment. CCF and field director NR Pravin ratified that they have closed down Agarzari gate and other livelihood sources through tourism for Agarzari villagers after they stood up to oppose removal of encroachment by two Gypsy drivers. District-level committee had rejected both the claims of Agarzari encroachers, still villagers stood up in their defence. “They (villagers) came armed with axes and chilli powder to attack the foresters who went to remove the encroachment,” said Pravin. The field director lamented the “ungratefulness” of the villagers whom TATR with the aid of NGOs and philanthropists had helped with ration and other material to survive the initial three months of lockdown. Pravin claimed that TATR management is not against the villagers. Only the encroachments getting final rejection from FRA committee are being removed. If encroachers hand over the forest land to department, we will restart the Agarzari gate and other tourism activities, he told. Recent scuffle between tribal forest dwellers and forest officials of TATR buffer zone had caught the headlines. Villagers filing police complaint against buffer officials and buffer authorities registering FIR against them had forced guardian minister Wadettiwar to issue warning to the forest department to be considerate with encroachers and do not remove their encroachment during peak rainy season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tatr-chokes-villagers-income-to-free-forest-land-of-encroachments/articleshow/76930463.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 13, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Two Covid deaths in Bareilly, 34 test positive in Budaun||BAREILLY/AGRA: Two people died during treatment while 16 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Bareilly district on Sunday. The number of positive cases also rose in Budaun district where 34 people were found infected. In Agra district, at least nine new Covid-19 cases surfaced on Sunday, taking the tally to 1,397. These included two patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of SARI and a kidney patient. Seven Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Sunday. Of the 1,397 cases, 81.39% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 168 active cases now in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,137 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-covid-deaths-in-bareilly-34-test-positive-in-budaun/articleshow/76938431.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Noida||Jewar farmers bank on scientists’ tips to save shrinking rice bowl||GREATER NOIDA: Farmers in Jewar tehsil are banking on scientific techniques to maintain the yield of basmati rice this kharif season, at a time rapid urbanisation has eaten into agricultural land. Scores of farmers from the region have been interacting with scientists from the Basmati Export Development Foundation in Meerut to figure out ways for proper preparation of fields. “Jewar tehsil was once known as the ‘basmati’ rice bowl in the western plain area that comprises seven districts. Earlier, a major chunk of the agricultural land was lost due to the Yamuna Expressway. Transplantation (ropai) activity has begun in the district. We are talking to experts to ensure we are able to maintain the same yield as last year,” said district agricultural officer Amarnath Mishra. Due to rapid strides in urbanisation, the scale of agricultural activity has gone down substantially in the district in the past decade. The latest round of surveys carried out across the district by the department shows that from 82,000 hectares of agricultural land that was tilled in 2011, the area has gone down to 55,000 hectares this year. Moreover, due to the acquisition of large land tracts for the upcoming Jewar airport, an additional 1,400 hectares of basmati cultivation would be impacted this year. Navratan Singh from Thora gram panchayat under Jewar sub-division has been cultivating paddy for decades. “Agricultural scientists and experts from the district and the foundation in Meerut have given the commitment to guide us regarding genetically enriched seeds and a multiplication programme. Through scientific ways, a farmer can improve the yield by 8% to 10% annually,” said Singh. Mishra added that the department would try to match up to the production figures of the last season by creating awareness about scientific techniques to be followed. Meanwhile, villages that have been acquired for the Jewar project would skip farming activity this season. A resident of Rohi, Bhagwan Singh, who is among the largest farm owners to part with their land for the airport project, said: “Some villagers are aware of the fact that construction activity can begin any moment and they have been growing seasonal vegetables in their fields.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/jewar-farmers-bank-on-scientists-tips-to-save-shrinking-rice-bowl/articleshow/76930150.cms||Shalabh
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Day of dubious distinction: Vid surpasses 200 deaths, 7k cases||Nagpur: Vidarbha recorded more than 200 Covid-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day and seven Covid-19 deaths in a day for the second time in July, on Sunday. The region also surpassed 7,000 cases, 200 deaths and the recovery rate dropped to 67%, which is lowest for the month. In first 12 days of July, Vidarbha has registered 2,410 cases and 48 deaths. Bhandara district registered its first Covid-19 death when a 30-year-old man who had died on July 10 due to acute pneumonia tested positive on Sunday. Nagpur, Akola and Amravati, the three worst-hit districts of Vidarbha, recorded two deaths each. Two male patients, 51 and 55, died at IGGMCH, Nagpur. In Amravati, a 52-year-old man and a woman patient died in different hospitals while in Akola a 78-year-old man and 60-year-old woman died during treatment. Vidarbha’s death toll has surged to 206. Fatality rate is 2.92%, just above national average of 2.66% and way below than state’s average of 4.40%. Now, Chandrapur is the only district in Vidarbha where no Covid-19 death has been reported so far. Total 263 cases were reported in a day. Amravati, which had recorded it’s highest single day spike of 60 cases on July 11, reported 59 more cases on Sunday. Nagpur registered 49 cases, followed by Washim (40), Buldhana (37), Yavatmal (25), Akola (20), Chandrapur (18), Wardha (6), Bhandara (6) and Gadchiroli (3). The day also saw 154 patients getting discharge but the recovery rate continues to fall as new cases are increasing by the day. Akola discharged 48 patients followed by Nagpur (35), Amravati (24), Buldhana (17), Yavatmal (11), Gondia (10), Gadchiroli (6), Chandrapur (2), and Wardha (1). Total 4,738 patients have been discharged till date for recover rate of just above 67%. AMRAVATI: After crossing 800 cases on Saturday, the district went past the 900-mark with a spike of 59 cases on Sunday to close the day at 914. The Covid hospital also discharged 24 patients, taking the number of recovered patients to 619. The district reported its 31st Covid-19 death at the local PDMC Hospital. Dean Dr Padmakar Somwanshi told TOI that a 52-year-old man from Thugaon village in Chandur Bazar tehsil was admitted in hospital for SARI. His swab samples tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night even as he had died in the morning and his funeral took place in the noon. “We got the Covid-19 report last night and accordingly district administration was informed,” Somwanshi told TOI. The second death is of a woman from Takli village in Daryapur tehsil. Hotspot Badnera reported eight new cases to take its count to 108. Tapovan premises reported five cases while Gajanan Nagar, Rahul Nagar and Greater Kailash Nagar three cases each. Six cases came from Pawan Nagar while two each from Ambika Nagar, Kanwar Nagar, Vrundavan Colony, Siddharth Nagar and Bijudhawadi village. In rural parts, cases were reported from Dhamangaon railway, Walgaon, Paratwada, Asegaon, Washim and Jalu. BHANDARA: A 30-year-old youth from Sakoli, who had died during treatment for acute pneumonia on Saturday, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. This is first Covid-19 death in Bhandara. Now, Bhandara has 170 cases, including 87 recovered patients, one death and 82 patients under-treatment. Bhandara one of the three districts in Vidarbha which still don’t have VRDL lab for Covid-19 testing. Bhandara depends on GMCH Nagpur’s VRDL Lab. AKOLA: A 78-year-old man from Sindhi camp area died in one of the private hospitals acquired for Covid-19 treatment on Sunday. A 60-year-old woman from Akot, who was admitted on June 25, died at GMCH, Akola. The district’s death toll has reached 94. Akola also reported 20 new cases while 48 patients were discharged. Akola has second highest caseload in Vidarbha after Nagpur but the recovery rate here is nearly 80%. CHANDRAPUR: District reported 18 new patients on Sunday, taking the total to 187. The district health department has undertaken large-scale screening and every outsider is being sent to institutional quarantine. The district has seen 96 patients getting recovered while 91 are under treatment. No death has been reported in Chandrapur so far. District collector Kunal Khemnar has urged citizens to immediately inform them about people coming from outside into their neighbourhood. The new patients include six from Chandrapur city and four from rural areas of Chandrapur. Five cases are related to a marriage ceremony. Those found positive in Chandrapur city include one each from Akashwani Chowk and Hanuman temple locality, and four from Police Line. Those from rural area include three members of a family from WCL Colony in Urja Nagar and a woman from Datala village on city’s outskirts. Except for Hanuman Nagar patient having travel history, all new patients are close contacts of positive patients. BULDHANA: Buldhana is closing in on the 500-mark after 37 new cases on Sunday. These include 25 detected through rapid antigen test and 12 through RT-PCR in laboratories. These cases are from Buldhana, Khamgaon, Mehkar, Shegaon, Malkapur and other tehsils. The day also saw 17 patients getting discharge after recovery. There are total 482 cases now and 17 deaths while 213 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: Washim recorded 40 new cases in the last 48-hours. Officials informed that people are coming forward as Covid-19 suspects. Four such patients tested positive on Sunday. District collector Hrisheekesh Modak said that most of the 135 under-treatment patients are asymptomatic. YAVATMAL: The district witnessed a spike of 25 new cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 443. Patients came from Yavatmal city, Darwha, Digras, Pusad, Pandharkawda, Umarkhed and Ner tehsils. After discharge to 11 patients, the district has 132 patients under treatment. GONDIA: The district administration heaved a sigh of relief as no new cases were registered on Sunday. Ten patients were discharged after recovery. Reports of 166 samples are awaited. GADCHIROLI: Covid-19 positive CRPF jawans have started recovering from Covid-19. Six patients, including two jawans, recovered on Sunday. Gadchiroli has total 174 cases, including nine from other districts/states, while 102 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-of-dubious-distinction-vid-surpasses-200-deaths-7k-cases/articleshow/76930307.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 13, 2020||Faridabad||Noida: Bridge planned to ease jams at Parthala Chowk hits hurdle||NOIDA: Parthala Chowk — one of the busiest junctions in the city — may soon have a flyover that will ease the traffic congestion in the area. While Noida has already floated a tender for its construction, it is caught in a difficult situation due to the “unique design” of the project. The six-lane flyover has been planned at the intersection of Vikas Marg and the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad (FNG) Expressway. The consultant hired by the Noida Authority to come up with the design of the flyover has recommended a cable-stayed bridge at the roundabout. However, construction firms have raised apprehensions regarding the design citing a lack of experience. Explaining the reason for the design — the first in the city — project engineer Mukesh Kumar Vaishya said, “Normally, span-length of flyovers run between 30 metres and 60 metres. But at the FNG, the flyover needs to have a minimum span-length of 75 metres. Hence, experts from Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS) came up with an idea of constructing a suspended bridge at Parthala Chowk.” The tender for the project costing Rs 83 crore was floated on July 2. The engineers from the authority later discussed with around six contractors who wanted clarifications. Nearly 700-metre-long, the flyover at the crossing is much-needed for over 1.25 lakh motor vehicle owners who cross the stretch daily. During peak hours, 18,000 to 20,000 vehicles cross the stretch per hour. The road connects Noida to Noida Extension. The completion of FNG and an upcoming metro station near the crossing in Sector 122 is expected to add to the traffic chaos. “As per the design, a 150-metre-long span has to be suspended through cables over the Parthala roundabout. We have not taken such work in the past. That is why we thought about checking with the officials on whether they can consider alternatives,” said an engineer from a private construction firm. The other design suggested was a bowstring bridge with a 150-metre-long span. Vaishya said that the bidders have time till July 21 to respond to the tender. “Meanwhile, we are identifying companies that have experience in constructing suspended bridges,” he added. Once awarded the contract, the firm would have to complete the flyover within 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/bridge-planned-to-ease-jams-at-parthala-chk-hits-hurdle/articleshow/76930796.cms||Shalabh
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Woman in labour walks 23km through forest on way to hospital||Nagpur: South Gadchiroli’s remotest locality of Abhujmadh on Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border, known as Maoist bastion, witnessed two separate dramas revolving around pregnant women this month, which underline the hardships tribal population is facing amid violence and lack of development.In the first incident, a nine-month pregnant Roshni Padoli had to walk 23km while fighting labour pain, from Turremarka hamlet to Laheri through the forest of Binagunda in Bhamragarh tehsil, before taking another 20km bumpy ride in an ambulance to Lok Biradari Prakalp, Hemalkasa on July 3. Roshni, in her 20s, also had to wade through the gushing riverine (Gundenur nullah) in waist-deep water with the strong current threatening to wash her away on way to primary health centre (PHC) at Laheri. Ambulance can drive up to Gundenur nullah in the summers but it’s impossible during the monsoon. She had to walk at least 5km to reach Laheri from Gundenur nullah before getting the ambulance for Lok Biradari hospital. Jaded but not down, Roshni delivered a baby girl within few hours after reaching the Lok Biradari hospital with husband, elder son and ASHA worker Parvati Usendi. “She (Roshni) was already into labour when she reached our hospital. With nerves of steel and stamina, she managed to make it to the hospital in such advanced stage of pregnancy,” said Dr Anagha Amte, a gynecologist under whose supervision Roshni became mother for the second time. “Around a year ago, a woman had delivered under a tree in Binagunda on her way back home after check-up at the hospital,” she said highlighting the plight of pregnant woman from the forested Binagunda and Ambujhmadh locality where development is a distant dream. “Roshni could not wait for more than five days with the newborn as there are chances of Binagunda getting cut off from rest of the district during heavy rain. The new mother had to walk back home on the same 23km route from Laheri holding her baby,” said Dr Amte.In another incident, four-month pregnant Jaya Padoli lost the battle of life after travelling on a charpoy carried by her relatives for around 5 kms from Gundenur hamlet in Binagunda forest. The relatives had to rush an unconscious Jaya trudging through the waters of a riverine fed by the Pamulgautam river flowing with full might in the rain. She was taken to Laheri PHC but later referred to rural hospital in Bhamragarh where doctors declared her dead.Dr Shashikant Shambarkar, district health officer of Gadchiroli, said that preliminary investigation suggests Jaya died due to snake bite and not pregnancy-related complications. District collector Deepak Singla said that some bike-ambulance are being procured to cater to the remotest part of the tribal district.Activist Bodhi Ramteke, a law student, said his group has filed complaints before the state human rights commission for securing compensation for families of Roshni and Jaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-in-labour-walks-23km-through-forest-on-way-to-hospital/articleshow/76930344.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 13, 2020||Agra||UP: Two Covid deaths in Bareilly, 34 test positive in Budaun||BAREILLY/AGRA: Two people died during treatment while 16 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Bareilly district on Sunday. The number of positive cases also rose in Budaun district where 34 people were found infected. In Agra district, at least nine new Covid-19 cases surfaced on Sunday, taking the tally to 1,397. These included two patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of SARI and a kidney patient. Seven Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Sunday. Of the 1,397 cases, 81.39% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 168 active cases now in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,137 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-covid-deaths-in-bareilly-34-test-positive-in-budaun/articleshow/76928482.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Govt goes for record, delays publishing final tiger report||Nagpur: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) is slated to release the final report of All India Tiger Estimation (AITE) 2018 on July 29, 2020, Global Tiger Day. On the same day last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had released state specific summary of the report showing presence of 2,967 tigers in India. Even as the final report is yet to be published, AITE 2018 entered the Guinness Book of World Records on Friday as the ‘largest ever camera trap wildlife survey’. The AITE 2018 was to be announced in August 2019 but serious discrepancies crept in, with exaggerated numbers. It was overhauled by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Wildlife Institute of India (WII) for nearly a year. TOI did a series of stories on the delay but NTCA cited one or the other reason, including the lockdown in May. On May 24, NTCA member-secretary Anup Kumar Nayak, who superannuated on June 30, had told TOI that the report was in print and will be available on June 15. However, instead of making it public it was shared with the Guinness Book of World Record. Nayak said, “By the time final report came in, I retired. I tried my best to see the report gets published before my retirement but it could not happen.” WII scientist and coordinator for AITE 2018 YV Jhala confirmed this. Environment minister Prakash Javadekar’s tweet on India’s 2018 tiger estimation making it to the world record invited sharp reactions from people for his ministry’s doublespeak. Former environment minister Jairam Ramesh said, “Camera trap survey started over a decade ago and progressively increased. You want to take credit for this too while you open up biodiversity rich forest areas?” The first All India Tiger Estimation (AITE) with camera traps was conducted in 2006. Independent wildlife scientists questioned the record before the report is published. “On July 29, 2019, population of tigers in India was 2,967 animals. This was one-third more than the reported number in 2014 — 2,226 tigers — and more than double of 1,411 tigers in 2006. However, the considerable delay in releasing the full report casts doubt on these claims,” they told TOI. “On one hand, the BJP government is trying to take credit for increasing tiger numbers and on the other it is diluting wildlife and environment laws. Recently, two coal blocks Bander and Marki-Mangli were allotted for auction by coal ministry in Tadoba tiger corridor,” remarked naturalist Himanshu Bagde. Wildlife expert Kishor Rithe said, “Initially, NTCA faced hurdles like shortage of camera traps, besides problems in areas like Sundarbans. But now it is a well-established body. Under SP Yadav, we expect NTCA to publish report in time.” “The delay shows estimation exercises just want to achieve targets by swelling numbers, and are not for landscape conservation for tigers and ecology. Will the final report be correct? In the last 20 months at least 156 tigers (100 in 2019 and 56 in 2020) have died, which are counted in the report,” said conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar. However, NTCA officials maintained, “The delay is due to three times more data collected than 2014. In 2018, 3.5 crore images of wild animals were recorded, which needs finer detailing. The delay is purely due to voluminous work.” Even as NTCA-WII report is delayed, Maharashtra with the help of a section of NGOs and forest staff smoothly completed its Phase IV exercise in 2020. TATR has even announced its tiger numbers for estimation conducted in 2018-2019. In 1682 sq km, it has estimated 115 tigers and 151 leopards. TIGERS FOR RECORDS 2014 Report declared: Jan 20, 2015 Final report: March 2015 Area covered: 4,73,580 sq km Walk: 6,72,560km Transects: 90,750 Minimum area: 4 sq km Plots sampled: 1,63,292 Camera trap sites: 26 Tiger occupancy: 88,558 sq km Tiger images: 15,000 Tiger photo-captured: 1,540 Tiger numbers: 2,226 Leopard population: 7,910 2018 Summary report: July 28, 2019 Final Report: Dec 31, expected Area covered: 3,81,400 sq km Camera traps covered: 1,21,337 sqkm Camera trap sites: 141 Minimum area: 2 sq km Foot surveys: 5,22,996km Tiger occupancy: 88,985 sq km Images captured: 34,858,623 Tiger images: 76,651 Tiger photo-captured: 2,461 Leopard images: 51,777||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-goes-for-record-delays-publishing-final-tiger-report/articleshow/76930318.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 13, 2020||Ghaziabad||Noida: Bridge planned to ease jams at Parthala Chowk hits hurdle||NOIDA: Parthala Chowk — one of the busiest junctions in the city — may soon have a flyover that will ease the traffic congestion in the area. While Noida has already floated a tender for its construction, it is caught in a difficult situation due to the “unique design” of the project. The six-lane flyover has been planned at the intersection of Vikas Marg and the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad (FNG) Expressway. The consultant hired by the Noida Authority to come up with the design of the flyover has recommended a cable-stayed bridge at the roundabout. However, construction firms have raised apprehensions regarding the design citing a lack of experience. Explaining the reason for the design — the first in the city — project engineer Mukesh Kumar Vaishya said, “Normally, span-length of flyovers run between 30 metres and 60 metres. But at the FNG, the flyover needs to have a minimum span-length of 75 metres. Hence, experts from Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS) came up with an idea of constructing a suspended bridge at Parthala Chowk.” The tender for the project costing Rs 83 crore was floated on July 2. The engineers from the authority later discussed with around six contractors who wanted clarifications. Nearly 700-metre-long, the flyover at the crossing is much-needed for over 1.25 lakh motor vehicle owners who cross the stretch daily. During peak hours, 18,000 to 20,000 vehicles cross the stretch per hour. The road connects Noida to Noida Extension. The completion of FNG and an upcoming metro station near the crossing in Sector 122 is expected to add to the traffic chaos. “As per the design, a 150-metre-long span has to be suspended through cables over the Parthala roundabout. We have not taken such work in the past. That is why we thought about checking with the officials on whether they can consider alternatives,” said an engineer from a private construction firm. The other design suggested was a bowstring bridge with a 150-metre-long span. Vaishya said that the bidders have time till July 21 to respond to the tender. “Meanwhile, we are identifying companies that have experience in constructing suspended bridges,” he added. Once awarded the contract, the firm would have to complete the flyover within 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/bridge-planned-to-ease-jams-at-parthala-chk-hits-hurdle/articleshow/76930795.cms||Shalabh
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Board UPSRTC buses for cashless journey from November||LUCKNOW: Come November and passengers would start getting a facility of cashless travel in over 12,000 buses run by UPSRTC buses. The corporation would give its conductors about 15,000 android machines for ticketing purpose which would accept all modes of payment. In the times of Covid, it will also act as a precaution against the infection. MD, UPSRTC, Raj Shekhar, said, "By November the department will issue these machines to conductors. All kinds of payment, including debit and credit cards, smart cards, E-Wallet and tap and pay mode, would be accepted by these machines. Trials will start by October.” The MD furthers said that service centres for the repair of these machines would be set up at all divisional headquarters. Existing machines are outdated and they do not support credit, debit and other modes of e-payment. The advanced machines will also verify the QR code of tickets booked online. Ticket-issued status for each bus can be assessed in real time using these machines for effective monitoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/board-upsrtc-buses-for-cashless-journey-from-nov/articleshow/76930449.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Dhaba owner kills woman, shoots self with same pistol in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: A 30-year-old dhaba owner allegedly shot dead a woman and then killed himself with the same pistol in Pataudi in the early hours of Sunday. Both Rajesh and Priyanka (20) were from Nankuan village in Pataudi. While police said that they are investigating the motive behind the crime, sources said the two had known each other for several years and may have been in a relationship earlier. Rajesh, who was married and had three children, ran a dhaba with his father in Nankuan. Meanwhile, Priyanka got married on June 29 and had recently come home to visit her family. Her father had passed away a few years ago. According to the police complaint filed by Priyanka’s uncle Ramji Lal, who runs a tent house in the village, Rajesh came to Priyanka’s house on Saturday night and took her to his dhaba. “When we realised that Priyanka hadn’t returned, we started searching for her. We found their bodies in a vacant plot behind Rajesh’s dhaba around 5am on Sunday. He had first fired a bullet at my niece in the chest and then shot himself in the head,” Ramji Lal said in his statement to the police. A country-made pistol was found on the ground next to their bodies. Ramji Lal immediately informed police. A team soon arrived and took the bodies away for post-mortem, the results of which are awaited. A first information report was registered at Pataudi police station against Rajesh under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act on Sunday. “We have registered an FIR and investigation is underway. As of now, we do not have any information on the motive behind the crime. It appears that Rajesh shot her in the chest before killing himself,” the SHO of Pataudi police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dhaba-owner-kills-woman-shoots-self-with-same-pistol/articleshow/76930461.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Trichy||Freight traffic down 29% in Trichy railway div due to lockdown||Trichy: Despite the lockdown, Trichy railway division has moved 22.62 lakh tonnes of goods including 3.11 lakh tonnes of foodgrain and 0.57 lakh tonnes of fertilizers between April and June. This was 31.58 lakh tonnes during the corresponding period last year. The fall in foodgrain movement was only 10% , but there was a 35% surge in handling of fertilizers, overall causing a 29% dip in freight movement compared to last quarter’s. Reduction in coal movement was due to less demand in power plants such as Mettur dam thermal plant, TAQA plant at Uthangal and IL&FS plant in Cuddalore, official sources said. Cement was the only commodity carried in containers, mostly to Sri Lanka. However, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, container traffic was stopped, they added. Meanwhile, the division has set up a business development unit (BDU) to serve as nodal point to enable industry and trade representatives as well as rail freight customers for expeditious clearance of proposals. “The focus of these units is to double the freight carried by railways by 2024, with particular focus on strengthening railways’ share in existing traffic and at the same time to attract non-bulk goods traffic which is now being moved by road”, a senior official said.M Boopathiraja, senior divisional operations manager would be the convener of the unit which will have senior divisional commercial manager, senior divisional finance manager and senior divisional mechanical engineer as its members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/freight-traffic-down-29-in-trichy-railway-div-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/76930464.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||11.7L persons in Meerut div in ‘vulnerable’ health category||Lucknow: Over 11.75 lakh persons in the high-burden Meerut division belong to the ‘vulnerable category’, as per an assessment done by the state health department. “These persons were found to be suffering with at least one comorbid medical condition in the door-to-door execise undertaken by health teams between July 2 and 12,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, on Sunday. The exercise covers vulnerable persons like pregnant women, persons suffering with comorbid conditions like cancer, renal disease or diabetes, elderly and children below 10 years of age. Now, it is underway in the remaining 17 divisions of the state. Prasad said that a total 2,51,94,708 crore households were covered by over five lakh teams in the massive exercise. “The health teams reached out to 12,94,35,139 persons, of whom 11,75,975 (about 1% of the total population) accounted for at least one comorbid condition,” he said. Among the vulnerable persons, most were diabetics, followed by those suffering from hypertension. “Of those with comorbid conditions, 8,48,593 were diabetics while 2,38,238 were on blood pressure medication,” Prasad said. The list also included those with cardiac ailments (54,247), renal issues (16,879), and cancer (18018). The health teams also gathered data on influenza like illness, severe acute respiratory illness and those suffering with a lung disease. The data under these heads is being computed. Six districts of Meerut division — Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Baghpat — account for about one-fourth of the total Covid burden in the state. At present, these six districts account for 27% of the active infections and one-fourth of all coronavirus related deaths. In a public interaction organized by Unicef, state surveillance officer, Vikasendu Agarwal had mentioned that comorbid conditions made it easy for the pandemic virus to operate inside its host. “Of those who died in UP, over 70% were suffering with one or the other comorbid condition. Though a formal audit of available data on Covid deaths is still underway, diabetes was a crucial risk factor. Thus, precaution and prevention protocol is the only life-saving bet we can bank on,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/11-7l-persons-in-meerut-div-in-vulnerable-health-category/articleshow/76930462.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 13, 2020||Agra||AICC secretary Vivek Bansal, 37 other party workers booked for violating prohibitory orders in Aligarh||Agra: All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Vivek Bansal, along with 37 other party workers, was booked by Aligarh police on Saturday for allegedly violating prohibitory orders while staging a protest two days ago against inflation. According to police, when the protest was impeded due to prohibitory orders enforced across the state due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Congress leaders claimed that they had asked for permission for it. The FIR also stated that they were also found negligent in wearing masks. All of them have been booked under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC, along with section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and section 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act at the Kawarsi police station. Bansal said that they had staged the protest to raise their voice against the issuance of electricity bills to commercial units, which were shut during the lockdown period. They had sought permission but did not receive any reply from the administration. However, according to him, they had followed all precautions while holding the protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aicc-secretary-vivek-bansal-37-other-party-workers-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders-in-aligarh/articleshow/76928505.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Agra||Craving for pan masala drives Covid patient out of isolation ward in Agra||Agra: A 35-year-old Covid-19 positive man ran away from the isolation ward of SN Medical College here on Saturday evening sending hospital staff in a tizzy and what followed was a massive search for him by police and rapid response teams that lasted for over an hour until the patient was traced to the house of his friend’s relative in Gandhi Nagar. Upon questioning why he escaped from the ward, the patient candidly admitted that it was the craving for pan masala that drove him out of the hospital, said SNMC sources. As he did not find any nearby shops opened due to the ongoing lockdown, he went to Gandhi Nagar, where he bought pan masala and after satisfying his craving, he went to the house of his friend’s relative urging them to admit him to a private hospital, they added. Meanwhile, all members of the family have been home quarantined after the patient visited them. Confirming the incident, SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “Upon his return, the patient said he ran away from the hospital due to his addiction to chewing pan masala. He is being kept under tight watch at the isolation ward. The patient is mentally unstable and being counselled by doctors.”A resident of Rajpur Chungi locality, the patient — an area sales manager with an electronic company — had complained of fever and cough last week, following which he was admitted to a private hospital. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and was shifted to the isolation ward at SNMC late in the night. Divulging details, SNMC sources said after the patient saw the guard at the main gate going inside to inform about the visit of the bio-medical collection vehicle around 4.30 pm, he quickly put on his T-shirt and jeans pant and escaped from the ward. As staffers found the patient missing, they informed higher authorities, while doctors on duty at the ward informed police and the rapid response team to find him out. The patient, meanwhile, walked down to Fuwaara Crossing but as he did not find any shops opened there, he took a rickshaw and went to Gandhi Nagar to buy pan masala. After satisfying his craving and stocking a few sachets of pan masala, he went to the home of his friend’s relative urging them to admit him to a private hospital. When the household called his friend (also their relative), they came to know that he was Covid-19 positive. Later, family members of the patient informed the hospital and he was brought back, said sources. Agra district chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “All family members of the household where the patient had visited have been home quarantined. They were screened and their samples would be sent for Covid-19 test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/craving-for-pan-masala-drives-covid-patient-out-of-isolation-ward-in-agra/articleshow/76928496.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 13, 2020||India||Sehrai, tipped to succeed Geelani as Hurriyat chairman, held under PSA||SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: In what could be a dampener for the succession plan of All Party Hurriyat Conference (Geelani) following the recent resignation of Syed Ali Shah Geelani as chairman, J&K authorities on Sunday morning detained Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chairman Ashraf Sehrai under the Public Safety Act (PSA). Sehrai was emerging as a frontrunner to lead APHC (G) after Geelani’s exit. Seen by the security establishment as yet another hardliner who was in the news due to the recent killing of his son, Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Junaid Sehrai, in a counter-terror operation, Ashraf Sehrai purportedly had support not only within Kashmir but also enjoyed the blessings of Pakistan’s ISI, which is said to guide and fund APHC (G), to lead the faction. Sehrai, who was once close to Geelani but had lately developed differences with him over several issues including finances, was tipped to be named as APHC (G) chairman in the days to come and was already getting active to assume the new role. His detention under PSA, under which a person can be held without trial for long periods, is bound to put the APHC (G) succession plan on hold. Official sources said a police party arrested Sehrai around 5.30 am from Barzulla in Srinagar on Sunday. His son Rashid Sehrai said, “Police came around 5.30 am and asked for my father and took him along. I went to the police station with medicines as he is suffering from many diseases, and clothes after the DGP confirmed PSA on him through a tweet. The officials told me he has been lodged in Udhampur.” Sehrai had migrated to Srinagar from Sopore, Baramulla, in the early nineties to spearhead the separatist movement in the city centre and had purchased a house in Barzulla near Sadar police station. The Hurriyat Conference is an amalgam of various groups and Tehreek-e-Hurriyat is one of the constituents of the Geelani faction. Geelani had resigned as head of APHC (G) on June 29 and nominated one Abdullah Geelani, presently living in Islamabad, as the new chief of the faction’s PoK chapter. Notably, Geelani left the Kashmir Hurriyat chapter headless which resulted in confusion among separatist cadres. Reports suggested that ISI was planning to nominate Ashraf Sehrai as head of the Hurriyat Conference in order to keep the separatist movement live and make him issue diktats like strike calls to people from Srinagar. This was necessitated after Geelani’s family last week distanced itself from the announcement of a strike call coinciding with the death anniversary of Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani, given in the name of Geelani on his ‘letterhead’ from Pakistan. This created a row between the Geelani family and Pakistan-sponsored separatist leaders. Interestingly, Sehrai was not jailed in the run-up to or after the nullification of Article 370 but kept under house arrest for some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sehrai-tipped-to-succeed-geelani-as-hurriyat-chairman-held-under-psa/articleshow/76930757.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Cases continue to dip in Chennai, but spiral in nearby districts||CHENNAI: Though new infections are on the rise in Tamil Nadu, with 4,244 cases reported on Sunday, the number of active cases has remained under the 47,000-mark throughout the week. While Chennai maintained a downward curve with 1,168 cases, fresh cases were spiraling in its three neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur. Until two weeks ago, these three districts together recorded around 500 new cases every day. But on Sunday they recorded 862 cases, a 72% increase. Tiruvallur (death rate of 1.9) with a total of 127 deaths so far has one of the highest Covid mortality rates in the state. Tamil Nadu’s death rate was 1.4. On Sunday, 44 of the 68 deaths were reported in Chennai and its three neighbours. A 31-year-old male from Chengalpet, admitted at the local government hospital without any comorbidity, was the youngest Covid victim on Sunday. Of 24 deaths that were reported from other districts, 12 deaths happened within 24 hours of hospitalisation. This indicates that patients were reaching out to hospitals at the last minute -- a trend recorded in Chennai during the early stages of Covid spread. “Early admission was one of the key reasons to reduce deaths in Chennai. The state is trying to replicate the same in districts where cases are on the rise now. We have almost doubled tests in districts like Madurai,” said a senior official from the Department of Public Health (DPH), TN. Besides 1,400 beds at Government Rajaji Hospital, additional 850 beds have been set up in 21 Covid care centres in Madurai to provide effective care, the official added. Madurai, at present, tests around 3,000 samples a day. Though the southern district has been reporting around 300 new cases every day this week, the discharge rate has been high. Therefore, the number of active cases has come down from 4.131 on July 10 to 3,372 on Sunday. In Chennai too, the number of active cases (17,469 cases) continued to hover around the 17,000 mark. Tamil Nadu totally had 46,969 active cases. Districts such as Virudhunagar (246 new cases) , Vellore (151), Tiruvannamalai (151), Coimbatore (117), Theni (115), Trichy (103) and Salem (98) continue to be worst-affected. The state’s Covid tally was 1,38,470. Also, 34 air and road passengers, who returned to TN, tested positive on Sunday. So far, a total of 4,311 returnees to the state have tested positive at surveillance camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-continue-to-dip-in-city-but-spiral-in-nearby-districts/articleshow/76930049.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD can meet all expenditure till Sep 1||Tirupati: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is comfortably placed to meet all its expenditure, including payment of salaries and pensions, till September 1. But if the Covid-19 crisis were to continue beyond September, the temple body will have to draw funds from its corpus for the first time in its history. Speaking to reporters, executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal said the TTD trust board has been closely monitoring revenue and expenditure. “Recently, TTD disposed human hair stockpile that fetched a revenue of Rs 37.23 crore. Likewise, we are looking at enhancing our revenues through different avenues”, noted Singhal. The EO said the temple trust board will hold its meeting in August and once again review the financial scenario. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-can-meet-all-expenditure-till-sep-1/articleshow/76929456.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 13, 2020||Goa||GFP alleges figures being fudged to show all is well||Panaji: The directorate of health services is discharging asymptomatic Covid-19 patients without testing them, in order to portray that the government is successful in tackling the pandemic, alleged Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai on Sunday. He also said chief minister Pramod Sawant is to be blamed directly for the rise in the Covid-19 death toll. “The government should come out with a white paper on how many people have been discharged as cured without testing. They are fudging figures to show all is well,” he said.  He said, “Goa is heading towards a Covid disaster mainly because of the mismanagement, misplaced priorities and the disastrous leadership of the present government.” Making a similar charge, independent MLA Rohan Khaunte said that over 500 Covid positive patients are being discharged without confirmatory tests being conducted. “This is clearly being staged to bring down reporting of rising coronavirus cases in Goa, while risking the lives of Goenkars who are holding themselves in their houses out of fear of catching the infection,” Khaunte said. GFP also questioned Sawant about the 200 ventilators that were promised for the state. “The government needs to introspect and do course correction. All these projects should be kept aside and all resources and government material should be used to fight the Covid war,” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-alleges-figures-being-fudged-to-show-all-is-well/articleshow/76930611.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hubballi||129 cases on a single day in Dharwad||DHARWAD: Dharwad district saw 129 persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours from Saturday evening to Sunday evening. A 52-year-old man who had was admitted to KIMS hospital on July 7 died on Friday night, according to the health bulletin issued by the authorities. As many as 64 persons were cured and discharged on Sunday. With Sunday’s report, Dharwad district has been placed third in the list of number of Covid positive cases in the state. The total number of positive cases in the district rose to 1,088 and of them 382 have been cured and discharged. The total number of active cases remains at 673. So far 33 persons who had tested positive have succumbed to the infection in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/129-cases-on-a-single-day-in-dharwad/articleshow/76928515.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Corona tests up by 650 times since March: Govt||Lucknow: State health officials on Sunday shared with pride that the testing capacity in UP has gone up by 650 times since March. “Against the capacity of conducting 60-odd tests in the beginning of March, on an average we are now testing 40,000 tests every day. This is about 650 times rise since March,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. After the addition of seven new labs, UP now has 41 centres to conduct Covid-19 tests. This is in addition to the availability of Trunat machines in every district and medical college of the state. Claiming that 39,623 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours while the total number of tests conducted so far is 11,56,089, he said: “Efforts are underway to increase the capacity further in wake of the rising cases.” As many as 1,388 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking total to 36,480. State capital Lucknow accounted for a maximum of 165 entries. The number of discharges reported since Saturday was 645 taking the total to 23,334. The state also recorded 21 Covid-19 deaths. Three deaths were reported in Kanpur Nagar and two each in Prayagraj, Bareilly and Muzaffarnagar. Besides, Kushinagar, Chandauli, Jhansi, Balrampur,Sultanpur, Sambhal, Aligarh, Basti, Moradabad, Lucknow, Meerut and Agra recorded one death each. Among the fresh cases, districts of the Meerut division, including Ghaziabad (142), Gautam Budh Nagar (64), Meerut (59), Baghpat (15), Bulandshahr (14) and Hapur (13) accounted for 22% (307) of the total cases in the state. Fifteen districts that saw over 25 cases included: Gorakhpur (73), Kanpur (59), Jaunpur (44), Bareilly (40), Mainpuri (42), Varanasi (39), Sambhal (38), Jhansi (38), Kushinagar (33), Prayagraj (32), Unnao (31), Moradabad (28),Mathura (27), Deoria (26) and Chandauli (26).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-tests-up-by-650-times-since-march-govt/articleshow/76930467.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Hitchhiker constable held for stalking, doc among victims||HYDERABAD: Banjara Hills police on Sunday arrested a 32-year-old constable of the Telangana State Special Police (TSSP) for outraging the modesty of a woman. It is learnt that the cop was a repeat offender as a lady doctor had levelled similar allegation against the accused in Saifabad limits. According to police, P Veerababu, who hails from Nalgonda, was on duty with the Panjagutta police station and was staying in Yusufguda. On July 7, he hitch-hiked his way to office on the vehicle of 34-year-old woman from Srinagar Colony. “The woman, who runs her own business, gave him the lift as she was also also going towards Panjagutta. They then exchanged phone numbers. Veerababu told the woman that she can contact him for any help. Later, he started sending messages, pictures and even attempted video calls despite the victim repeatedly requesting him to stop doing so,” said Banjara Hills ACP K Srinivasa Rao. However, the constable was unwilling to relent and started asking the victim to send her pictures. It was then the victim approached the Banjara Hills cops to lodge a case against the constable. The accused was booked for stalking and outrage of modesty of a woman and sent to jail. Commissioner of police Anjani Kumar suspended the cop. Banjara Hills inspector Kalinga Rao said that a lady doctor had approached Saifabad police station and complained against Veerababu. On July 9, the accused asked for a lift from the doctor at Khairtabad to CM camp office. “While travelling he asked for her phone number. But the doctor gave her husband’s phone number. He started making repeated video calls and sending messages,” said Saifabad police. The couple also approached the cops on Saturday. The Hyderabad CP, posted the case on social media. “NONE IS ABOVE LAW. Constable Veerababu of 12 Battalion TSSP is arrested and sent to jail for misbehaving with a lady. Such criminals in uniform put our head down in shame. NEVER TOLERATE ANY NONSENSE FROM ANYONE. Inform any misconduct by a Cop on WhatsApp at 9490616555.(sic),” tweeted the CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hitchhiker-constable-held-for-stalking-doc-among-victims/articleshow/76930458.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Plans afoot to put cycles back on track||CHENNAI: Commuting post-Covid will not be the same. A survey by Institute of Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) has found that cycling will increase by 50%-65%, including trips to workplaces and shops as cities come out of lockdown. But is Chennai’s infrastructure good enough to ensure cyclists maintain ‘social distance’ from cars and bikes when the traffic resumes? To address that, the Smart Cities Mission has thrown a challenge at the city’s administrators – find temporary solutions that can give cyclists their long overdue right of way. For starters, pop-up cycle tracks may be a new feature on the city’s roads. These temporary tracks ideally involve construction of an elevated lane made of a synthetic track that would be three to four inches above the road to give the cyclist a smooth ride. Across the world, such lanes are being experimented temporarily by placing traffic bollards separating the lane from main roads. It may become permanent features based on the usage. For example, in London several such lanes are being set up and a 30km car-free zone is in the pipeline. “If these pop-up lanes come up in the city, it will be beneficial. But we would need strict enforcement from the police to ensure they remain free from encroachment and exclusive for cyclists,” said Gratian Govias, president of Chennai Amateur Cyclist Association, and cycling coach. V Padmapriya, a city-based cyclist, said any infrastructure for non-motorised transport requires awareness and education to ensure people use it the right way. “The 3.5km stretch from Island Ground to Napier bridge through Kamarajar Salai has trucks parked on them. So a dedicated cycling lane is just on paper. Even on Raj Bhavan road, two-wheelers enter cycling lanes. Unless and otherwise there is lane discipline, it is very difficult to implement or put to use,” she said. Under this challenge, 140 cities across the country, including 11 in Tamil Nadu, will participate and come up with temporary and quick interventions to promote cycling. They will have to complete a pilot project by October that can be scaled up in future. Eleven best projects will be selected and awarded Rs 1cr. Kunal Kumar, joint secretary smart cities mission, said Indian cities have already begun promoting cycling as a response to the pandemic. Kolkata has proposed a dedicated cycle corridor by reclaiming parking spaces. In Guwahati, a survey for citizens to vote for best routes for bicycle lanes is being conducted. The cities should identify a nodal officer and other members of the team who are expected to coordinate on the planning, design and implementation of the challenge. Ashwathy Dilip from ITDP said there should be coordination between the citizen and the infrastructure created for them. “Lot of people are buying cycles as gyms are closed, traffic has reduced and there is no mode for exercise. While 3% use it for connectivity, 7% use it for recreation. But cycling is not picking up due to safety concerns and lack of physical infrastructure. Also, access to cycles is an issue because either a rich person cycles for fitness and recreation or a poor man uses it as he has no other choice to commute. We need to provide cycles through rent, sharing, free schemes, community intervention programmes and extensive campaigning to break stigma and make it attractive. All of this will be part of the project,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/citys-new-challenge-social-distancing-between-cyclists-and-motorists/articleshow/76930055.cms||Komal Gautham
July 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fishing hit after exporter contracts virus||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fishing activities at the Pudimadaka fishing harbour — the second-largest fish landing centre in Visakhapatnam district — has been hit hard after a fish exporter from Visakhapatnam recently tested positive for Covid-19 and other traders stopped visiting the harbour. As sales dropped, only 700 to 800 of the 7,000 fishermen from the six adjacent villages of Pudimadaka panchayat are venturing into sea. With prices falling, they are forced to sell their catch at 30% to 50% below the usual price. “Although, no fishermen from these six fishing villages have tested positive, traders and exporters are simply not going to the fishing harbour after one of them tested positive a day after visiting the harbour. This is having an impact on the 20,000 people who live in these villages,” Arijili Dasu, a fisherman activist told TOI. At the fishing harbour, fishing activities have started dwindling. Over the last few days, most fishermen have not ventured into the sea as the number of prospective customers has fallen. “While tuna costs around Rs 100 to Rs 150 per kg at the harbour market, we sold it for only Rs 70 to Rs 80 per kg on Saturday. Preserving the fish is a costly affair so with lack of customers we are forced to sell at a low price,” said B Satya, a fisherman from Pudimadaka, located around 50 km south of Visakhapatnam. Meanwhile, fishermen activists and the district fisheries administration have decided to hold an awareness programme to encourage traders and exporters to return to Pudimadaka. “The situation is unfortunate. There is no proof that the concerned exporter got contaminated with the virus at the harbour. We are trying to make them aware of this,” a senior district fisheries official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fishing-hit-after-exporter-contracts-virus/articleshow/76929478.cms||Arpit Basu
July 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Aarogya Setu marred by technical glitch||Visakhapatnam: Users of the Aarogya Setu mobile application may have been encouraged to keep their Bluetooth switched on at all times for effective tracking of Covid-19 patients and those in quarantine, but the suggestion has fallen on deaf ears, rued medical and health officials. The application, part of the Union government’s efforts to check the spread of the virus, currently has 14.10 crore users, but officials who carry out random checks of its status when people visit for swab collection said the results are often faulty. Speaking to TOI, a senior medical officer said they can track the movement of an individual when he or she moves from one location to another based upon GPS technology. However, “we are not able to identify the Bluetooth status on the user’s phone, that is, whether it is switched on or off. This is a small issue, but significant in tracking contacts. It helps a user know about another person’s health status,” the medical officer said. The officer said that the application often shows ‘green’ inside a containment zone and even while interacting with Covid-19 patients. More than 80 per cent of users of the app, the officer said, did not keep Bluetooth on their phone switched on, and suggested the government update the application. Prof GSN Raju, an expert in communication technology and vice-chancellor of Centurion University of Technology and Management, said the government should take into account feedback from stakeholders. “The app can be updated by fixing bugs and technical errors, including the Bluetooth issue,” Raju told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aarogya-setu-marred-by-technical-glitch/articleshow/76929487.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Tracks laid, all but cyclists use them||Felix John, a cyclist from Chennai, was excited when exclusive cycle lanes were announced and inaugurated in 2017. However, the big and ambitious project didn’t help the cyclist in the city. The tracks were taken over by vendors and motorists found it convenient to illegally park their vehicles. “The 17km dedicated cycling lane could be used only early in the morning or late at night. Even then, parking was an issue. The 3.8km stretch in KK Nagar is a really good project but the authorities didn’t protect the space. Also, there are very few users because of which there are encroachments and illegal parking. The KK Nagar lane had schools surrounding it, but schools didn’t encourage children to use cycles,” said Felix. When TOI visited the location, it found cars parked on the track. There are more than 30 cycling groups with about 6,000 cyclists in the city. But the number has been dwindling due to lack of safety on the city roads. Even during the lockdown, cycle usage in the city was low and cycle sharing systems were shut. Cyclists TOI spoke to said pedestrian foothpaths double up as cycle lanes that are narrow and unsafe. There is also lack of connectivity between the tracks at several junctions, forcing the cyclists to mingle with regular traffic at junctions. Raj Cherubal, CEO, Smart Cities Private Limited, said they will ensure there is better maintenance in future. “We will combine the existing projects with parking management system, cycle sharing system and integrate them to put them to better use,” he said. Cherubal said they will use GPS and technology to “find demand for cycles in various locations and expand the sharing system”. “We have been among the first to create so many cycle stations and we will leverage it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tracks-laid-all-but-cyclists-use-them/articleshow/76930065.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Mangaluru||196 test +ve in Dakshina Kannada, 5 fatalities recorded||MANGALURU/UDUPI: A total 237 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi on Sunday, a day that DK scaled yet another peak with 196 cases and Udupi tallied 41. The grim reaper came calling on patients with co-morbidities, harvesting five souls, to take the total tally of deaths in DK to 46. The spurt also saw DK’s tally of positive cases rise to 2,230 and Udupi’s to 1,608. The 196 fresh cases in DK included 91 cases of influenza like illness (ILI), the cause of infection in 57 people is yet to be known, 20 are primary contacts, 16 are those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), 10 are those with international travel history and two are pre-surgery samples, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. The five deceased include three men and two women, the youngest victim being a 50-year-old man and oldest a 72-year-old man. A total 94 patients were discharged from the designated Covid-19 and private hospitals in the city, taking the total number those discharged to 876, and paring down the number of active cases to 1,309. The commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunda. Deputy Commissioner (revenue), MCC, a primary contact, has home quarantined himself in the wake of this development. In neighbouring Udupi, the double-digit blip on the Covid-19 radar included 32 primary contacts, six with inter-district travel history, two with inter-state travel history and one patient with international travel history, said district health officer Sudhir Chandra Sooda. The fresh cases also included four children. The discharge of 28 patients took the total numbers of those discharged to 1,273, and there are 332 active cases now. The district has recorded three deaths due to the pandemic thus far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/196-test-ve-in-dk-5-fatalities-recorded/articleshow/76928540.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||Community radio can help in good governance: Study||Lucknow: Community radio has been playing a very crucial role in the socio-economic empowerment of women, mainly in rural areas and should be promoted widely to increase its reach and access, a research study has found. Neelima Deepak, who completed her research — “Role and scope of community radio in women empowerment in present socio-economic scenario” — now aims to popularise community radio on large scale. Talking to TOI, Neelima said she toured UP and Uttarakhand extensively and concluded that unlike commercial radio and FM stations, which mostly have one-sided communication, community radios have two-way exchange and encourage involvement of listeners. During the lockdown, community radio counselled women of rural areas and encouraged them to start micro and cottage business for becoming self-reliant. “Another edge community radio has over commercial one is that it is available in local language and dialect which ensures better connect and impact with local audience,” said Neelima, adding, “Governments should also use community radio to spread awareness about its policies and programmes to cover maximum women and turn them into beneficiaries and enlightened citizens. “I have been around Rudraprayag district and counselled the women for working for conserving Mandakini river,” she added. Since it is a two-way communication, the community radio also has another advantage of getting feedback immediately. The government can accordingly introduce changes in the scheme so that they are help address the needs and requirements of the people of a particular region, Neelima said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/community-radio-can-help-in-good-governance-study/articleshow/76930477.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Father ends life after son commits suicide||AHMEDABAD: Financial crisis in the lockdown period and inability to get a new job have resulted in a double suicide case. After an unemployed youth hanged himself on Friday, his father too ended his life by consuming acid on Saturday. Police said Rajveersinh Gohil (25) hanged himself from the ceiling of his room at his residence in Nano Barotvaas in Thaltej on Friday afternoon. Aggrieved by his only son’s death, his father Mahipatsinh Gohil (55) a resident of Chamundanagar in Gota, also committed suicide on Saturday afternoon. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said that Rajveersinh was working at a private firm and had lost his job before the lockdown was imposed in the last week of March. Due to the lockdown, Rajveersinh could neither search for a new job nor could earn his livelihood for three and a half months. Depressed by these conditions, when he was alone at his home, he tied a rope with an iron rod in the ceiling and hanged himself. As his family was mourning their son’s death, the cops could not take the statements of the family members. Next day on July 11, Rajveersinh’s father Mahipatsinh, who was unable to bring himself to accept the reality of his son’s death, suddenly ran towards bathroom at around 1.50 pm and consumed acid. “Before the family members could prevent him from committing the act, Mahipatsinh had already consumed acid. He was rushed to Sola Civil Hospital, where he died during treatment,” said Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/father-ends-life-after-son-commits-suicide/articleshow/76930064.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Tulip Diagnostics gets all its workers tested||Panaji: Tulip Diagnostics, the Verna-based firm where several Covid-19 cases have been detected, has got all its 500-odd workers tested for the infection. The firm, which manufactures diagnostic kits, will take a call on resumption of operations once the results of all the employees come in. Tulip Diagnostics, which has seven manufacturing units at Verna, manufacturers Viral Lysis Medium (VLM) and Viral Transport Medium (VTM) kits for Covid-19 tests. These are being manufactured for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, and even for the ICMR. The firm also supplies various other rapid testing kits, which are used in India and abroad. Currently, they also have export orders from USAID and will be manufacturing the Coviscreen double antigen test for foreign countries. “We are waiting for the results for the tests conducted on the employees. The results have to come in and then we will decide on the next course of action,” Tulip Diagnostics president D G Tripathi said. South Goa collector Ajit Roy has ordered three companies, including Tulip Diagnostics, to shut down for 14-days after several Covid-19 cases were detected at some of the manufacturing units of Tulip Diagnostics. Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry has asked the collector to review the order and allow the units to commence operations if necessary precautions and SOPs as mandated by various agencies are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tulip-diagnostics-gets-all-its-workers-tested/articleshow/76930615.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||PTC admissions to begin today||Ahmedabad: The Primary Teachers Certificate (PTC) colleges across the state are beginning admission process on Monday with distribution of admission form and the form filling exercise is to last till July 23. Admissions for nearly 8,000 seats in 34 grant-in-aid, 10 government-run colleges and 60 self-financed institutes will commence with the state government’s permission. As the online form filling option is not made available, all candidates will have to visit the colleges of their choices to fill up the forms and submit them in respective colleges. In a time of Covid-19 pandemic when admission process in many disciplines is taking place online, the PTC colleges sticking to earlier procedure has met with criticism from various corners. Earlier, there used to be more than 400 PTC colleges with nearly 40,000 seats, but the reduced demand of the course is evident in the decrease in number of colleges offering the course. As job chances are not high after PTC, nearly 3,000 seats remain vacant every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ptc-admissions-to-begin-today/articleshow/76930070.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: No respite in Rayalaseema as cases, death toll rise||TIRUPATI: Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the Rayalaseema districts. A senior video journalist of a Telugu news channel died of Covid-19 at Sri Padmavathi hospital in Tirupati on Sunday. Besides, two other deaths and 159 new cases were reported in Chittoor district in the last 24 hours. The Covid-19 death toll in Kurnool district rose to 101, after four more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours and 237 new cases were reported taking the overall number of cases to 3,405. In Anantapur district, 129 new Covid-19 cases were reported and the toll rose to 24 after one more patient succumbed to the disease. In Kadapa district, 94 persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The overall number of cases in the district is 1,786 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-respite-in-rseema-as-cases-death-toll-rise/articleshow/76929497.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Virtual wildlife awareness programme a huge hit||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Forest Academy conducted a virtual wildlife awareness programme for children on Sunday.The event aimed at sensitising young minds about the need to conserve wildlife, said additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF) and director of the Tamil Nadu Forest Academy I Anwardeen. “It is important to feed them information about our rich biodiversity. Only if they appreciate the value of biodiversity, they would conserve it. To bring a change in their action, we should bring a change in their mind,” he said.As many as 170 people attended the session on YouTube, the official said. “We received good response from the children. We plan to organize the programme once in 15 days. This week, we shared information about elephants through a series of stories. We will talk about animals like tigers and leopards in future.”Veterinary doctor N S Manoharan narrated the tale of 55-year-old kumki elephant Khaleem, who was separated from the herd at the age of seven. “Forest department officials, who rescued Khaleem from Sathyamangalam, made several attempts to reunite him with his family. As all their efforts went in vain, he was relocated to the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR). He was keen to learn new things and underwent training sessions. From 1990s, he started to lead operations conducted by the department. He is a good leader,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/virtual-wildlife-awareness-programme-a-huge-hit/articleshow/76930079.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||Kodagu records its third fatality||MADIKERI: The Covid-19 death toll rose to 3 in Kodagu, after a patient died in the Covid hospital on Sunday. There are now 105 active cases in the district. A total 18 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district on Sunday, including 3 health workers. An 86-year-old woman, who hails from Virajpet taluk, with a history of hypertension, was admitted in the Covid hospital on July 6 and tested positive on July 7. She was on ventilator and passed away at 10.45 pm on Saturday. Her last rites were performed on Sunday, by following the SOP issued by the government, said Kodagu DC Annies Kanmani Joy. Meanwhile, a 38-year-old district reserve police personnel tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday evening. The reserve police office area has been sealed for two days. The premises was sanitised on Saturday. The police quarters where the infected personnel was residing was sealed, and the new containment zone has 8 houses. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district is at 169, while there are 105 active cases, and 3 people have died of the disease, while there are 68 containment zones in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kodagu-records-its-third-fatality/articleshow/76928587.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Kidnapped infant rescued in hours, 3 held||HYDERABAD: A four-month-old baby girl, kidnapped by three persons, was rescued by police within 14 hours on Saturday. CCTV footage of the kidnappers’ getaway vehicle helped trace the offenders, Mangalhat police said. A woman, Laxmi, from Seetarambagh, Mangalhat approached police on Saturday claiming that her four-month-old baby girl, Renuka, who was sleeping beside her at night, was missing when she woke up. Mangalhat police identified an auto-rickshaw used by the offenders for kidnapping the infant. Auto driver Shaik Aleem was apprehended at Bhoiguda Kaman and he led the cops to the baby girl, who was with Arshiya Begum and Shaik Saleem at 9 pm. Police arrested the trio and rescued the baby girl. The girl was handed over to her mother. The offenders were remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kidnapped-infant-rescued-in-hours-3-held/articleshow/76930480.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK IT wing mimics stars in fight against Covid||CHENNAI: AIADMK’s IT wing, which was recently revamped, has hit upon a novel way to create awareness against the Covid-19 pandemic in Tamil Nadu and stir social responsibility. It has got artists to mimic the voices of leading film stars in its campaign to support the initiatives of the government to make social distancing and wearing of masks as the new normal. The ruling party’s IT wing, Chennai zone, has adopted an innovative strategy to run its corona awareness campaign by releasing videos of 15-20 second duration with caricatures of leading stars voicing their popular punchlines. Rajinikanth’s ‘Kabalidaa’ from ‘Kabali’ has become ‘coronadaa’, Dhanush’s popular ‘Seinjuduven’ line in ‘Maari’ has turned out to be ‘corona seinjudum’ and Vijay Sethupathi’s popular punch ‘Kumudha happy annachi’ has become ‘corona semma happy annachi’. “There are more such videos in the offing featuring popular lines of other stars too. These videos are reaching around 50 lakh people through WhatsApp and other social media platforms and being received well by the masses,” said Aspire K Swaminathan, secretary of AIADMK IT wing’s Chennai zone. “Our chief minister (Edappadi K Palaniswami) has time and again reiterated the significance of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. This campaign is to reinforce that message and take it to the common people,” Swaminathan said. Could not the ruling party have sought the services of the actors themselves to lend their voices? “Caricatures and mimicry artistes are normally used to run social awareness campaigns for the public. When we have not harmed or brought disrepute to them, we don’t see any issue,” Swaminathan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-it-wing-mimics-stars-in-fight-against-covid/articleshow/76930080.cms||D Govardan
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: BSP chief Mayawati woos Brahmins to revive social engineering plank||LUCKNOW: Two days after gangster Vikas Dubey was shot in a police encounter, BSP chief Mayawati played the caste card with a Brahmin outreach, shrewdly falling back on her successful social engineering formula that catapulted her to power with a majority in 2007. In a series of tweets, the Dalit czarina said, the Brahmin community should not bear the brunt of Dubey’s misdeeds. “They are terrorised and living in fear and this needs to be addressed,” she said on Sunday. Mayawati was categorical in her advice to BJP to avoid politics in Dubey’s name and avoid doing anything that instills fear among Brahmins. “The state government needs to regain public confidence and act on the basis of strong evidence,” she said. Brahmins, who form 10.5% of the population in Uttar Pradesh had closed ranks with Dalits and other backward castes (OBC) to hoist the BSP supremo as chief minister for the fourth time in 2007. The consolidation of upper caste votes, especially Brahmins, paid rich dividends to BSP, particularly in the 80 reserved seats on which the Dalit outfit fared poorly in the past. The former UP chief minister, nevertheless, did not lose sight of Dalits, OBCs and Muslims, while accusing the ruling dispensation of targeting people of the three communities in the name of launching campaigns against criminals. The BSP chief said, the state government's campaign against crime appears to be driven by politics. “It is not until the state government is honest and cracks down on goons without discrimination, can the state be freed of crime,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mayawati-woos-brahmins-to-revive-social-engineering-plank/articleshow/76930496.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Ara Arularasu is new SP||Coimbatore: Measures will be taken to maintain law and order and check road accidents, said Ara Arularasu IPS, who took charge as superintendent of police here on Sunday.“People can contact me at 9498122422 any time to convey grievances. Appropriate action will be taken,” he said.Arularasu, a native of Erode district, had cleared TNPSC group – I exam to become a Tamil Nadu Police Service (TPS) officer in 2001. He joined as DSP of Hosur, Gudiyatham and Panruti sub-divisions. In 2009, he was promoted as ADSP and worked in the special division in Chennai. He was promoted as SP in 2012 and worked in the special division till 2017. Later, he was posted as SP, Namakkal.K Suresh Kumar, who was additional superintendent of police in Salem, was promoted as superintendent of police. He was posted as deputy commissioner of police (law&order, crime and traffic) in Tirupur on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ara-arularasu-is-new-sp/articleshow/76930082.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Trio killed youth to give his phone to a girl||AHMEDABAD: Within 24 hours of the murder of a 21-year-old youth, Isanpur police rounded up three men and two minor girls involved in the incident. Primary probe revealed an appalling disregard for human life — the accused didn’t know the victim at all. They killed him just because one of the accused girls had wanted a mobile phone, and unfortunately, the deceased happened to be the first person who fell in their sight after that.  And that is how Umang Darji of eastern Khokhra was stabbed to death on Friday 11pm at Khokhra Guruji Bridge. Police said the three men who stabbed Darji — Krunal Dalwadi, 30, of Ghodasar, Hardik Agrawal, 22, of Hatkeshwar and Shyam Rathod, 24, of Hatkeshwar — were known offenders and all had earlier cases under prohibition laws against them. Police also said that one of the two minor girls was earlier booked under juvenile delinquency laws by Nadiad police. ACP, J-Division, Rajpalsinh Rana said that one of the girls wanted a mobile phone and told the accused. “Shyam, Hardik and Krunal went to the other side of the road, intercepted Umang, stabbed him and ran away after snatching his mobile. Umang had no relations with the accused whatsoever.” Rana said Darji’s father had told cops that he came to know that three men and two girls were involved in the murder. “Fortunately, the man who had first phoned Darji’s father about his son, knew the identity of one of the girls who earlier had a police case. Through her, we learned the identities of the remaining accused,” Rana said. “We rounded up Dalwadi from his house, but the other three were still on the run at that time.” Inspector J M Solanki of Isanpur police station said cops got the description of the bike used by the accused on the run, and also tracked their mobile numbers. “Their phone numbers showed they were somewhere between Vastral and Odhav. Two teams went to scan the area and found a bike matching the description on the roadside near Sangam Hotel with two men and a girl sitting on it. The other girl, who was in a police vehicle, identified them, and a chase began with two police vehicles managing to intercept and apprehend the accused,” Solanki said. Watch Ahmedabad: Trio kill youth for a mobile phone||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trio-killed-youth-to-give-his-phone-to-a-girl/articleshow/76930087.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||District sees record spike of 117 cases||Coimbatore: The district recorded the highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases on Sunday, when 117 people tested positive for the virus. With this, the total number of novel coronavirus cases in the district has risen to 1,261. Of them, 930 are active cases. Twenty cases were from Selvapuram, which turned into a cluster last week after 34 people working in a gold ornament manufacturing factory tested positive. According to a health official, KG Street in Ukkadam saw 10 cases, Annur seven and Ganapathi Managar and Sullivan Street six each. Apart from this, the source said, cases were reported from several areas in the district. District collector K Rajamani said most of the new cases were from containment areas and contacts of earlier infected people. “We identified them through contact tracing. The district hasn’t seen any new clusters. As per the government norms, an area would be sealed and made a containment zone if more than five people are tested positive for the virus. The district has about 30 containment zones. In addition to that, we are also closing streets with less than five positive cases to contain the spread of the pandemic.”He said about 2,000 to 2,200 people were tested for Covid-19 a day in the district in the past one week.The state bulletin logged another Covid-19 death, which occurred in the district on Thursday, in its list on Sunday. With this, the district’s toll officially stands at nine. The deceased was a 41-year-old man, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. While he died on Thursday, his test results came only on Friday. According to the state bulletin, he died of bilateral lower lobe pneumonia, decompensated chronic liver disease, portal hypertension, renal failure, bicytopenia and dyselectrolemia.The health department, meanwhile, resumed collecting throat and nasal swabs from the domestic passengers at the city airport on Sunday. It had stopped testing incoming domestic passengers for the past few days. “We used to collect 200 to 250 samples from the airport in a day. On Sunday, samples were collected from 168 people,” the collector said. Most of the roads in the district wore a deserted look as people hardly stepped out of their houses because of the complete lockdown, which was imposed for the second time on Sunday. All shops and commercial establishments, barring pharmacies, remained closed. Police personnel were deployed at major junctions to ensure complete lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-sees-record-spike-of-117-cases/articleshow/76930081.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||College students on tenterhooks over examinations||Coimbatore: Uncertainty looms large over the conduct of end-semester exams in colleges in the state.The University Grants Commission (UGC) had on July 6 asked universities and colleges to hold the exams within September in an online, offline or blended mode. Following this, chief minster Edappadi K Palanswami had on Saturday shot off a letter to the Union human resource development ministry, stating conducting end-semester exams in the state would be difficult as many institutions had been converted into Covid-19 care centres. He asked the ministry to direct apex bodies such as UGC and All India Council for Technical Education to endorse the decisions of the respective state governments in the matter.While some colleges in the district have been holding online sessions for students daily for some time, more colleges are likely to hold virtual revision classes from the coming week. College authorities say they are doing this to keep students in touch with their academics as institutions were closed for more than three months now.Pointing out that they were not holding full-fledged online classes now, which would require extensive preparation and training of faculty members, K Sundararaman, chief executive officer, Sri Krishna Institutions, said they were engaging students for an hour daily. B L Shivakumar, principal, Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science, said they were planning to hold online revision classes from July 15 to help students refresh the portions. “As our faculty members are at their houses, we have given them the freedom of using the online platform of their choice to hold the classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/college-students-on-tenterhooks-over-examinations/articleshow/76930084.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt schools ready to distribute textbooks||Coimbatore: Government and government-aided schools in the district are disinfecting classrooms and getting ready to distribute textbooks to Class X and Class XII students.The school education department has asked the schools to categorise textbooks within Tuesday and have them stacked in classrooms, ready for distribution.For class XII students, schools have been directed to download online study materials from Hi-Tech labs. The content should be loaded in the laptops of Class XII students, said a direction from the district school education department.Textbooks had reached the schools last week, said a teacher. “We need to know when to distribute them, so that we can call our students in advance and ask them to collect books from school. We have to plan in such a way that we will have 20 students at a time on the campus.”Schools have been asked to collect thermal scanners from district education offices and use them while distributing books. Teachers involved in book distribution must wear masks and gloves. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-schools-ready-to-distribute-textbooks/articleshow/76930083.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nashik||Ganesh mandals to set up health camps||Nashik: The Sarvajanik Ganesh Mahamandal, Nashik, an association of Ganesh mandals, has decided to organise health check-up camps and other activities of social importance instead of grand festivities. The decision was taken in a meeting of office bearers of various Ganesh mandals in the city. They have decided to contribute to social health. “We have restricted our celebrations this time. We advise all to not set up pandals. Those who wish to, can keep the height of the idol to 4ft only,” said Sameer Shete, the president of the association. He said there will be no processions at all, neither on the first day nor the tenth day. “People can offer prayers in a simple manner without any public gatherings,” Shete said. This year, the mandals will not collect funds from people. Instead, they would pool in their funds to organise health camps and other activities in the interest public health. “We have money left with us from the previous year. We will not collect funds from people, but those willing to donate can do so. This will be used for the health check-up camps at various places. The association will also pool in funds to donate to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, that is being used in the government’s fight against Covid-19,” Shete added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ganesh-mandals-to-set-up-health-camps/articleshow/76928611.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Canacona sees first Covid death||POINGUINIM: A 49-year-old man from Ourem-Palolem succumbed to comorbidities on Sunday, while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 after he had tested positive in the last week of June. This was the first Covid-related death in Canacona taluka. The deceased was buried in the evening at the St Theresa of Jesus church cemetery in Chaudi, in the presence of his close family members and the parish priest. The burial was performed by strictly following the prescribed MHA guidelines. The body was brought to the cemetery in a private hearse van and four workers wearing PPE carried the coffin to the grave for the final rites. In all, 19 persons from Canacona taluka tested positive for Covid-19, of which 11 have recovered, while one died.  The body was brought to the cemetery in a private hearse van and four workers wearing PPE carried the coffin to the grave||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-sees-first-covid-death/articleshow/76930624.cms||Albert Fernandes
July 13, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Lockdown to be clamped in Gokal, Mudalagi from Monday||BELAGAVI: A lockdown will be clamped in Gokak and newly formed Mudalagi taluk in Belagavi, for eight days, beginning from Monday night. The decision was taken during the Covid task force meeting held on Sunday. The emergency meeting was held as these taluks have started to report Covid cases, which has put fear in residents. The meeting was chaired by district-in-charge minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. However, the deputy commissioner of the district will take a decision on district-wide lockdown after attending a meeting which will be convened by chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday. During the task force meeting in Gokak, many associations, including traders associations, echoed the sentiments of residents, demanding that the minister clamp the lockdown to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. It should be noted that in a week’s time these taluks have reported over six cases. Ramesh Jarkiholi said during the meeting, “Lives are more important at this juncture than earning. As cases are surging, people are voluntarily opting for a lockdown. Hence we will clamp a lockdown for eight days.” An official in the district health department said Athani and Kagwad taluks are also witnessing a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, and after the meeting with the CM, the district administration will take a final call on closing the border with Maharashtra. He added that the DC is also expected to decide on restricting inter-district travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-to-be-clamped-in-gokal-mudalagi-from-today/articleshow/76928620.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nashik||12% rural population vulnerable to Covid||Nashik: Around 12% (5 lakh) of the 40 lakh people in the rural areas of the district have been found vulnerable to Covid-19 infection due to comorbid conditions and old age, revealed a survey carried out by the district health office. According to a health official, teams will visit such people twice a week to check their health parameters. Nashik and Malegaon municipal corporations were not included in the survey. As per the study, 1.93 lakh people were found to be comorbid (having chronic ailments) while 2.76 lakh were above the age of 60. “A survey of all the people in rural areas was carried out to identify the vulnerable population and keep a close eye on their health so that they can be given immediate Covid-19 treatment if and when required,” Kapil Aher, district health officer, said. Of the 1.93 lakh people who have comorbid conditions, those with diabetes top the list with as many as 71,649 cases followed by hypertension (67,793). The remaining 54,233 are the ones who have other chronic ailments like cancer, kidney ailments, heart ailments, paralysis, parkinsons, tuberculosis, among others. The highest number of comorbid people are in Malegaon taluka at 16,522, while the lowest is in Nandgaon taluka (3,657). The DHO has also decided to provide zinc, Vitamin C and Vitamin D tablets to the comorbids in Yeola and Niphad taluka to fortify their immunity and then reach out to the people in Sinnar, Igatpuri and Dindori talukas as well. “This is a step towards ensuring we put up a joint fight against the Covid-19,” Aher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/12-rural-population-vulnerable-to-covid/articleshow/76928635.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong plans online campaign to voice Covid-19 concerns||Hyderabad: Congress will launch ‘Speak Up Telangana’, an online social media campaign, on July 18 to voice the concerns of the people about Covid-19. A decision to this effect was taken at a video-conference meeting of the Congress Covid-19 task force, a committee constituted by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee. The meeting, chaired by Marri Shashidhar Reddy, discussed health and education issues in the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and other leaders participated in the video conference. “CM KCR disappeared from the scene for 13 days, which was very unfortunate. This was especially so after it was indicated that a cabinet meeting would be held to decide the future course of action in dealing with the pandemic against the backdrop of the unlock 2.0 guidelines issued by the Centre and the assessment of the situation,” Shashidhar Reddy said. Congress leaders were of the view that the state government has failed miserably in taking necessary and adequate steps to arrest the spread of coronavirus. “There is no credible decision support system in the state with everything being centralised with the chief minister. With the alarming increase in the spread of the virus and the void created with his absence, people of the state felt let down,” they felt. “It was decided that people should be allowed to raise their concerns on various platforms of social media. This campaign will be held between 10 am and 5 pm on Saturday (July 18). Further details of the campaign are being worked out,” he added. Also, a decision was taken to write a letter to the CM to convey the comments, observations and suggestions of the TPCC Covid-19 Task Force to deal with the pandemic, Shashidhar Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-plans-online-campaign-to-voice-covid-19-concerns/articleshow/76930502.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nashik||Dist guardian minister warns of total lockdown in Yeola town||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who also represents Yeola in the state assembly, has warned of complete lockdown in Yeola town if there is an increase in the numbers of Covid-19 cases. Bhujbal held a meeting at Yeola with the health officials, police and revenue officials.“At this juncture, when number of cases is on the rise in the town, the local administration should make appropriate arrangements to provide treatment to every Covid-19 patient,” Bhujbal said.He also stressed on the need to convert primary health centre (PHC) at Nagarsol into Covid-19 facility with permanent oxygen lines to treat people with lower oxygen saturation in their blood.The minister also asked the police and health officials to penalise people who are not wearing masks in public places. “The lockdown in containment zones should be followed strictly ensuring no one moves out of their houses without a valid reason. Apart from this, people should wear masks in public places. If people fail to do so, they should be penalised,” Bhujbal said.The authorities will be held responsible if the people continue their business as usual and the number of cases keeps increasing in the town and the taluka, said Bhujbal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-guardian-minister-warns-of-total-lockdown-in-yeola-town/articleshow/76928623.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Gang murders taxi driver||Coimbatore: A 32-year-old Thoothukudi native was hacked to death by a gang in Tirupur city on Saturday night.Police identified the victim as I Pechimuthu, a native of Manakarai near Morapanadu in Thoothukudi. He was a car driver and was staying with his wife, three daughters and his mother at Nachipalayan in Tirupur. “Pechimuthu was found dead with injuries on his head near the Mariamman temple at Little Flower Nagar in the city around 10pm. A knife and a motorcycle were found near the body,” a police officer said. “Recently, posters were pasted at Little Flower Nagar in connection with a caste leader's birthday celebration. The posters had the photo of a person from another community. When a four-member gang objected, Pechimuthu supported that person.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-murders-taxi-driver/articleshow/76930089.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man assaults parents, tells them to vacate house||AHMEDABAD: Kanhaiyalal Patel, 67, a resident of Maninagar, has lodged a complaint of assault against his son. In his complaint filed on Saturday, Patel said that his son Vijay, 32, of Ranip, had earlier in the day beat him and pushed his wife Kanchan to the ground. Patel also alleged that his son threatened to kill him and his wife unless they vacated their house. Maninagar police have lodged an offence. According to the FIR, Patel told Vijay that there seemed to be a mistake in counting Rs 1.5 lakh that Vijay had received for selling some ornaments. According to the FIR, Vijay was so incensed that he attacked his parents. Inspector S M Patel of the Maninagar police station said an investigation is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-assaults-parents-tells-them-to-vacate-house/articleshow/76930092.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||48 +ve in Raj Bhavan, Telangana governor tests negative for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Forty-eight persons at the Raj Bhavan have tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday, but governor Tamilisai Soundararajan announced on Twitter that she had tested negative. Raj Bhavan has about 200 staff working at the vast premises. Authorities said 28 police battalion personnel of Raj Bhavan and 10 members of the administrative staff tested positive, while samples of another 10 family members of administrative staff also turned positive. At least 20 were admitted at the Government Ayurveda Hospital, SR Nagar, for treatment. The police personnel were sent to isolation and treatment at a special police facility. “The first few members of the special battalion tested positive in the RT-PCR test and following which, as part of contact tracing, a total 395 tests with antigen and RT-PCR was conducted since Saturday, including the staff and their families,” a Raj Bhavan source said. The governor volunteered to test herself and later in the evening she declared on Twitter her test result. “I got tested today for Covid-19 and I am negative. I appeal to people with contact history to kindly get it done at the earliest. Early diagnosis not only is to protect us but also others. Don’t hesitate, test yourself, motivate others. Follow 4Ts — tests, trace, treat and teach,” she tweeted. Sources said all 48 are stable and were responding to medication. Tests will continue on Monday and Tuesday on remaining staff at the governor’s house. Though physical activities and visiting hours have drastically come down since lockdown, there would be stricter rules imposed now, officials said. “The governor has been conducting reviews virtually. The regular disinfection programmes will be intensified further,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/48-ve-in-raj-bhavan-guv-tests-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/76930629.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 13, 2020||Nashik||Trujet suspends flights to Ahmedabad||Nashik: Trujet has suspended its Nashik-Ahmedabad daily flight for five days — from Saturday to Wednesday — citing technical reasons. The airline, however, has said the services will resume from July 16. “We have sent our two aircraft for C-checks. We are carrying out maintenance of our aircraft and it is expected to be completed shortly,” an official from Turjet said. The Trujet has also expressed its satisfaction over the passenger load on the Nashik-Ahmedabad route, which is 60% even during the Covid-19 outbreak. After relaxation in lockdown rules, Trujet had started its Nashik-Ahmedabad flight from May 27. Meanwhile, Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, is operating from Nashik on three routes — Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune. Alliance Air had started its flights from Nashik from June 12, connecting Nashik to the three cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trujet-suspends-flights-to-ahmedabad/articleshow/76928658.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Healing touch: TJ members unite to donate plasma||CHENNAI: Around three months ago, Tablighi Jamaat was vilified in certain quarters across the country and Tamil Nadu for ‘spreading’ the coronavirus. Now, members of the Jamaat and their family who have recovered from Covid-19 have become plasma donors, helping in the recovery of other serious patients. In Chennai, Hameedudeen, 30, a faculty at New College, Dr M A Ziaullah Khan, 64, and Sameer, 39, a social activist involved in blood donation campaigns, have joined hands to respond to requests mainly from private hospitals to identify donors and arrange plasma. Twenty from the Jamaat and their extended family have donated plasma so far, Hameed said. “There are at least 5,000 recovered Covid-19 patients from the Jamaat and their extended family who are willing to provide plasma as their religious leader has already directed them to help others in this,” Hameed said. However, he pointed out how awareness among the Jamaat and other sections of society about donating plasma is still low. Dr Khan, an alumnus of Kilpauk Medical College and practising in Perambur, said plasma donation is in the primitive stages. “Only those who have recovered at least 28 days ago are eligible to donate plasma. And it can be done only twice in a lifetime,” he said. Even doctors were confused as they insisted on RT-PCR tests for recovered patients before they donated plasma. “Only the presence of Immunoglobulin-G (IgG) has to be checked. If it’s there, they are fit to donate,” said Dr Khan. Such confusions, along with transportation problems in the lockdown, led to delays, he said. “It took us eight hours to send the donor to a hospital in Trichy on Saturday,” he said. Sameer, a resident of Puzhal, said awareness of plasma donation was yet to match that of blood donation drives. “This is because for obvious reasons, there is no database of Covid-19 positive cases and those who have recovered. Due to stigma, many don’t come forward too,” he said. Dr Khan said the government should streamline the process and run an awareness campaign with icons like sportstars or film personalities so that a plasma bank can be created which can help not only Tamil Nadu, but patients in other states too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tablighi-jamaat-members-join-hands-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/76930098.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||15 test Covid-19 positive, Chanda dist tally 184||CHANDRAPUR: The district witnessed yet another surge of Covid-19 infection with 15 new cases reported on Sunday, taking the caseload to 184. The district health department has undertaken large-scale screening to identify people with symptoms of novel coronavirus and every outsider coming to district is being placed in institutional quarantine. According to information provided by the department, 94 patients have recovered while 90 are under treatment, including four SRPF jawans from other districts. Authorities claimed cases are increasing due to infected people coming from other districts. They also said that all the patients are stable. The district has not reported any Covid-19 death so far. District collector Kunal Khemnar has urged citizens to immediately inform about them about people in their neighbourhood who have come from other districts. The 15 new patients include six from Chandrapur city and four from rural areas. Five cases have connection with a marriage ceremony. Of them, four are from the groom’s side in Bhadrawati while one patient is from the bride’s side from Janala village in Mul tehsil. In Chandrapur city, one case each was reported from Akashwani Chowk and Hanuman temple locality, and four from Police Line. In rural areas, three members of a family from WCL Colony in Urjanagar and a woman from Datala village on city’s outskirts are among those who have tested positive. Except for the patient from Hanuman Nagar in city having travel history, all others are close contacts of positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-test-covid-19-positive-chanda-dist-tally-184/articleshow/76930514.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||Homestay closed for violating DC’s order||KODAGU: Kodagu deputy commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy had recently ordered the closure of all homestays and resorts in Kodagu, to control the spread of the novel coronavirus in the district. In violation of this order, a homestay was running near Hulithala in the Maragodu panchayat limits. Tourism officer Raghavendra and staff member Ashwath, in coordination with Madikeri Rural police sub-inspector Chandrashekhar and personnel raided the homestay at 10.30 pm on Saturday, and closed it. The homestay is run by Bharati. A case has been registered against the owner and three tourists from Mysuru, Vivek, Anil and Avinash, who were staying there since three days. Neighbours complained against these tourists as they were disturbed due to the use of a drone camera by them. The Homestay Association has complained to the tourism department and the rural police against the homestay and the tourists. The Homestay Association has requested residents to complain immediately if any tourism activities are found to be taking place in any part of the district. Meanwhile, to restrict the entry of outsiders into the district, the Kodagu district administration imposed more restrictions from Sunday. Foreign returnees should compulsorily go for 7 days institutional quarantine, and returnees from outside the state should remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Those coming in from other districts must remain in home quarantine for 7 days. The task forces at the village and town levels are empowered to take timely decisions, and to keep a vigil on the entry of outsiders into Kodagu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/homestay-closed-for-violating-dcs-order/articleshow/76928662.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||CP: Share pictures of tampered vehicle plates||Hyderabad: In a bid to curb the menace of mobile phone and chain snatchers, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar appealed to the citizens to share the photographs of motorists with tampered number plates. The senior cop tweeted that some miscreants moving with these tampered number plates are suspected to be chain snatchers. “Help us book such criminals who tamper number plate to commit crimes. Inform patrol cars, Blue Colts or send a picture with time and place on WhatsApp at 9490616555. Some of these are chain or cell snatches,” tweeted Anjani Kumar. The officer said that even some rowdy elements are moving with these tampered number plates.“We are committed to registering a case for it,” he said in his post. According to traffic police, such cases of improper number plates are high in the city. In this month alone until July 11, 4,065 cases of irregular number plates and driving without number plate cases were registered by the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cp-share-pictures-of-tampered-vehicle-plates/articleshow/76930504.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP notification to acquire land for those affected by Jewar airport||LUCKNOW: In a significant development to fast-track the construction of Jewar airport, the state government has issued the notification for acquisition of over 48 hectares of land to relocate around 3,600 people affected by the project. The notification issued under section 19 (1) of land acquisition act-1894 on July 11, also paves way for compensation to the people affected by the greenfield project, which is seen as an alternative to New Delhi's Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport for the people living in the National Capital Region (NCR). The notification, issued by special secretary, civil aviation, Surendra Singh, is for acquisition of 48.097 hectares of land in Gram Jewar Bangar for which the UP government issued the preliminary notification on April 13, suggesting identification of land for relocation of affected farmers. The land acquisition in Jewar had hit uncertainty in 2018 after farmers objected to it, citing their doubts about the amount of compensation. The ambiguity had taken an unexpected turn after the then Yamuna Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) chairman, Prabhat Kumar said that if farmers did not accept the terms and conditions then the project may have to be shelved. Subsequently, the farmers were offered the rate ranging from Rs 2,300 to Rs 2,500 per square meter for the agricultural land that was to be acquired for an international airport in Jewar, along the 165km Yamuna Expressway. The state government will now have to get the notification published in the state gazette besides two newspapers, of which one would be in the local language. The notification would also be circulated in local language through district magistrate, panchayat and urban local body. Earlier, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration had set August 15 as the deadline for completing the process of acquisition of 48 hectares of land for development of a township for those affected by the airport project. The concessionaire, Zurich AG has been given the deadline of August 17 for completing the formalities to begin work. Around 600 families comprising over 1,300 people are expected to be affected by land acquisition in Jewar Bangar. Zurich AG, which has been given time up to August 17 to fulfil formalities before beginning work, is likely to get an extension if the international flight movement remains disrupted because of the Corona crisis. Considered as a flagship project in the NCR, the Jewar airport would be a civil aviation hub with at least four air strips and a civil aviation academy. This, along with the Kushinagar airport project, is proposed to be piloted by the state government with the help of Airport Authority of India (AAI) in the next few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-notification-to-acquire-land-for-those-affected-by-jewar-airport/articleshow/76930515.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Judicial panel to probe encounter in which gangster Vikas Dubey was killed||LUCKNOW: A day after setting up an SIT to probe the rise of gangster Vikas Dubey, the UP government on Sunday formed a one-member judicial inquiry commission to investigate into the July 10 encounter in which he was killed. The commission, to be headed by retired high court judge Shashi Kant Agarwal, will also probe all aspects of the ambush in which eight policemen were killed in Bikru village on July 3. The commission will submit its report to the government within two months. Dubey was arrested from Ujjain's Mahakaal temple on July 9 after a nationwide manhunt. He was killed the next day when he allegedly tried to escape after snatching the weapon of a constable when the SUV in which he was being brought to Kanpur met with an accident. To be based in Kanpur, the Agarwal panel will also probe all the encounters which took place between the police and members of Vikas Dubey gang between July 3 and July 10, says a government spokesperson. Four members of his gang have been killed in these encounters. It would also look into the relationship of Dubey and his associates with police personnel and those serving in other departments. The commission has also been tasked to come out with recommendations to stop the nexus between police, other government officials and criminals. The panel has been appointed under the commission of inquiry Act 1952. On Saturday, the government formed a three-member SIT to be headed by additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhosreaddy to probe into Dubey's nexus with politicians and bureaucrats which helped him raise his criminal empire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/judicial-panel-to-probe-encounter-in-which-gangster-dubey-was-killed/articleshow/76930518.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Mask row: Girl hurt in bid to save parents dies in hospital in AP||Vijayawada: A 19-year-old girl died in a Guntur hospital early on Sunday, days after her family was attacked by a group of men for asking one of them to wear a mask in a public square. According to the police, the mother of the teenage girl took objection to a man moving in the area without wearing a mask on July 3. The man and his friends came back and assaulted the girl’s father. When the girl came to his rescue, she received grievous injuries, with several blows on her head. Authorities said the girl, Karnati Fatima, died while being treated at a hospital. Giving out details, SI CH Suresh of Rentachintala village said the dispute started when Fatima’s mother questioned a man, Annapureddy Mallikarjuna, for roaming around without a face mask. This led to a verbal dual with Fatima’s mother and husband Yalamanda that soon escalated into a physical fight. Mallikarjuna’s brother Venkatesh (24), father Srinu (43) and uncle Samba (30) joined him and attacked Yalamanda and his wife with sticks. Seeing that her parents were under attack, Fatima tried to intervene and stop the fight. But in the process she too was attacked and suffered blows on her head and collapsed. She was rushed to Guntur for treatment but succumbed to the head injury after a week on Sunday. Police have registered a case under Sections 324 and 509 read with Section 34 of IPC but later altered the case under Section 302 of IPC and arrested all the four involved in the attack The incident comes within a fortnight of a deputy director of the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) assaulting a woman colleague because she had asked him to wear a mask. The senior official had not only hit the woman employee with a stick but also pulled her by her hair. He was later suspended and arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mask-row-girl-hurt-in-bid-to-save-parents-dies-in-hospital-in-ap/articleshow/76930637.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Steep hike in prices of Chinese mobile phone accessories||HYDERABAD: Prices of mobile phone accessories, which are imported from China, have seen a steep increase after the call to ban all Chinese goods. Jagdish Market in Abids is the city’s largest mobile market where all kinds of accessories - right from earphones to USB cables, pouches, chargers and cases and even new phones manufactured by local companies — are available. Nearly 800 shops are in the market with an average of 2,000 to 4,000 customers visiting daily. After the clashes at Indo-China border and the call to ban all Chinese goods, shopkeepers, who have limited stock and fear a shortage of accessories, have increased the prices. For instance, a pouch, which used to be sold for Rs 80 to Rs 250 is now sold for Rs 350. Similarly, prices of other accessories too have seen an exorbitant increase. “There is an acute shortage of China-imported accessories from Chennai and Mumbai to the city. The pandemic in China could be the reason for shortage of material. Apart from this, a ban on Chinese products could also be another reason for prices to shoot up,” Abhishek, a trader who has been selling accessories for a decade at Jagdish Market, told TOI. “Earlier, I used to earn nearly Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 in a day by selling mobile and laptop accessories but now the income has gone down to below Rs 10,000. It has become very difficult to pay rental to the showroom,” said another trader Durgesh. “The prices are now equal to online prices,” Mounika, a customer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/steep-hike-in-prices-of-chinese-mobile-phone-accessories/articleshow/76930516.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 13, 2020||Goa||A week after tourism opened, Goa hotels see only a trickle||PANAJI: A week after the state opened its doors for tourism and hotels were permitted to restart operations, the sector has seen just 5-10% occupancy. Some hotels that are functioning are yet to receive a single guest, and many that aren’t are choosing to wait and watch. The rise in infections in the state over the past 15 days seems to have put a dampener on travel plans. However, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa ((TTAG) says that bookings will pick up slowly, and there may be a slight increase next month. “Since last week, some hotels have received bookings, but not more than 10%,” said TTAG president Nilesh Shah. “We expect a rise by 30-40% in August, as long as the Covid situation doesn’t worsen.” One hotelier in South Goa said that though some establishments received bookings, there hasn’t yet been much activity in terms of arrivals. “I have not heard of any hotels that have received tourists,” he said. “Guests of manufacturing units having their base here, their outstation executives and engineers who visit Goa for work can’t be called tourists.” He also said that the sharp spike in cases over the past few weeks doesn’t really show the state as a safe travel option. Over 250 hotels have been permitted to operate, but only some have actually resumed. Hotelier Ralph de Sousa said that he hasn’t received any bookings yet, but a lot of inquiries for probable events in November and December. He said that even if hotels want to open, they would have to wait due to staffing problems. “There is still no clarity in Goa yet,” he said. “Hotels in neighbouring states have been asked to operate at one-third of their total capacity. If we are to do the same here, it is not a viable option, since hotels have suffered big losses since March due to closures.” De Sousa said that since Goa’s domestic tourists come from metros, it will have to be extra careful, since metros are among the worst-hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-week-after-tourism-opened-goa-hotels-see-only-a-trickle/articleshow/76930524.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 13, 2020||Nashik||Online tokens for admission to pvt hosps||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will start an online admission system for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals in a few days. Covid-19 patients, who want beds in private hospitals, will get online tokens with bed numbers from the NMC’s 24X7 war room. The private hospitals will also get the same token numbers through the software. The NMC has decided to take control over admissions in private hospitals after it had found that many beds were occupied by asymptomatic patients. Of the 2,900 beds in the city, NMC has 1,700 beds, while private hospitals have 1,250. “The NMC will decide whether a patient will be admitted to an NMC hospital or a private one. We are developing software with the help of private IT firms. It is in the final stage of development,” said NMC officials. “We are setting up a 24x7 war room with three teams.,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/online-tokens-for-admission-to-pvt-hosps/articleshow/76928674.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Constable attached to Saligao police station tests positive||SALIGAO: A lady police constable attached to the Saligao police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. However, despite the constable testing positive on Saturday, the sanitisation of the police station was carried out only on Sunday evening. The health officer from the Candolim health centre, Dr Roshan Nazareth, said the constable was a resident of Valpoi. He said the constable’s swab test was done after she complained of mild systoms. She has been admitted to the Covid care centre at Farmagudi. “Swab samples of 48 police personnel have been collected at the primary health centre in Candolim, while samples of the other personnel were taken at the Asilo hospital in Mapusa. The test reports are awaited,” said Nazareth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/constable-attached-to-saligao-police-station-tests-ve/articleshow/76930639.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Faulty readings from cheap pulse oximeters create panic||CHENNAI: With the demand for pulse oximeters increasing, low-cost devices have flooded market. Inaccurate readings of such kits are spreading panic among people, doctors say. A pulse oximeter is a tool to monitor oxygen saturation level and can pick up Covid-induced hypoxia, low-oxygen level in the blood, early. Tamil Nadu government, which has been campaigning the use of these kits and has so far procured 23,000 kits, will get another 20,000 kits by this week, said M R Vijayabaskar, state health minister. With the government and doctors promoting the use of such kits, many households and commercial establishments began buying them, leading to a shortfall in the market. Several companies tried to cash in on the panic buying by selling oximeters at Rs 800-1,000 online. A standard kit costs around more than Rs 1,500 online and also in the drug stores. But reviews posted by several buyers online suggest that readings of these kits were unreliable and fluctuated wildly. Raghavan, a resident of Madipakkam, who bought one such low-cost kit, said the kit showed 98% oxygen saturation level for all his family members. “But that’s not possible. If we were to rely on this, we wouldn’t have known if there was an emergency that needed one of us to reach a hospital,” he said. Public health expert K Kolandaisamy said the devices usually were accurate when showing high levels of oxygen saturation (above 90%) and might have slight variations while presenting lower levels. “Readings might drop by three points in the afternoon and another two points further in the evening. Any significant drop beyond that indicates that either the patient needs medical attention or the equipment is faulty,” he said. Medical experts said oximeters can be cross-checked by comparing readings with those taken using proper equipment at hospitals. Since it is not practically possible for all, it is better to get them from neighbourhood pharmacists whom residents are familiar with or from recognised medical equipment stores. One should not rely on cheaper products online or at fly-by-night suppliers in department stores and roadside shops, a doctor said. Also, many WhatsApp messages and online videos recommend usage of oxygen canisters if the readings drop below 90%. “Use of such cans without proper medical advice, particularly by smokers who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), could cause death and the best thing to do is to approach a nearby hospital,” said A B Gopalamurugan, senior interventional cardiologist from Kauvery Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/faulty-readings-from-cheap-pulse-oximeters-create-panic/articleshow/76930108.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||We need to know if firing on mayor was real or stunt: HM||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, breaking his silence on the case of firing city BJP’s Mayor Sandip Joshi, on Sunday said State Criminal investigation department (CID) will investigate whether the incident was real or a publicity stunt. The home minister also said the incident taking place at the time of first winter session of the legislature after the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was formed also makes it a befitting case to ascertain whether it was meant for gaining limelight or perpetrated with some ulterior motives. “We need to know who had fired, if at all it had happened, or else why such complaint was lodged in the manner it got later projected,” said Deshmukh. Deshmukh, who is in Mumbai, told TOI the State CID has been handed over the probe to dig out the truth into the firing incident and unravel the suspense behind it. “There is a strong buzz going around regarding the entire firing episode on the mayor that it was nothing but a publicity stunt. Also, we have received inputs stating it was a fake one but still our efforts are aimed at unearthing the truth,” he said. Joshi responded that there was no reason to raise any doubt. “We feel the case should be detected and don’t want this matter to be politicized. The factual position should come to fore. Someone may have raised some doubt due to their political affiliations but I have faith on the investigating machineries,” said Joshi. “We have always co-operated with the investigating agencies,” he said. An offence of attempt to murder was registered on December 18 last year at Beltarodi police station against unidentified persons following a complaint lodged by Joshi regarding a life bid on him by two bikers. Joshi had stated in the complaint two persons had fled on bike after having fired three rounds on him while he was driving on Outer Ring Road along with a friend. He was returning in his official car, driven by him, after attending a wedding anniversary celebration. The case, earlier being probed by Nagpur police crime branch, was shifted to state CID last week by the State director general of police. Prior to the firing, there had been at least two instances when Joshi had received threatening letters to stop the encroachment drive. Home minister Deshmukh also expressed wonderment after being mentioned that two of Joshi’s close friends, including one who was in the car, have refused to undergo brain-mapping test that the city police was wanting to. Joshi’s friend, who was in the car, is learnt to have couple of offences registered against him in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/we-need-to-know-if-firing-on-mayor-was-real-or-stunt-hm/articleshow/76930112.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 13, 2020||Lucknow||When a police officer tore Dubey’s history sheet||Kanpur: There are more twists in gangster Vikas Dubey’s roller-coaster ride in crime. The latest being the tearing of his history-sheet by a former senior superintendent of police (SSP), Kanpur. In 2009, then SSP Kanpur, Anand Swaroop, was embroiled in controversy after he tore the history sheet of Dubey on a public platform, saying those who had given up crime long ago also have the right to live. Swaroop waded into amnesia zone as just eight years ago, the same gangster had stormed Shivli police station and shot a BJP minister, Santosh Shukla and walked free in the absence of witnesses. Senior journalist Sunil Gupta, who covered the police event, said the then SSP Kanpur, Anand Swaroop, prepared a list of history-sheeters who had bid adieu to crime. There was a BSP government in the state then. “The list had names of people whose history-sheets were open, but they had not committed crime for long. The exercise was attributed to police tendency to harass old history-sheeters who had dropped the gun. A majority in the list were people in the 60-80 age-group. Vikas Dubey, who was barely 40 years old at that time was also invited to the programme, where the SSP tore apart his history-sheet,” said Gupta. Dubey had 60 cases against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/when-a-police-officer-tore-dubeys-history-sheet/articleshow/76930523.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 13, 2020||Goa||State opens for tourism, but arrivals merely a trickle||Panaji: A week after the state opened its doors for tourism and hotels were permitted to restart operations, the sector has seen just 5-10% occupancy. Some hotels that are functioning are yet to receive a single guest, and many that aren’t are choosing to wait and watch. The rise in infections in the state over the past 15 days seems to have put a dampener on travel plans. However, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa ((TTAG) says that bookings will pick up slowly, and there may be a slight increase next month. “Since last week, some hotels have received bookings, but not more than 10%,” said TTAG president Nilesh Shah. “We expect a rise by 30-40% in August, as long as the Covid situation doesn’t worsen.” One hotelier in South Goa said that though some establishments received bookings, there hasn’t yet been much activity in terms of arrivals. “I have not heard of any hotels that have received tourists,” he said. “Guests of manufacturing units having their base here, their outstation executives and engineers who visit Goa for work can’t be called tourists.” He also said that the sharp spike in cases over the past few weeks doesn’t really show the state as a safe travel option. Over 250 hotels have been permitted to operate, but only some have actually resumed. Hotelier Ralph de Sousa said that he hasn’t received any bookings yet, but a lot of inquiries for probable events in November and December. He said that even if hotels want to open, they would have to wait due to staffing problems. “There is still no clarity in Goa yet,” he said. “Hotels in neighbouring states have been asked to operate at one-third of their total capacity. If we are to do the same here, it is not a viable option, since hotels have suffered big losses since March due to closures.” De Sousa said that since Goa’s domestic tourists come from metros, it will have to be extra careful, since metros are among the worst-hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-opens-for-tourism-but-arrivals-merely-a-trickle/articleshow/76930525.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 13, 2020||Nashik||Water supply restored in city||Nashik: The water supply in the city was restored to normalcy on Sunday after a gap of two days. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) did not supply water across the city on Thursday. On Friday, the NMC resumed water supply with some parts of the city receiving water at low pressure. The process of lifting raw water through pumping stations at the Gangapur dam was affected by the power cut carried out by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) in the dam areas as it had undertaken the work of laying underground cable, said NMC officials. The Gangapur dam complex and Mukane dams are the major sources of water for the city. Apart from this, the water supply department of the NMC had also undertaken some repair works on the water pipeline of the Mukane dam. So, the NMC could not lift water through its pumping station at the Mukane dam. “We have regularised the supply. Some parts of the city got water at low pressure on Friday and Saturday. But the supply now has been completely restored,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/water-supply-restored-in-city/articleshow/76928706.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid patient booked for boozing at isolation centre||PATNA: A Covid-19 patient was caught on camera while drinking liquor at an isolation centre set up at a community health centre (CHC) in Gopalganj district. Consumption and sale of liquor is banned in Bihar. The incident came to light after a video showing him consuming liquor inside the centre went viral on social media on Saturday. Gopalganj district magistrate Arshad Aziz ordered an investigation. The probe team submitted its report to the DM on Sunday. The DM later asked CHC in charge Dr Manauwar Alam to lodge an FIR against the man. The DM, however, clarified that alcohol was not found in the isolation ward when the probe team visited the facility. The CHC at Jhajwa under Sidhwalia block had recently been converted into an isolation centre for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. A two-member team comprising Sidhwalia block development officer Abhyuday and CHC in charge Alam conducted a probe. “The complaint has been lodged against the man for violating the provisions of prohibition law,” the DM told reporters in Gopalganj. The complaint was lodged with the Mohammadpur police station on the statement of Alam. The man’s identity was not revealed because of his being a Covid-19 patient. Earlier, Gopalganj sadar SDO Upendra Pal was assigned to ascertain the veracity of the viral video. Pal verified that the video was related to the isolation centre in Sidhwalia block. Later, a two-member probe team submitted its report to the DM. Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari confirmed that the FIR was lodged against the resident of Majha, who is undergoing treatment at Sidhwalia CHC for Covid-19. “He has been taken into custody. He will be produced before the court after his health condition improves,” he said over the phone on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-patient-booked-for-boozing-at-isolation-centre/articleshow/76929607.cms||Ramashankar
July 13, 2020||Goa||Goa, Centre in talks to set up medical device park||Panaji: The state’s directorate of industries, trade and commerce is in talks with the Centre to explore the possibility of setting up a manufacturing cluster for medical devices, officials said. Goa is one of five states trying to woo Japanese pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with incentives, so they invest and manufacture drugs and medical devices here. The move is in line with the state government’s attempt to make Goa a healthcare hub where medical tourism and production of healthcare equipment go hand in hand. Goa is competing with Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh to grab a piece of India’s growing medical device sector, which is currently valued at $11 billiom, according to Invest India. “There are various sectors that are unexplored, such as the health sector, and we are talking to (Union ministers) Piyush Goyal and Sadananda Gowda for a medical device park in Goa,” said health and industries minister Vishwajit Rane, addressing global investors during a webinar. India has invited manufactures of pharmaceutical and medical devices to set up shop in the five states, and has offered a slew of incentives. It is estimated that Japanese companies would invest as much as Rs 2,200 crore in this sector. “The scope for startups in the health sector is very high, and we want to move in this direction. Even in terms of a medical device park, we are extremely interested in taking this forward,” said Rane during a panel discussion organised by the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce. The medical devices industry in India consists of large multinationals as well as small and medium enterprises (SMEs) growing at an unprecedented scale. Rane also told investors that as far as Goa’s healthcare sector is concerned, medical tourism is one of the areas which has not been tapped to its full potential. He said that assisted living facilities for senior citizens is another avenue that the state government is willing to explore through a public-private partnership route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-centre-in-talks-to-set-up-medical-device-park/articleshow/76930530.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 13, 2020||Goa||Goa reports 2 more deaths, takes weekend toll up to 5||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 14 on Sunday after two persons, both having co-morbidities, succumbed to the virus. While five persons died of the infection over the weekend, the state’s active tally rose to 952, with 85 new cases and 59 recoveries. The first death on Sunday was that of a 49-year-old man from Palolem. He was undergoing treatment for Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a cancer of the lymphatic system, at a private hospital. On June 28, he was transferred to the ESI-Covid hospital in a critical condition. He died of Covid on Sunday at 7.30am. Later in the day, an 80-year-old woman from Chicalim died. Although she received treatment for two weeks at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao, her condition didn’t improve though her vitals were stable. A health official said that she was bedridden before hospitalisation, and suffered from dementia. This was Chicalim’s second death after that of former MMC councillor Pascoal D’Souza. “We are doing everything possible to prevent the spread of the virus in our village,” said sarpanch Kamla Prasad Yadav. “Sanitisation and awareness campaigns are being undertaken by the panchayat.” Meanwhile, health minister Vishwajit Rane launched the plasma bank at GMC. Recovered Covid-19 patients have been requested to come forward to donate their plasma. The state government has set this week as its target to commence plasma therapy. Rane also fended off allegations from political opponents regarding the state’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis. The Goa Forward Party (GFP) said that the state doesn’t have ventilators in adequate numbers to treat critically-ill patients. “What GFP is saying is absolutely wrong,” Rane said. “We have sufficient ventilators at the ESI-Covid hospital. There is a provision for 40 ventilators. Besides, 50 more ventilators have been connected at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. There is nothing to worry about.” He also rubbished an allegation by independent MLA Rohan Khaunte that 500 patients were being discharged on Sunday. The health minister said that 59 people were discharged, and that the discharge process for all states has been stipulated as per the Supreme Court’s June 19 order. According to this, states must follow a uniform discharge policy issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, he said. Meanwhile, even as Sunday’s number of fresh cases was 32 fewer than the previous day, two new places — Neura and Batim, both in Tiswadi — reported seven and three new cases respectively. Also, a part of Fattawada in Nerul, which falls in the jurisdiction of the Candolim primary health centre, has been declared a micro-containment zone. It has witnessed a jump in cases from 3 to 23 within six days. Betki, which has seen a spurt in cases since last week, reported eight new cases, and part of it was declared a containment zone. Zuarinagar, Ponda, Mangor Hill and Baina also saw their tally rise. Besides, 12 travellers also added to the list of new infections. Rane said that Goa’s testing rate is perhaps the highest among all states, at over 60,000 tests per million population. As of Sunday, the state has conducted 89,596 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-reports-2-more-deaths-takes-weekend-toll-up-to-5/articleshow/76930526.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Three hospitals sealed in Bazpur after sample of dead woman treated there tests Covid-19 positive||RUDRAPUR: Three days after a 60-year old woman died and her swab samples tested positive for Covid-19, three private hospitals where she was treated were sealed. The district administration of Udham Singh Nagar has issued orders to trace all the people who came in contact with the woman and attended her cremation. Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Vivek Kumar has also ordered sanitization of the entire cremation ground. “Samples of the staff at all three hospitals will be sent for a coronavirus test. We are thinking of announcing Majra Prabhu ward, where the woman lived, a containment zone,” the SDM said. The woman, a resident of Kotwali area, had been admitted at Deen Dayal Hospital on July 6 after she complained of breathing difficulties. Meanwhile, doctors from a government hospital collected her sample for Covid-19 test. She was subsequently taken to Agrawal Hospital and Bhatnagar Hospital for higher treatment. On July 9, she died in a private hospital in Moradabad of Uttar Pradesh. Her kin performed her last rituals on July 10. Two days later, health officials received her test report, which was positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-hospitals-sealed-in-bazpur-after-sample-of-dead-woman-treated-there-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76928702.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||Three Covid fatalities in Hassan||HASSAN: The district saw three people die due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of fatalities to 20. A total 32 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Hassan on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 687, including 212 active cases, of whom 11 are in the ICU. Of the three fatalities, two are men are from Hassan and another is a woman from Alur. The woman was admitted to the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) in the end of June, because of heart disease, in the non-Covid ward. After the doctors who treated Covid patients tested positive at HIMS last week, the swabs of all the healthcare workers and patients were taken for testing. The deceased woman’s swab samples were also collected. She tested positive on July 10. The following morning, she was shifted to the ICU. She suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome. After 21 hours, she succumbed to septic shock around 9pm on Sunday, said DHO Sathish. The two men who died due to Covid-19 are a 57-year-old and 60-year-old. The former was a KSRTC officer who got admitted to the Covid hospital on July 5 with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and he was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. After five days, he was put on ventilator. He died at 1.50 am on Sunday, due to cardiac arrest. The 60-year-old man was suffering from SARI, diabetes, and hypertension. His results came out after he died, and he tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-covid-fatalities-in-hassan/articleshow/76928700.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||AYUSH ahead in drug trials in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Analysis of the clinical trials registry at ICMR’s National Institute of Medical Statistics reveals more number of clinical trials of Covid-19 drug in progress by AYUSH, leaving behind those in allopathy in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. While Hyderabad is at the forefront of research for development of vaccine research in the pharma sector, drug trials in ayurveda, yoga & naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (AYUSH) for Covid-19 treatment are much ahead. Altogether 18 clinical trials in Telangana and 20 in Andhra Pradesh are AYUSH-based, with hundreds of volunteers, including those from the police department recruited for trials. National Institute of Indian Medical Heritage based in Hyderabad has been doing several clinical trials. “In view of no vaccine or treatment available for Covid-19, there is a need to investigate the potential intervention. Although there are lot of clinical studies ongoing across the world, there is a scope for traditional systems of medicine also in these types of pandemic conditions, where masses of population are affected,” Dr PVV Prasad of the institute says. “In classical textbooks of traditional medicines, such type of outbreaks has been explained and their possible treatment. This is an attempt to investigate the role of ayurveda intervention in prophylaxis of Covid-19 infection to save the healthy population from being infected,” he said. The institute is doing clinical trials with ashwagandha (withania somnifera) as a prophylactic measure among high risk population. National Research Institute of Unani Medicine in Skin Diseases, based in Hyderabad is carrying out trials of the use of joshanda (decoction) and khameera marwareed, tiryaq-e-arba unani medicine for prophylactic interventions on the population at risk of Covid-19. A study will be carried out on a total sample size of 40,000. The National Institute of Indian Medical Heritage is using chyavanprash lehyam as a prophylactic measure in Telangana. At hotspots of Covid-19 in both Telangana and Andhra, arsenicum album – 30 drug is distributed as a prophylactic for Covid-19 as part of research. In another study to evaluate the effect and safety of a phytopharmaceutical drug in the treatment of novel coronavirus infection, purified aqueous extract of cocculus hirsutus (A.Q.C.H.) tablets are used in Gandhi hospital by Sun Pharma. In allopathy trials, one of the major ones that are funded by WHO and ICMR is on at the Gandhi hospital, apart from other hospitals in the country. The trial is to study the effects of additional treatments by use of remdesivir, chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir with ritonavir, lopinavir with ritonavir plus interferon for patients hospitalised and receiving treatment due to Covid-19. The study is led at the national level by ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute, Pune. Similar trials are being held at Gandhi Medical College, Secunderabad, Asian Institute of Gastroenterology, Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad, while the use of vitamins, ivermectin and povidone iodine is on in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ayush-ahead-in-drug-trials-in-t-ap/articleshow/76930642.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Amended MV Act to be inforce from October, says Mauvind Godinho||PANAJI: State government has decided to implement the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act 2019 from October instead of July in view of the hardships being faced by the people due to Covid-19. Speaking to TOI, transport minister Mauvind Godinho on Sunday said the government is averse to burden people with the implementation of new act as they are battling Covid-19. Godinho said the file pertaining to the new act is ready and will be referred to the cabinet for its final approval before being implemented. “We have reduced the fines on the lines of Gujarat,” he said. A senior government officer said the law department has vetted two proposals of transport department, which include reduction in fine and implementation of the act in its original from. Earlier, the implementation of new legislation was delayed due to the code of conduct in force ahead of ZP elections. Former transport minister and MGP senior leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar had demanded resignation of Godinho over not implementing the act and blamed him for the fatal accidents in the state. Godinho has said that the fine for riding a bike without helmet as per the Centre is Rs 1,000, which the state wants to restrict to Rs 500. “In no parking cases, the fines have been increased from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000, but we will try to restrict it to Rs 500,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amended-mv-act-to-be-inforce-from-oct-godinho/articleshow/76930534.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Covid doubling rate improves||Nashik: The doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases in the city has improved considerably from 7.5 days around a month ago to 13.5 days now. Currently, with a recovery rate of 60.92%, there are more cured patients in the city than active cases. Of the total 4,043 cases registered in the city, 2,463 patients have recovered. In fact, 1,532 patients, including 249 on Sunday, were discharged in the past 12 days. The Covid-19 active count in the city stands at 1,411. There were only 48 patients in the city till May 20. The Covid-19 tally crossed the 100-mark on May 25. The city recorded its second set of 100 cases within just a week on May 31. While the city breached the 300-mark on June 3, the Covid-19 cases crossed 400-mark on June 7. As many as 2,182 Covid-19 patients were reported from the city by June 30. The Covid-19 tally in city touched 4,043 on Sunday (July 12) with the addition of 116 new cases. Officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said, “Initially, it took quite a few days to go from 100 to 200 cases. Now, about 150 to 200 cases are being reported daily over the past few days.” “By first week of June, we were conducting around 100-125 tests daily. Currently, we are testing over 500 throat swab samples per day. Apart from this, we are also conducting over 200 rapid antigen tests per day for early detection,” said officials. “The number of patients increased after we increased the number of tests. We traced around 20-24 high risk contacts of each positive patient.We also conducted door-to-door surveys in containment zones to find suspected patients and took their swabs,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-covid-doubling-rate-improves/articleshow/76928715.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 13, 2020||Nashik||Mortality rate reduces to almost half in Dhule||Nashik: The Covid-19 fatality rate in Dhule district has dipped by almost half in less than 20 days — thanks to the increase in the number of tests. Currenlty, the mortality rate is around 4.9% as compared to around 8% on June 24 and around 11% on June 20. Health officials from the district administration said that early detection and treatment of patients went a long way in bringing down the fatality rate in the district. So far, 1,568 Covid-19 cases have been registered in the district. Of them, 555 are still active cases. As many as 75 people have succumbed to the infection here. Covid-19 nodal officer Vishal Patil said the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients was around 60%. “The district administration has ramped up testing of suspected Covid-19 patients. At present, about 300 tests are being carried out on a daily basis ,” said Patil. “We have intensified contact tracing, which is around 15 per positive patient. All these persons are being tested for novel coronavirus,” said health officials. Dhule city and the urban areas of Shirpur town continue to be the hotspots in the district with the bulk of the cases being reported from these two areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mortality-rate-reduces-to-almost-half-in-dhule/articleshow/76928727.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Most Congress turncoats struggle for footing in BJP||GANDHINAGAR: With byelections for the eight assembly seats that were vacated by Congress turncoats scheduled to be held next month, the spotlight has shifted to whether the BJP will re-nominate the MLAs whose resignations helped the BJP ensure Rajya Sabha seats for all three of its nominees last month. While there is considerable resentment among the BJP ranks on fielding the turncoats on the lotus symbol, the fact is that except for a handful of former Congress MLAs who succeeded in cementing their place in the BJP fold, the majority of Congress turncoats have struggled to gain acceptance in the BJP. Since 2017, of the 29 Congress MLAs who quit the party to join the BJP or help its prospects, very few have got ministerial berths or have even got re-elected on BJP tickets. In the past three years, barring Kunvarji Bavaliya, Jawahar Chavda and Dharmendrasinh Jadeja, who got elected on a BJP ticket because of their personal clout, no other Congress turncoat MLAs have been given ministerial berths by the BJP. Of the eight Congress MLAs who quit before the 2020 Rajya Sabha election, only five have been absorbed into the BJP so far, and political observers says the others may be left in the lurch. A recognised Congress leader like Alpesh Thakor, who joined the BJP, also lost his byelection in 2019, as the local unit of the BJP did not approve of him getting the BJP ticket. Other Congress turncoat MLAs who were given BJP tickets in bypolls also met the same end. The BJP cadre has been making public statements, expressing displeasure at the idea of giving tickets to turncoat MLAs who join the party. It remains to be seen how the ruling party manages to contain resentment within its own workers ahead of the byelections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/most-congress-turncoats-struggle-for-footing-in-bjp/articleshow/76929599.cms||Kapil Dave
July 13, 2020||Vadodara||Two held in Panchmahal with country-made guns||Vadodara: Two persons were arrested and two have been declared as wanted for possessing three country-made guns in Morva Hadaf taluka of Panchmahal district on Saturday. Police said that they had received information about two persons carrying weapons in a backpack. “We were told that the two persons had started from a highway hotel on Dahod highway in an auto-rickshaw and were on their way to Godhra so we kept a watch at a check-post on Sant Road,” said a police official. Based on the tip-off, the two accused, Sunil Bishnoi and Ashok Bishnoi, were stopped and while searching their bags, police found three country-made guns. During interrogation, they confessed that a man named Babulal Gorasiya from Badmer in Rajasthan had given them the guns. “They were asked to hand over the weapons to one Sachin Bishnoi in Jalore district in Rajasthan,” the police official said. The duo are being questioned about why they had to come to Gujarat since the weapons were to be delivered in Rajasthan only. An offence under Arms Act was registered against all four accused at Morva Hadaf police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-in-panchmahal-with-country-made-guns/articleshow/76928796.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Over 59,000 challaned in Uttarakhand for not wearing masks||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand police has claimed that more than 59,000 people have been issued challans for not wearing face masks and violating social distancing norms at public places during Covid-19 pandemic. According to the police, a total of 53,509 people have been issued challans for flouting the mandatory norm of wearing masks at public places and penalty action was taken against 5,588 others for violating social distancing rules. According to Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), “We have been urging people to wear masks. Action will be taken against all those who flout norms and risk the lives of others. We all should understand the importance of wearing masks to contain the spread of coronavirus.” Police have also registered cases against 714 people for violating home quarantine rules. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, police have registered 4,243 cases and booked 56,285 people for violating lockdown rules. Besides, over 1 lakh vehicles were challaned under the Motor Vehicle Act. A total fine amount of Rs 6.85 crore has been collected by the police during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-59k-challaned-in-ukhand-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76928729.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 victim laid to rest by volunteers||MYSURU: The final rites of a 58-year-old man who died of Covid-19 at Kollegal hospital on Saturday night were performed by a group of volunteers in the early hours on Sunday. The patient was admitted to the Kollegal hospital on July 8. He was diagnosed with SARI. “He tested positive for Covid-19. All the necessary precautionary measures were taken for his final rites,” said DHO L Ravi. According to deputy commissioner M R Ravi, the ward in which the deceased was treated has been sanitised. Those who came in contact with him have been sent into quarantine as a precautionary measure. The body of the deceased was buried by a team of six volunteers at Kongarahalli village. These volunteers were trained by the district health department. All of them are now under home quarantine as per the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-victim-laid-to-rest-by-volunteers/articleshow/76929639.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown extended till July 14 in Kashipur||Rudrapur: A day after a three-day lockdown was imposed in Kashipur due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Udham Singh Nagar administration has now decided to extend the lockdown period till July 14. The decision to prolong the lockdown period from 3 days to 10 days came after 10 more positive Covid-19 cases surfaced on Saturday night. Dr Amarjeet Singh Sahni, district nodal officer for Covid-19, told TOI that the samples of suspect cases were taken on July 9 and the reports arrived on Saturday night. "Due to the surge in cases, we have turned Hotel Ananya at Ramnagar Road into a focus care center. The patients from Kashipur will not be sent to Rudrapur or Haldwani anymore. Covid-19 patients (or suspects) from Kashipur will be isolated and administered treatment in the city itself," Dr Sahni added. Meanwhile, it has been decided that the government offices will open from 10 am to 5 pm but not for the public. Similarly, essential commodities shops are allowed to open from 8 am to 12 noon. Banks have also been permitted to remain open during the same time period and the petrol pumps will open from 7 am to 7 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-extended-till-july-14-in-kashipur/articleshow/76928743.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Think tank given flawed testing data to analyse||BENGALURU: A Bengaluru-based independent think tank, tasked by the government to evaluate data and help the government prioritise testing criteria, has submitted a preliminary analysis that has only raised more questions about the quality of data which the agency is basing its conclusions on. Public Affairs Centre (PAC) is tasked with identify those with the highest positivity rates, districtwise. The team analysed data between June 30 and July 6 and considered 11 categories — international travellers, primary contacts of Covid patients, pregnant women, healthcare workers, SARI patients, ILI cases and frontline workers among others. It found more primary contacts are turning positive in Ballari than in Benglauru: The test positivity rate (number found infected per 100 tests) of the former is 20% as against the latter’s 8%, while that of Mandya district is 218.6%, a mathematical impossibility. Experts with the state’s Covid-19 task force described it as a data “aberration”, but researchers at PAC say they are only studying data provided by the government. The study mentions that in one district, it was found that the number of primary contacts testing positive is more than the number of those tested and the data had to be validated. “This data also needs to be studied by technical persons pertaining to testing,” said Mrinalini Kabbur, senior data analyst, PAC. While Hassan, Haveri and Dharwad had the highest positivity rate among healthcare workers at 1.3%, Bengaluru, a hotbed of the virus, does not top any category. Only 30 health workers were found infected among 4,319 who were tested, while only nine pregnant women were positive out of 5,800 who were tested. Doctors in Bengaluru’s dedicated Covid-19 hospitals say the findings are hogwash. Bengaluru police say 435 of their personnel have tested positive, but the data provided to the think tank suggests only 23 contracted the virus. The positivity rate for health workers in Bengaluru is 0.7%. “There could be errors with the sample registration forms,” said Dr CN Manjunath, director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research and nodal officer for testing and lab facilities on the state’s Covid-19 task force. “Bengaluru cannot have just 30 healthcare workers testing positive. About 60 staffers in my own hospital have tested positive. There seems to be a problem in the data reporting itself. There are statistical errors as well as a problem with the way forms are filled.” He suggested the positivity rate among primary contacts in Ballari is high because of a cluster outbreak at a factory there. He, however, said the 200% figure for Mandya could be a data aberration. Other contradictions include a 95% positivity rate among Kalaburagi’s international travellers, while it is less than 1% for Bengaluru. Positivity rate among domestic travellers is more than 100% in Dakshina Kannada and 19% in Chikkaballapura, but less than 2% in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-covid-19-think-tank-given-flawed-data-to-work-with/articleshow/76929871.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Missing from action, police face flak||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala Police failed to make their presence felt and cut a sorry figure when it came to nabbing two of the prime accused in the gold smuggling case, that has drawn national attention. Even when the force claimed that it was not engaged in the search for Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair as it had no role in the ongoing investigation, a case against the former with the crime branch has been gathering dust. “There is a crime branch case against Swapna, and when her name cropped up in the gold smuggling case, which multiple national agencies are probing, it was the duty of the state police to join in the search for the accused,” department sources said. As per section 41 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC), any police officer can, without an order from a magistrate or a warrant, arrest any person against whom credible information has been received or a reasonable suspicion exists that he/she has committed a cognizable offence, for the proper investigation of the offence or to prevent the person from tampering evidence in any manner. “The general presumption is that police can act on the basis of CrPC on all such matters which are not specifically prohibited under the law,” sources said. They added that even if she was not arrested, state police could have at least taken an active role in ensuring the accused do not leave the state, especially when the Covid-19 situation has ensured heightened checks of vehicles across the state and along its borders. “When there are enough reasons to believe that the accused face serious criminal charges, the usual procedure would be to alert the neighbouring state police by sharing a photograph of the accused while ensuring that they are not able to leave the state,” sources added. However, in this case, the state police waited for the customs department to approach it seeking cooperation. By the time they announced a team after the request was received on Saturday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had nabbed the accused, that too within 48 hours of registering a case. Karnataka Police confirmed that they received no alert from their counterparts in Kerala. “Kerala Police were unaware of the arrest till the very last moment. There was no communication between Kerala and Karnataka police on the matter,” a senior official with Karnataka Police said. Moreover, the inability to act against former IT secretary M Sivasankar is being cited by officers as another loss of face for the government. Evidence clearly linked him to an accused in a major crime. This, besides the fact that he was found to have flouted conduct rules in dealing with employees of foreign missions. The government had enough and more reasons to move against him, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/missing-from-action-police-face-flak/articleshow/76929670.cms||KP Saikiran
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||Man from Chamarajanagar succumbs to Covid in Mysuru hospital||MYSURU: The total number of Covid-19 fatalities in Chamarajanagar touched two, after a 65-year-old retired employee of the health department, who tested positive in Kollegal, breathed his last in a Mysuru hospital on Sunday. A resident of Kollegal, he was brought to a private hospital in Mysuru on Wednesday, after developing breathing issues. However, Chamarajanagar district health department officials said that they are yet to receive a confirmation in this regard. The locality from where the patient is in Kollegal town was sanitised and sealed by the police and health department. Meanwhile on Sunday, Chamarajanagar recorded 10 new Covid-19 cases. According to the district health bulletin on Sunday, 28 Covid-19 patients were discharged, which is the highest in a single day. The district has 96 active cases now. The district has recorded a total 173 positive cases so far. “Among the 96 active cases, three are being treated in the ICU,” said the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-from-cnagar-succumbs-to-covid-in-mysuru-hosp/articleshow/76928731.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||All reopened schools in Gadchiroli & Chandrapur shut again till July 31||Nagpur: Over 300 schools which had physically reopened in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts have again been shut down till July 31 in compliance with the Centre’s directives in view of the coronavirus pandemic. TOI had reported how these two districts of Maharashtra had successfully reopened hundreds of schools, majority of them located in remote areas. Gadchiroli collector Deepak Singla told TOI that he was complying with the central government orders. In a text message, Singla said, “The central guidelines have asked schools to remain closed.” He also issued an order which makes it clear that all schools, junior colleges and coaching classes must remain physically closed till July 31. Though, the order does clarify that teaching and non-teaching staff are still required to report for duty at school. In neighbouring Chandrapur district too, similar order is being issued. District collector Kunal Khemnar confirmed to TOI that all schools will remain shut till July 31. While both district collectors are complying with the central government guidelines, many teachers in remote parts of Naxalite-infested Gadchiroli have resolved to find other ways to keep education going. A teacher at Gadchiroli zilla parishad school told TOI that ‘group study’ format will now be put back into action. “Before schools physically reopened, we would visit homes of our students and give them assignments and clarify their doubts. Now that mode of instruction will be back in full swing,” said the teacher. TOI was the first to report about this unique approach of educating children amid the Covid lockdown. Another teacher said it was crucial for children in Gadchiroli to continue with education. “If education stops, these children will drop out of formal education within a few months. To keep their interest going, we have to keep them engaged continuously,” said the teacher. Both Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts had allowed reopening of schools after complying with Maharashtra government’s guidelines issued on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-reopened-schools-in-gadchiroli-chandrapur-shut-again-till-july-31/articleshow/76930132.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 13, 2020||Trichy||Good Samaritans help disabled man stand on his feet||Trichy: Like many who lost their jobs and livelihood because of the lockdown, G Ramesh, 37, a disabled man from Pudukottai, was left jobless after the public toilet at Pudukottai bus stand was closed where he was working as night watchman. However, a group of youth have given him hope by coming forward to help him establish a mobile vegetable shop near his house.He now earns not less than Rs 300 a day to support his family members. Left immobile a few years ago after meeting with an accident, the future looked bleak for him as he had to look after his aged parents also. After the public toilet shut down, all his attempts to get a job went in vain. That was when the Good Samaritans extended a helping hand to set up the mobile vegetable vending facility in his scooty. Ramesh says he now feels like an entrepreneur who can decide his earnings without going to people seeking job. S Syed Ibrahim, 23, along with his friends helped him by providing Rs 2,000 to buy vegetables and he started selling it near the fish market in Pudukottai town. “He needed help from his mother to get vegetables and sell it, but we wanted him to be self-sufficient at work. Then came the idea of mobile vegetable shop. We made some modifications to his scooty by placing a big wooden tray which can be used to fill vegetables and sell them sitting on the vehicle, he said. “I was able to earn around Rs 200 a day in the public toilet and look after my parents and meet my medical expense,” Ramesh said. After becoming a vegetable vendor, he could earn even during lockdown and earn over Rs 300 per day. “I am planning to increase the sales so that I can make some money,” he says, adding that it would not have been possible had he not got timely help from Syed and friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/good-samaritans-help-disabled-man-stand-on-his-feet/articleshow/76930539.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 13, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, in late 30s, found murdered, cops clueless about identity as face disfigured||Bareilly: With her face brutally disfigured, a woman, in her late 30s, was found murdered in Bareilly’s Faridpur town on Sunday afternoon. Police suspect that she is not a local. Prima facie it appears that the woman belongs to another area and her body was dumped here nearly two days ago, a police officer said. Police also didn’t rule out sexual assault on the woman. “The autopsy report will confirm if she was sexually assaulted before the murder,” he said. Station house officer (SHO) of Faridpur police station, Dhananjay Singh, told TOI, “We have sent the details of the body to police stations in nearby districts. The autopsy of the body will be done on Monday. We are suspecting that someone who is familiar with this place may have dumped the body of the woman here. But we will crack the case soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-in-late-30s-found-murdered-cops-clueless-about-identity-as-face-disfigured/articleshow/76928708.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 13, 2020||Goa||Old Goa churches unlikely to open before August||PANAJI: Even as Goa is officially open for tourism and many monuments across the country have opened, the churches at the world heritage complex in Old Goa have not, and are unlikely to welcome visitors and devotees before August. The Basilica of Bom Jesus, which saw over 5,000 daily visitors before the lockdown, remains closed even for the local faithful. Similarly, the Se Cathedral across the street too hasn’t opened after the lockdown. The basilica and cathedral are both protected sites under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Beside the Centre’s guidelines for reopening religious places, churches in Goa have also been asked to adhere to elaborate standard operating procedures (SOPs) prepared by the Archdiocese of Goa and Daman, and get these vetted by a representative before reopening. “We have told the ASI that we will consider reopening after July 31. However, if cases continue to peak, we may not be able to do so,” said rector of the basilica, Fr Patricio Fernandes. He said that unlike other ASI monuments, the churches of Old Goa are living protected monuments, and should they reopen, regular worshippers could face the risk of getting infecting by visitors. “We want to open, but all conditions need to be met first. We need to be cautious,” he said. “Other churches can gauge where their faithful are coming from, but that is not possible here, where we would get up to 10,000 tourists visiting on holidays. Should someone carry the infection, we will have problems. It’s too risky.” Se Cathedral parish priest Fr Alfred Vaz too said that he has informed the ASI that reopening at this point would be too risky. “All the protocols laid down by the Centre and the Archdiocese have to be put in place first,” he said. “Only when an inspection is carried out and written permission received, we will open. If cases come down by August, we will think about reopening.” Meanwhile, ASI Goa circle officials said that they are waiting for the Archdiocese’s nod to reopen the monuments. “We have already procured thermal guns,” an official said. “Churches have asked for time to put in place requirements laid down by the Archbishop. We are working out ways to handle visitors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/old-goa-churches-unlikely-to-open-before-aug/articleshow/76930537.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 13, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Man booked for trying to rape sanitation worker||PILIBHIT: The husband of Jahanabad town area committee chairman has been booked for allegedly attempting to rape a contractual sanitation worker. The 40-year-old woman said that the accused had been sexually harassing her for over a year. In her written complaint, the woman said that accused, Durga Charan Gupta alias Anna, used to call her to the office of the town area committee in the absence of his wife and ‘misbehave with her’. The woman also alleged that the accused tried to lure her by promising her full salary without any work if she fulfilled his desires. She further claimed that she was sacked from her job four months ago when she resisted to his advances. However, when she sought help from the executive officer of the committee, her job was restored. On February 24, Anna made certain vulgar remarks to the woman over the phone which she recorded. Fearing action, Anna went to the woman’s house and asked her to delete the recording. When she refused to comply, Anna tried to outrage her modesty. He also passed derogatory comments and hurled casteist abuses on her, the victim alleged. The woman was rescued by her neighbours. Anna threatened her of dire consequences before he left. Meanwhile, Anna’s wife sacked her from the job this time compelling the woman to turn to police for action in the matter. Jahanabad SHO Harish Vardhan said Durga Charan has been booked under sections 354 A (assault or use of criminal force to any woman with intention of disrobing or compelling her to be naked), 452 (house trespass), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and relevant sections of SC/ST Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-trying-to-rape-sanitation-worker/articleshow/76927916.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Western part of city accounts for 68% of new corona cases||Ahmedabad: The western parts of Ahmedabad reported 113 of the 166 or 68% of the new Covid-19 cases and two of the four deaths reported in the city on Saturday.On Sunday, the city had reported 152 fresh cases and four deaths. On Saturday, the West Zone of the AMC, which includes Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna wards, reported 40 cases, the highest among the AMC’s seven zones.It was followed by North West Zone, which reported 38 fresh cases in areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota. The South West Zone reported the third highest 35 cases in Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura and Sarkhej areas.Of the four deaths reported on Saturday, one death each was reported from the West Zone and South West Zone. Currently, the western parts account for 48% of the active cases. As of Sunday morning, the city had 3,177 active cases, of which 1,522 were from the western parts.West Zone has 502 active cases, North West Zone and South West Zone have 433 active cases each, Central Zone has 255, North Zone 461, East Zone 474, and South Zone has 465 active cases. It was for the first time since the outbreak that the West Zone crossed the 502 active cases mark.In the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, 123 patients were discharged, of which 18 were from government hospitals and 95 from private hospitals. Two patients from private Covid centres and eight in home isolation were also given a clean chit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/western-part-of-city-accounts-for-68-of-new-corona-cases/articleshow/76930157.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Part of Khandola a micro containment zone||Ponda: Following a sudden spike in Covid positive cases, Haldanwada-Khandola in Ponda taluka has been declared a micro-containment zone. Of the 52 positive cases in the jurisdiction of the primary health centre (PHC) at Betki, 39 cases are from Haldanwada. “The Betki PHC had registered the first novel coronavirus case after a person from St Estevam tested positive on April 3. Prompt action by the PHC had prevented further spread,” health officer Dr Brenda Pinto said. The spike in positive cases was noted after July 6 when 11 swab samples, including eight from Haldanwada and three from Volvoi, were detected with the virus. Pinto said that of the two persons working at the Verna industrial estate, the one from Volvoi infected five more and the other from Haldanwada is suspected to have transmitted the virus to 38 members of joint families residing in seven houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/part-of-khandola-a-micro-containment-zone/articleshow/76930643.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two cheated in online deals||Ahmedabad: While e-shopping is picking up pace, cases of cyber-cheating in transactions are also on the rise. About six such complaints were lodged on Friday alone, and two more were registered in Shahibaug and Sardarnagar police stations on Saturday. Riya Amin, the complainant in the Shahibaug case, had ordered a ‘lehenga’ from an a e-portal but when the delivery was delayed, she searched for its customer care number on Facebook “When she called on the number she found on Facebook, the person on the other end said the cloth was out of stock. He asked her to download an application to get her money refunded. Amin downloaded the application, and filled in her debit card details for refund, and Rs 34,907 was stolen immediately from her bank account,” said an official of Shahibaug police. In the complaint lodged at Sardarnagar police station on Saturday, one Sandeep Kataria of Nana Chiloda stated he had put a sofa on sale for Rs 7,500 on a buying and selling portal about a week ago. “One Vikas Patel called to buy the sofa and claimed he was an army official. The man sent a QR code for payment, but Kataria received only Rs 4,000,” said a police official. “The man sent a second QR code to pay the balance and Rs 37,500 was stolen from Kataria’s e-wallet when he scanned it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-cheated-in-online-deals/articleshow/76929631.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Subdued Bonalu in Secunderabad due to Covid||SECUNDERABAD: With offering of a ‘golden bonum,’to the Goddess Ujjaini Mahankali temple in Secunderabad on Sunday, the ‘Ashada Bonalu’ celebrations kicked off. But, this year, the event was held in a low-key manner. This event was held by the temple’s Executive Officer (EO), G Manohar Reddy and few employees of the temple at wee hours of Sunday. The entire temple gas been decorated with flowers and illuminated with lights. After completion of the Bonum offering, the priests have performed daily rituals to the goddess. Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, women were restricted from offering Bonums at the temple. As a result, the womenfolk offered their bonums at smaller temples. “In the last year, nearly 40 lakh devotees visited the temple during the annual Bonalu. This time not even a single woman devotee was allowed due to the state government’s decision,” said EO, Manohar Reddy. The main ritual, ‘Rangam’ will be held at 9.30 am on Monday in temple premises and speaks about predictions, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/subdued-bonalu-in-secbad-due-to-covid/articleshow/76930538.cms||---
July 13, 2020||India||NHAI to rate roads, scores to be public||NEW DELHI: From this October you would get to know the rating of all 570 NH stretches where you pay toll for using highway, reports Dipak Dash. In a first ever such exercise, National Highways Authority of India will carry out rating of nearly 25,000 km of completed stretches on a scale of 0 to 100 score. This will be available in public domain. The maximum score of 17 has been assigned for operating speed and riding quality on each stretch. “Each section between two toll plazas will be taken as one stretch. The focus is to ensure that people who are paying toll get the promised riding quality and other facilities,”said an official. The NHAI has drawn details of about 45 parameters for assessing the identified stretches twice a year. Efficiency, which includes riding quality, maintenance, structures and waiting time at toll plazas, will have the maximum 45 marks, and 35 marks for safety. There are specific parameters to measure greening on median and road markings to name a few. The rest 20 marks will be for amenities along the highway. “We will also have the provision to get users’ feedback. Though this exercise does not cover under construction stretches and non-tolled NHs, the NHAI will take all steps to ensure their maintenance,” said another official. Sources also said the assessment audit and ranking is aimed to take corrective measures, wherever needed, to improve the quality and provide higher level of service to the commuters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had directed the highways ministry to rank all NHs on quality and safety parameters, which TOI had first reported on December 2. “The ranking of the corridors will be dynamic and the concessionaire, contractor or operator will get the opportunity to improve upon their ranking by improving the services on that corridor,” an NHAI statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-to-rate-roads-scores-to-be-public/articleshow/76930806.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||City’s average daily cases down by 37%||Ahmedabad: Gujarat recorded 879 Covid-19 positive cases in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday. The new cases took the total to 41,906. The fresh cases included 251 from Surat, 172 from Ahmedabad, 75 from Vadodara, and 46 from Bhavnagar.The state also registered 13 deaths, pushing the state’s toll to 2,047. The deaths included five from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two from Junagadh and one each from Kheda and Rajkot.In all, 513 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period; the total is now 29,189. The discharges include 138 from Surat, 133 from Ahmedabad, 53 from Junagadh, and 38 from Banaskantha.The state currently has 10,661 (25.4%) active patients whereas the shares of discharged and deceased patients in the total cases are 69.7% and 4.9%.An analysis reveals that Ahmedabad district has recorded a drop of 67% in average daily deaths and 37% in average daily cases. In June, the district recorded, on average, 20 deaths and 291 cases daily. In comparison, in the first 12 days of July, the district’s average deaths and cases dropped to 182 and six respectively.Gujarat carried out 7,580 tests in 24 hours to identify new patients, taking the total tests to 4.64 lakh. As on Sunday evening, the state has 3.25 lakh persons under quarantine, including 3.22 lakh under home quarantine.Ahmedabad, Surat, and Vadodara cumulatively accounted for 90% of the cases and deaths in April. In two subsequent months, shares of the three districts fell — primarily due to a fall in the cases in Ahmedabad. The first 12 days of July recorded 64.4% cases and 68.3% deaths from the three districts. The spread of Covid-19 is faster in several districts of Saurashtra and South Gujarat. For example, in July so far, Bhavnagar district has recorded 341 cases at an average of 28 cases daily compared to 140 in 30 days of June at an average of five cases daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-average-daily-cases-down-by-37/articleshow/76930140.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Roorkee mayor rejoins BJP, CM says will work more effectively now||Dehradun/Roorkee: A year after being expelled from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Roorkee mayor Gaurav Goel rejoined the saffron party on Sunday in presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat. Besides Goel, 12 other councillors also joined the saffron party on the day. With this, the incumbent government now has six mayor seats — Dehrdaun, Haldwani, Rudrapur, Rishikesh, Kashipur, and Roorkee — among the eight municipal corporations in Uttarakhand. Congress holds the mayor seats in Haridwar and Kotdwar. Addressing the BJP functionaries during the event, CM Rawat said, “The state now occupies 75% of all mayoral seats in Uttarakhand. Mayors and civic bodies are like mini governments. With six such mini governments in our fold, the BJP will now be able to work more effectively for the benefits of the people.” He added that the BJP has brought transparency into state administration and has removed corruption from government functioning. Hailing Goel’s conduct, Bhagat pointed out that even during his time away from the party, he never said anything against its leaders. Notably, Goel, 39, was expelled from the party as he had rebelled against the party cadre after BJP’s state vice-president Mayank Gupta was picked as Roorkee Municipal Corporation election candidate. Later, Goel contested for the coveted seat of Roorkee’s mayor as an Independent candidate and won. “I fought polls without a party ticket because of the circumstances during that time but I always had full faith in this party and its senior leaders,” said Goel. It is worth mentioning that political observers say that BJP candidate Gupta had lost to Goel only because Roorkee BJP MLA Pradeep Batra didn't support him. “Gupta is considered to be close to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Batra sees him as his competitor. With Goel rejoining the party, the groupism has come to the fore,” said a BJP functionary. However, Adesh Saini, general secretary of BJP Roorkee, told TOI, “No groups or factions exist in the party. We are all one and it is good that Mayor Goel has returned to the BJP. Our focus is to work for the development of the city.” Meanwhile, the Congress has attacked the incumbent government for organising party events in times of a pandemic and violating distancing norms. State congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana told TOI, “It is an irony that CM Rawat urges everyone to abide by Covid-19 norms but his party members don't follow the guidelines. The television coverage of the event clearly showed how distancing norms were thrown to the wind at the BJP office today (July 12). If this isn't hypocrisy, then what is.” He reminded the BJP that multiple FIRs were filed against Congress functionaries for staging dharna against fuel price hike and other issues even when all Covid-19 rules were followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/roorkee-mayor-rejoins-bjp-cm-says-will-work-more-effectively-now/articleshow/76928782.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Transporter’s office burgled||Ahmedabad: A Satellite-based transporter on Saturday filed a complaint with city police accusing his landlord and three others of burgling his shop on Prernatirth Derasar Road and stealing cash and articles worth Rs 1.51 lakh in total. In his FIR with Satellite police, Avadh Gondhia said that the owner of his shop, Mitesh Shah, along with three others had on Friday broken the lock of the shop and fled with two computers, Rs 1.33 lakh in cash, a router, a set-top box and a cheque book of ICICI bank. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/transporters-office-burgled/articleshow/76929642.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Matri Sadan head to resume fasting from August 3 to ‘save river Ganga’||Dehradun: Renewing demands to make Ganga free of mining and hydropower plants, the seers of Haridwar-based Matri Sadan, including its head Shivanand Saraswati, have decided to resume their protests, including fasting, from August 3. The protests were halted on March 29 due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. A five-point demand has been raised this time, which ranges from stopping mining on the banks of Ganga to a high-level probe into the alleged killing and kidnapping of Matri Sadan seers, including the killing of late professor GD Agrawal who died in October 2018 while fasting for the Ganga. Spokesperson of Matri Sadan, Brahmachari Dayanand, said that the fast changing policies of the state government, particularly in regards to mining, is further endangering the Ganga and therefore, the urgent need to raise voice against it. “Ganga continues to have hydropower projects and the mining-related activities, despite our repeated efforts to stop them to save its purity and freeflow. In continuation to our efforts of saving the Ganga, our head will resume fasting-cum-peaceful protests,” Dayanand added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/matri-sadan-head-to-resume-fasting-from-august-3-to-save-river-ganga/articleshow/76928789.cms||Shivani Azad
July 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Could be 76,000 cases in Karnataka by August, says B Sriramulu||BENGALURU: Health minister B Sriramulu suggested in a tweet late on Saturday that the number of cases in the state could double in the next 15-30 days, but did not elaborate on the source of the forecast. While urging people to follow norms of the proposed lockdown — guidelines for which will be issued only Monday — Sriramulu said: “The number of cases in Karnataka are already at 2,000 a day. There is a possibility of this doubling in the next 15-30 days. The next two months will emerge as a big challenge for the state.” By this projection, the total number of cases will cross 72,000 by July 26 or August 11, but experts said the minister may have only been indicating the severity of the situation at hand. Sriramulu did not respond to TOI’s calls on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/could-be-76k-cases-in-karnataka-by-august-says-sriramulu/articleshow/76929887.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Meerut||19 arrests & 15 months of trailing lead UP Police nowhere close to suave gangster Badan Singh Baddo||MEERUT: Unlike Vikas Dubey, west UP’s most notorious gangster Badan Singh Baddo carried an air of sophistication with him. Before escaping from the clutches of policemen escorting him to jail, he treated all of them to high-end liquor. It was March last year. Since then, UP Police has been hot on his trail, but it seems to be leading nowhere. At least 19 people, including several policemen, are now behind the bars since his escape. Local police have now arrested the owner of a hotel, Mukesh Singhal, from where Baddo had escaped. Another city businessman Anil Chhabra was also arrested by local police recently. Senior police officials blame procedural delays for the late arrest of Singhal. "Chargesheet in the case was submitted in November last year after which an arrest warrant was issued by the court ahead of lockdown. We could not arrest him during lockdown and the warrant expired on July 10 following which a fresh warrant was issued and Singhal was arrested," Akhilesh Narayan Singh, superintendent of police (city), said. Baddo is learnt to have made several contacts with businessmen and his aides through internet calls ever since his daring escape. Earlier this year, he also put out a Facebook update on his personal account updating his location to the Netherlands. Baddo, 48, has more than 30 cases of murder, loot, robbery and extortion lodged against him at various police stations in Meerut and adjoining districts. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on October 31, 2017, for the murder of Ravinder Singh, a lawyer, in 1996. Baddo is said to own businesses in Australia where his estranged wife and daughter are already settled. In a Bollywood-style escape, Baddo had escaped on March 28 after allegedly entertaining police personnel in a hotel where alcohol was served. A FIR against 17 named accused and one unidentified was registered at Brahmapuri police station in Meerut. Several names were added during the course of investigation. His son Sikandar, also absconding, was made a co-conspirator in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/19-arrests-15-months-of-trailing-lead-up-police-nowhere-close-to-suave-gangster-baddo/articleshow/76929654.cms||Piyush Rai
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||'Himalayan viagra', which sells for Rs 20 lakh a kg, now in IUCN’s red list as vulnerable species||DEHRADUN: The world’s costliest fungus -- Ophiocordyceps sinensis -- also known as ‘Himalayan Viagra’, which sells in international markets for upwards of Rs 20 lakh per kg, has entered the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species, the world’s most comprehensive information source on the global conservation status of animal, fungi and plant species. The list, which was released on July 9, has placed the fungus, known for its aphrodisiac and rejuvenation properties, in the ‘vulnerable’ category. The list has nine categories — not evaluated, data deficient, least concern, near-threatened, vulnerable, endangered, critically endangered, extinct in the wild and extinct. Last year, around a thousand villagers were given passes to collect the fungus by their respective district administrations in UttarakhandCiting the reason for placing the fungus in the vulnerable category, IUCN said that “its spread has declined by at least 30% over the past 15 years as a result of overharvesting.” The fungus, also known as ‘keeda jadi’ in Uttarakhand because of its caterpillar-like appearance, is endemic to the Himalayan and Tibetan plateau and is found in China, Bhutan, Nepal and India. In India it is primarily found in Uttarakhand in the higher reaches of districts like Pithoragarh and Chamoli. The inclusion in the Red List is going to impact hundreds of villagers of Uttarakhand who were dependent on collecting the fungus as their primary source of livelihoodSpeaking to TOI, Vivek Saxena, India representative of IUCN, said, “The purpose of putting the fungus in the Red List under the ‘vulnerable category’ is to ensure that proper government policies are implemented in order to conserve it so that it remains in the wild.” The inclusion in the Red List is going to impact hundreds of villagers of Uttarakhand who were dependent on collecting the fungus as their primary source of livelihood. “This year has been bad. We have not been able to go for collecting keeda jadi as the collection is done in groups after setting up camps in the higher reaches. This year, we could not get permission to do so. And now, this news has come that it is in the Red List. This will further mar our major source of income and disrupt finances of most families,” said Keshar Singh, pradhan of Golfa van panchayat in Munsyari, Pithoragarh. The fungus sells locally for around Rs 10 lakh per kg and goes on to be sold in international markets like China (where it is highly prized) at upwards of Rs 20 lakh per kg. Last year, around a thousand villagers were given passes to collect the fungus by their respective district administrations in Uttarakhand. This year, due to Covid-19, no passes have been issued. Forest officials said that with no supply this year, the demand next year for the fungus is expected to be exponential. “In view of the anticipated surge in demand, we had planned to come up with two ‘growth centres’ for the segregation, grading and processing of the fungus,” said Vinay Bhargav, divisional forest officer (DFO), Pithoragarh. Experts point out that since the ‘vulnerable tag’ is now attached to it, collection of the fungus will have to be strictly monitored. “Keeda Jadi has been a game-changer in the hills but it’s time that we regulate its harvesting. The harvesting period, which is from end of April to mid-June, ideally should be limited to only one month. Also, anthropogenic pressure due to camping by villagers at the harvesting site has at some places eroded the precious alpine landscape where it grows. This is a major cause for concern,” said RS Rawal, director, GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment, Almora. The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species this year has revealed that 32,441 species out of a total of 120,372 face extinction. In particular, almost a third (31%) of all lemur species in Madagascar are now critically endangered – just one step away from extinction – with 98% of them threatened. The North Atlantic Right Whale and the European Hamster have also been listed as critically endangered. Watch 'Himalayan viagra', which sells for Rs 20 lakh a kg, now a vulnerable species||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/himalayan-viagra-which-sells-for-rs-20-lakh-a-kg-now-in-iucns-red-list-as-vulnerable-species/articleshow/76927963.cms||Shivani Azad
July 13, 2020||Bareilly||Arrested in BSP MLA’s murder case, Atiq’s brother shifted to Bareilly jail||Bareilly: Khalid Azeem ‘Ashraf’, former SP MLA and younger brother of gangster-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad, has been shifted from Naini Central Jail to Bareilly district jail on Saturday evening. Ashraf was absconding for the past three years since the murder of BSP MLA Raju Pal and police had announced a bounty of Rs 1 lakh on him. He was arrested near Kaushambi border on July 3. Jail superintendent Vijay Vikram Singh said, “Former MLA Khalid Azeem Ashraf has been shifted to Bareilly district jail from Naini jail. We have kept him separately from other inmates.” Sources with the district jail said Ashraf was transferred to Bareilly due security reasons, but jail officials refused to comment. In 2019, his elder brother was, too, shifted to the Bareilly district jail. Ashraf is a former MLA of Samajwadi Party from Allahabad (West) constituency. He came to limelight after he and his gang members allegedly gunned down the BSP MLA, who had defeated him in a 2004 assembly bypolls, in Sulem Sarai Bazar in Prayagraj on January 25, 2005. After a CBI probe into the murder, a charge-sheet was filed against 10 people, including Atiq and Ashraf, in 2019. Notably when former Atiq was transferred to the Bareilly jail, then SSP Muniraj G had to deploy a platoon, comprising 30 personnel, of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) on the jail campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/arrested-in-bsp-mlas-murder-case-atiqs-brother-shifted-to-bareilly-jail/articleshow/76927949.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 13, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 10-year-old raped by neighbour in Lakhimpur Kheri, second such case in July||BAREILLY: A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 22-year-old neighbour in Sadar Kotwali area of Lakhimpur Kheri. The minor was sexually assaulted on Thursday when she was alone at her house and the accused - a school dropout - had threatened her to remain quiet. Notably, there have been several recent cases reported from the region where children have been assaulted and brutalised. On Saturday, the traumatised girl started complaining of excessive pain in her private parts. Her parents took her to a doctor who informed them that their daughter was sexually assaulted. The girl then narrated her ordeal to her mother. An FIR was, thereafter, registered against the man. The accused was arrested on Sunday after preliminary medical examination of the girl confirmed the assault. Kotwali SHO Ajay Mishra told TOI, “The girl's parents approached the police on Saturday evening with their complaint. The incident was reported on Thursday but the girl was too scared and remained quiet until she was taken to a doctor. The girl's medical condition is stable. After taking the statements of the girl and her parents, we have arrested one Pushpendra Kumar." The SHO further said, "Pushpendra is a school dropout and lives in the neighbourhood. He has been in close contact with the family for the past few years. We have booked him under IPC section 376 [rape] and POCSO Act, and sent him to the district jail on Sunday. We will file a charge-sheet in this case soon to ensure strict punishment.” This is the second such incident reported in Kheri this month. Earlier, on July 3, an eight-year-old girl was raped by a 20-year-old youth in Isanagar. There were several such brutalities against minors in neighbouring areas as well. An eight-year-old girl, who went missing from a wedding reception in Aliganj area of Bareilly on the night of June 19, was allegedly gangraped, brutalised and killed by three men, while a 14-year-old girl was gangraped by two locals in Atkohna village of Lakhimpur Kheri district on June 12. In Bareilly's Aonla tehsil, a six-year-old boy was sodomised and killed by a 55-year-old man, on June 10. Also, an eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 26-year-old neighbour in Katra area of Shahjahanpur district on June 12. The girl had suffered severe injuries in her private parts after the brutal assault and she was referred to a higher centre in Lucknow for treatment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-year-old-raped-by-neighbour-in-kheri-second-such-case-in-july/articleshow/76927233.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Illegal placements rampant in firms under Kerala govt||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the gold smuggling scandal, more skeletons are tumbling out, exposing illegal contract appointments through consultancies that have become a norm in the state. It has emerged that several posts were created under various organisations, flouting selection rules, for candidates preferred by ministers. TOI has learned that appointments to such posts were either through direct recruitment or deputation and in the form of temporary appointments citing project requirements. Irregularities in recruitment to various boards and companies of late have surfaced. To start with, the qualifications are either vague or highly-restrictive enabling the candidates of choice to get an easy entry. It has been found that the conditions were altered after the application process and in some cases, even after the selection process. For instance, TOI has accessed documents related to recruitment of chief project examiner of KIIFB wherein it was initially stipulated that a serving officer above the rank of a superintending engineer in a central PSU or central government could apply, and the appointment would be on deputation basis. However, a government order declaring the appointment indicates that the conditions were altered after the selection process. S J Vijayadas was the sole applicant and he was offered the job on a contract basis with a salary of Rs 2.3 lakhs monthly with a 10% annual increment. “It could be rightly suspected that it was done for systematically eliminating other applications,” said a senior government official under the condition of anonymity. “Had it been known that such a high salary would be given and that the appointment would be on a contractual basis, this cherry-picking of the candidate would not have been possible.” Another method is to outsource the supply to outside agencies. “This is less risky for officials. We must satisfy political interests and also save ourselves from any future vigilance cases. This way things look tidy on our files,” said a CEO of a public sector company on condition of anonymity. A case in point is KSITL outsourcing manpower supply to Pricewaterhouse Cooper (PwC), which in turn claims to have depended on a company called Vision Technologies. Swapna Suresh, accused in the gold smuggling case, was allegedly recruited through this recruitment firm. Often many such companies exist on paper only and have dubious credentials. Even the creation of new organizations is questionable. After constituting RKI, the government created an RKI cell within the agriculture department for “monitoring and timely implementation of the projects specifically taken up under RKI”. Five posts were created under this cell and the order specifically says that two of the appointees will be retired officers from the agriculture department in the rank of joint secretary and deputy secretary, while the other three would be a BTech graduate, BSc agriculture graduate, and a higher secondary graduate. The expenses for maintaining these five employees would be Rs 65.76 lakh for the next two years as their salary and other allowances. “Giving specifics like a retired officer of a particular rank is tailor-made for a person of choice,” sources said. Several departments and within KIIFB have highly-paid positions on a contractual basis to monitor KIIFB projects. Most recruitments are done through the Centre for Management Development (CMD), which is registered as an independent society. “The fairness and transparency in the recruitment process cannot be verified when a complaint is raised as none of the related files come to the government and such recruitment agencies are never audited,” said an official in the finance department on condition of anonymity. Interestingly, the government has consistently opposed side-lining the Public Service Commission (PSC) and had even promised strict adherence to recruitment through PSC in their election manifesto released in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/illegal-placements-rampant-in-firms-under-state-govt/articleshow/76929691.cms||KP Saikiran
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 120 new cases; after groom, 13 more test Covid positive||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand reported 120 fresh cases on Sunday which marked 120th day of pandemic in the state after which the state’s tally reached 3,537. Also, three days after a groom was tested positive for Covid-19, the bride and 12 others from the groom’s side were also found positive. One Covid-19 death was also reported in the state on Sunday after which the state’s coronavirus toll reached 47. The patient was admitted at Haldwani’s Sushila Tiwari Medical College and his death summary cited pneumonia, type-2 diabetes and acute cerebrovascular infarct. Udham Singh Nagar that has imposed a total lockdown in the district till July 14 reported 40 new cases on Sunday. Dehradun also reported 35 fresh cases. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr BC Ramola told the media that the groom was tested positive on July 8 after which all the 16 members of his family, who had attended the wedding on June 28, were quarantined. “In the report that arrived on Sunday, the bride and 12 other attendees of the wedding tested positive. We have now quarantined the 29 family members of the bride who were present in the wedding. We are also looking for the two priests who had performed the rituals at the wedding as they must have participated in many weddings since the last 14 days, and there will be a chain of infection if they are also infected,” said the CMO. Meanwhile, six army personnel, a healthcare staffer, and a minor also tested Covid-19 positive in the state capital on July 12. “As many as 18 cases were reported from Haridwar, followed by 13 from Nainital, six from Champawat, four from Pauri, and two each from Bageshwar and Tehri,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. In some relief for the state, 68 cases recovered from the infection on the day. With this, the total number of recovered cases has now shot up to 2,786 in the Himalayan state. Notably, Uttarakhand is second only to Ladakh in terms of the number of recoveries in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-120-new-cases-after-groom-13-more-test-covid-positive/articleshow/76928800.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||Many working in Bengaluru rush back to native places||MYSURU: With the state government announcing lockdown in Bengaluru from Tuesday, panic-stricken people were seen rushing back to their home towns on Sunday. There was a large movement of vehicles from Bengaluru towards Mandya and Mysuru despite curfew being in place on Sunday. Prashant KP, who works for a construction company in Bengaluru, told TOI that there is a fear among people that the lockdown announced by the government from July 14-22 may be extend further. “Cases in Bengaluru are rising. Lockdown is likely to be extended for a month or so. It is possible that lockdown will be announced in other districts including Mysuru, which is my home town. So I decided to return to Mysuru,” he said. Mysuru City Corporation health officer DG Nagaraj told TOI that the government will release fresh guidelines on Monday regarding screening and medical check-up of people arriving from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/many-working-in-bluru-rush-back-to-native-places/articleshow/76928793.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Trichy||BDU teachers upload 3,700 e-content files in repository||Trichy: Over 3700 e-contents have been uploaded by faculty members of colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University (BDU), in the online repository created by the university. The university had in the mid of May built an ‘eContent Development Cloud (EDC)’ for the college faculty to upload and share e-contents and digital study materials to the students. Students can view and download the e-contents, and prepare themselves for the semester examinations. The repository of e-contents was created so that students who cannot attend online classes have access to study materials. By leveraging the infrastructure of the university, the affiliated colleges need not spend any money, as the university extends its Platform as a Service. (PaaS). Within 2 months, over 3700 e-contents have been uploaded by the faculty members across disciplines. Faculty members from over 60 colleges have uploaded e-contents for the entire semester in the repository. “Now that the UGC has directed colleges and universities to conduct semester examination in September, colleges need to complete the leftover portions,” S Parthasarathy, director, university informatics centre, BDU. This repository created by the BDU will help students with their preparation for the semester examination as portions for the whole syllabus is being uploaded by colleges, he said. The response from colleges means the they are now gradually migrating to the digital way of learning, said G Gopinath, BDU registrar. While some students face connectivity issues, especially those in the remote places, we have observed that they have resorted to group learning with one gadget while downloading the content which will eventually help them prepare for semester exam, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-teachers-upload-3700-e-content-files-in-repository/articleshow/76930547.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Steam spray hits workers at factory, four suffer burns||HYDERABAD: Four workers sustained burns while working at a factory making bakery products in Nandigama near Kothur in Rangareddy district on Sunday morning. “As the workers were handling a boiling container, steam hit them. The victims suffered severe burn injuries between 17% and 25% on their hands and legs,” Nandigama sub-inspector Ch Ramaiah said. The victims — K Yadava Chary, 48, from JP Darga, Kalva Koteshwar Rao, 32, from Guntur, Srinivas, 42, from Kothur, and Sunil Singh, 22, from West Bengal — were rushed to a private hospital. However, they were said to be out of danger, the Cyberabad police said. “The accident is due to negligence of the factory. In May too, a similar incident had taken place at the factory,” the officer said, adding a negligence case was registered against the management of the factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/steam-spray-hits-workers-at-factory-four-suffer-burns/articleshow/76930544.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||996 students forget to ‘submit’ forms online||Ahmedabad: As Gujarat University declared its provisional merit list for five disciplines, including commerce, it came to the university authorities’ notice that 996 students forgot to click on the ‘submit’ button after registering themselves for admission. The university officials said that these 996 students could not be included in the provisional merit list of 35,207 students because of an apparent error on their part in submitting admission forms online. Moreover, there are 311 students identified who failed to supply complete documents and hence their admission forms were treated as incomplete. They too did not figure in the provisional merit list that was declared on Saturday. However, their forms have been kept in the pending admission category and once they supply requisite documents, their names will be included in the list. After declaration of provisional merit list, the university has granted two days’ time to those students, whose name did not figure in the list, to make appropriate representations. In last two days, the admission committee received complaints and among them, nearly 1,000 students said that they forgot to push the ‘submit’ button after filling admission forms. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/996-students-forget-to-submit-forms-online/articleshow/76930152.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||After 3 yrs, her heart beats again in rhythm||Ahmedabad: A 34-year-old woman from the city, suffering from a rare condition of post-partum dilated cardiomyopathy, got a new lease of life as she received a heart for transplant from a 24-year-old youth from Surat. It was only the third heart transplant in India and first in western India after the lockdown, said surgeons. The Surat family agreed to donate his heart after the youth sustained severe brain injury following a road accident. Dr Dhiren Shah, heart transplant surgeon, said that there were several obstacles – ranging from both the cities being Covid-19 hotspots to weather during the transport. “But the transplant was delayed twice in past three months and any further delay could have risked her life. Her heart started dilating after delivery of a child – a rare condition – and she needed another heart. Artificial heart was not an option as she’s young,” he said. The NOTTO guidelines were followed strictly – all the staff members, donor and recipient tested for Covid-19 and level 3 PPEs were used. The transplant procedure got completed in three and a half hours. “Unique aspect of the transplant was virtual human neutrophil antibodies (HNA) matching. In other transplants, the samples from the donor and recipient are matched on HNA compatibility. But here we did not have much time. Based on the data, we carried out the testing virtually and found it to be compatible,” said Dr Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-3-yrs-her-heart-beats-again-in-rhythm/articleshow/76929682.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||NIA seeks 10-day custody of Swapna and Sandeep||Kochi: The special court for considering NIA cases in Kochi on Sunday remanded Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, the second and fourth accused, respectively, in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, in judicial custody. A custody application filed by the NIA would be considered by the court on Monday after receiving the Covid-19 test results of the accused. Following their arrest from Bengaluru, the accused were brought to Kochi via road through Walayar. The convoy of NIA sleuths carrying the accused met with protests throughout the road. In an unusual development, the special court, which was on holiday for Sunday, held a special sitting to consider the case. The NIA has moved a custody application for 10 days at the court. The accused were later taken to two separate Covid care facilities. They were brought to Kochi in two separate cars and the NIA sleuths crossed the border at Walayar around 11.30am. Protesters who were present on the road waved black flags at the accused along the route from Walayar. Due to protests at Angamaly and Paliyekkara toll plaza in Thrissur, the convoy had to switch to the wrong lane to keep moving forward. Meanwhile, the car in which Swapna was being transported, had a flat tyre after which she was moved to the other car along with Sandeep. At Pulinchuvadu in Ernakulam, the convoy took a detour and took the accused to Aluva district hospital for swab collection for Covid-19 test and medical examination of the accused. By around 2.30pm, the accused were taken to the NIA office in Girinagar, Kochi, where again they faced protests from political outfits. They were later taken to the court in Kaloor, where also protesters had gathered. According to sources, the accused complained of uneasiness and sought medicines while at the court. Sandeep was seemingly in high spirits and even flashed a victory sign at the spectators. The accused are booked under the UAPA by the NIA for the suspected offence of conspiracy and commission of terrorist act by raising funds through gold smuggling to threaten the economic security and monetary stability of India. Opposing Swapna’s bail plea at the high court, the central government’s standing counsel had earlier submitted that Swapna was a pivotal member of the gang engaged in smuggling of large quantities of gold to India by defrauding government agencies and Customs using the cover of diplomatic protection and further she has conspired and actively participated to facilitate this act of smuggling. It was also said that the custodial interrogation of Swapna was necessary for further probe as the involvement of higher government officials could not be ruled out at this stage. The case pertains to the seizure of 30kg of gold worth Rs.14.82 crore at Trivandrum International Airport on July 5, 2020 by the Customs. The aforesaid consignment was found camouflaged in diplomatic baggage from UAE that is exempted from inspection as per the Vienna Convention. The said consignment was to be received by first accused Sarith P S who had worked in the UAE Consulate earlier as public relations officer. Initial investigation by Customs department has revealed that Sarith had received multiple such consignments earlier as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-seeks-10-day-custody-of-swapna-and-sandeep/articleshow/76929715.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Bareilly||Wrongly marked dead due to Covid-19 on FB, farmer loses a/c, gets it back after complaint||Pilibhit: The Facebook account of a Pilibhit-based farmer that had been deactivated by the official team on Friday night after he was described as dead due to Covid-19 by another user of the social media on his timeline, was reactivated on Saturday when the farmer provided evidence of him being alive. According to the farmer, Dharmendra Singh Chaudhary of Pachpeda village under Puranpur Kotwali police station, the mischievous user also posted a message of condolence on his Facebook wall. Chaudhary has now decided to file a written complaint to the police station concerned as well as the superintendent of police (SP) on Monday to ensure that a punitive action is taken against the defaulter. He said that his Facebook account was functional till 10.30pm on Friday but was deactivated by Saturday morning. When his daughter checked his profile from her own account, she found that someone named Muzamil Shahzad, who was not even included in his friends’ list, had posted a message of condolence over his death on his Facebook wall. On contacting the Facebook team, he was required to send his phone number, Aadhar card details, a recent photograph and his email ID. Finally, his account was reactivated after an OTP (one-time password) was confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wrongly-marked-dead-due-to-covid-19-on-fb-farmer-loses-a/c-gets-it-back-after-complaint/articleshow/76927973.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||No let-up in cases linked to industrial units||Margao: Despite closure of three industrial units located in Verna and Cuncolim industrial estates by the South Goa district collector last week, there appears to be no let-up in the detection of new Covid positive cases linked to two industrial estates. People who tested positive during the contact tracing exercise at Arlem, Rassaim and Cuncolim were found to have been either working in the industrial estates or had come in close contact with the infected industrial workers. Besides, a person from Curchorem who tested positive for the virus on Sunday was also found to have been employed at a unit in the Verna industrial estate. Significantly, what has raised concern among the health authorities is that the person is believed to have interacted with several of his friends on Saturday night. The health authorities have already begun contact tracing of the infected person. In Cuncolim, six persons were detected positive on Friday following contact tracing and testing of two index persons from Cuncolim. All of those who have tested positive in Cuncolim were found to have links with the Cuncolim industrial estate. Three industrial units – Tulip Diagnostics located in the Verna industrial estate, and Global Ispat Pvt Ltd and Indo Spirit Beverages Pvt Ltd, both located in the Cuncolim industrial estate – had been ordered to be closed for a period of 14 days following a spike in cases having links to these three units. All officials and employees of the three units have been directed to compulsorily remain under home quarantine for the two-week period. Meanwhile, health officer of the Balli PHC Dr Mamata Kakodkar said that the situation in the Bomdamol containment zone in Fatorpa village was “well under control” with no fresh cases detected and several infected patients being discharged from the hospital after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-let-up-in-cases-linked-to-industrial-units/articleshow/76930647.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two responses for one RTI query on dog sterilization||AHMEDABAD: Usually, state agencies or government departments refrain from responding to RTI queries, but at least in one case Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation officials gave not one but two responses for the same query regarding sterilization of stray dogs in city between 2017 and February 2020. However, the two responses show a mismatch of Rs 59 lakh in expenses, as one answer states that the cattle nuisance control department (CNCD) of AMC spent Rs 6 crore on dog sterilization, whereas another response states AMC has spent Rs 6.59 crore in the same time period. The responses were made in the context of an RTI query filed by activist Bharatsinh Jhala who had asked how much money had been spent between 2017 and till date (February 19, 2020 when the plea was filed) by the AMC to sterilize stray dogs in the city. To this, a response signed by the public information officer and superintendent of CNCD department of AMC dated March 19 states that Rs 6 crore were spent on sterilization of stray dogs.. Another reply signed by the same public information officer states that Rs 6.59 crore was spent in the same activity. Jhala said this must be probed by the vigilance department as the irregularity has surfaced on paper. “If AMC claims that they had spent Rs 6 crore in one response and Rs 6.59 crore in another response then it means that one figure is wrong, and they must clarify which figure is right,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-responses-for-one-rti-query-on-dog-sterilization/articleshow/76929694.cms||Ashish Chauhan
July 13, 2020||Bareilly||Woman burnt alive for dowry; husband, father booked||Pilibhit: A man and his father were booked in a dowry death case in Pilibhit's Amaria police station on Saturday night. According to police, on June 6, Bhupendra, a marginal farmer of Bareilly's Faridpur village, allegedly poured kerosene over his wife, Kamla alias Vimla Devi (21), with the help of his father and set her ablaze for failing to fulfill their dowry demands. The couple had been married for a year. In his complaint, deceased’s father, Tota Ram, of Mugla Khera village under Amaria police station, alleged that the father-son duo used to torture Kamla for dowry. On June 6, they allegedly abused and thrashed his daughter before settling her afire. Then, they fled. Tota Ram said someone informed him about his daughter. He and his wife rushed to her house and found her unconscious with severe burns. He rushed her to Bahedi hospital, where she was referred to the Bareilly district hospital. Kamla succumbed to injuries on July 11. Udai Veer Singh, SHO of Amaria police station, said Bhupendra and his father, Babu Ram, were booked under section 304 B (death of a woman caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage), 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives) of the IPC and provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-burnt-alive-for-dowry-husband-father-booked/articleshow/76927987.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||80% Covid deaths in Vid from Amravati division||Nagpur: The Covid-19 death toll in Vidarbha surpassed 200-mark on July 12 with seven deaths reported from the region. Bhandara reported its first Covid-19 death while two patients died while undergoing treatment in Nagpur. Akola, which has the highest number of deaths in Vidarbha, reported two more deaths on July 12. Amravati, which is third worst-hit district of Vidarbha after Nagpur and Akola, also reported two deaths. The Covid-19 death toll of the region surged to 206. The first Covid-19 death of Vidarbha was reported in Buldhana on March 29 when a 47-yr-old teacher who died of diabetes and respiratory disorder tested positive for Covid-19 post death. Vidarbha’s 100th death was reported on June 15 – it took 80 days for the first 100 deaths. But the second 100 deaths were reported between June 16 and July 12 – just 27 days, which shows the seriousness of the Covid spread in the region. Out of the 206 deaths, 146 were patients above 50 years of age which means more than 70% of the deceased were above 50. So, people above 50 years of age need to take special care of themselves during the present phase of Covid-19 infections. Out of these 204, 161 deaths (nearly 80%) are from Amravati division which has five districts. At 94, Akola accounts for nearly half of the Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha. Apart from Akola, Amravati (30), Buldhana (17), Yavatmal (15) and Washim (5) – all districts in Amravati division have reported deaths. On the other hand, Nagpur division which has six districts has reported only 43 deaths till date. Out of these, 36 are from Nagpur followed by Wardha (3), Gondia (2), Gadchiroli (1) and Bhandara (1). Chandrapur is the only district in Vidarbha where not a single Covid-19 death has been reported till date. Chandrapur has 187 cases and 96 of them have recovered. Interestingly, out of the 36 deaths in Nagpur, 13 are not from other districts or states. These include deceased persons from Madhya Pradesh as well as districts from Amravati division again. These patients got admitted for treatment of some ailment, but tested positive for Covid-19 during their stay in Nagpur. So, the administration has added these deaths in Nagpur’s total. Similarly, the only death in Gadchiroli has not happened in the district. A migrant labourer from Sironcha died in Hyderabad as a Covid-19 patient. The Gadchiroli district administration counts this death in their total.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/80-covid-deaths-in-vid-from-amravati-division/articleshow/76930160.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 13, 2020||Mysuru||Police inspector, constable arrested for graft||MYSURU: ACB sleuths on Wednesday arrested Metagalli police inspector B Raghavendra Gowda and constable Bheemanna when they were accepting Rs 75,000 bribe from a rape victim. The cops had allegedly demanded Rs 1 lakh from the rape victim promising to get her justice, but later settled for Rs 75,000. The woman complained to the ACB in this regard. Following the arrest, city police commissioner Chandragupta suspended the two cops. “They have been sent to judicial custody,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/police-inspector-constable-arrested-for-graft/articleshow/76928829.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police arrests BSF jawan for drug smuggling||JAMMU/AMRITSAR: A Border Security Force (BSF) personnel posted along the India-Pakistan international border in Samba sector in Jammu and Kashmir has been arrested by the Punjab Police in a drug smuggling case. The BSF personnel, a resident of Gurdaspur, has been arrested by the Punjab Police, and arms and ammunition have also been recovered from him, according to the BSF. One pistol, 80 rounds of ammunition, two magazines, and two rounds of 12 bore, along with three mobile phones, have also been recovered from him, it added. Sources said, “On the basis of information received by Punjab Police, a team of Border Security Force and Punjab Police apprehended the jawan from his place of posting along Indo-Pak International Border (IB) in Samba district on Saturday evening.” “At about 6.30pm on Saturday, Constable Sumit Kumar of B Coy of 173 Bn BSF, at present deployed at BOP Manguchak, and performing duties on Mound No-10/33, was arrested by Punjab Police in connection with inappropriate activities,” sources confirmed. “During search of his belongings, (a bag and bedding) the BSF team recovered arms and ammunition and other items. These included one pistol, 80 live rounds of .9 mm, two rounds of 12 bore, two magazines, and four mobile phones, one of which was without sim card,” they added. As per Punjab Police, Sumit used to hide the weapons and drugs consignments from across the border and later he would hand over the same to the specific individuals. A senior BSF official said, “BSF has initiated departmental probe in this connection against the accused person.” The Punjab Police have taken him along for interrogation. Investigations are on to ascertain who his accomplices were and his connections across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-police-arrests-bsf-jawan-with-weapon-and-ammunition-in-samba/articleshow/76930163.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Full lockdown not the only solution: Mayor||Nagpur: A day after municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe warned of reimposing full lockdown if people continue to violate Covid-19 guidelines, mayor Sandip Joshi said full lockdown is not the only solution and it will affect people dependant on daily earnings. The mayor urged Mundhe to take public representatives and other officials like CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay and collector Ravindra Thakare into confidence before taking such a decision. With steep rise in Covid-19 infection and death cases in the city since June 1, Mundhe, in a press release on Saturday, had given an ultimatum to the citizens and commercial establishments furnishing data of the surge in Covid cases. Though, he had not announced any date for reimposing full lockdown. As reported by TOI on Sunday, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli and Mira-Bhayander municipal corporations in the state have reimposed full lockdown. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad has declared it from July 13 to 23. Considering Mundhe’s earlier aggressive steps and return of the full lockdown in some other cities, rumour mill has been in overdrive about full lockdown going to be implemented from Monday or soon. Joshi, in a press release on Sunday, said, “Civic chief’s observation on violations of guidelines is true and I too agree with his thinking of full lockdown. People are misusing the relaxations. But need is to think about common man like labourers, auto-rickshaw drivers etc who earn daily to meet their requirements.” “I appeal to Mundhe to come with me and visit markets and interact with people to make them realize the importance of following Covid-19 guidelines. We will have to give people one more chance. If even after that people continue to violate rules, then full lockdown should be reimposed after consulting all office-bearers of NMC, MP, legislators and other departments,” he said. After series of differences between ruling party in the NMC — BJP — and Mundhe, Joshi had lodged a complaint with police against Mundhe alleging irregularities and violation of rules of Smart City company, filed a petition in district court, ordered inquiries in a few works cleared by the civic chief and claimed to have exposed Mundhe for exceeding his brief as CEO of Smart City company. Cases in the district were 541 till end of May. The state government had eased lockdown from June 1. In the last 42 days, 1,742 new cases have been reported. The death count in the district also increased to 37. Novel coronavirus infection cases are being reported from new areas on a daily basis. New cases from two hotspots — Mominpura and Naik Talao-Bangladesh — are also being detected daily. A Covid death was registered from Hansapuri in Mominpura on Friday and from Naik-Talao-Bangladesh on Sunday. As on July 12, cases have been registered from over 270 localities in the district. In city, 76 containment zones have been denotified and 131 containment zones are in existence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/full-lockdown-not-the-only-solution-mayor/articleshow/76930174.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 13, 2020||Jammu||Punjab Police arrests BSF jawan for drug smuggling||JAMMU/AMRITSAR: A Border Security Force (BSF) personnel posted along the India-Pakistan international border in Samba sector in Jammu and Kashmir has been arrested by the Punjab Police in a drug smuggling case. The BSF personnel, a resident of Gurdaspur, has been arrested by the Punjab Police, and arms and ammunition have also been recovered from him, according to the BSF. One pistol, 80 rounds of ammunition, two magazines, and two rounds of 12 bore, along with three mobile phones, have also been recovered from him, it added. Sources said, “On the basis of information received by Punjab Police, a team of Border Security Force and Punjab Police apprehended the jawan from his place of posting along Indo-Pak International Border (IB) in Samba district on Saturday evening.” “At about 6.30pm on Saturday, Constable Sumit Kumar of B Coy of 173 Bn BSF, at present deployed at BOP Manguchak, and performing duties on Mound No-10/33, was arrested by Punjab Police in connection with inappropriate activities,” sources confirmed. “During search of his belongings, (a bag and bedding) the BSF team recovered arms and ammunition and other items. These included one pistol, 80 live rounds of .9 mm, two rounds of 12 bore, two magazines, and four mobile phones, one of which was without sim card,” they added. As per Punjab Police, Sumit used to hide the weapons and drugs consignments from across the border and later he would hand over the same to the specific individuals. A senior BSF official said, “BSF has initiated departmental probe in this connection against the accused person.” The Punjab Police have taken him along for interrogation. Investigations are on to ascertain who his accomplices were and his connections across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/punjab-police-arrests-bsf-jawan-with-weapon-and-ammunition-in-samba/articleshow/76935002.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Lapse in collection makes swab samples unfit for Covid-19 screening||ONGOLE: In a major goof-up, about 27,000 swab samples could not be screened for Covid-19 due to improper collection of samples. All the samples and test kits were discarded after Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ongole, refused to test the samples. Sources said that the field staff did not follow the prescribed Covid-19 protocols in collection and dispatch of the samples from the field. Thousands of the samples were left unattended by the lab authorities for several weeks due to lapses in collection process. Surprisingly, the medical and health department had failed to take corrective measures on a war footing even after getting alerted by the lab authorities. The issue came to light after several legislators approached the district collector about failure of administration tp deliver reports to locals even three weeks after collection of samples. Sources said that about 260 samples were collected from Gangaram village of Thalluru mandal in Darsi constituency on June 20. About 130 reports were delivered a few days ago in which 14 tested positive. There is no clue about the remaining 130 samples and their reports. Sources said that the district collector Pola Bhakar has alerted the state government about the goof-up committed by the field staff and the medical officers who monitored the process. Sources said that the field staff might have failed to enter the details of the patients on the records along with the bar code details resulting in wastage of kits. “It is unfortunate that the field staff committed serious mistakes despite proper training. Since it was not intentional and the staff were also under pressure to perform, we have decided to give them a chance. We will not spare if such mistakes take place in future,” said district collector Bhaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lapse-in-collection-makes-swab-samples-unfit-for-covid-19-screening/articleshow/76928836.cms||Samdani MN
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant meeting Shah after Khattar triggers speculations||Chandigarh: Days after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar met Union home minister Amit Shah, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala also called on him on Sunday reportedly to discuss the current political scenario and other issues of the state. Chautala’s meeting has, however, triggered speculations of a possible cabinet expansion, while there are also talks of the BJP high command consulting the deputy CM ahead of taking a final decision on the new Haryana BJP president. Sources said the meetings of Khattar and Chautala also assume significance in view of the impending Baroda by-election. According to them, besides discussing the overall political scenario, Dushyant is also learned to have expressed his views on the selection of person for the state BJP’s top post. The sources said the JJP workers and leaders are expecting a non-Jat face for the president’s post, since choosing a Jat leader could undermine the importance of the DyCM himself. If sources are to be believed, the cabinet expansion could even be a reshuffle even and BJP could drop a couple of ministers from its quota. While JJP has a vacancy of one cabinet berth from its quota, the leadership is looking forward to adjusting more of its MLAs in boards and corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dushyant-meeting-shah-after-khattar-triggers-speculations/articleshow/76930170.cms||Manvir Saini
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||New head of Maninagar Swaminarayan temple announced||Ahmedabad: Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan, Maninagar, on Sunday announced the selection of Swami Shastri Jitendrapriyadas as the spiritual successor of Swami Purushottampriyadas, the current head of the institution. Swami Purushottampriyadas tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago. He has been hospitalized. His condition has not improved, said the close associates.In a press release issued by the sect on Sunday, the officials mentioned that a meeting was held on July 9. While Swami Purushottampriyadas had been chosen by his guru Swami Muktajeevan as his successor, no such selection could be made by the current head so far.Keeping in mind the health condition of Purushottampriyadas, the devotees referred to Sant-Parshad Bandharan (constitution) and unanimously supported the appointment of Swami Shastri Jitendrapriyadas . The sect, spread across several countries, has about 250 temples affiliated along with schools, colleges, hostels, hospitals and drug rehabilitation centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-head-of-maninagar-swaminarayan-temple-announced/articleshow/76930151.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Six including three women held for extortion attempt||Ahmedabad: Six persons, including three women, were rounded up by Odhav police after they were caught trying to extort Rs 15,000 from a restaurant owner in the name of some human rights and consumer protection body. A local said, “We called police and handed over the accused.”Odhav police said they have booked all six accused for extortion and sent them for Covid-19 test before their formal arrest. “We will interrogate them once the reports arrive. They were well-organized and may have committed such offences earlier,” said a police official.According to the FIR, Ankit Badrilal of Odhav runs an eatery near Odhav panjrapole. “On Saturday morning, three persons — Sagar Sharma, Yuvrajsinh Raj and Ashwin Khashiya — came in a car to his restaurant and told him they were coming from some Human Rights and Customer Protection Commission. Then they asked for the licence of the restaurant. When Ankit told him that he has no licence, they demanded Rs 15000. They also had a receipt book with them,” said a police official.“They told Badrilal that if he paid the money and an extra Rs 1,500 he would be made a member of the commission and then police or AMC won’t harass him. The commission’s advocate will fight the case and get him released, they said, if such an event happens,” a police official said. Suspicious of their story, Ankit asked for their identity cards, which they showed and threatened that if he doesn’t pay the money they will initiate an inquiry against him. “Soon a crowd gathered near Ankit’s restaurant. A woman, Indu Gulsingh, came out of the car in which the three had come. Seeing this, Ankit called in other traders of the area. When the traders checked the car they found two other women, Manisha Bhoha and Nirali Rathwa in the car. The traders got suspicious and called in Odhav police,” a police official said.“During primary interrogation, it came to light that the six had come to extort money from traders in the name of Human Rights and Customer Protection Commission. Of the six, only Ashwin Khashiya is from Ahmedabad and the rest are from Vadodara, Panchmahal and Dahod,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-including-three-women-held-for-extortion-attempt/articleshow/76929707.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Srinagar||Punjab Police arrests BSF jawan for drug smuggling||JAMMU/AMRITSAR: A Border Security Force (BSF) personnel posted along the India-Pakistan international border in Samba sector in Jammu and Kashmir has been arrested by the Punjab Police in a drug smuggling case. The BSF personnel, a resident of Gurdaspur, has been arrested by the Punjab Police, and arms and ammunition have also been recovered from him, according to the BSF. One pistol, 80 rounds of ammunition, two magazines, and two rounds of 12 bore, along with three mobile phones, have also been recovered from him, it added. Sources said, “On the basis of information received by Punjab Police, a team of Border Security Force and Punjab Police apprehended the jawan from his place of posting along Indo-Pak International Border (IB) in Samba district on Saturday evening.” “At about 6.30pm on Saturday, Constable Sumit Kumar of B Coy of 173 Bn BSF, at present deployed at BOP Manguchak, and performing duties on Mound No-10/33, was arrested by Punjab Police in connection with inappropriate activities,” sources confirmed. “During search of his belongings, (a bag and bedding) the BSF team recovered arms and ammunition and other items. These included one pistol, 80 live rounds of .9 mm, two rounds of 12 bore, two magazines, and four mobile phones, one of which was without sim card,” they added. As per Punjab Police, Sumit used to hide the weapons and drugs consignments from across the border and later he would hand over the same to the specific individuals. A senior BSF official said, “BSF has initiated departmental probe in this connection against the accused person.” The Punjab Police have taken him along for interrogation. Investigations are on to ascertain who his accomplices were and his connections across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/punjab-police-arrests-bsf-jawan-with-weapon-and-ammunition-in-samba/articleshow/76935003.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 15-20 BDOs put on APO every month under panchayati raj||JAIPUR: Of the 279 BDOs (block development officers) under panchayati raj department, every month 15-20 are always placed under APO (awaiting posting order) ever since the Congress government came to power in the state, as per the data available with the department. An employee under APO is not given any official work, but he/she continues to get full salary. In the last 18 months, nearly Rs 2.8-crore was spent on the salaries of these officials, who earned it without working. A government official is placed under APO as a disciplinary action, following charges of irregularities in work. After delimitation, there are 352 panchayat samitis in the state now, the posts of BDOs to the newly-created 57 panchayat samitis have not been created yet. Hence against 295 panchayat samitis, 194 BDOs were recruited through rural development services (RDS). Another 85 BDOs have been deputed from other departments like education, ayurved, animal husbandry and PHED. Moreover, as per data available in the department, around 74-80 posts of BDOs remain vacant at any given time. “Of the 194 RDS-cadre BDOs, 34 have been sent to other departments/offices under deputation. Another 11 BDOs are appointed as assistant project officers under Swarnajayanti Gram Swarojgar Yojana (SGSY) scheme, which was later merged with National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM). Since the scheme doesn’t exist, there is no work available for them. On top of that, 15-20 BDOs are always placed under APO,” said an official in the department. “A BDO’s salary is around Rs 80,000. Hence, the total expenditure on the salaries of these BDOs is around Rs 15-16 lakh per month. In a year, the spending was Rs 1.8-1.9 crore and in 18 months the total amount has gone up to Rs 2.8 crore,” said the official. “It has also been observed that even after placing them under APO, they are not given new postings in the next 2-3 months. In most cases, BDOs are placed under APO and new postings are not given to them due to political reasons,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/15-20-bdos-put-on-apo-every-month-under-panchayati-raj/articleshow/76933366.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Heedless disposal of masks a worry: Doctors||AMARAVATI: While there has been a lot of uproar about disposal of bodies of Covid-19 patients, little attention is being paid to disposal of PPEs, especially masks. It is now a common sight to see masks dumped in dustbins, which are eventually cleaned by sanitation staff. The situation at many quarantine centres is no different as authorities have failed to put in a mechanism for safe disposal of used masks. Experts say the unscientific disposal of masks is more dangerous than dead bodies as they can turn into potential super-spreaders. An associate professor at Rangaraya Medical College, Kakinada, Dr Sumitha Shankar said the virus in a used mask can stay alive for at least a week. She appealed to people not to throw used masks in public places. Used masks, including triple layer and N95 masks, have to be discarded and collected in separate yellow-colour-coded plastic bags (suitable for biomedical waste collection) at quarantine centres. They have to be handed over to the waste collector engaged by a biomedical waste treatment facility operator and it should be incinerated. Moreover, used masks should be kept in a paper bag for a minimum of 72 hours prior to their disposal as general waste in quarantine homes. It is also advised to cut masks prior to disposal to prevent their reuse. Many, however, are reluctantly wearing masks in the public for fear of facing penalties. The state government has made wearing mask mandatory, failing which a person will have to pay Rs 1,000 in urban areas and Rs 500 in rural areas as penalty. “People are not really serious about using masks. A majority are wearing them to avoid being scolded by officials. Hence, they are equally careless about its disposal,” said a senior physician at Government General Hospital, Guntur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/heedless-disposal-of-masks-a-worry-docs/articleshow/76928846.cms||Samdani MN
July 13, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 15-20 BDOs put on APO every month under panchayati raj||JAIPUR: Of the 279 BDOs (block development officers) under panchayati raj department, every month 15-20 are always placed under APO (awaiting posting order) ever since the Congress government came to power in the state, as per the data available with the department. An employee under APO is not given any official work, but he/she continues to get full salary. In the last 18 months, nearly Rs 2.8-crore was spent on the salaries of these officials, who earned it without working. A government official is placed under APO as a disciplinary action, following charges of irregularities in work. After delimitation, there are 352 panchayat samitis in the state now, the posts of BDOs to the newly-created 57 panchayat samitis have not been created yet. Hence against 295 panchayat samitis, 194 BDOs were recruited through rural development services (RDS). Another 85 BDOs have been deputed from other departments like education, ayurved, animal husbandry and PHED. Moreover, as per data available in the department, around 74-80 posts of BDOs remain vacant at any given time. “Of the 194 RDS-cadre BDOs, 34 have been sent to other departments/offices under deputation. Another 11 BDOs are appointed as assistant project officers under Swarnajayanti Gram Swarojgar Yojana (SGSY) scheme, which was later merged with National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM). Since the scheme doesn’t exist, there is no work available for them. On top of that, 15-20 BDOs are always placed under APO,” said an official in the department. “A BDO’s salary is around Rs 80,000. Hence, the total expenditure on the salaries of these BDOs is around Rs 15-16 lakh per month. In a year, the spending was Rs 1.8-1.9 crore and in 18 months the total amount has gone up to Rs 2.8 crore,” said the official. “It has also been observed that even after placing them under APO, they are not given new postings in the next 2-3 months. In most cases, BDOs are placed under APO and new postings are not given to them due to political reasons,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/15-20-bdos-put-on-apo-every-month-under-panchayati-raj/articleshow/76933370.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 13, 2020||Goa||Traditional Hindu marriage ceremonies return home||Bicholim: Reminiscent of bygone times, many Hindus have resorted to holding family marriages in their homes in these times of forced social distancing, lockdown restrictions and health fears. Instead to giving in to all the restrictions and health fears and postponing the marriage, recently three families from Bicholim, Sattari and Ponda talukas, determined to go ahead with their plans, choose the safety of their homes to conduct the Vedic wedding ceremony. “There were hardly 25 to 30 people present for my son’s marriage ceremony. We followed social distancing norm,” said resident of Pissurlem in Sattari taluka, Nandini Gawade, who opted for the safety of her home over a hall given the Covid-19 restrictions in place. Weddings in Goa have increasingly turned lavish, but senior citizens still remember the days when it used to be a simple home-bound affair before it moved out to first temple halls and then private halls. “This marriage reminded us of our days, when marriages used to be performed in the houses,” said one senior citizen who attended the Gawade wedding. With the hall option ruled out and the home not spacious enough, there were some who chose to hold the wedding ceremony in the precincts of a temple. This was recently seen in a temple at Khandola, Marcel. The family had a pandal erected in the temple’s yard where the ceremony was conducted. The tradition of holding marriages in houses may have died out in Goa, but it still continues in several parts of the neighbouring state of Maharashtra . A local from Fakirpata in Maharashtra, Manohar Kenny, said that performing a marriage in the house creates a pleasant atmosphere. “It also saves time and money, which is otherwise wasted in paying for the hall and peripherals,” Kenny said. Terming the turn of events as fortunate, Purushottam Alvi from Sakhali and Pravin Teli from Bicholim, said they were happy that the home-wedding tradition was seeing a revival and hoped it would continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traditional-hindu-marriage-ceremonies-return-home/articleshow/76930650.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Dehradun||Six booked for gangrape in Udham Singh Nagar||RUDRAPUR: Six men were booked for allegedly gangraping and threatening a woman on Saturday. The survivor, in her twenties, is a resident of Khatima town in Udham Singh Nagar district. Police officials said that she was gangraped while returning home from her college library. Khatima police station SHO Sanjay Pathak told TOI an FIR has been registered against all the accused under sections 376-D (gangrape), 354 (assault or criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Three of the accused have been identified. In her complaint registered with the police, the survivor stated that the crime took place on July 10. On her way home, two of the accused met her outside a hotel and offered her a sedative-laced cold drink. Later, the woman found herself in a secluded place in Nyuria area of adjoining Pilibhit district (Uttar Pradesh). The two accused were joined by four of their accomplices subsequently. The complaint adds that the accused left her at Tanda Road (Pilibhit) and threatened to kill her if she told anybody about the crime. Later, she somehow managed to reach the house of a relative who lives nearby. “We are conducting the medical examination of the woman and are probing the case. All the accused will soon be arrested,” added SHO Pathak. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-booked-for-gangrape-in-us-nagar/articleshow/76928026.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||Cycling is going viral, but supply hit by coronavirus lockdowns||Nagpur: After government allowed fitness activities in public places during the unlock phase, cycling has gone viral in times of corona. There has been a more than three times increase in the demand for fitness focused geared bicycles, and dealers are apprehending a major shortage of bikes. Again, even this market is dominated by China, says dealers, which has affected availability. Imported bicycles are preferred in the fitness segment, where China and Taiwan have a major market share, say dealers. Bikes are also sourced from Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, apart from domestic manufacturers. However, supply is down from every source, say traders here. The sleek alloy cycles have gathered popularity among fitness enthusiasts, and have become a fad world over in times of corona, leading to a demand-supply gap. The cycles are priced in the range of Rs10,000 and above, going up to Rs3 lakh. Rishi Sehgal of Chain Reaction store said they have seen much as three times increase in demand at his outlet. “Cycling is being seen as a preferred mode of workout when restrictions continue on most other activities like gyms or swimming pools. Major demand is of models in the price range of Rs8,000 to Rs25,000. A number of youngsters too are preferring bicycles. Maybe high-end bicycle is seen as an alternative to a swanky motorbike,” he said. “Sales had grown by more than three times in June. As against an average of 40 bikes a month, we ended up selling 120. The trend has slowed down in July, yet sales are 1.5 times the earlier monthly average,” said Aniruddha Raich of Ncyclopedia store. Raich accepted that a sharp increase in demand has led to shortage of bikes. “Even our store is now left with limited stock,” he said. Manufacturers are also not in a position to meet demand world over. Covid had impacted production at factories in China and Taiwan. If you place an order today, it may take three to four months to get delivery. Not only foreign brands even domestic bicycle makers are not in a position to cater to the demand, said an importer from Pune. Dealers in Nagpur get the imported bicycles mainly from Pune. Apprehensions that a lockdown may be imposed in Pune again has left them worried. “There is high demand for the children’s cycles too apart from the full size bikes. Importers are saying that the consignments are stuck at the ports, no matter the country of origin. It’s not only in Nagpur, the demand world over has led to the situation. In the US, demand for bicycles is reported to have gone up by 600 times,” said Samir Shah of Victory Cycles. Nikhil Nareshchandra of M/s Nareshchandra Cycles said, “Even as majority of the demand is of the models in the range of Rs10,000 to Rs25,000, high-end bikes are being purchased too. In my store I ended up selling around five bikes priced at Rs1 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cycling-is-going-viral-but-supply-hit-by-coronavirus-lockdowns/articleshow/76930200.cms||Shishir Arya
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 15-20 BDOs put on APO every month under panchayati raj||JAIPUR: Of the 279 BDOs (block development officers) under panchayati raj department, every month 15-20 are always placed under APO (awaiting posting order) ever since the Congress government came to power in the state, as per the data available with the department. An employee under APO is not given any official work, but he/she continues to get full salary. In the last 18 months, nearly Rs 2.8-crore was spent on the salaries of these officials, who earned it without working. A government official is placed under APO as a disciplinary action, following charges of irregularities in work. After delimitation, there are 352 panchayat samitis in the state now, the posts of BDOs to the newly-created 57 panchayat samitis have not been created yet. Hence against 295 panchayat samitis, 194 BDOs were recruited through rural development services (RDS). Another 85 BDOs have been deputed from other departments like education, ayurved, animal husbandry and PHED. Moreover, as per data available in the department, around 74-80 posts of BDOs remain vacant at any given time. “Of the 194 RDS-cadre BDOs, 34 have been sent to other departments/offices under deputation. Another 11 BDOs are appointed as assistant project officers under Swarnajayanti Gram Swarojgar Yojana (SGSY) scheme, which was later merged with National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM). Since the scheme doesn’t exist, there is no work available for them. On top of that, 15-20 BDOs are always placed under APO,” said an official in the department. “A BDO’s salary is around Rs 80,000. Hence, the total expenditure on the salaries of these BDOs is around Rs 15-16 lakh per month. In a year, the spending was Rs 1.8-1.9 crore and in 18 months the total amount has gone up to Rs 2.8 crore,” said the official. “It has also been observed that even after placing them under APO, they are not given new postings in the next 2-3 months. In most cases, BDOs are placed under APO and new postings are not given to them due to political reasons,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-20-bdos-put-on-apo-every-month-under-panchayati-raj/articleshow/76930553.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 13, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 15-20 BDOs put on APO every month under panchayati raj||JAIPUR: Of the 279 BDOs (block development officers) under panchayati raj department, every month 15-20 are always placed under APO (awaiting posting order) ever since the Congress government came to power in the state, as per the data available with the department. An employee under APO is not given any official work, but he/she continues to get full salary. In the last 18 months, nearly Rs 2.8-crore was spent on the salaries of these officials, who earned it without working. A government official is placed under APO as a disciplinary action, following charges of irregularities in work. After delimitation, there are 352 panchayat samitis in the state now, the posts of BDOs to the newly-created 57 panchayat samitis have not been created yet. Hence against 295 panchayat samitis, 194 BDOs were recruited through rural development services (RDS). Another 85 BDOs have been deputed from other departments like education, ayurved, animal husbandry and PHED. Moreover, as per data available in the department, around 74-80 posts of BDOs remain vacant at any given time. “Of the 194 RDS-cadre BDOs, 34 have been sent to other departments/offices under deputation. Another 11 BDOs are appointed as assistant project officers under Swarnajayanti Gram Swarojgar Yojana (SGSY) scheme, which was later merged with National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM). Since the scheme doesn’t exist, there is no work available for them. On top of that, 15-20 BDOs are always placed under APO,” said an official in the department. “A BDO’s salary is around Rs 80,000. Hence, the total expenditure on the salaries of these BDOs is around Rs 15-16 lakh per month. In a year, the spending was Rs 1.8-1.9 crore and in 18 months the total amount has gone up to Rs 2.8 crore,” said the official. “It has also been observed that even after placing them under APO, they are not given new postings in the next 2-3 months. In most cases, BDOs are placed under APO and new postings are not given to them due to political reasons,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/15-20-bdos-put-on-apo-every-month-under-panchayati-raj/articleshow/76933365.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 13, 2020||Bareilly||IVRI flyover construction work enters final phase, to be thrown open to commuters by October-end||Bareilly: The construction work of IVRI flyover has entered the final phase and it is expected to be thrown open to the public by October-end, even as the Covid-19 lockdown hit the progress of nearly 700-metre-long flyover hard. According to UPPCB officials, the UP State Bridge Corporation Limited (UPSBC) has finished nearly 90% construction work of the project, and the rest of the work will be completed by the railways shortly. The project is being developed at a cost of Rs 38.23 crore, including the railway’s contribution of Rs 9.35 crore. UPSBC deputy project manager BK Sen said, “Most of the works of the IVRI flyover project has been completed and the remaining work is expected to be completed soon, following which the flyover will be thrown open to the public later this year.” Officials said in January, the project had gained some momentum, following which the traffic movement was partially suspended to ease the construction work, but the progress was hampered due to the lockdown. “At present, the commuters are using the narrow service lanes on either side of the flyover. At times, especially during the rainy season, commuting becomes difficult due to congestions and waterlogging. However, once operational, the flyover will make commuting convenient here,” said Rohit Khandelwal, a businessman and resident of IVRI. The construction work of the flyover, which will connect Izzatnagar area (IVRI) to Nainital road, was initiated by the bridge corporation nearly three years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ivri-flyover-construction-work-enters-final-phase-to-be-thrown-open-to-commuters-by-october-end/articleshow/76928024.cms||Maria Khan
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna district breaches per day average, reports 206 cases||Vijayawada: Krishna district now has 2,504 after 206 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, of which 959 are being treated while the rest have been discharged. On the other hand, three more succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 80. Krishna district, which hitherto has been registering around 120 cases per day on an average since July 1, went on high alert after the 206 new cases. The district administration intensified testing. Joint collector L Sivashankar inspected the ground-level situation at Vijayawada Government General Hospital. He enquired about the attendance of doctors and medical staff. Noticing that the staff there were facing problem in entering patient details online, he procured two new laptops for them. When patients complained about the poor availability of beds with oxygen facility, he directed the hospital authorities to procure 100 new beds with oxygen facility in two days. Patients coming to the government hospitals with Covid-19 symptoms will now be tested and reports will be given within two hours, he said. Patients who test negative will be referred to private or government hospital of their choice for better treatment, he added. Meanwhile, physical distancing in the city was ignored with people jostling in markets. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) fined those found without masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-district-breaches-per-day-average-reports-206-cases/articleshow/76928857.cms||Venu Lanka
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||117 gangs busted in Haryana in 1st half of 2020: ADGP||Chandigarh: Haryana Police busted 117 criminal gangs, suspected to be involved in dacoity, robbery, burglary, theft and other crimes, during the first half of 2020, said an official on Sunday. Additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said following directives issued by the police headquarters, all field units intensified efforts to check the crime graph by a sustained action against gangs. Of the 117 gangs which were busted, three were involved in dacoity, 11 in robbery, 23 in burglary, 43 in theft and 37 in other criminal activities. As a result, the ADGP said, 633 criminal cases had been solved and 409 gang members arrested between January 1 and June 30. Also, stolen properties worth Rs 3.46 crore were recovered from the accused, he added. Referring to recovery of illegal weapons, Virk said 625 pistols, 25 revolvers, 1,296 cartridges and 37 knives had also been recovered during this period. The ADGP said they were making continuous efforts to check crime rate, and trace and nab notorious and other criminals. The overall crime graph is continuously witnessing a downward trend in the state, said the ADGP. “We will continue our focused operations against hardened criminals and crime syndicates,” added Virk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/117-gangs-busted-in-haryana-in-1st-half-of-2020-adgp/articleshow/76930204.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police registers second FIR against SFJ’s Pannu||Kurukshetra: Ten days after Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, the US-based self-styled chief of banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), was booked by the Haryana Police under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) 1967, another FIR was filed against him on Sunday on sedition and secessionism charges in Kurukshetra district, the police said. The police got all the websites launched by Pannu in the past one week blocked. The Centre has already declared Pannu a designated terrorist for actively running a secessionist campaign against India. Kurukshetra SP Astha Modi said, “Recently, automated phone calls and audio messages against India came to our notice here. Those were in the voice of Pannu and he claimed to have initiated a voter registration process for his secessionist movement from Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin, Kurukshetra from July 11 onwards. We called up the gurdwara management, which refuted his claim and released a video message for the people clarifying its position.” The SP said that accused Pannu is indulging in unlawful activities aimed at threatening the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of India by trying to incite the public and spread hatred among the communities. “So, we have lodged a case against main accused Pannu and some other unidentified persons under sections 124-A (sedition) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups) of the IPC and sections 10 (a) and 13 of the UAPA Act at Thanesar City police station on Sunday,” said SP Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-police-registers-second-fir-against-sfjs-pannu/articleshow/76930196.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||All efforts will be made to conserve pasture land: Govt||Jaisalmer: Ancient pasture lands that had played an important role in maintaining environmental balance are fighting for existence in Jaisalmer. These lands are facing encroachment and high tension wires pose threat to rare birds. In the pasture land of Shri Degrai Temple, the high tension wires had injured a falcon of Tawney Eagle species on Saturday. The shepherds informed Shri Degrai Ushtra Conservation Institute president Sumer Singh Bhati Sanwta who went to the spot and informed the forest department. Shri Degrai Temple pasture land is situated around 45km from Jaisalmer headquarters. The land, which encompasses four villages and is around 600 years old, is the habitat for different wildlife. During winters, various migrant birds and GIBs come here. Besides, 500 camels reside here. The spot is popular among wildlife enthusiasts and wildlife photographers.A huge chunk of this land is not registered in the revenue records. Since 2001, villagers are appealing the administration to register this pasture land in the revenue records. Last month, they had submitted a memorandum to the former collector. The memorandum sought removal of high tension wires from the pasture land, but till now no action has been taken. Newly appointed collector Ashish Modi said that all efforts would be made to conserve this land. He would study the problems and try to resolve them. Recently, the forest department had stopped the work of 132Kv Grid Sub-Station in Mohangarh area, which is the habitat of Great Indian Bustard. The Supreme Court had expressed concern over the possibility of GIBs colliding with high tension wires at Desert National Park in Jaisalmer. Former WII chairman Ranjeet Singh and others had filed a PIL in SC to lay the high tension wires beneath the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-efforts-will-be-made-to-conserve-pasture-land-govt/articleshow/76930555.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Only Parsi Fire Temple in Telangana gears up for centenary celebrations||SECUNDERABAD: The Parsi Fire Temple, known as Khan Bahadur Edulji Sohrabji Chenoy Anjuman Dar-e-Meher, is gearing up for the centenary celebrations. The grandiose structure, which was built in 1920 on MG Road, is being decked up for this important event to be held on July 14 as per the Zoroastrian Shahanshahi calendar. However, due to the pandemic situation, the Jashan (centenary function) will be a low-key affair without much fanfare. This decision was taken after Parsi Zoroastrians had a discussion with the priests, community elders and Anjuman (trust) members. Disclosing the details, chief priest, Dar-e-Meher, Secunderabad, ASCI Patel said, “Three to four priests would be allowed to perform machi (rituals) in the wee hours of July 14 at the sanctum sanctorum of the Dar-e-Meher that houses a consecrated fire which burns eternally. But devotees are restricted from attending these rituals due to Covid-19. Devotees can visit the temple but it is mandatory to follow social distance norms, wearing masks etc. They can have the blessing of Ahura Mazda.” He also said that the temple and its premises will be sanitised. “The temple will be sanitised and sanitisers would be made available to devotees. At about 10.30 am, fruits will be offered to fire which is part of our Zorastrian faith. Later, they would be distributed,” Patel added. Narrating the history of the temple, Jehangir Bisney, trustee & committee member of Anjuman, said, “Seth Jamshedji Edulji Chenoy, son of Khan Bahadur Seth Edulji Sohrabji Chenoy and Bai Pirojbai Edulji Chenoy, along with his brothers, built the Khan Bahadur Edulji Sohrabji Chenai Anjuman Dar-e-Meher, in memory of their late father. This Fire Temple has been serving the Parsi and Irani Zoroastrian community in the twin cities for the past 100 years. “In fact, the Parsi population in the twin cities is nearly 1,000 and it is shrinking due to various reasons.” Senior member of the community, Shapoor Toorkey said that they would have celebrated the centenary in a grand manner but they had to tone down the festivities due to the coronavirus situation. On the occasion, Arnaz Brisney has made a 40-minute video ‘Where Fire Burns Eternally’ scheduled to be released on July 14. The video tells the story of the Parsi Fire Temple. “The main crux of the video is about the visionaries who contributed to it,” said Brisney.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-parsi-fire-temple-in-telangana-gears-up-for-centenary-celebrations/articleshow/76930552.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 13, 2020||Noida||Noida school hides 14-year-old girl's suicide, secretly cremates body||NOIDA: A boarding school for girls in Noida allegedly hid the suicide of a 14-year-old student for nine days and cremated her body without informing police. The Haryana-based family of the Class X student, who was enrolled in the school a year ago, alleged that their daughter was found hanging from the ceiling fan of a classroom by a group of girls on July 3. When the parents searched her bag, they found chits of paper with notes scribbled on them. One of the notes mentioned how she had been “wronged” and how she “hated my life” as she had “no friend”. ‘School made us sign on paper that our daughter died of natural causes’She also spoke of trauma because of “wrong treatment by everyone”. One of the pages, titled “bad day of my life”, had a few heart-shaped figures drawn on it along with tears dropping from an eye. She also wrote “I want to meet someone”. The girl’s 13-year-old sister studies in the same school while their younger brother is in another branch. The family alleged the school authorities had locked the sister in a room so that she did not reveal the alleged suicide to anyone. Soon after the lockdown was announced, the family had brought all three children home in Haryana. However, the students had to be sent back as the school authorities asked everyone to come and write their annual tests from the classroom. “On June 17, we prepared medical reports for all three and dropped them to their respective schools the next day,” the girl’s mother, a homemaker, said. On July 3, the family alleged, the chancellor called them around 5.30am and asked them to reach the girls’ school as soon as possible. “We kept asking what was wrong, but they did not tell us anything. We told them we didn’t have enough money to come to Noida but they said they would help us with the expenses to hire a vehicle,” the mother said. Their father is a daily wager, whose income had been hit hard during the lockdown. The mother said when they reached the school, their phone was taken away and some men led them to the classroom where their daughter’s body was hanging from the ceiling with two dupattas wrapped around her neck. “She was still wearing her uniform. Her salwar was loose. When we asked them what had happened, we were told she had written a suicide note against me and if the note reached police, we could land in trouble. I asked them to show me the note and hand over the body, but they refused,” she said. The girl’s parents were allegedly forced to sign on a piece of paper where it was written that she was unwell for long and had died of natural causes. “My husband was forcibly made to put his signature on the paper. My thumb impression was taken. We pleaded with them to let us take the body home, but they insisted she should be cremated in Noida. The body was cremated in Bhangel and nobody informed police,” the mother added. The parents were sent home in a car arranged by the school. The mother claimed another vehicle trailed their car till Dhaula Kuan. After returning home, the parents searched her bag and found the notes. A note mentioned Manish Tanwar and Manish Sharma multiple times. The family has approached Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for the government’s intervention. They have also written to Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, the Noida police chief and other officials. The family is scared to visit Noida and lodge a complaint at their local police station. “They (the school) might cause us harm,” the mother said. The girl’s parents have sold the single plot they owned to arrange for money to fight the case. DCP (Noida) Sankalp Sharma said police had not received any complaint so far. “An FIR will be lodged under IPC Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) once a complaint reaches us. Relevant sections can be added later,” he added. The chancellor accused the parents of “cooking” up a story. “These are false allegations. We had shown a copy of the suicide note to them. She had written against her mother. The family did not want any police case or autopsy, which is why she was cremated. Police are collecting evidence. We have been told not to speak to anyone about the case,” he added. Watch Girl student commits suicide, Noida school secretly cremates body, alleges family||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-school-hides-14-year-old-girls-suicide-secretly-cremates-body/articleshow/76930816.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 13, 2020||Nagpur||NMC, ZP begin antibody tests in non-containment zones||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP) have started antibody tests in non-containment zones to identify spread of Covid-19 in areas where positive cases are yet to be seen. The district administration also found that results of Rapid Antigen Test are more accurate as compared to real time PCR testing done in state-run laboratories. Officials from NMC and ZP told TOI, “District received 2,400 kits for antibody tests. NMC and ZP have been distributed 850 each. We started doing 700 tests in non-containment zones and 150 in containment zones each in our limits since Tuesday. NMC has completed 550 tests while ZP did 300 till Sunday. Tests in containment zones will be carried out after completion in non-containment zones. Remaining 700 kits will be used for testing front-line workers.” The officials added blood samples have been collected and submitted to IGGMCH for antibody tests. The results will help contain spread of Covid-19, since only awareness was being created in non-containment zones till date. The district has also received 5,000 kits of Rapid Antigen Test. Before bringing it into use, the district administration has cross checked the results with state-run laboratories. An official told TOI, “Swab samples of some persons from Central Jail and Katol were taken and tested with Rapid Antigen Test on July 2. Of these, 31 tested positive for Covid-19. The swab samples of these 31 were taken again and sent for testing at state-run laboratories, where 30 tested positive. Only one sample tested negative, probably due to improper collection of swab.” After cross checking, the district administration started using Rapid Antigen Test at Central Jail and Zilla Parishad in Nagpur Rural. As on Sunday, 1,783 tests had been done using Rapid Antigen kits, including 450 at Central Jail, of which 177 tested positive. Remaining 1,333 tests were done in Nagpur Rural of which 25 tested positive, including 20 in Kamptee, 4 in Katol and 1 in Hingna. A ZP official said, “Rapid Antigen Test is proving very beneficial in rural areas. Earlier, team from IGGMCH or GMCH in city had to go to rural areas, take samples, go back and test in laboratories. Results took 2-3 days. We trained our medical staff including lab technicians, doctors and even some nurses to take samples and test swab of high-risk contacts of positive persons using Rapid Antigen Kits. Also, some kits are being used in containment zones to test high-risk persons like senior citizens etc. It helps in early results and further help isolation, treatment etc.” ZP is also likely to use Rapid Antigen Test kits on people coming from hotspots like Mumbai, Pune and other states. NMC has reportedly not got Rapid Antigen Kits probably due to availability of state-run laboratories within city limits. “It can be used to test high-risk persons in containment zones, as not all are ready to come to quarantine centres and get tested. Some contacts of positive patients like senior citizens, pregnant women etc are also not willing to move to quarantine centres, so they can be tested using it. Also, it can be useful if tested on people arriving via airways etc,” a NMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-zp-begin-antibody-tests-in-non-containment-zones/articleshow/76930210.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala chief minister’s office feeling heat in gold smuggling case: J P Nadda||KOZHIKODE: BJP national president J P Nadda has alleged that the office of the chief minister is involved in the controversial gold smuggling case in Thiruvananthapuram. Inaugurating the Kasaragod district committee office through a virtual rally in Delhi on Sunday, he said such things would not have happened without the knowledge of the principal secretary of the chief minister. Nadda said the chief minister’s office is feeling the heat of the developments. The implications of the incident on the CM’s office is intense, he added. “Everywhere the colour of gold is yellow but in Kerala it is red,” Nadda said, adding that the Centre would ensure a comprehensive probe into the whole episode. Nadda slammed the Kerala government for allegedly lying about the quarantine facilities in the state for coronavirus victims and claimed “people suffered due to that”. He also alleged that medical data of the state is being compromised. “The Pinarayi government said that they have enough quarantine facilities, but it wasn’t the case. People suffered due to that. Migrant workers in Wayanad had to stage a protest against the state government. The Kerala House was given to anti-CAA protesters but wasn’t given to Malayali nurses who needed it,” the BJP chief claimed. Nadda said that there is no BJP MP from Kerala in Lok Sabha but that has not prevented the party from bringing development in state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has left no stone unturned to ensure proper allocation of funds for infrastructure development in Kerala. A sum of Rs 2 lakh crore was given for development of railways in Kerala, and Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram have been included in the solar city project, he said. Lack of political representation for BJP in Parliament has been compensated by the nomination of V Muraleedharan and Suresh Gopi in Rajya Sabha and Richard Hay in Lok Sabha, Nadda said. Later addressing a news conference, BJP state president K Surendran said Pinarayi Vijayan should answer to the people of Kerala as to how Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair left Kerala despite lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/chief-ministers-office-feeling-heat-in-smuggling-case-nadda/articleshow/76928883.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||91 Tirumala staffers tested positive so far||Tirupati: Ninety-one staff at Tirumala have tested positive for the novel coronavirus so far. Briefing reporters on the Covid-19 scenario at Tirumala, EO Anil Kumar Singhal said, since the Tirumala temple reopened to pilgrims on June 11, TTD has been screening its employees regularly. “Of the 3,569 samples tested so far, 91 staffers working at Tirumala have tested positive. Most of them were asymptomatic. TTD has earmarked Srinivasam, Madhavam and Sri Padmavathi complexes for Covid-19 care. We will ensure the best medical care is available to the employees. Meanwhile preventive measures have been stepped up in the recent days”, Singhal said Singhal said the temple body has put in place sanitation measures at the accommodations where pilgrims stay. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/91-tirumala-staffers-tested-positive-so-far/articleshow/76928867.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Missing saroops: SGPC dumps own panel for third-party probe||Amritsar: Succumbing to the pressure, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Sunday decided get an investigation done into the missing saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib (SGGS) by a retired Sikh judge or some prominent Sikh public figure. This is probably for the first time that SGPC has decided to suspend its own ongoing investigation and recommend investigation by a third party. The decision was taken by the executive committee members of SGPC, whose emergency meeting was convened here on Sunday at a notice of 72 hours to discuss a single agenda of missing saroops. Later talking to media persons, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said following a demand from “sangat”, the executive committee, through a resolution, urged acting jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh to order investigation into the saroops going missing by a senior Sikh judge (retired) or a prominent Sikh intellectual to get to the truth. Stating that for the impartiality and reliability of the investigation, the committee members decided to get the investigation done by a third party, Longowal said they have also decided to transfer the staff of publication and book binding departments, so that the probe is not influenced by anyone. Notably, in the recent past Punjab Human Rights Organisation had claimed that 267 saroops of SGGS had gone missing from the publishing house of SGPC at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib on the basis of a statement given by retired assistant supervisor of the publishing house Kanwaljit Singh. On Friday, five SGPC members led by rebel veteran SAD (B) leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan had given a memorandum to the acting jathedar expressing doubts over SGPC-constituted subcommittee to investigate into the incident and had urged to get the investigations done by a retired Sikh judge. Earlier Lok Insaf Party MLA Balwinder Singh Bains had arrived in Amritsar to lodge a complaint with the Amritsar police commissioner seeking police investigations into the incident. Besides Longowal, others present in the meeting included Rajinder Singh Mehta, senior vice president , Gurbax Singh Khalsa, junior vice president , Harjinder Singh Dhani, general secretary etc. Meanwhile, Congress party’s member of Parliament from Amritsar Gurjit Singh Aujla in a letter written to Giani Harpreet Singh urging him to write to the state government for registration of a FIR and then get the probe done in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/missing-saroops-sgpc-dumps-own-panel-for-third-party-probe/articleshow/76930211.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 13, 2020||Bengaluru||30 Bengaluru Central Prison inmates, nine cops infected||BENGALURU: Thirty undertrials, including a woman, at Central Prison (Parappana Agrahara) and nine city police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Jail officials said all infected persons had been arrested in the past 15 days for their alleged involvement in various criminal cases. “All 30 prisoners are asymptomatic and were in quarantine at the designated 12 barracks and 15 cells located on the premises. The accused were allowed inside the prison only after their Covid test results were negative when in police custody. We never allowed them to join prisoners who were arrested before the pandemic outbreak,” said V Sheshamurthy, superintendent of the jail. According to prison officials, 29 male prisoners have been shifted to Haj Bhavan on Thanisandra Main Road and the woman sent to Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Ashram. This is the second time that inmates of the Bengaluru jail have tested positive this month. On July 2, around 20 prisoners and six staffers were found to be infected. “We have requested all accused be subjected to Covid-19 tests before being sent to the prison. The police department is strictly following this and is only sending accused to jail only after they are found negative. They are then quarantined on jail premises for 14 days. Our staff are taking all precautions to avoid spread of coronavirus,” said an official from the prison department. The police personnel found positive on Sunday include a Malleswaram head constable, a sub-inspector each from VV Puram and Ulsoor Gate, a woman constable from Vyalikaval, a head constable and a constable from Sadashivanagar, a head constable in Bellandur and a woman constable and head constable in Srirampura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/30-bengaluru-central-prison-inmates-nine-cops-infected/articleshow/76929823.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Labourer flees workplace after testing positive||Kota: A 38-year-old man from Bihar, who worked as a daily wage labourer in Neem Ka Kheda village of Bundi, has gone missing after he tested positive for Covid-19. The Bundi district administration and police are clueless as Brijesh Yadav, a resident of Siwan district in Bihar, fled from his workplace on Friday morning after his sample report came positive. Yadav and three others had reached Bundi on Tuesday and their samples were taken at the district hospital on Wednesday. The reports were received on Friday morning and Yadav tested positive. Before the medical team could reach the spot, which is around 10km from the district headquarters, Yadav fled from the spot. Efforts are under way to trace him, circle inspector Shoket Khan said. Police and administration in Siwan have been informed about Yadav’s report, he further said, adding that no missing report in this connection was lodged. On verbal instruction by the district administration, a search for him was initiated, but his location could not be traced as his mobile number was found switched off, the CI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourer-flees-workplace-after-testing-positive/articleshow/76930219.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||School education dept to create infra through MGNREGS workers: Singla||Chandigarh: The Punjab education department has decided to involve MGNREGS workers for creating assets of elementary schools. The initiative will aim at providing employment to people in rural areas during Covid-19. Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said it was decided in a cabinet meeting that the state government will converge its funds under flagship programmes to pursue 2020-2022 strategy for rural transformation and boost employment and push development in villages in the stressed post-Covid environment through active involvement of village, block and zila panchayats. Singla said the department has been authorised as an independent implementing agency for carrying out permissible works in schools such as, construction/repair and maintenance of compound wall, construction of parks, playground, multi-unit toilets, kitchen sheds, anganwari centres and soak pits and plantation works and deployment of Van Mittars (friends of environment). The minister said the school management committee would be entrusted with making the proposal, resolution and gram sabha approval for works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/school-education-dept-to-create-infra-through-mgnregs-workers-singla/articleshow/76930214.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Garbage, vegetation around Zuarinagar police shelters cleared||Vasco: The Sancoale panchayat on Sunday undertook the cleaning of the area surrounding the three police shelters at Zuarinagar containment zone in Sancole. It may be recalled that TOI had in its July 12 edition reported that the Verna police personnel manning the Umiya building point of the Zuarinagar containment zone were undergoing a harrowing time due to the stink emanating from the garbage dumped near the shelter put up to shield them from the rain. The mosquito menace due the thick vegetation and rain water gushing through the shelters also added to their problems. Plastic and other waste flowing in with the water, had led to unhygienic conditions inside the shelter. The contractor appointed by the Sancole panchayat, Salim Bagwale, said his workers have cut the grass, cleared the garbage and changed the path of the rain water that flowed through the police shelters. Narayan Naik, a member of the Sancoale panchayat, said, “Our panchayat regularly clears the area but people in the slum continue to litter. They avoid paying Rs 50 for door-to-door collection of garbage and instead dump the waste in the open. In fact, we have even told not to pay the amount if they can’t afford it, but to hand over the garbage to the workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/garbage-vegetation-around-zuarinagar-police-shelters-cleared/articleshow/76930652.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Pedal power in pandemic times||Jaipur: When the lockdown started, 53-year-old city businessman Rajiv Bansal started experiencing acidity, indigestion, increase in cholesterol levels and even insomnia. He popped a few pills but that didn’t help much. To change the sedentary lifestyle, he bought a bicycle and started distributing food to the needy along with his group. From being an amateur in cycling, he now easily pedals up to Nahargarh and Amber Fort. Bansal is not alone. Many others, who too were facing health issues, pressed on the pedal. With gyms and parks out of limits, they purchased bicycles and now pedal across the city and often towards the countryside. TOI on Sunday spoke to various cycle clubs having members who saw an opportunity in adversity and are cycling four to five hours daily. “It was getting troublesome. I started medicines and used to wake up at midnight. One day, I decided that I will buy a bicycle. I will at least move out with an official pass to distribute food. As the food activity was over, we made it a regular affair during early morning hours. Now I am riding 20 to 30km per day,” said Bansal, who was seen at Hawa Mahal with his group of cyclists on Sunday. Many cyclists put the bicycles in their car, park the car at Ramniwas Bagh and pedal all the way to Nahagarh Fort. “There was hardly any scope of exercise. Even during the lockdown we had a tough duty while I served as assistant commissioner of police, Adarsh Nagar. Thus, I got a bicycle and started riding daily for an hour. I now have more endurance, peace of mind and I have also shed some unwanted kilos,” said 53-year-old Pushpendra Singh, who is posted as deputy superintendent of police (crime) at police headquarters. Many amateurs have joined bicycle clubs and they are seen raising the bar everyday. “When I joined the club, I found that many members could ride upto 50km and the masters could ride upto 100 km. So, I am aiming to reach this level in the next six months,” said Anil Pandey, who starts cycling from Jhotwara and goes upto Amber and back. Many of the cyclists say that they were intimidated and scared while watching TV and reading news on their mobiles. “The first thing that clicked was the fact that we can increase our immunity. So, I got in the grind. Also, in the evening I ride bicycle with my daughter and it reminds me of my childhood when my father use to ride bicycle in the railway colony in Ajmer,” said Neeraj Mehta, who is an IT professional and works in a company at Malviya Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pedal-power-in-pandemic-times/articleshow/76930249.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: DFSC ‘ignores MLA’, to face privileges panel||CHANDIGARH: Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta has referred to the Privileges Committee of House the complaint of Congress MLA from Gohana Jagbir Malik, who has alleged he was ignored by a government official. The complaint is first since the committee’s reconstitution less than a month ago. Malik has levelled the charge against former Sonipat district food and supplies controller (DFSC) Manisha Mehra. An official ignoring an MLA is treated as the breach of his privilege. “We never take such strict action. But, this time the officer had crossed all limits. Despite repeated messages, the officer did not take my call or redressed the issues, which related to food grain procurement and the problems faced by farmers,’’ said the aggrieved MLA. According to information, Malik had filed the complaint with the speaker soon after the latter added members to the committee headed by Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta. As the speaker’s office did not get a satisfactory response from the officer concerned, the matter was referred to the House panel. Sources informed that three other MLAs, including two from Congress — Jarnail Singh Gogi of Assandh and Subhash Gangoli from Safidon — and one from BJP — Lakshman Yadav from Kosli — had also lodged complaints against some officers. “Jarnail Singh Gogi’s complaint has been transferred to the chief secretary for further action as it did not qualify as breach of privileges, while the rest two did not pursue their complaints,’’ said an official. On June 22, Gupta nominated 10 members to the committee and declared that ignoring MLAs would amount to breach of privileges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dfsc-ignores-mla-to-face-privileges-panel/articleshow/76930218.cms||Manvir Saini
July 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Job assurances pull migrants back, more than 52,000 returnees in a month||PUNE: A total of 52,488 migrants have returned to Pune from their native places in Bihar, Odisha and Karnataka, among other states, in 259 trains over the last one month till July 10, authorities at the district collector’s office said. Of these, 38,295 workers are from Bihar. Pune’s deputy collector Shrimant Patole said, “We have appointed various teams, including doctors at railway stations, to maintain records of the arriving migrants and carry out their preliminary health check-up as per the laid down procedure. If a person is suffering from cough, fever or any other issue, she/he is being sent for a further medical check-up at the Pune Municipal Corporation-run facilities.” “Some of the migrants have returned with their families. Upon interacting with them, we learnt that they had received job assurances from their respective companies. Some of them are skilled workers,” Patole added. The lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak had triggered an exodus of migrant workers from the city as industrial activity came to a standstill. According to the district administration records, over two lakh migrant workers had gone to their native states in the month of March and April. “Over 60,000 labourers from Uttar Pradesh had gone to their native places and so far, only 603 workers have returned to the district,” Tehsildar Nilprasad Chavan, who is also involved in maintaining migrant workers records, said. “The returning of the workers was need of the hour as they are involved in many specialist jobs in the industries. Because of their absence, several sections like forging, etc, had suffered. Secondly and most importantly, many companies have offered them their jobs back,” Dilip Batwal, secretary of Federation of Chakan Industry, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/job-assurances-pull-migrants-back-more-than-52k-returnees-in-a-month/articleshow/76930216.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||School fee row: Parents move West Bengal rights body||KOLKATA: A group of parents has complained to the West Bengal Human Rights Commission that they are being forced by private schools to immediately pay fees, failing which their children would be expelled. More than 3,000 parents of wards, from around 250 private schools in the city and surroundings, in the group — United Parents’ Protection Forum — are pushing for a fee waiver. Parents have attached details of the communication that they had received from the schools, asking for immediate clearance of dues in the first quarter. “Many of us have lost jobs, many have taken huge salary cuts and others have had their businesses folded up. We have pleaded with the administrations to temporarily stop charging us for services that the children are not using, but they are not willing to listen to our problems at all,” the letter read. “Private schools are stooping so low that they are sending messages directly to students leaving them depressed over the inability of their parents to pay up. This, we think, is a gross violation of human rights,” the letter added. “We are not unwilling to pay the tuition fees, but why charge us session fees or re-admission fees at such a time?” asked Sanjeev Sharma, whose daughter studies at an English-medium school for girls in Park Circus. “Schools have told us that they are not being able to pay salaries to their staff. We asked them to give us the calculation of the total payout and we guarantee that parents will pay that amount,” said Vevek Singhi, whose daughter studies at a reputable girls’ school off Shakespeare Sarani. “I will have to analyze the complaints. The Commission takes cognizance of issues and after investigation, alerts the government,” said WBHRC chairman Girish Chandra Gupta. “This is unprecedented, but these are extraordinary times,” said member, Naparajit Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-fee-row-parents-move-rights-body/articleshow/76932374.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Moolamattam power plant generates 10,000 crore units||IDUKKI: The Moolamattam power plant of Idukki has marked a record of generating 10,000 crore units of power on Sunday. Power minister M M Mani inaugurated the KSEB celebration through video conference on Saturday to mark the occasion. “The power plant has touched the record of 10,000 crore units. Moolamattam power plant includes Idukki hydro electric project providing over 30% of power output of the state. For the first time in Kerala, a hydel power plant is attaining such a record,” said Bibin Joseph, KSEB director (generation-civil). “Five generators are generating power at Moolamattam. The number one generator at the power house too started generation on Friday and renovation works of number two generator will be complete next month. We can now generate a unit power at Moolamattam at 26 paisa,” Joseph added. The Moolamattam underground power station was commissioned in 1976 and the 1, 2, and 3 number generators were installed in the first phase. There are six generators of 130mw at the power station. The generators were installed in two phases. In the second phase number 4,5, and six were installed in 1986, said officials. Idukki is the largest arch dam in Asia. The Indo-Canadian project was inaugurated by the Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on February 17, 1976. However, last month KSEB selected Water and Power Consultancy Services (Wapcos) to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed second power house in Moolamattam. The Idukki reservoir was selected for a second power house taking into consideration the high storage capacity. The power house has an installed capacity of 780mw and the peak-hour demand could be met. For doubling the peak-time power generation the Board will set up another power house with the same capacity to generate 780mw.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/moolamattam-power-plant-generates-10000cr-units/articleshow/76928909.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Odd-even rule at 25,000 shops in Kolkata from today||KOLKATA: Nearly 25,000 shops in the Central Business District will follow the even-odd day rule from Monday after its members agreed to a three-day-a-week format. Traders’ bodies felt that keeping groups of shops open on alternate days will significantly reduce the pressure of the customers that they had been facing for past few weeks since the unlock was announced. Automobile spare parts and bicycle shops — located mainly on Prinsep Street, Ezra Street, Sooterkin Street and Prafulla Sarkar Street — will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Electrical and electronic goods shops have already agreed to a four-day-a-week model and decided to keep shops open on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. “We are talking to several trade bodies so equal number of shops are open on each day. Before the pandemic and lockdown, shops between Esplanade and Strand Road used to get around 70,000 customers per day. That has been reduced to nearly one-fourth now. But still it is difficult to maintain social distancing,” said Arun Poddar, president of the Confederation of Trade Associations. Automobile spare parts shops in the CBD had earlier announced a 7-day closure from Friday. “All of our 630 members have been asked to keep shops closed for seven days, following which a call will be taken,” said Rita Mitra, president of the CMDA. Rajesh Bhatia, general secretary of the Confederation of Trade Associations said that nearly 60 trade bodies, who are members of the association, have agreed to follow the three-day-a-week model for one week. Nearly 700 members of the Calcutta Chamber of Trade have decided to follow a four-day week model for the time being to reduce the crowd. “We are keeping shops open on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday,” said Shabbir Hazrat, president of the Calcutta Chamber of Trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/odd-even-rule-at-25k-shops-from-today/articleshow/76930220.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 13, 2020||Pune||No proof that MMR vaccination protects against coronavirus: SII||Pune: Vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII) has said that there is no direct evidence that proves the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine offers protection against Covid-19. The SII is one of the key manufacturers of the MMR vaccine in India.The institute’s statement to TOI on Sunday comes amidst reports of adults queuing up for MMR vaccination in hopes of a defence against the coronavirus. The MMR is administered to infants at nine months of age.Before the interest in MMR, there were theories on protection offered by the anti-TB BCG vaccine. In fact, multiple trials are currently ongoing to investigate the BCG-Covid connection, including on in the state in which the SII’s recombinant BCG vaccine is being assessed as a preventive treatment for Covid-19.“As a responsible vaccine maker, we want to make it clear that there is no direct evidence from randomized controlled clinical trials that vaccines containing measles, including MMR, can protect against Covid-19. Secondly, the ‘mumps’ component in the MMR vaccine is not recommended beyond the age of 10 as it is likely to be reactogenic,” Adar Poonawalla, owner and chief executive officer of SII, told TOI.Reactogenicity is the physical response to a vaccine, which can include injection-site pain, irritation, swelling and fever. There have been several scientific papers illustrating the use of a measles-containing vaccine in “training” immunity to either prevent or dull a Covid-19 attack.“As a result, these vaccines demonstrate non-specific effects against many other infections, including Covid-19,” said Rajeev Dhere, SII’s executive director.But because the MMR vaccine is likely to cause an adverse reaction in individuals older than 10, the SII said MR is a better option for adults hoping for protection against Covid-19.“The MR is a combination vaccine that contains measles and rubella. It is a better option than MMR, in our opinion, for individuals above 10 years of age. The MR vaccine has been distributed globally and billions of doses have been used so far,” Dhere said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-proof-that-mmr-vaccination-protects-against-coronavirus-sii/articleshow/76930223.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||No quota in jobs on lines of Haryana: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday ruled out a state quota in jobs for the youth on the lines of Haryana. He said the decision of the Haryana government would not stand judicial scrutiny. The chief minister was responding to questions posed by the youth during Sunday’s edition of #AskCaptain. On being asked why his government could not follow the Haryana model in this regard as mostly outsiders were getting jobs in Punjab, Captain Amarinder said the Constitution and the law barred any such discrimination in the matter of jobs. The CM pointed out that Punjabis were employed all over the country, with no restrictions by any state. “We cannot stop youth from other states taking up jobs in Punjab,” he said, adding that he did not believe Haryana’s decision could be upheld in the courts. Asked about the UP encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey, Captain Amarinder said while he could not comment on the issue, the Congress was right in demanding an inquiry. The truth needs to be revealed, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-quota-in-jobs-on-lines-of-hry-capt/articleshow/76930221.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||4 medics of Bundi hosp infected due to negligence||Kota: Alleged negligence by the principal medical officer of Bundi district government hospital of not isolating the medical staff of a ward where a woman tested Covid positive after death on Friday led to the doctor, two male nurses and a contractual computer operator getting infected on Sunday. A 30-year-old woman of Kanti Astoli village, 5km from the district headquarters, was admitted to the medical ward of the district government hospital on Thursday. After her condition worsened, she was referred to MBS Hospital in Kota where she died during treatment at night. Her swab samples, taken prior to her death, tested her Corona positive on Friday registering the first Covid death in the district. Pincipal medical officer KC Meena and hospital authorities, ignoring Covid guidelines and health risks, allegedly did not allow the medical staff of the ward go on home isolation and forced them to work at the hospital. The hospital authorities did not even bother to take samples of the medical staff, though some of them voluntarily gave their samples for tests. on Sunday, two male nurses agead around 35 years, a 35-year-old doctor and a 22-year-old contractual computer operator, all posted at Bundi district hospital and residents of various areas of the city, tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-medics-of-bundi-hosp-infected-due-to-negligence/articleshow/76930255.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Shimla||Manali gets season’s first cloudburst||MANALI: A cloudburst in Kanyal nullah near Manali town damaged roads, pathways and drinking water spaces on Saturday night. No loss of life was reported. This is the first incident of cloudburst in Himachal this monsoon. The flooded nullah brought tonnes of debris with it and uprooted many trees. People of Kanyal, Simsa, Madi and Rangri villages heard the roar of water and boulders colliding with each other. They said they do not remember the last time this nullah witnessed such a cloudburst. Shelly Paul, a local resident, said, “The flooded nullah brought debris with it. Many vehicles were trapped but did not suffer major damage. A number of trees were uprooted. Fortunately, no one was harmed.” Manali SDM Raman Gharsangi said the cloudburst has damaged drinking water and irrigation schemes in the area. “A small bridge also suffered minor damages. I visited the spot with officials from the revenue and Jal Shakti department. Damages are being assessed. Officials have been asked to repair the damaged water supply schemes as soon as possible. People have been asked not to venture close to the river and nullahs in the rain and park vehicles away from nullahs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/manali-gets-seasons-first-cloudburst/articleshow/76930227.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to have more stringent curbs: Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: As the Covid-19 cases continue to surge, the Punjab Government is all set to impose some more stringent curbs in the state, including further restrictions on social, public and family gatherings, as well as mandatory wearing of masks even while working. A detailed guideline to this regard will be issued by Monday. Announcing this during his weekly online session, chief minister Amarinder Singh said strict measures were necessary to check the spread of the coronavirus as he did not want Punjab to go the way of Mumbai, Delhi or Tamil Nadu. He did not rule out the possibility of lockdown on weekends. Captain Amarinder said Sunday lockdowns were already in place and the government was keeping a close watch on the situation. He urged people to act responsibly in the current crisis, even as appealed to all political parties to avoid any kind of gathering to save the lives of Punjabis. “It is our joint responsibility to save Punjab. Politics can wait,” he stressed, calling for a collective fight by one and all against “the biggest danger facing humanity.” As many as 5,100 people were challaned on Saturday for not wearing masks, with some cases of spitting in public also reported, he said these actions could not be allowed. He said his government would be distributing more reusable and washable masks to the poor. Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid cases, with several frontline workers and even government officials testing positive, the CM said with vaccine still not in sight, it was left to the people to fight the coronavirus. He urged people to get themselves examined at the slightest symptom or doubt, as early detection of Covid was essential to preventing deaths. He said disinfectants were being sprayed around the state to check the spread of other monsoon related viruses. Capt Amarinder attributed the increase in Covid cases in Punjab to increased testing and the large number of people coming from outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-have-more-stringent-curbs-cm/articleshow/76930230.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Pune||Over 1k people test +ve in PMR; 39 patients succumb||Pune: The number of people testing positive for Covid-19 continued to increase, with 1,088 fresh cases being recorded in the Pune Metropolitan Region. These include 559 cases from Pune Municipal Corporation limits, 320 in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits and 165 from the rural areas and 54 patients from the areas under the Pune, Dehu Road and Khadki cantonment boards.With this, there are 12,890 active cases in the region, while 24,508 have been discharged after recovering from the contagion. On Sunday, 39 people succumbed to the infection, taking the region’s tally to 1,075. Of the deceased, 27 died in PMC limits, five in PCMC limits, and four in rural Pune and three in the cantonment limits, according to a status report released on Sunday by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar.According to a Pune Municipal Corporation report, 486 patients were discharged in PMC limits on Sunday after they recovered. The active caseload in PMC limits increased to 9,203, with 487 patients in a critical condition at various hospitals in Pune. Of these patients, 172 were placed on ventilator support.As per PMC data, a majority of those who lost their lives to the infection had comorbidity issues. They were suffering from health problems, such as respiratory ailments, heart conditions, hypertension and pneumonia.Ten out of the 27 people who died in the PMC limits had breathed their last at B J Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, while the rest passed away at private hospitals.More than three-fourths of the deceased were senior citizens, as per official information. They were residents of Karvenagar, Shivajinagar, Wadgaon, Sinhagad Road, Satara Road, Ahmednagar Road, Kondhwa and the Peth areas, PMC’s report stated.On Sunday, TOI had reported that for the past 25 days, the toll due to coronavirus infection in Maharashtra has been rising by 1,000 deaths every fifth day.Casualties in the state, one of India’s most populated regions, are now ahead of many countries; the toll in Germany stands at 9,069 deaths while Canada has 8,811 deaths. China, where the pandemic started in November, has less than half of Maharashtra’s fatalities at 4,641 so far.Maharashtra accounts for 45% of the country’s toll so far. The surge in Maharashtra has come from Covid-19 clusters emerging in the satellite cities of Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1k-people-test-ve-in-pmr-39-patients-succumb/articleshow/76930237.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur to soon catch up with Covid cases in city as state tally crosses 24k||Jaipur: Reporting 156 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, Jodhpur is getting quite close to surpassing the cumulative Covid-19 cases in Jaipur. The cumulative cases in Jodhpur have risen to 3,819, while in Jaipur the tally was 3,911. Meanwhile, seven persons died and 644 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state taking the statewide tally to 24,392 on Sunday. With seven more deaths, Rajasthan’s toll stands at 510. Tonk reported its second Covid-19 death, while Sirohi reported its eighth on Sunday. Udaipur saw its 7th fatality, while Jaipur reported its 173rd. Nagaur reported three deaths, taking its toll to 18. In the past nine days, the state has reported 5,340 new infections with an average of 593 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high of 5,779 on Sunday. It was 5,376 on Saturday, 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday, 4,715 on Wednesday, 4,357 on Tuesday and 3,949 last Monday. The districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (156), Alwar (93), Pali (70), Jaipur (53), Ajmer (33), Bikaner (31), Jalore (30), Kota (28), Barmer (24), Dholpur (18), Sirohi (17), Bharatpur (17), Nagaur (16), Sikar (11), Karauli (9), Churu (8), Bundi (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Udaipur (4), Dausa (2), Sawai Madhopur (2), Banswara (2), Pratapgarh (2), Bhilwara (1), Dungarpur (1), Sriganganagar (1), Rajsamand (1) and six from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-to-soon-catch-up-with-covid-cases-in-city-as-state-tally-crosses-24k/articleshow/76930234.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Delhi||How Delhi got its Covid act together: Testing, home isolation and more beds paid dividends||NEW DELHI: On Saturday, the number of people who recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi was nearly 70% more than the new cases reported the same day. The number of active cases was 19,895, more than 23% less than the 25,940 active cases reported the previous Saturday — July 4. Hospital occupancy, too, has gone down with two-thirds of patients recuperating in home isolation and the number of deaths has been going down too. The capital, it appears, is succeeding in containing the deadly virus, and on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi too appreciated the concerted efforts of Delhi government and the Centre and called for replicating the Delhi strategy in other parts of NCR. Compare this with the scenario exactly a month ago when Delhi started witnessing an increasing number of cases, deaths and rising panic amongst Delhiites. In the last leg of last month, close to 4,000 new cases were being reported regularly, with the high of 3,947 cases on June 23. Read the story on TOI+ How Delhi got its Covid act together||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-delhi-got-its-covid-act-together-testing-home-isolation-and-more-beds-paid-dividends/articleshow/76929788.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Pune||Pvt lab botches result, banned from nCoV tests||Pune: The district collector has banned Thyrocare Technologies, a private laboratory in Pune, from carrying out Covid-19 tests following discrepancies in a report. “A family from Khanapur village underwent Covid-19 tests at a Thyrocare lab. While reports of two family members were negative, the results of a child came out positive for the infection,” collector Naval Kishore Ram said. “After the family expressed doubts about the results, their samples were sent to National Institute of Virology, where all of them tested negative.” The collector said there have been similar complaints about the laboratory and that they were also delaying results. The laboratory got the approval to conduct tests after the Indian Medical Research Institute roped in private facilities. Following the discrepancies, Covid-19 testing at that particular laboratory in Haveli tehsil has been stopped, he said. A Thyrocare spokesperson said the laboratory will follow any instructions, while adding that it had yet to receive a formal communication from the district administration in this regard. “We will fully cooperate with the authorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-lab-botches-result-banned-from-ncov-tests/articleshow/76930235.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Govt departments not keen to hire e-vehicles over high costs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though the government has asked all the departments to mandatorily opt electric vehicles while leasing vehicles as part of its e-mobility initiative, many of the departments are not keen in doing so citing that electric vehicles are causing higher financial liability than petrol-diesel vehicles. The finance department had issued an order that all the departments should hereafter lease electric vehicles from agency for non-conventional energy and rural technology (Anert). Leasing out vehicles from outside is a common practice in most of the departments to make up for the shortage of vehicles. However, many of the departments are citing that the rates fixed for leasing the electric vehicles are much higher than for other vehicles. As per the circular issued by Anert, the lowest rate at which a vehicle is available is for Rs 22,500 per month. At this rate, Anert offers Tata Tigor electric car, excluding the services of the driver. For availing the services of a driver, another Rs 17, 500 plus GST will have to be paid in addition to the vehicle rent, which will put the total to nothing less than Rs 40,000 per month. However, sources said most of the departments have wet-leased vehicles at a maximum of Rs 30,000 per month, including the services of driver and fuel cost for 1,500km per month and the vehicle maintenance. “Several departments need vehicles not only at the capital, but in other parts of the state for their field offices and many such vehicles are private vehicles hired on contract. Though the electric vehicles have multiple advantages, the higher cost of lease would mean that the fund limits sanctioned by the government for vehicle leasing will also have to be revised as many departments may not have enough funds to lease electric vehicles,” secretary of one of the departments said. Other than Tata Tigor, Anert offers a choice of Mahindra e-Verito (Rs 27,000 per month), Tata Nexon EV (Rs 35,000 per month) and Hyudai Kona electric and MG ZS EV, in the SUV category (at Rs 50,000 per month). Meanwhile, Anert director Amit Meena said the matter cannot be weighed in terms of financial benefits alone. “The government has already come up with an electric vehicle policy. The hiring of electric vehicles should not be seen only in terms of financial advantage. Moreover, the electric vehicles have several advantages over the fossil fuel vehicles, including very less running cost that would come only to Re 1 per km and lesser maintenance cost,” he said. Till now, only eight departments have opted for electric vehicles, of which the biggest is by the motor vehicles department that has placed an order for 65 Tata Nexon EV, for its enforcement activities in the state. The motor vehicles department have hired the vehicles on an eight-year dry lease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-depts-not-keen-to-hire-e-vehicles/articleshow/76928907.cms||KP Saikiran
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Covid can aggravate gastro ailments, says SMS Hospital doctor||Jaipur: While common symptoms for Covid-19 are fever, cough, sore throat and breathlessness, cases are also being reported at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital with gastrointestinal manifestations, such as abdomen pain, intestinal bleeding and worsening of existing gastrointestinal problems. Thirty-five-year-old Ram Prakash (name changed) rushed to Sawai Man Singh Hospital from Rawabhata with acute abdomen pain and got admitted on July 4. Doctors diagnosed him with worsening his existing abdominal disease. When Covid test was conducted, he was found positive. “I did not have any fever, cough or any typical Covid-19 symptoms. I had acute abdomen pain,” said Prakash. Naresh Gupta (name changed), a resident of Rewari of Haryana, said he was brought to the hospital due to worsening of his pancreatitis. Before doctors could perform endoscopy, the 18-year-old was found infected with the virus. Rajneesh (68), a resident of Mainpuri of Uttar Pradesh, was admitted to SMS Hospital’s ICU. He was diagnosed with intestinal bleeding. His Covid-19 test was conducted and he tested positive. The patient died within 24 hours of being admitted. He tested positive for Covid-19 after his death. At least five persons in past one month, who were admitted to the gastroenterology unit due to worsening of their existing diseases and abdomen pain, were diagnosed with Covid-19, said Dr Sudhir Mahrishi, assistant professor (gastroenterology department), SMS Hospital. Mahrishi said, “In some of the Covid-19 patients, they have symptoms such as diarrhoea, vomiting, stomach pain. In our unit, some patients were admitted with gastro-related problems, but they were found infected with Covid-19. It is seen that the new virus is responsible for worsening of existing gastro-related diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-can-aggravate-gastro-ailments-says-sms-hospital-doctor/articleshow/76930229.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: 27-year-old dies after car hits two-wheeler in Wakad||PUNE: A 27-year-old woman on a two-wheeler was killed and a man riding pillion suffered serious injuries after a speeding car dashed into their vehicle near Rakshak Chowk at Wakad on Friday night. Police said that the deceased — Sudha Vishwakarma of Mankar Chowk in Wakad — was driving towards Rakshak Chowk with the pillion rider, Mayur Bhalke. Bhalke suffered injuries on his legs and arms. Sub-inspector V S Shendkar of the Sangvi police told TOI, “On Friday around 9pm, Vishwakarma and Bhalke were driving towards Rakshak Chowk in Wakad when a speeding car dashed into their scooter, following which the duo fell.” The officer said that Vishwakarma died on the spot. “Bhalke is being treated in a hospital,” he said. He said the car was being driven by a 22-year-old employee of a hotel. “We have arrested him for rash driving and causing death due to negligence,” Shendkar added. Hit-and-run near ChakanA 45-year-old woman pillion rider was killed and her husband suffered minor injuries in an hit-and-run incident near Moi village on Thursday night. The Chakan police have identified the deceased woman as Bhanupriya Behera of Moshi. Her husband, Ramakant Behera (50), has lodged an FIR with the Chikhali police. “On Thursday around 8.30pm, Ramakant was driving two-wheeler towards Bhosari along with his wife. When they reached near Moi, a speeding light commercial vehicle dashed into their motorcycle,” an officer from the Chakan police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/27-yr-old-dies-after-car-hits-two-wheeler-in-wakad/articleshow/76930231.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||State nears 8k cases, 200 casualties||Chandigarh: Inching closer to the 8,000 mark, Punjab recorded 234 fresh cases of Covid-19, including four deaths, on Sunday. The number of coronavirus cases in the state rose to 7,821 and the number of casualties to 199. Also, 352 patients were discharged, taking the total number of peole who have recovered from the virus to 5,392. Five health professionals, two cops and two politicians were among the new patients. However, test reports of Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and rural development and panchayat minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa were negative. Both ministers urged people to take precautions. Ludhiana recorded highest number of cases, 60. It was followed by 36 cases in Jalandhar, 23 each in Nawanshahr and Mohali, 22 in Amritsar, 21 in Patiala, 12 each in Bathinda and Sangrur, six in Mansa, two each in Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Muktsar, Ferozepur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Kapurthala, and one each in Faridkot, Gurdaspur and Pathankot. Among the deceased, two were from Amritsar, and one each from Pathankot and Sangrur. (With inputs from Jalandhar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-nears-8k-cases-200-casualties/articleshow/76930238.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Two men drown in water tank trying to save niece||BATHINDA: Two brothers drowned in a water storage tank at their engineering college in Khaira Khurd village near Sardulgarh town of Mansa district late on Sunday afternoon. Partners in the college, Ravinder Jain (39) and his younger brother Pardeep Jain (35) were trying to save their 13-year-old niece who slipped into the tank. They rescued her but drowned in the attempt. They leave behind a son and a daughter each. The tank is said to be very deep and the victims could not swim. Village residents said the victims had gone to the college with their relatives when their niece went to the storage tank and fell inside. They rushed to her rescue but could not make it out. A pall of gloom descended in Sardulgarh town when news spread. Sardulgarh deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sanjiv Goyal confirmed the details. Police have performed legal formalities u/s 174 (unnatural death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/2-men-drown-in-water-tank-trying-to-save-niece/articleshow/76930228.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kolkata||Postpone MBBS exams, West Bengal students file plea in HC||KOLKATA: A section of MBBS students from West Bengal University of Health Sciences has filed a petition in the Calcutta High Court against conducting the second professional MBBS and third professional Part I MBBS examinations from July 14 to 21, seeking a stay due to the Covid-19 situation. The students pleaded that in the absence of public transport, they would not be able to appear for the exams. The case is likely to be heard by the HC on Monday, said Firdous Shamim, lawyer for the aggrieved students. Shamim said that the MBBS students lived in different parts of Bengal and some were from outside the state. So it would be difficult for them to commute while Covid-19 cases rose. Moreover, there was no regular train or bus service. He added that state higher education department, too, had asked to keep all institutes closed till July 31. Gopa Biswas, one of the lawyers appearing with Bikash Bhattacharya for the MBBS students, wrote to the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court that many students lived in containment zones and moving out will be a health hazard for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-seek-stay-on-mbbs-exams/articleshow/76930874.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Areas outside hotspots to be mapped now||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has asked Geospatial Delhi Ltd, a public sector undertaking, to map residential pockets outside containment zones that have frequently reported Covid-19 cases. The exercise is being carried out following the directions from Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) last week to identify areas that had reported “isolated” coronavirus cases in the past 28 days, but were neither categorised as clusters or hotspots, nor sealed and converted into containment zones. Interestingly, GSDL, which maintains and updates spatial data through mapping and surveys and facilitates its effective usage by various departments of Delhi government, has helped the administration in Covid management at least on two occasions earlier. It had previously mapped areas where the cluster of Covid-positive cases had emerged, and later presented the digitised data of those under home isolation. In the revised response plan issued last week, DGHS had asked the surveillance units in all the 11 revenue districts to carry out an intense screening of special surveillance groups, comprising cycle, autorickshaw, taxi and tempo drivers, house workers, daily wagers, technicians, plumbers, carpenters and daily suppliers of essential services, such as food, grocery and post. DGHS had directed district officials to tie up with residents’ and market associations and also formal and informal groups of those categorised as SSGs, organise special screening camps, conduct rapid antigen tests and move ahead with the established protocol if anyone tested positive or showed influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms or severe acute respiratory infection. While district officials had already started organising camps and testing SSGs in residential pockets, JJ clusters, slums and bastis, officials said digital mapping of the areas that had reported isolated cases, but were never contained, would help focus better in carrying out intense screening exercises. “Though we are aware of the areas from where the patients have been reported in the past few weeks and have also started our testing camps targeting people living in and around these areas, GSDL mapping will certainly help us target specific pockets. If needed, we can even convert them into containment zones,” said a district official. Several camps have already been organised in all the 11 districts, apart from the special drives in pockets where commercial drivers, rickshawpullers and household workers live. Watch Delhi: Govt asks for areas outside hotspots to be mapped now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/areas-outside-hotspots-to-be-mapped-now/articleshow/76929778.cms||Atul Mathur
July 13, 2020||Pune||Two arrested, drugs worth Rs 3.27L seized||Pune: The Pune city crime branch officials arrested a man and a woman, both residents of Navi Mumbai, for possessing 65g mephedrone (MD) worth Rs3.27 lakh, on Sunday early morning at Baner Phata on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. A team headed by inspector Vijay Tikole and sub-inspector Bapu Raikar was patrolling the area, when they spotted the man and woman on the service lane of the bypass in Baner. The two were walking on the road in a suspicious way and the police team decided to check them. The police have filed a case against the duo — Vivek Tulshidas Lulla (43) and Hema Kisanlal Sigh (30) — with the Chatushrungi police station. The police also seized their smartphones collectively worth Rs4,000. The police said the two came to the city during the early hours of Sunday. It was suspected the two travelled to Pune by hiring a cab. The police said the duo came to Pune to sell the MD to some persons. “We are investigating the case to ascertain how they travelled to Pune and who their clients were,” Tikole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-arrested-drugs-worth-rs-3-27l-seized/articleshow/76930232.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Delhi||100-bed facility at corporation hospital to open on July 16 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s 100-bed isolation facility at Balak Ram Hospital in Timarpur will be inaugurated on Thursday. It will be empanelled with Hindu Rao Hospital and suspected or asymptomatic Covid-19 cases will be transferred here. “The civic agency is making last-minute arrangements for the isolation ward to be set up in a portion of the hospital. The facility will be inaugurated by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan,” said north Delhi mayor Jai Prakash. “I had visited the site last week and found the work in progress. We will finally visit the site with senior officials on Tuesday to check if everything is in place,” added the mayor. “Supply of water and electricity has been arranged at the second floor where 100 beds are placed in three big halls. Oxygen cylinders have also been arranged and regular cleaning of the premises is being done. We may even install a lift for senior citizens. Wheelchairs have already been made available for the convenience of disabled people,” said Jai Prakash. However, there is no airconditioning facility here so far. The civic agency may add 100 more beds at the isolation facility, if required in future. The patients will be looked after by teams of doctors and nurses from Balak Ram Hospital in three shifts and its medical superintendent will be the overall in-charge. The administration will coordinate with Hindu Rao Hospital staff in case of any emergency, said a civic official. The north corporation had recently inaugurated a 50-bed isolation ward for Covid-19 patients at Saraswati Vihar primary school in Rohini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/100-bed-facility-at-corpn-hosp-to-open-on-july-16/articleshow/76929792.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 13, 2020||Bengaluru||From 5% in June, positivity rate in Bengaluru rose to 20-22% in July||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s Covid-19 curve has rocketed on each day in July, thanks largely to spiralling cases in Bengaluru, which has prompted the government to impose a seven-day lockdown beginning Tuesday night. Analysis of data for the 11 days in July shows that about 20-22 samples in every 100 returned positive — a rate that is three-four times that of June, when roughly five in every 100 tested positive. In June, the city tested 78,440 samples, of which 4,198 were positive. This means only about 5% of samples had the virus. Comparatively, in the first eight days of July, Bengaluru tested 39,691 samples at the rate of about 4,961 tests per day. Of these, 7,954 were infected, putting positivity at 20%. While testing data for the next three days — July 9 to July 11 — is not available immediately, the city added another 4,353 cases in this period. If it is assumed that the city tested 14,883 more samples in the period going by the daily average reported in the first eight days, then in these three days positivity is 30%. The total tests conducted in July so far would therefore be 54,574, and the average positivity rate for 11 days would be more than 22%. The daily death average for Bengaluru in July stands at a little more than 12 each day, compared to 2.8 per day in June. From 10 on May 31, the city ended June with 95 Covid deaths, adding 85 in 30 days. But it added 134 deaths in just 11 days in July, 84 of which came after July 5. As on July 11, the city accounts for 37% of all deaths reported in the state. Comparatively, it accounted for only 21% (11 deaths) of the 52 as on May 31. By the end of June, however, the city accounted for 95 or 38% of the 246 deaths in Karnataka, a trend that has only continued this month. The increased mortality rate in the city coincides with a number of complaints about non-availability of hospital beds, especially those needing ICUs. As on July 11, of the 502 patients in ICUs across Karnataka, 322 were in Bengaluru. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar blamed the rising deaths on the delay in securing test results. “Cases were expected to increase, but many patients are getting admitted into hospital late because labs take an average of 3-4 days to announce results,” Kumar said. “By then, the patient's condition, especially those who are vulnerable, deteriorates. This is the reason for the increasing number of deaths in the city.” On problems faced by people in availing beds, Kumar said a centralised allotment of beds is now working and people will not face a problem in getting beds. However, he said, “We have noticed some private hospitals turning away people. The government must act against such hospitals.” -----||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-5-in-june-positivity-rate-in-bluru-rose-to-20-22-in-july/articleshow/76929802.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Fish vendors to move to Panaji mkt next week||Panaji: Fish vendors, who have been accommodated outside the Panaji fish market as a precautionary measure to control the spread of coronavirus, will have to wait for another week until they are allowed back inside. They were supposed to resume operating from their respective spaces from Monday onwards. “The number of Covid-19 cases in Goa are increasing each day, hence taking the right steps is necessary,” mayor Uday Madkaikar said. Currently, there are 70 vendors who sit inside the fish market and 100 vendors hawking outside. The ones outside, some of who are from Chimbel, are operating on a rotation basis of 50 people per day, on orders of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). Although CCP has directed the vendors from Chimbel to obtain a Covid-19 negative certificate to resume their business in the Panaji market, the civic body had been waiting until cases in Chimbel reduced. “To take them back inside now, in the face of rising cases in Chimbel may not be safe,” Madkaikar said. CCP itself has altogether 115 workersfrom Camrabhat, Taleigao and Chimbel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fish-vendors-to-move-to-panaji-mkt-next-week/articleshow/76930656.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Pune||Old addresses confound contact tracing teams||Pune: Officials of the Pune cantonment have come across several instances in which their contact tracing and survey staffers have gone on a futile exercise because people have continued using ration, Aadhaar and other documents with old addresses even after they moved to the Pune Municipal Corporation areas. Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI that a large number of residents, including tenants from cantonment areas, have shifted to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas, but they continue to use documents with old addresses. “The civic body shares a list of patients residing in our areas for contact tracing. On visiting the addresses, our survey teams have found that most people are not living there any more. We also conduct inquiry with the neighbours and people known to them in the vicinity to find their new address but it is not always helpful.” Kumar said when they call the patients on their cellphones and try to convince them to give their new addresses for contact tracing, they face resistance or extreme reactions. “Some fear social stigma and some show signs of depression. Human response, mindset, education background and income groups are other reasons for not helping the administration,” he added. The CEO said people are wary about the increase in the number of positive cases. “If the recovery rate increases and people are sensitised about the virus, their perception can be changed. An improved confidence can enable them to cooperate better with the authorities,” he said. If the patients and their family members do not help them in contact tracing, they inform the PMC. PCB member Vinod Mathurawala from Wanowrie Bazaar said many people own properties in the cantonment and the PMC limits. “If they test positive, they share old addresses because they don’t want the PMC survey team to reach their new address for contact tracing as it may cause stigma. But they must understand that if the correct address is shared, then contacts showing symptoms of the virus can be given timely medical treatment,” he added. PCB elected member Priyanka Shirigiri from Bhimpura said people have locked their houses in Camp and shifted to PMC areas. “If the survey teams contacts them, some conceal information, drive them away and refuse to change their mindset. They will share information if they get infected and not other wise,” she said. Local resident Vinayak Katkar said the burden on a cash-strapped PCB is increasing because positive patients from Balewadi, Kondhwa and Hadapsar have given addresses of their relatives and friends in Camp area for free medical treatment. “They are not sharing their current address fearing that they will suffer from humiliation, pain and mental agony,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/old-addresses-confound-contact-tracing-teams/articleshow/76930241.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon revives, more bounty in 24 hrs||Jaipur: After a brief interval, southwest monsoon revived at many places in the state and provided a much-needed respite from sultry weather on Sunday. Jaipur witnessed drizzling in some parts in the evening. It started at 4pm at many areas, including Malviya Nagar, JLN Marg, Tonk Road, Gopalpura Bypass, Ajmer Road and other areas, which guided the mercury to take a dip. Earlier in the afternoon, a maximum temperature of 36.9°C was recorded. Likewise, mild to moderate showers were witnessed in Tonk, Ajmer, Sawai Madhopur, Alwar, Sikar and Jhunjhunu districts of the state. Rainfall was also witnessed in such as Jalore and Sirohi. A rainfall of 60mm was received at Aburoad (Sirohi) and was followed by a rainfall varying from 40mm to 10mm received in the districts like Sriganganagar, Bikaner and Churu. With mild to moderate showers, majority of the places witnessed a dip in their maximum temperatures as none of the places in the state witnessed its maximum temperature on or above 40°C. Bikaner remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 39.8°C was recorded. In its forecast, Jaipur meteorological office said that mild to moderate showers will continue at many places in the state in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-revives-more-bounty-in-24-hrs/articleshow/76930243.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jaipur||Cycle sales soar in Jaipur, stocks run out in most stores||JAIPUR: At a time when most trade and business establishments are unable to attract customers, the cycle mart at Kishanpole Bazaar in Walled City with more than 30 shops have been doing brisk business, thanks to people’s interest for bicycles for maintaining fitness. TOI on Sunday spoke to various traders at Vaishali Nagar, Ridhi Sidhi and Kishanpole Bazaar and found that such is the demand for cycles that traders are unable to meet it. Shopkeepers said the rush started immediately after the market opened in the first week of June. Most shopkeepers said they had seen an increase of at least 40% in business. “Prior to the lockdown in January and February, we were selling five to six bicycles per day. However, since June, when markets opened, we have witnessed a rise of 50%,” said Abdul Wahid, a wholesale trader of bicycles at Kishanpole Bazaar. “Roads stay empty these days. We have decided to start cycling in the mornings and evenings. I will buy one for myself and one for my 16-year-old son,” said Vikas Jain, a secretariat employee, who came with his friend Deen Bandhu Pandit. Such was the demand for bicycles that many shops in Kishanpole Bazaar got their stock exhausted by middle of June. “That was the time when we were selling almost 20 bicycles per day. It led to an acute shortage of bicycles. In July, we procured more goods. I think people of every age are coming to us. Parents who had earlier visited us to buy cycles for their sons and daughters are coming to buy it for themselves,” said Mohit Chawla, a shopkeeper at Kishanpole Bazaar. Traders said since gyms are closed and initially parks were also closed, people found a bicycle a viable option. “We have bicycles in the range of Rs 4,000 to Rs 13,000,” said Harmit Singh, a bicycle trader in Jhotwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cycle-sales-soar-in-city-stocks-run-out-in-most-stores/articleshow/76930239.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 13, 2020||Pune||PhD students to get six months of extension||Pune: All PhD students enrolled with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will get six months extension to submit their documents, theses or other related formalities. The students whose deadlines were in the last four months will be eligible for the six-month deadline. A student, Vinaya Mehta, enrolled for the PhD programme said, “I had to do some corrections in my theses and see some references from my guide and discuss it, but it has not been possible due to the lockdown. My submission date had also passed, but this extension by the varsity will surely help me.” Senate member Shamakant Deshmukh who along with others raised this issue with the varsity said many students were also unable to visit libraries, laboratories due to lockdown I over to complete their work. and there has been major lag in their theses. “Many student save even gone back to their native places. Hence, we had requested the university to give such students and extension of six months,” he said. On July 7, the university issued a circular which stated that, “All PhD and M Phil programme students, whose maximum period of submission for their dissertation, theses prescribed under rules and regulations, ordinances, circulars of the university is expired or expiring during the corona pandemic period are allowed to submit their dissertation, thesis including completion of pending formalities, within six months from date of expiry of regular prescribed period. The circular stated that it was applicable for those who are yet to submit their dissertation or theses, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/phd-students-to-get-six-months-of-extension/articleshow/76930245.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: This model manages waste at source itself||KOCHI: A startup registered in the state has come up with a disruptive model of integrated waste management for large residential communities, utilizing technology, manpower and supply chain, which according to them can also be easily adopted at ward levels by local bodies. Green Lease service by Noval Sustainability Solutions, registered with the Kerala Startup Mission, uses an array of equipment like automatic composters, shredders and incinerators to efficiently manage waste within their premises “Normally all this waste would go to a dump yard or a landfill which could harm the environment. What we offer is a monthly subscription-based service and the interesting thing is that there is no capital investment required,” says Siva Sankar, managing director of Noval. But Green Lease has a requirement of a minimum of 100 apartments or houses for their lease service, a multi-year contract. “The staff who manage the waste would also be on our payroll and the monthly subscription fee per household would be an average Rs 150,” says Siva Sankar, an alumnus of NIT and IIM-Kozhikode. The machines can easily be mounted on terrace or vacant spaces and would take up less space than required to park two cars for a tonne of waste. The automatic composters would generate organic manure from the biodegradable waste loaded into it, while shredders are used to manage the volume of the non-biodegradable waste. “Shredders are very important in our concept. It helps us to manage volume. We also use a conveyor system for waste handling. Four workers and one staff are required to handle five tonnes of waste,” says Siva Sankar. For large residential complexes with 1,000 living units the space required would be just around 500 sq ft. “We are not in the business of collecting waste. We only dispose them at source, which means anyone taking our service can get a certificate which proclaims them a zero waste society,” says Siva Sankar, who feels the cost-efficient model can also be adopted by local bodies in the state. “The model would also help generate at least ten jobs in a local body if there is support from the government,” he said. Noval currently handles waste for residential communities in Bengaluru and Pune and their range of technological products, including organic waste converters (OWC) and incinerators, have been adopted widely. “In Whitefield, Bengaluru, we have been managing 5,000 homes for the past two years. We also run a protein extraction unit in north Kerala which renders slaughter waste,” says Siva Sankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/startup-moots-disruptive-model-of-waste-management/articleshow/76928935.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana death toll rises to 301, 658 new cases take tally to 21,240||Chandigarh: Haryana reported four more Covid-19 deaths and 658 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the caseload in the state to 21,240 and the number deaths to301. While two fatalities were reported from Sonipat, one death each was reported from Nuh and the hardest-hit Gurgaon district. Meanwhile, 589 patients were also discharged, taking the overall recovery count to 15,983 in the state and, a recovery rate of 75.25%. With this, there are 4,956 active cases in the state. According to the health bulletin, Faridabad topped the districts which reported fresh cases with 222 patients, Gurgaon reported 112 cases, Sonipat 101, Palwal 35, Rohtak 26, Karnal 25, Hisar 24 , Jhajjar 22, Panipat 19, Nuh 16, Ambala and Bhiwani 12 each, Kaithal and Kurukshetra eight each, Sirsa six, Fatehabad four and Panchkula and Yamuananngar three each. There are total 49907 patients in quarantine or observation as total 66063 have completed the surveillance period. The testing rate on Sunday also reached 14699 tests per million per day as tll Sunday total 372621 persons have been tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-death-toll-rises-to-301-658-new-cases-take-tally-to-21240/articleshow/76930242.cms||Manvir Saini
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand in talks with AIFF to shift U-17 women WC national camp to Ranchi||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government is lobbying to host the national women’s football camp for the upcoming FIFA U-17 World Cup scheduled for next year in India. Formal negotiations are on with state government and All India Football Federation (AIFF) officials to shift the camp scheduled in Goa from July 20 onwards to Ranchi. Following the talks, a team of AIFF is expected to visit Ranchi on July 15 or at a later date to take stock of the football infrastructure at the mega sports complex at Hotwar here, state sports directorate officials said. The officials also said 35 footballers have been shortlisted and they will compete for a spot in the U-17 Indian team during the national camp. They are expected to reach Goa from July 20 onwards and will start their training after undergoing Covid-19 tests and institutional quarantine. Eight of the shortlisted players are tribal girls from Jharkhand. The Jharkhand players are identified as Astam Oraon, Sudha Amrita Tirkey, Sumati Kumari, Purnima Kumari, Amisha Baxla, Nitu Linda, Sunita Kumari and Salima Kumari. Talks between the Jharkhand government and the AIFF began in June after it emerged that the eight tribal footballers are missing out on nutritious diet at their respective homes in the state's hinterlands due to poverty amid the lockdown. State sports director Anil Kumar Singh said, "According to our current schedule, the girls will be brought from their respective homes to the Morhabadi football stadium on July 15. After their health check-ups and Covid 19 tests, they will be flown to Goa." In a letter to AIFF general secretary Kushal Das on July 10, state sports secretary Puja Singhal proposed to host an online meeting to prepare a roadmap for the development of women’s football in Jharkhand. The meeting is likely to be attended by chief minister Hemant Soren and AIFF president Praful Patel, sources in the government said. "Besides lobbying to host the national camp, the government is pushing for a long-term association with the AIFF for development and promotion of women’s football in Jharkhand," a source close to the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-in-talks-with-aiff-to-shift-u-17-women-wc-national-camp-to-ranchi/articleshow/76929675.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||Miscreants torch 11 vehicles in upscale complex in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: More than 24 hours have passed since parked vehicles were torched in KF-2, an upscale apartment complex under Kadma police station area in Jamshedpur. On Saturday, unidentified goons torched 11 vehicles — including bikes and scooters — parked in the basement of the KF-2 flats, leased out by Tata Steel to its employees. Residents said around 1am, they saw an inferno at the basement of their apartment and found that a few two-wheelers have been set on fire. They said before anything could be done, the vehicles reduced to ashes as all had petrol filled in their tanks. Sources said the fire was so intense that a car parked in the vicinity was also damaged badly. By the time police reached the spot, all the vehicles parked in the basement had turned into ashes. Locals said the vehicles were torched after they complained about the presence of some anti-social elements, who used to frequent the area after dark and take drugs. “Even after repeated warnings, they (anti-social elements) had refused to vacate the place and had even threatened to teach the residents a lesson,” said one of the flat owners on the condition of anonymity. A home-maker said her husband was in the factory, on night-shift duty, when the incident occurred. She was alone with her one-year-old daughter at the time. Another resident said goons from a nearby bustee scale the apartment boundary wall after dark and engage in anti-social activities. They even tease young girls living in the complex, said the resident. They alleged that although the local police station was informed about such matters, no action was taken to nab the culprits. One of the residents pointed out that such attacks were not new, as 24 two-wheelers were torched by goons in 2016. Committee members of Tata Workers Union met the families after the incident and demanded immediate installation of CCTV cameras in the premises. They also demanded adequate police protection for the families residing in KF-2. Meanwhile, police said they have lodged a complaint and assured that those involved in the crime will be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/miscreants-torch-11-vehicles-in-upscale-complex-in-steel-city/articleshow/76929574.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||Rims doc accused of graft made head of probe team||Ranchi: A doctor at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), who is facing graft charges, has been appointed as the head of the probing committee to investigate the 2018 fund misappropriation case in which he himself was allegedly involved. Dr V K Prajapati of the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery at Rims’ dental college was a part of the procurement process of the college’s equipment which has come under the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) scanner. In 2018, Prajapati was among the four senior officials of Rims who headed the tendering and procurement of equipment worth Rs 37 crore for the dental college. The other three are the current Rims superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap, former director R K Srivastava and Pankaj Goyel, the principal of the dental college. CAG, together with Jharkhand government, had audited the purchases and pointed out anomalies in a 40-page report in June this year and the Rims management was asked to submit its reply. Sources in the state department of health, medical education and family welfare said the management’s replies were found to be not satisfactory. “A detailed reported has been sought from Rims’ acting director Dr Manju Gari who sought a 15-day extension to file the report,” an official said. The report highlights deficiencies in the planning process of procurement, unauthorized tender evaluation process, irregular technical evaluation and collusion between bidders as well as officials which led to a loss to the state exchequer. As per the findings of report, Prajapati and others changed the evaluation rules of tenders to benefit a handful of bidders and escalated the prices of equipment by 250%, leading to a loss of over Rs 23 crore to the state and the institute. The physical audit conducted by CAG team found basic dental chairs, advanced dental chairs, a dental van and Radiovisiography Systems (RVGs) were procured at more than double the cost. A dental van was also procured at 250% more than its market price, ignoring the budget of purchase committee. As per the findings, 110 basic dental chairs, which cost somewhere between Rs one to five lakh, was procured at Rs 14.28 lakhs, leading to loss of Rs 15.55 crore. Similarly, five advance dental chairs were supposed to be procured at Rs 5 lakh per piece and were bought at Rs 48 lakh each, leading to losses of Rs 6.45 crore. The biggest bungling was done in the purchase of the dental van. A cap of Rs 50 lakh was fixed as a dental van costs between Rs 17-43 lakh, but the committee paid Rs1.67 crore for it. The committee was supposed to purchase a total of three RVGs as per Dental council of India’s instructions, but instead bought 10 which led to a loss of Rs 70.16 lakh. The PRO to Rims director, Dr Nishith Ekka, said, “The former director had replied to the query raised by CAG and as a detailed reply was sought by the department, the present acting director has asked for an extension and it will be submitted within the time frame provided.” On being asked about appointing Prajapati, who has been indicted in the report, Ekka said, “As he was a part of the purchase team, he will have a better understanding of things and has been given the responsibility to draft the reply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-doc-accused-of-graft-made-head-of-probe-team/articleshow/76929762.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||Cong begins groundwork to retain Bermo seat||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee on Sunday announced that the party has begun the groundwork for the Bermo bypoll. The seat fell vacant following the demise of its legislator Rajendra Singh in May and as per rules, a bypoll has to take place within six months. While the Election Commission (EC) is yet to make any announcement, workers of Congress, which is a part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, have started mobilising its resources to retain Bermo. On Sunday, state party president Rameshwar Oraon visited the residential office of the deceased MLA at Jaridih block in Bermo constituency and held extensive meetings with the party workers to chalk out a roadmap ahead of the impending polls. Oraon said, "Today’s introductory meeting is to encourage party workers in this constituency to mobilise resources and initiate the groundwork. The Bermo seat has traditionally been represented by Congress and we are sure of retaining the seat this time as well with a larger margin." Addressing the workers, Oraon said as part of the ruling coalition, Congress has key departments in its fold, like rural development, health, food and civil supplies and finance, which are directly linked with the common people’s welfare. He added, "The state government is working in a mission-mode to serve the public and as Congressmen, the party cadre should connect with the masses to resolve their woes, bring their problems to the government’s notice for a time-bound solution." The EC is also yet to announce the bypoll date for Dumka which fell vacant in January when chief minister Hemant Soren vacated it and retained the Barhait seat. JMM will most likely field its candidate for the seat. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, "Both in Bermo and Dumka, the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance will ensure victory."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-begins-groundwork-to-retain-bermo-seat/articleshow/76929754.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||IMD: Most parts of Jharkhand to see wet spell till Saturday||Ranchi: The southwest monsoon has maintained a steady run in Jharkhand in its first month this season, according to the rainfall data released by India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ranchi on Sunday. “Monsoon activity over Jharkhand is normal,” Abhishek Anand, a scientist at IMD, Ranchi, said. Nearly a month after it set in over Jharkhand on June 14, the state has received near normal rain as compared to its average at this time of year. As on Friday, Jharkhand received 317mm rain, which is 1% less than its normal rainfall average of 321.6mm across 24 districts. Around this time last year, Jharkhand had received 38% less rains. As many as 14 districts had rain deficits hovering between 21%-61% of its normal. As per IMD’s statistics, seven districts — Deoghar, Gumla, Simdega, Khunti, Pakur, Sahibganj and Seraikela-Kharsawan — have rain deficits ranging from 25% to 50%. Gumla has received lowest rains in the first four weeks of monsoon, with the district’s deficit hovering around 50% as on Friday. While seven districts are mostly deprived of a downpour, six districts have received excesses in rain. Palamu has received an excess of 105%, Latehar received 81% and Garhwa received 52% of excess rain. Hazaribag (15%), Ramgarh (13%), Godda (6%), Chatra (5%) and Bokaro (3%) have also received excess rains this year. Ranchi currently has a deficit of 10% while East Singbhum has deficit of 5%. Weathermen on Sunday predicted light to moderate showers in most parts of Jharkhand between July 13 and July 18. “Isolated places in northeastern and central Jharkhand are likely to receive heavy rains in between July 14 and July 16,” IMD, Ranchi said in its afternoon weather bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/imd-most-parts-of-jharkhand-to-see-wet-spell-till-saturday/articleshow/76929602.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Jamshedpur||Highest single-day death toll of 7 in Jharkhand, 80 new cases||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR: Jharkhand recorded the highest number of single-day deaths so far on Sunday after seven people succumbed to the deadly virus. The state also detected 80 fresh infections from 13 districts, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,760. The fatalities included two patients in Ranchi and one each from Koderma, Godda, East Singhbum, Dhanbad and Deoghar districts. With Sunday's deaths, the toll in the state has risen to 31. In Ranchi, a 60-year-old man and another person in his late sixties, who were admitted at the Covid-19 block of Rims, died. Both victims had diabetes and kidney ailments, the hospital said. The Koderma and Dhanbad patients also died at Rims during treatment. A doctor at Rims said, "The patient from Dhanbad was a 60-year-old male while the deceased from Koderma was 67 years old. The latter was brought dead from Raj Hospital with renal failure." In Godda, a 50-year-old man died at the sadar hospital, where he was admitted with respiratory problems. The Jamshedpur victim was a 55-year-old who hailed from Sonari locality and passed away at the Tata Main Hospital. He was also suffering from liver ailments and pneumonia. So far, Dhanbad has become the district with the highest number of deaths at four. Of the total 3,760 cases in the state, 1,422 are active. The 80 fresh cases were reported from Chatra (18), Koderma (14), Ranchi (13), Hazaribag (9), Latehar (6), Dhanbad (5), Palamu (4), Deoghar (3), Ramgarh (3) and Garhwa (2). Giridih, Sahibganj and Khunti had one case each. In June-end, the state department of health and family welfare was upbeat as the number of infections was low, but a surge soon began in July with the weekly growth rate surpassing the national average of 3.43%. Cases in Jharkhand are also doubling every 17 days, which is closing in on the national average of 20.5 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/highest-single-day-death-toll-of-7-in-state-80-new-cases/articleshow/76936983.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||3 rebels nabbed from two districts||Hazaribag/Jamshedpur: Two members of CPI (Maoist) and a dreaded TPC area commander, Dhaniram Soren (34) alias Nepali alias Bangali alias Baljit, were nabbed from Seraikela-Kharswan and Hazaribag districts, police said on Sunday. Addressing the press, Hazaribag SP Karthik said, “Soren was arrested from his house after we raided it based on a tip-off. He and his associates used to target contractors and extorted money from them. Recently, they threatened a contractor engaged in the construction of water towers under Charhi police station area. They even assaulted workers engaged in construction and snatched their mobile phones and fled.” He added, “An FIR was filed and a special task force was formed to nab them. Soren was traced through his call details and he was hiding at his rented house at Korra in the town area. He tried to flee but police caught him. In the last two months, we have arrested 13 of his gang members. He had extorted huge amounts of money from various companies and contractors in the name of PLFI and TPC.” Soren was arrested about nine months ago and sent to jail. He was out on bail recently. In another case, Seraikela-Kharsawan police arrested two active members of the banned Maoist outfit on Sunday. The duo, 37-year-old Soma Sardar and 21-year-old Umesh Munda from Khunti were arrested from two separate places in Kharsawan. SP Mohamed Arshi said that both were involved in the killing of a couple in Raijama village in Kharsawan on May 23. The bodies of Mangal Singh Sardar and his wife Laxhimani were found from their village and it was suspected that Maoists had killed them since Mangal was a police informer. Arshi said both Soma and Umesh are active members of the Maharaj Parmanik squad of CPI (Maoist). Parmanik, who is an area commander, is wanted in several police cases in Seraikela-Kharsawan and Khunti districts. Arshi said, “Umesh and Soma were part of the squad that pasted posters and challenged the security forces in Kharsawan, Chokwa, Khunti and Tiruldih police station areas simultaneously on June 17.” Both of them are wanted in five cases under different sections of Arms, Explosives, UAPA and CLA Acts in Kharsawan, Kuchai and Tiruldih police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-rebels-nabbed-from-two-districts/articleshow/76929827.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||Maoists blow up forest guest house in West Singhbhum||Jamshedpur: Suspected Maoist operatives blew up a forest department’s guest house at Barkela in West Singhbhum’s Chaibasa area late on Saturday night. Police said a Maoist squad comprising nearly 100 rebels used improvised explosive devices and LPG cylinders to blow up the double-storey building. Two vehicles, including a car and a bike, were charred during the arson. "We suspect the role of Maoist leaders — especially, Budhram and Ajay Mahato — behind the crime," Chaibasa DSP Amar Pandey said. The rebels reportedly put up posters before fleeing the spot. In the posters, the Maoists opposed construction of the guest house in the forest area and claimed that the forest land belongs to villagers living in the area and the government has no right to construct the guest house. Notably, Maoists have increased their offensive in the mineral-rich district over the past few months after security forces cracked down on them. Over 25 members of CPI (Maoist) and PLFI have been arrested and five have been killed in the past six months. Police sources said the plan to set up a picket in the area has annoyed the Maoists, who are now indulging in violent activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maoists-blow-up-forest-guest-house-in-west-singhbhum/articleshow/76929801.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||Probe role of circle officers in land disputes: Bandhu to DGP||Ranchi: Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey on Sunday urged Jharkhand DGP MV Rao to file cases against circle officers "who are often involved in land disputes in areas under their jurisdictions and resulted in deaths, especially of tribal community members. According to Tirkey, the role of circle officers is often questionable in most of the land-related crimes and urged the DGP to book such erring officers. Tirkey said, "It is an open secret that the circle offices’ staff and the land mafia have formed a nexus to grab land which leads to disputes." He added, "Often, workers at circle offices and the land revenue department grab vacant government land or those belonging to the tribals along with help from the land mafia by producing fake litigations. When the victims go to the police, they refused to look into the matter by claiming that the matter is sub-judice and that the area does not fall under their jurisdiction." He added, "The onus of ensuring the safety of government or private land is on the circle officer as registrations and mutations of the land take place upon his/her recommendations. The role of the circle officer must be looked into and cases under IPC must be slapped on them to curb the menace."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/probe-role-of-circle-officers-in-land-disputes-bandhu-to-dgp/articleshow/76929692.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||Probe against Ghatshila pvt school for asking pupils to learn nat’l anthems of Pak, B’desh||Jamshedpur: A private school in Ghatshila is facing heat after it allegedly asked its kindergarten students to learn the national anthems of Pakistan and Bangladesh. LKG and UKG students of Sant Nandlal Smriti Vidya Mandir were asked to rehearse four lines of the anthems of both the neighbouring countries in their online classes held on 8 and 9 July. The matter came to light when some parents took serious exception to the move and shared a snapshot of the text message sent by the school with media persons on Saturday and Sunday. Soon, the matter went viral on social media. East Singhbhum district education officer Shivendra Kumar on Sunday said, “We are looking into the matter. Our team will visit Ghatshila on Monday and action will be initiated against the school if it is found to be at fault.” He added that although no formal complaint has been lodged against the school yet, they are probing the matter on the basis of viral posts on social media. School principal Sanjay Mallik did not respond despite repeated calls. However, a faculty member on anonymity said, “With an objective to enhance the general knowledge of the children, LKG and UKG students were asked to learn the national anthems of Pakistan and Bangladesh as part of their homework but after the parents raised an objection, the school decided to chuck the idea.” BJP outfit Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha has demanded action against the school. “We have demanded police to lodge a case of treason against the school,” said BJYM (gramin) president Rohit Kumar Parmar after submitting a memorandum at Ghatshila police station on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/probe-against-ghatshila-pvt-school-for-asking-pupils-to-learn-natl-anthems-of-pak-bdesh/articleshow/76929782.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ranchi||Highest single-day death toll of 7 in Jharkhand, 80 new cases||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR: Jharkhand recorded the highest number of single-day deaths so far on Sunday after seven people succumbed to the deadly virus. The state also detected 80 fresh infections from 13 districts, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,760. The fatalities included two patients in Ranchi and one each from Koderma, Godda, East Singhbum, Dhanbad and Deoghar districts. With Sunday's deaths, the toll in the state has risen to 31. In Ranchi, a 60-year-old man and another person in his late sixties, who were admitted at the Covid-19 block of Rims, died. Both victims had diabetes and kidney ailments, the hospital said. The Koderma and Dhanbad patients also died at Rims during treatment. A doctor at Rims said, "The patient from Dhanbad was a 60-year-old male while the deceased from Koderma was 67 years old. The latter was brought dead from Raj Hospital with renal failure." In Godda, a 50-year-old man died at the sadar hospital, where he was admitted with respiratory problems. The Jamshedpur victim was a 55-year-old who hailed from Sonari locality and passed away at the Tata Main Hospital. He was also suffering from liver ailments and pneumonia. So far, Dhanbad has become the district with the highest number of deaths at four. Of the total 3,760 cases in the state, 1,422 are active. The 80 fresh cases were reported from Chatra (18), Koderma (14), Ranchi (13), Hazaribag (9), Latehar (6), Dhanbad (5), Palamu (4), Deoghar (3), Ramgarh (3) and Garhwa (2). Giridih, Sahibganj and Khunti had one case each. In June-end, the state department of health and family welfare was upbeat as the number of infections was low, but a surge soon began in July with the weekly growth rate surpassing the national average of 3.43%. Cases in Jharkhand are also doubling every 17 days, which is closing in on the national average of 20.5 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/highest-single-day-death-toll-of-7-in-state-80-new-cases/articleshow/76929816.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 13, 2020||India||Reference in FIR to Dy CM riled his camp, revealed rift||JAIPUR: The ongoing rift between Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot has been a poorly kept secret within the state Congress, but it has come out in the open with the Special Operations Group (SOG) filing an FIR against two persons arrested on Saturday for trying to topple the Gehlot government which also has a reference to the deputy CM. The SOG FIR, registered on the basis of the intercepted conversation between the accused Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh Chouhan, says that the two spoke about the rift between the two Congress members and how the government can be toppled in such a situation by dividing Congress and the independents supporting the Gehlot government. Quoting from the conversation about the ‘next CM’, the FIR says: “While BJP wants a CM from its camp and deputy CM (a reference to Pilot) to be made a minister at the Centre, the deputy CM is saying that he will be the next CM.” The FIR draws the conclusion that the conversation makes it clear that some people were involved in hatching a conspiracy to topple the democratically elected government and also earn money from it. Sources in the state Congress said the Pilot camp is furious by this development as the FIR has been filed by the SOG, which comes under the home department, a portfolio held by the CM himself. The SOG has sought time from Gehlot, Pilot, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi and others, including independent MLAs, to record their statements in the case. Gehlot took to Twitter to acknowledge that notices have been served to Congress members but at the same time, he underplayed the development. “In the complaint received by SOG of horse-trading of Congress MLAs by BJP, I, deputy CM, chief whip and few others have received notices to give our statements. It should not be misintrepreted by certain sections of the media,” he said. SOG ADG Ashok Rathore said, “We have asked the chief minister deputy CM and Joshi, among others, to give us time and indicate the place for taking their statements in this matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reference-in-fir-to-dy-cm-riled-his-camp-revealed-rift/articleshow/76930817.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 13, 2020||India||UP, parts of J&K, B’luru, Pune back in lockdown mode||Citing “good public response” to its first weekend lockdown, UP on Sunday decided to continue with the concept of a stop-start shutdown for two days each week till it gets a grip on the spread of Covid-19. In J&K, parts of the Valley went into complete lockdown following a surge in coronavirus deaths in Srinagar over the past two weeks. Late Sunday, the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations issued identical orders for a strict lockdown from July 14 to 18 and, thereafter, with some relaxations from July 19 to 23. Karnataka, too, contemplated a statewide lockdown, a day after announcing that Bengaluru would be shut from 8pm on July 14 to 5am on July 22. As the number of Covid-19 cases raced towards the 40,000 mark, pressure mounted on chief minister BS Yediyurappa to take a call on extending the lockdown to the rest of the state. Sources said they expected a decision on Monday. In UP, the decision to clamp a lockdown every weekend till further orders was taken at a meeting presided over by CM Yogi Adityanath, who underlined the need for restricting social activities on Saturdays and Sundays while allowing economic activity to be carried out “with all possible precautions” throughout the week. The government had imposed restrictions starting 10pm on July 10 till 5am on July 13. The extension announcement came even as the number of active Covid cases in UP rose to 12,208 while the death toll stood at 934. Till Sunday evening, more than 12,000 people were in hospital isolation wards across the state. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the weekend restrictions won’t apply to continuously operating industrial units and infrastructure development, including construction of expressways and other road projects. The J&K administration’s decision to reimpose a lockdown in parts of the Valley was based on suggestions from various quarters, divisional commissioner (Kashmir) Pandurang K Pole said. (With inputs from Lucknow, Srinagar, Pune and Bengaluru)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-parts-of-jk-bluru-pune-back-in-lockdown-mode/articleshow/76930839.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM blasts officials over high cost of renting beds at Covid centres||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa berated officials on Sunday for costly missteps in obtaining equipment for Covid-19 management. He was particularly upset about the decision to rent bed sets for Covid Care Centres, including the one being readied at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC), at higher rates than many other options available in the market. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is paying daily rent of Rs 800 per bed set. A number of private players, including rental furniture websites, offer better deals, and alternatively, even buying bed sets works out to be cheaper than the Rs 800-a-day figure that officials finalised. Consider this: a suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patient with mild symptoms is likely to spend at least 14 days at a care centre, which means BBMP will spend Rs 11,200 per case. The same bed sets can be bought for about Rs 7,000 apiece. Officials would have realised this had they conducted a thorough cost-benefit analysis. The government intends to set up 30,000 beds at Covid Care Centres in Bengaluru by July-end. “If we rent all 30,000 bed sets for 100 days, for instance, it will cost us nearly Rs 240 crore at a rate of Rs 2.4 crore per day. If we purchase these sets, it will cost only Rs 21 crore and the beds can be used for any number of days,” said an official in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). After the CMO brought the same to Yediyurappa’s attention, he pulled up officials. “Opposition parties are harping on the reported irregularities. You should not give scope for allegations. If there are any such reports, I will be forced to crack the whip on you,” he reportedly told officials at a high-level meeting at his residence on Sunday. Revenue minister R Ashoka, in charge of Covid-19 response in Bengaluru south, BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar, IAS officer Rajendrakumar Kataria, who is overseeing Covid Care Centres, and the chief minister’s political secretary, Shankar Gowda Patil, were present at the meeting. Yediyurappa agreed with the view that instead of renting equipment at a high cost, it would have been better to buy it and create an inventory of assets. He directed officials to purchase cots and beds instead of renting them. Officials informed Yediyurappa that 2,750 beds were operational at Covid Care Centres and of these, 2,000 had already been occupied. They assured the chief minister that the 10,100-bed centre being created at BIEC would be functional in a week’s time and 3,000 more beds were being installed at new care facilities inside colleges. Three of the eight zonal ministers for Covid-19 management in Bengaluru conducted review meetings. R Ashoka laid out plans to hire volunteers at the ward level in south zone, while education minister S Suresh Kumar and deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan held meetings in their respective zones to plan the next course of action to contain coronavirus infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bs-yediyurappa-blasts-officials-over-high-cost-of-renting-beds-at-covid-centres/articleshow/76930750.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
July 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Man kills self after losing over Rs 2 lakh while gaming||VISAKHAPATNAM: Upset over losing money online while gaming, a 26-year-old man hanged himself from a ceiling fan at his home in Anakapalle town, Visakhapatnam district, on Saturday night. The deceased, identified as D Venkat Aravind, worked as an assistant engineer with a private mining firm at Rayagada, Odisha. Police said Aravind had come home in Anakapalle a few days ago and was found dead on Saturday night in his room. His friends and relatives said Aravind had lost over Rs 2.5 lakh in online gaming and had slipped into depression. Sub-inspector of Anakapalle town police station, Chakradhara Rao, said that the police are trying to find the website on which he had lost the money and facts related to it. “Although there are rumors that Aravind was addicted to online games, we will examine his mobile phone to find out more. We will try and get all the details as soon as possible and be able to ascertain the cause of his suicide,” the police officer added. A case under Section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) was booked and the body was sent to the government hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-kills-self-after-losing-over-rs-2-lakh-while-gaming/articleshow/76929231.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Vehicles plying during lockdown will be seized, say Bengaluru police||BENGALURU: Police will seize vehicles plying on the roads during the seven-day lockdown, from July 14 to 22, in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts. Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao told TOI that personnel and vehicles involved in essential services would be allowed to move around. “We are waiting for the lockdown guidelines from the state government and will impose curfew based on that. Essential services will operate as usual in the city. This phase of lockdown is very crucial to slow the spread of coronavirus,” he said. On Sunday, Rao and home minister Basavaraj Bommai made rounds to check arrangements of weekend curfew. “During the lockdown, if someone moves around unnecessarily, their vehicle will be seized and they will be booked under the Disaster Management Act. Previously issued passes will be considered invalid. One must furnish evidence in the form of documents on why they have ventured out,” he said. Major roads will be made one-ways and flyovers will be blocked during the seven-day period. The government announced a complete lockdown in Bengaluru because of a sharp increase in coronavirus cases. The tech capital is grappling with over 12,790 active infections and a positivity rate of 8.8 per cent. Groups of people employed in Bengaluru are trying to leave for their hometowns. Despite a curfew on Sunday, large movement of vehicles was reported towards Mandya and Mysuru. Prashant KP, an employee of a construction company, said workers were worried that the lockdown might be extended by over a month. So far, the government has not given any indication of prolonged restrictions. “I have decided to return to my native Mysuru on Monday. The number of coronavirus cases in Bengaluru is rising, and I don’t want to take a chance,” he said. DG Nagaraj, a health officer with Mysuru City Corporation, said that the government would issue fresh guidelines on Monday regarding the screening and medical check-up of intrastate travellers. “Right now, there is screening for only interstate travellers,” he said. Inputs from BK Lakshmikantha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vehicles-plying-during-lockdown-will-be-seized-say-bengaluru-police/articleshow/76930753.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Kanaka Durga temple funds misused, alleges Jana Sena||Vijayawada: The Jana Sena has demanded an inquiry into the bills presented by the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devasthanam (Kanaka Durga temple) executive officer MV Suresh Babu for various development works. Jana Sena’s official spokesperson Pothina Venkata Mahesh alleged that temple authorities were misusing the temple funds. “The temple executive officer (EO) has claimed Rs 10.23 lakh for constructing a footpath from Kummaripalem to Arjuna street. But, the Vijaywada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has constructed the footpath. Similarly, they constructed a toilet complex at Mahamandapam instead of a commercial complex and claimed Rs 1.64 crore. Temple authorities who collected donations for the construction of a sewage treatment plant (STP) has further claimed Rs 53 lakh for it from the government. They should disclose the donations given by the devotees. They have misused around Rs 3 crore funds of the temple in the last one year,” Mahesh alleged. The high court has clearly stated that the appointment of Suresh Babu as the EO of the temple is against the rules and still he is continuing in the post, Mahesh said while adding, “Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas is backing Suresh Babu and both of them should be punished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kanaka-durga-temple-funds-misused-alleges-jana-sena/articleshow/76929243.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Formation of new districts based on Lok Sabha seats may upset many||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s plans to create new districts taking Lok Sabha constituency as basic criteria is likely to come in for criticism from different quarters. Senior YSRC leaders say reorganization of Lok Sabha constituencies was done without factoring in people’s convenience and scientific and geographical realities. Many LS constituencies are spread over two adjacent districts giving no benefit to people. Since Lok Sabha constituency is not an administrative headquarter, people had opposed it when they were carved before 2009 elections. YSRC leaders fear that the formation of districts based on LS constituencies would create troubles to the party as district headquarters are going to play a big role in determining people’s sentiments. Former minister and senior YSRC leader Dharmana Prasada Rao has come out against splitting Srikakulam district into two. “The present Srikakulam district will become smaller as it would lose three assembly constituencies – Etcherla, Rajam and Palakonda to other districts. While Etcherla and Rajam will become part of Vizianagaram district, Palakonda will be part of Araku district. It will serve a blow to the people as well as the party,” he said. Speaker Thammineni Sitharam said he, too, has made a similar request to the CM. While the division of big districts like Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Kurnool and Ananthapuram could benefit the people, experts said it should be done with a lot of care. “A committee of experts headed by former DGP C Anjaneya Reddy, who studied the merger of APSRTC into government, should be appointed to take up the exercise,” said professor C Ramachandraiah of Centre for Economic and Social Studies (CESS). He said many assembly constituencies were far away from their LS constituency headquarters while they were close to the existing district headquarters. For instance, villages in Santhanuthalapadu and Addanki assembly constituencies in Bapatla are nearer to Ongole (present district headquarters) than Bapatla. Similarly, areas in Chandragiri are nearer to Tirupati while it is part of Chittoor LS. “Nellore will be the biggest loser if LS seat is the basis as people from Sarvepalle, Gudur, Sullurpet, Venkatagiri will have to travel to Tirupati, 150km away, while Nellore is 50km away,” said former minister Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy. Meanwhile, youth in Palnadu have started a campaign seeking Gurazala as the new district headquarters instead of Narasaraopet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/formation-of-new-districts-based-on-ls-seats-may-upset-many/articleshow/76929267.cms||Samdani MN
July 13, 2020||India||India leading a successful fight: Amit Shah on Covid||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that India was leading a successful fight against the coronavirus pandemic even though it was a densely populated country with a federal structure. Joining the nationwide tree plantation drive of the central armed police forces (CAPFs) by planting a ‘peepal’ sapling at the CRPF campus in Gurgaon, Shah said the campaign was being undertaken when the world was faced with a pandemic. He said health services of even the most developed countries were collapsing under the impact of Covid-19, and the whole world was concerned how India, a big, densely populated country with a federal structure, would fight this pandemic. “But today, the most successful fight has been fought in India under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi,” he said. Shah said that across the world, only governments were fighting the pandemic but in India, 130 crore people, besides state governments, were united in tackling this threat. “Nowhere across the country is there a state of panic and we are resolute in overcoming this coronavirus pandemic,” the home minister added. Shah appreciated the CAPFs for playing a very important role – be it in markets, railway stations or helping state governments in managing crowded places and enforcing the lockdown. “The forces have set an example before the nation and the world by being alert during deployment on Covid-19 duty,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-leading-a-successful-fight-amit-shah-on-covid/articleshow/76930845.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Don’t take over agri land by force: ERC||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) chairman Justice CV Nagarjuna Reddy directed the power utilities to not take over agriculture land by force or without the consent of farmers. During a review meeting with power utilities officials, Justice Reddy said that the power utilities should adopt a pro-farmer approach and ensure that rightful compensation is paid in a time bound manner while taking over land for development of infrastructure. The APERC chairman noted that though the state government has the right to acquire land without consent of landowners for the greater good of society, it should not deprive farmers of their livelihood in the process. Justice Reddy suggested that energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant hold regular meetings with district collectors to take stock of the pending issues regarding compensations. He appreciated the efforts of Prakasam district collector for paying Rs48,000 compensation to a farmer within 24 hours after the grievance was forwarded by APERC. The APERC chairman also emphasised on implementing the consumer grievance redressal forum (CGRF) and the Vidyut Ombudsman judgements in true spirit. He said that failing to implement the judgements of CGRF would attract penal action under section 142 and 146 of Electricity Act, 2003.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dont-take-over-agri-land-by-force-erc/articleshow/76929282.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||ICG apprehends Sri Lankan vessel||Kakinada: The Indian Coast Guard rescued six Sri Lankan fishermen from the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) in Andaman Sea on Sunday. The ICG regional headquarters received inputs regarding the presence of a Sri Lankan fishing vessel in Indian waters. Subsequently, ICGS Priyadarshini, which was on patrol duty, was diverted to investigate the issue. It reached the designated area and apprehended the Sri Lankan fishing vessel Induwara, registered in Mattara, Sri Lanka, which was carrying aprroximately 600kgs of fish. The vessel had suffered a technical issue. On investigation, it was revealed that the vessel left Devinuwara on June 28 and arrived in the Indian EEZ with sufficient fuel, water and ration with an intention to remain for a longer period in the area. This is in violation of the Maritime Zones of India (Regulation of Fishing by Foreign Vessels) Act, 1981, which bars fishing and poaching by foreign vessels in Indian EEZ. The Sri Lankan fishing vessel along with the crew has been sent to Kakinada, which is the designated port for trial, and is expected to arrive by July 13. On arrival a joint investigation and rummaging will be carried out by the marine police, customs and intelligence bureau officials. The IB will be looking into the issue in view of the prevailing security scenario owing to the ongoing Indo-China boundary dispute. Subsequently, the vessel will be handed over to the marine police for custody and legal proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/icg-apprehends-sri-lankan-vessel/articleshow/76929289.cms||Samson Raj
July 13, 2020||Goa||SC fixes virtual hearing in Mhadei dispute on July 15||KERI: The special leave petitions (SLP) filed by Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka on Mhadei river water dispute have been scheduled for a virtual hearing by the Supreme Court on July 15. The Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal had given its final award on August 14, 2018, which the three states challenged before the apex court. The court has issued notices to Karnataka and Maharashtra after the SLP by Goa. When contacted, advocate general Devidas Pangam said, “On July 15, we will ask the court to conduct a physical hearing in the case. We will also tell the court that there are thousands of documents to cite and it won’t be possible to argue virtually from Goa. We will tell the court that when the court will give us a physical hearing, we will argue the case. It has to be postponed.” Pangam said that they are all in Goa and the documents are in Delhi. “At present Delhi is facing corona and because of that, going there is also a problem,” Pangam said. He also said that it is not a simple case that will get over in an hour’s hearing. “We have to show documents while hearing is in session,” he said. In the petition, Goa has challenged the assessment of the water availability of Mhadei basin done by the tribunal. The state has objected to the tribunal’s directive of allowing the use of only 33.395 TMC of water as against the demand for 94.02 TMC for consumptive use. Goa also alleged that tribunal has not allocated any water for environmental flow and not excluded an area of 509 sq km while accessing the availability of water. Karnataka has already filed counter affidavit to the SLP filed by Goa on September 19, 2019, and chief engineer M Bangaraswamy of Karnataka’s WRD has denied all the averments made by Goa. Karnataka has stated that Goa has not proved its need for 94.40 TMC of water by 2050 and its master plan is not based on any scientific study. Karnataka and Maharashtra in their petitions have claimed their equitable share and any allocation of water to both the states would be used only during monsoon. It will in no way affect the river profile of the Mhadei.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-fixes-virtual-hearing-in-mhadei-dispute-on-july-15/articleshow/76930442.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 13, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant asks Goa police to make vision document||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday directed Goa police to prepare a vision document 2025 for the force, which has a strength of around 7,000 personnel. Director general of police (DGP), Mukesh Kumar Meena told TOI, “We will prepare the vision document keeping in mind the requirements for the police force in future. The vision document will have the functions of the police department. While preparing it, the discussions will take place with all the units,” Meena said. OSD, chief minister, Dr Pratibha, conducted a workshop at the conference hall of police headquarters for SPs and dySPs on ‘Goa police — vision and problem-solving method’. During the workshop, the officers were sensitised about various issues related to the image and vision for Goa police. The chief minister, at the concluding session of the workshop, emphasised on the need for inter-departmental coordination and the need to improve police image and service delivery system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-asks-goa-police-to-make-vision-document/articleshow/76930454.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka waits for Centre’s guidelines as festive season nears||BENGALURU: The state government is waiting for the Centre’s guidance on what type and size of festive celebrations should be permitted in the new normal of distancing and other health precautions. The mid-year festival season begins on July 25 with Nagar Panchami. “I believe the central government is preparing separate guidelines for festivals observed in south India. They may arrive in the next one week,” said Muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, adding that he would discuss the same with chief minister BS Yediyurappa. Many religious organisations and shrines plan to take celebrations online to prevent a rush of devotees. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, ISKCON Temple in Bengaluru has decided to keep its doors shut on August 11 and 12, the dates of Janmashtami celebrations. Every year, a sea of humanity — over 1 lakh people, according to ISKCON representatives — converges at the temple on Janmashtami. This is simply not possible during a pandemic. “This year, we have decided to close our doors to public and go virtual as it’s impossible to manage large crowds. The entire puja and cultural programmes on the premises will be relayed live on our YouTube channel,” said Kulashekara Prabhu, ISKCON senior executive (communication). Five other major festivals fall in August. Poojary dismissed the idea of banning celebrations outright, saying a standard operating procedure would be issued instead. “It is not an easy decision. We can’t ban festivals, but at the same time, we cannot allow full-fledged events,” he said. According to a government official, the Muzrai department has scheduled a meeting with the Dharmika Parishath (religious assembly) on July 27 to discuss how festivities can take place safely with all precautions being followed. Idol makers, other craftspeople and small-scale event organisers are anxiously waiting for the government to finalise a policy as July-August are among their prime business months. They are already reeling from the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 crisis. A Gowri-Ganesha idol maker from Basavanagudi, Shrinivas, said any decision to ban public events would hurt 250-300 idol makers and many more street sellers. “There’s a cultural aspect too as people may start avoiding the celebrations altogether from next year,” Shrinivas said. In a normal year, he receives orders worth Rs 10 lakh by early July. This time, not a single Ganesh mandali has placed an order with him. “We hope families buy small clay Ganesh idols,” he said. Idol makers and Ganesh mandalis are hoping that Karnataka follows Maharashtra’s latest SOP, which has allowed small-scale celebrations and local visarjan during the Ganesh festival. Two key dates of the Islamic calendar, Bakri Eid and Muharram, are also in July-August. “The government has held three to four rounds of talks with community leaders and the Wakf board. However, the bigger issue is about the offering of the sheep. The government and the board will take a call soon,” said minority department secretary AB Ibrahim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-waits-for-centres-guidelines-as-festive-season-nears/articleshow/76930728.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
July 13, 2020||Business||Insurance cos unveil innovative Covid covers||Kolkata: More life and non-life insurance companies are now coming up with innovative Covid-19 policies. Bharti AXA Life Insurance is introducing ‘Health and Life Secure, a protection solution with benefits of life cover, hospitalisation and critical illness amid Covid-19. “Health and Life Secure is the need of the hour that addresses customers’ requirements of life protection, hospitalisation and critical illness benefits. The unique proposition of this all-embracing solution is that it offers financial security and support for managing health and critical illness expenses as well. This is in line with our vision and strategy to offer best-in-class insurance solutions to the customers,” said Parag Raja, MD and CEO, Bharti AXA Life Insurance. The HDFC Ergo unveiled an indemnity health policy which will offer cover against medical expenses incurred due to hospitalisation of individuals seeking treatment for Covid-19, on positive diagnosis for the virus in a government authorised diagnostic centre. In addition, the policy will also cover expenses incurred on treatment of co-morbidity along with the treatment for Covid-19. Ritesh Kumar, MD & CEO, HDFC ERGO General Insurance Co, “Covid-19 has brought life to a standstill with many feeling the financial pinch. In such unprecedented times, Corona Kavach will provide customers with the much-needed financial respite.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/insurance-cos-unveil-innovative-covid-covers/articleshow/76930612.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Canacona locals upset over no buses||Poinguinim: In absence of Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) buses beyond the Chaudi bus stand, a number of teachers and bank and government employees are facing problems in travelling to and from the interior areas of Canacona. Some told TOI that KTC buses arriving from Margao make a final halt at KTC bus stand in Chaudi, where they have to hire motorcycle pilots. Travelling to and from Agonda, Gaondongrim, Cotigao, Galgibaga, Poinguinim and Loliem they poses difficultly, especially after work. When contacted, KTC’s managing director Venancio Furtado told TOI that the MHA guidelines make no mention about public transport. “At least in Goa we operate buses for the sake of working people to help them reach main destination from the city bus stand to the taluka bus stand. Beyond that, we cannot help,” Furtado said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-locals-upset-over-no-buses/articleshow/76930466.cms||Albert Fernandes
July 13, 2020||Goa||Use barren SEZ land instead of fertile land for IIT campus, says Congress||Edited_260 words Panaji: Congress on Sunday said that the state government should use the repossessed SEZ land to setup the IIT-Goa campus instead of constructing it on a fertile land in Sattari and drawing the ire of locals. The party also demanded that the state government should stop being vindictive and transferring government employees who lent support to the opposition of the project. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that industries minister Vishwajit Rane, in whose constituency the IIT campus is proposed, could use the barren SEZ land at Verna or elsewhere instead of auctioning the land as the industries department plans to do. The government shifted the location of the IIT Goa campus from Sanguem to Murmune village under Guleli panchayat. The villagers of Melauli-Shell recently protested against the move while the village panchayat of Guleli has supported the move. “It is really appreciative that the Sattari residents came out openly to protest against the IIT and did not budge to the pressure. Elected representatives like panch, sarpanch, councillors and others must become people’s voices,” Chodankar said. Reacting to the government’s move to transfer a Divyaang woman anganwadi worker from Sattari to Quepem, Congress said that such vindictive actions will back fire on the BJP-government. “I also demand that chief minister Pramod Sawant should not be a silent spectator and must make his position clear on the police high handedness and proposed IIT project,” Chodankar added. Congress also said that the state government needs to encourage farming and must come out with “maximum schemes” for farmers instead of “suppressing farmers voices with high handedness” and government machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-barren-sez-land-instead-of-fertile-land-for-iit-campus-says-congress/articleshow/76930472.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||No demand for rent-a-cab, rates slashed to 50%: Local asscn||Calangute: Ten days after the state government announced re-opening the tourism industry in Goa, there has barely been any demand for rental cars in the Calangute-Candolim tourism hub, Nitesh Chodankar, vice-president, north Goa rent-a-cab association (NGRACA), said on Saturday. Chodankar also said that due to the lack of demand, rates for rent-a-cab have also dropped from Rs1,000 per day for a small car to Rs500. “Although the government has allowed many hotels to re-open, only a few have actually started and there are barely any tourists. Some cars have been hired, but around 98% of the cars are still lying idle,” Chodankar told TOI. He said people who are coming are mostly those with second homes in Goa and they are driving down in their own cars. “We’ve been sitting at home without any business for nearly five months. People have families to feed. There are practically no tourists,” NGRACA vice-president said, while adding that since there’s no business and the situation is not likely to improve any time soon, “many car owners are trying to sell their cars”. “The situation is very bad in Mumbai, Delhi and other major cities, so people are not travelling. Nobody’s got the money to travel because of the financial crisis,” he said. Speaking about the risk with the rising number of Covid-19 cases, he said “it’s up to individual car owners to decide whether they want to rent out their cars or not”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-demand-for-rent-a-cab-rates-slashed-to-50-local-asscn/articleshow/76930483.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||‘Transfer of Sattari worker inhuman’||Panaji: The transfer of a differently-abled anganwadi worker from Sattari to Quepem is a disgusting and inhuman action, said Goencho Avaaz on Sunday. Goencho Avaaz co-convener Swapnesh Sherlekar alleged that the government is trying to bully poor villagers into submission and instil fear in voters and government employees. The anganwadi worker was transferred to Quepem after her husband joined protests against a move to acquire farmers’ land in Guleli, Sattari, for IIT-Goa campus. “This revengeful act and pressure tactics on the part of the government is a sign of the dark times that the people of Goa are going through,” Sherlekar said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane represents the constituency where the IIT-Goa campus will come up and he also holds the women and child development portfolio. Anganwadi workers come under the directorate of women and child development. The NGO asked chief minister Pramod Sawant to step in and act by sacking Rane. “The silence of the chief minister on this matter, especially when appeals for intervention are made to him by Sattari people, clearly indicates the helplessness and failure of Sawant,” Sherlekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/transfer-of-sattari-worker-inhuman/articleshow/76930493.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Kala Academy’s theatre college to conduct online admissions||Panaji: Admissions to the Kala Academy College of Theatre Arts for the academic year 2020-21 are going to be centralised. With social distancing norms in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the college has decided to conduct enrolment for first-year students online, through the directorate of higher education (DHE). “Since DHE has undertaken the responsibility of taking over the admission process for colleges, we too have decided to go online,” principal Ramrao Wagh said. The admission process will commence from July 15.“Interested candidates need not visit the college for admission. The DHE has centralized it wherein there will be a common admission system. First-year students will have to apply on the DHE website following which the list will be sent to us,” he said. Prior to admission, the college conducts a compulsory written test and physical interview of candidates. Conducting the written test would require the gathering of nearly 100 students in one place. Wagh has therefore written to the Goa University’s board of studies in performing arts (theatre) to either cancel the test this year or suggest guidelines to conduct it. The physical interview mandatory for these students has also been waived, he said.  The college will also have to conduct classes in dramatics online. While theory lessons can be conducted easily, the practical sessions require participation of students and teamwork, which could be a challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kala-academys-theatre-college-to-conduct-online-admissions/articleshow/76930501.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra liquor sales in June hit 70% of average||MUMBAI: Of the nearly 30 lakh liquor home delivery orders in Maharashtra during the lockdown, 15.6 lakh orders—more than 50%—were from Mumbai alone, according to the state excise wing. This despite the fact that home delivery in Mumbai started on May 15, a couple of weeks after it had resumed in other parts of the state. Also, the slump in monthly excise revenue has improved since the deliveries started in May. Revenue for June was Rs 850 crore—more than 70% of the average monthly revenue of Rs 1,100-Rs 1,200 crore pre-lockdown. In April, revenue was zero. An excise official said, “The revenue from excise and sales tax through liquor sale between May 4 and July 6 was Rs 2,400 crore. The biggest success is that it helped the administration avoid crowding in shops and thus control the spread of Covid.” State got 500 liquor permit applications a day from MumbaiAccording to officials, consumers across the state bought 1.4 lakh drinking permits in a span of two months to make online buying easy. This was because the state had made it mandatory for online delivery to either have a permit or buy it along with the stock. Majority of permit buyers, say officials, included those from Mumbai districts. Only Mumbai and Nagpur have compulsory home delivery as across-the-counter liquor sale is prohibited. “In Mumbai suburban and city districts, we used to receive 30-40 applications daily. Since the talk of home delivery began, we suddenly started receiving 400-500 applications forcing our servers to crash. The trend was visible across all districts in the state,” a senior excise official said, terming home delivery as the reason behind the spike in number of permit buyers. Maharashtra, except Mumbai and Nagpur, has nearly 7,872 shops selling liquor stock daily, besides 6,722 permit rooms that are operational after the state allowed hotels to resume operations at 33% occupancy. There are chances that standalone bars and restaurants may join them soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-liquor-sales-in-june-hit-70-of-average/articleshow/76930885.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
July 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Four years on, Quepem’s handloom training centre stuck in a rut||QUEPEM: A handloom training centre, the first of its kind for Quepem and Sanguem talukas, is yet to see the light of day even after four years as the contractor has abandoned construction claiming bankruptcy. Citizens say the incomplete structure is fast turning into an eyesore. Social activist Christanand Pednekar said the foundation stone has gone missing and the ground floor has been occupied by stray cattle. The public works department (buildings), Quepem, has now sent a report to the head office seeking the issuance of a fresh tender to complete construction of the centre at Nirmalanagar, in Xeldem-Quepem. In September 2016, the PWD had issued a tender of Rs 1.5 crore for construction of the handloom training centre. “According to the tender, the Ponda-based contractor had been given a year to complete the ground-plus-two building, but he stopped work in April 2018,” Desmond Cardozo, PWD’s assistant engineer, said. The department then issued a show cause notice to the contractor two times, but when he failed to reply, it terminated his contract in October 2019. The PWD has blacklisted him and his security deposit of nearly Rs 9 lakh has been forfeited. The government had paid the contractor Rs 1.1 crore. According to a report submitted to the PWD’s head office for technical clearance, the new estimated cost for completing the project is Rs 1.3 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-yrs-on-quepems-handloom-training-centre-stuck-in-a-rut/articleshow/76930505.cms||Johnny M
July 13, 2020||Madurai||Madurai in intense lockdown till July 14||MADURAI: As cases continue to surge, Madurai will remain under intense lockdown till July 14. The government said it plans to enhance door-to-door screening during this period. Grocery shops and milk booths can function from 6am to 2pm and private vehicles are allowed only for emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-in-intense-lockdown-till-july-14/articleshow/76930894.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Coastal body OKs footbridge at Mandrem||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has approved the project to construct a footbridge at Junasvada in Mandrem. The new footbridge will link a government-owned plot to the beach and make it easier for tourists to access the beach. The Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) project is being taken up under the Integrated Coastal Circuit Development scheme. The GTDC has appointed Fourth Dimension Architects as the project consultant. “The authority after going through the presentation given by the GTDC got to know that only two piers would be erected for movement of pedestrians and not for vehicular traffic. Presently, a wooden bridge constructed by locals helps in crossing over to the beach,” the GCZMA noted during its meeting held last month. GCZMA has placed a condition on its approval. The mud used to move machinery for construction purpose has to be removed from the creek once the new structure is ready. “The authority decided to grant approval provided that any dumping of mud within the creek shall have to be removed and under no circumstances such dumping of mud within the creek shall be allowed to remain during the monsoon period,” the GCZMA has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-body-oks-footbridge-at-mandrem/articleshow/76930513.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Porvorim flyover hits roadblock||PANAJI: The proposed six-lane flyover at Porvorim has hit a roadblock as the contractor has expressed unwillingness to continue with the project. “The contractor has written to the public works department (PWD) as well as the ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) stating that he does not want to continue with the six-lane flyover project from Guirim to Teen building at Porvorim,” said PWD minister Deepak Pauskar. Pauskar said the cost of the project is pegged at Rs 450 crore. He added that five residents from Porvorim had sought the height of the flyover be 7m, but the contractor agreed to raise it up to 6m. “If people don’t want the flyover, then the project will hit a dead-end,” the PWD minister said. The PWD minister said the actual height of the bridge differs across various locations. He also said that during a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant, the consultant said he would submit a revised plan for the flyover to MoRTH, but residents didn’t agree to it. “The residents first want to view the project plan,” he said. Porvorim residents had approached the high court against the proposed flyover. Pauskar said the court has ordered not to commence work on the six-lane flyover at Porvorim till the matter is decided. “We have approached the high court to allow us to begin work,” he said. On the new Zuari bridge issue, the minister said he has moved a file to the chief minister to take a decision on continuing with the Chinese consultant. One four-lane section of the eight-lane bridge project will be ready by April 2021, even if the Chinese consultant is replaced, Pauskar had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/porvorim-flyover-hits-roadblock/articleshow/76930517.cms||Murari Shetye
July 13, 2020||Goa||Sawant: Rs 1.5L collateral-free loan for dairy farmers||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that the government has decided to provide loans of Rs1.5 lakh without collateral to around 9,000 dairy farmers in the state under the central government’s Kishan credit card (KCC) scheme. Sawant said that the state government will start a drive to disburse the loan to farmers from July 31. The chief minister held a meeting with Goa Dairy, Surat district cooperative milk producers union ltd (Sumul) dairy, director and secretary of veterinary services along with officials of the State Bank of India (SBI) and Goa State Cooperative Bank. Sawant told TOI that there are around 9,000 milk farmers in the state, including two to three farmers in one family. “If we consider one farmer in each family then there are around 9,000 milk farmers in the state,” he said. Sawant said if farmers pay their loans regularly then the loan would be interest free. “We have organised a milk societies’ convention in both districts of the state. The North Goa convention would be held at Ravindra Bhavan at Shakali and the south Goa meet would be held at Margao,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-rs-1-5l-collateral-free-loan-for-dairy-farmers/articleshow/76930522.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Mumbai||Chandrapur now the only district in Maharashtra where Covid-19 hasn’t taken toll||MUMBAI: As Maharashtra crossed the grim landmark of 10,000 coronavirus deaths on Saturday, only one district in the state had managed to keep its Covid fatality count to zero as on Sunday— Chandrapur. Though till Saturday, Bhandara too was a district with 'zero-fatality', the death of a 30-year-old admitted with acute pneumonia changed its status on Sunday. Now, 35 of Maharashtra’s 36 deaths have registered a Covid death.  Over four months into the epidemic, Chandrapur district with a population of 24lakhs has kept its positive cases too under 200 with a mix of social distancing, contract tracing strategies as well as community participation. As on Sunday, the district had 184 positive cases of which 88 were under active treatment. Officials say the district has so far had only one person go on a ventilator and two who needed oxygen support. The patient on a ventilator was weaned off life-support on Sunday. “We are hopeful that he too will recover completely like the others. We are trying to catch and treat them early so that we can prevent them from reaching a critical stage,” said Dr Raj Gahlot, district health officer Chandrapur. Well aware of their limitations in terms of health infrastructure, officials said they knew prevention, testing and tracing were critical. “We therefore gave our 100% to educate people and set-up a two-way communication,” said the officer in charge of awareness, who didn't wish to be quoted. Installing over 25 phone lines was a starting point. Posters and stickers were distributed across the district with the helpline numbers. In the last three months, over 50,000 calls and inquiries were fielded by the tele-communicators. “Many called us the moment they developed symptoms and we would send an ambulance immediately,” said the official, while Dr Gahlot said that employing technology too played its part. “For instance, we reached out to 221 people who had used the state’s self-assessment health tool and tested 212 of them. Of that, 14 had come positive,” Dr Gahlot said, adding that they also identified a few cases through the Aarogya Setu aap too.  The district in all has a testing rate of 2882/million population. For the 140 people who tested positive from villages, they traced 1242 high-risk contacts, while for 44 positive from corporation limits, they have traced 303. Chandrapur officials also found that unlike other districts, locals returning from Hyderabad contributed to most cases (21) than Mumbai (16) and Pune (10). Only two cases had an international travel history, from South Africa and Kazakhstan. The district had got its first case on May 2, nearly two months after the first case arrived in the state, giving them adequate time to prepare, officials said.  In addition, most villages had set-up their own check points and kept an account of the movement of people. “We also gave Rs 25,000 to 822 gram panchayats to take care of anybody who was getting isolated in the schools that we had designated,” said an official. Meanwhile, Bhandara had reported its first case on April 26, nearly 2 months after the first Covid19 case was reported in the state. That one the only case in the district till May 12 and after the patients discharge the district became a green zone with no positive case. "We have done aggressive door to door screenings and kept a list of all people who have fever or cold. We keep a track of these people so that incase they develop any other symptom they are detected early,"said M. J. Pradip Chandren, collector of Bhandara. He also said that all the cases in the district were of people who have travelled from other parts of the state to the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chandrapur-now-the-only-district-in-maharashtra-where-covid-19-hasnt-taken-toll/articleshow/76930865.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 13, 2020||Goa||No more queues, renew medical insurance online||Panaji: The directorate of health services has moved renewals for the government’s cashless medical cover Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana online. Citizens, for the first time, need not visit their kendra to get their DDSSY cards renewed for the policy period September 1, 2020 to August 31, 2021. They have been asked to renew their cards by logging into www.goaonline.gov.in. The annual renewal fees have remained unchanged— Rs 200 for a family up to three persons with a cover of up to Rs 2.5 lakh per annum, and Rs 300 for a family of four and more members with a cover of up to Rs 4 lakh per annum. Fifty per cent concession is provided to OBC/ST/SC and differently-abled eligible persons when they produce valid documentation. “No additional payment should be made to any agents. The government has not authorized any agents to renew or make new DDSSY cards. This is done only by GEL and on the website. People must not approach any agents. Strict action will be taken against them,” a health official said. Those who want to register for the first time under the scheme, a trip to the DDSSY kendra is necessary for biometrics to be recorded. To delete a name, a visit to the kendra is a must. Those who cannot renew their cards online, will be allowed at kendras but only once they receive an SMS and only on appointment basis, the official said. There are 49 hospitals in North, South Goa, Kolhapur, Udupi, Bengaluru, Belagavi and Sangli, including government hospitals that provide cashless medical cover for certain procedures under the scheme. A total of 10 lakh people from 2.87 lakh families have been issued the card across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-more-queues-renew-medical-insurance-online/articleshow/76930527.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 13, 2020||Goa||Cremations to be allowed in Khariawada||Vasco: Citizens have been concerned ever since the area in which the Hindu crematorium in Vasco is situated was declared a containment zone. However, on Sunday, Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai said that cremations will be allowed to be performed within the micro zone. The crematorium is a part of both the municipal wards which have been included in the containment zone. “We discussed the matter and accordingly have decided to permit the Vasco residents to cremate the dead. But, people will have follow some rules. The entry to the crematorium will be from the Vasco Sports Club end, behind Tilak Maidan. Not more than 10 family members will be allowed to accompany the body, but before entering the barricaded area, the family members will have to write their names in the register which will be kept at the entrance. Only one vehicle carrying the body will be allowed,” said Dessai. In case some Vasco residents do not wish to enter the micro containment zone, Dessai said he will hold talks with the authorities concerned to permit them to cremate their family members at the Sada crematorium, which is owned by the government. Khariawada was declared a micro-containment zone zone from July 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cremations-to-be-allowed-in-khariawada/articleshow/76930531.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Three-member SIT to probe Tulli lab testing scam: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Under fire over alleged Covid testing scam by Tulli Labs, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the allegations. He warned that his government would not allow private hospitals or laboratories to profit from this unprecedented crisis facing humanity. During his weekly online session, the CM said he had received a complaint against Tulli Labs and had asked the vigilance bureau to investigate the matter but when initial investigation showed that there was no involvement of any government department or officer, the case was transferred to the Punjab Police. Top cop, civil surgeon members of SITThe three-member SIT tasked with the probe is headed by Amritsar police commissioner, who is a trained medical doctor and includes a civil surgeon as a member, the CM said, adding that he has ordered the SIT to conduct a thorough investigation and submit its findings soon so that suitable action can be taken. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office later said Amarinder had taken strong exception to SAD leader Bikram Majithia’s attempts to politicise the simple jurisdictional decision of transferring the probe to the district police. Apart from the fact that the vigilance bureau had, prima facie, not found any complicity of government department/official in the case, Tulli Labs itself had moved the court challenging the bureau’s jurisdiction, he said, adding that the government deemed it fit to transfer the case to the Punjab Police to ensure that no legal hurdle is posed later. Rather than raising such a nonissue and weakening the morale of the Punjab Police, Majitha should invest his time and energy in pressurizing the Akalis’ political masters in Delhi to put a stop on CBI interference in the Punjab Police investigation in the Bargari and other sacrilege cases, and the subsequent policing firing incidents, said Captain. Responding to a question whether the recently established Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa was a Congress game plan, the chief minister said what happens in the Akali party “is not our job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/three-member-sit-to-probe-tulli-lab-testing-scam-punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh/articleshow/76930908.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Amritsar||Three-member SIT to probe Tulli lab testing scam: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Under fire over alleged Covid testing scam by Tulli Labs, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the allegations. He warned that his government would not allow private hospitals or laboratories to profit from this unprecedented crisis facing humanity. During his weekly online session, the CM said he had received a complaint against Tulli Labs and had asked the vigilance bureau to investigate the matter but when initial investigation showed that there was no involvement of any government department or officer, the case was transferred to the Punjab Police. Top cop, civil surgeon members of SITThe three-member SIT tasked with the probe is headed by Amritsar police commissioner, who is a trained medical doctor and includes a civil surgeon as a member, the CM said, adding that he has ordered the SIT to conduct a thorough investigation and submit its findings soon so that suitable action can be taken. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office later said Amarinder had taken strong exception to SAD leader Bikram Majithia’s attempts to politicise the simple jurisdictional decision of transferring the probe to the district police. Apart from the fact that the vigilance bureau had, prima facie, not found any complicity of government department/official in the case, Tulli Labs itself had moved the court challenging the bureau’s jurisdiction, he said, adding that the government deemed it fit to transfer the case to the Punjab Police to ensure that no legal hurdle is posed later. Rather than raising such a nonissue and weakening the morale of the Punjab Police, Majitha should invest his time and energy in pressurizing the Akalis’ political masters in Delhi to put a stop on CBI interference in the Punjab Police investigation in the Bargari and other sacrilege cases, and the subsequent policing firing incidents, said Captain. Responding to a question whether the recently established Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa was a Congress game plan, the chief minister said what happens in the Akali party “is not our job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/three-member-sit-to-probe-tulli-lab-testing-scam-punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh/articleshow/76930909.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Three-member SIT to probe Tulli lab testing scam: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Under fire over alleged Covid testing scam by Tulli Labs, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the allegations. He warned that his government would not allow private hospitals or laboratories to profit from this unprecedented crisis facing humanity. During his weekly online session, the CM said he had received a complaint against Tulli Labs and had asked the vigilance bureau to investigate the matter but when initial investigation showed that there was no involvement of any government department or officer, the case was transferred to the Punjab Police. Top cop, civil surgeon members of SITThe three-member SIT tasked with the probe is headed by Amritsar police commissioner, who is a trained medical doctor and includes a civil surgeon as a member, the CM said, adding that he has ordered the SIT to conduct a thorough investigation and submit its findings soon so that suitable action can be taken. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office later said Amarinder had taken strong exception to SAD leader Bikram Majithia’s attempts to politicise the simple jurisdictional decision of transferring the probe to the district police. Apart from the fact that the vigilance bureau had, prima facie, not found any complicity of government department/official in the case, Tulli Labs itself had moved the court challenging the bureau’s jurisdiction, he said, adding that the government deemed it fit to transfer the case to the Punjab Police to ensure that no legal hurdle is posed later. Rather than raising such a nonissue and weakening the morale of the Punjab Police, Majitha should invest his time and energy in pressurizing the Akalis’ political masters in Delhi to put a stop on CBI interference in the Punjab Police investigation in the Bargari and other sacrilege cases, and the subsequent policing firing incidents, said Captain. Responding to a question whether the recently established Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa was a Congress game plan, the chief minister said what happens in the Akali party “is not our job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-member-sit-to-probe-tulli-lab-testing-scam-punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh/articleshow/76930903.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Goa||Cops visit fish mkt after Covid rules violated||Margao: South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh on Sunday, along with Fatorda PI Kapil Nayak and deputy collector John Fernandes visited the South Goa Planning and Development Authority’s (SGPDA) wholesale fish market on Sunday. Singh’s visit came in the wake of complaints that no social distancing was being maintained by the traders in market since it reopened after a four-month closure on Friday.  Sources said that Singh issued instructions to Fatorda police to ensure that fish trade market is carried out by following social distancing norms and not to allow illegal retail fish trade outside the market along the roadsides. Fatorda police also arrested a fisherman Manjunath Harinshikari under Section 188 IPC for breaching rules but later released him on bail. Though the SGPDA has put in several measures to streamline fish trade in the wholesale fish market, there have been complaints of overcrowding at the market since it reopened on Friday. Spaces have been earmarked inside the market for traders coming from other states and Goan fishermen. SGPDA has already directed traders not to involve middlemen in the sale of fish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-visit-fish-mkt-after-covid-rules-violated/articleshow/76930535.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Delhi||Stadiums as Covid-19 centres in Delhi: Plan on hold||NEW DELHI: Authorities in Delhi have put on hold their plan to use stadiums as makeshift Covid care centres for now in view of the city witnessing a good recovery rate. Seeing the current situation, there is no need to convert stadiums into Covid-19 care facilities, an official in the East district administration said on Sunday. The official, however, said that stadiums could be converted into Covid facilities in the coming days if the need arises. Last month, a Delhi government panel constituted by LG Anil Baijal had suggested to use Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor Stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, JLN Stadium, Thyagaraj Indoor Stadium and Dhyan Chand National Stadium for the purpose.  A government study on Saturday said there has been a "sharp decline" in daily fatality figures in the capital in the past two weeks. The recovery rate of patients stood at a little over 79% on Saturday.  "We can use them (stadiums) for such facility, but it would be an unnecessary step because many people are under home isolation and recovering well," the government official claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stadiums-as-covid-19-centres-in-delhi-plan-on-hold/articleshow/76930906.cms||---
July 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Give 'Adi-dharmi' as religion in 2021 census: Ravidassia leaders||JALANDHAR: A major section of sants and outfits of Adi-dharmi/Ravidassia community, one of the two biggest Scheduled Caste communities in Punjab, have urged members to mention 'Adi-dharmi' as their religion in the 2021 census. The appeal has come at a time when there is already a churning in the community as those supporting Dera Ballan, considered to be most influential Ravidassia dera, have been advocating that the community members should mention 'Ravidassia' as their religion, which was founded by the dera in January 2010. A consensus on this issue emerged during the antim ardaas of Sant Joginder Pal Johri on Friday at Khuralgarh, where prominent sants and community activists had gathered. A formal appeal in this regard was issued on Sunday by All-India Adi Dharam Mission president Sant Satwinder Heera. "Even though the option is not printed in the Census form, we appeal to all the followers of Guru Ravidas to mention 'Adi-dharmi' as their religion," Heera said. He also claimed that it was recognised as a separate religion in the 1931 census, after a movement led by Baba Mangoo Ram Mugowalia, who formed the Adi-Dharam Mandal. "Lakhs of members of our community mentioned 'Adi-dharm' as their religion, following which seven Adi-dharm members had reached the Punjab assembly in 1936 elections. Now also, it is very important to do so to get political power," he said. ‘Adi-dharm is not part of any other religion’Heera said the decision was taken in the presence of All-India Adi-dharm Sadhu Samaj chairman Sant Nirmal Dass, patron Sant Sarwan Dass Bohn, president Sant Sarwan Dass (Alem Tabri) and All-India Adidharm Mission leaders. “Adi-dharm is a separate religion and not part of any other religion. It has its own customs and identity. However, Hindutva forces have tried to subsume our identity by creating confusion and the original inhabitants of the country are being treated very badly... It is sad that some of our own people are becoming tools in the hands of Hindutva forces and creating fissures in the community,” said Heera. Adi-dharm Mission would give memorandums to the Prime Minister and the President, seeking the option of Adi-dharm in the column of religions in Census form, he added. Sources in the community said a debate is already on in the community circles regarding mention of religion in the census. “Those aligned to Dera Ballan have been favouring ‘Ravidassia’ as the religion, but most sants and other organisations of the community have been opposing it,” said a prominent community member. Dera Ballan had announced founding of Ravidassia religion with separate Granth “Amrit Bani-Sri Guru Ravidass”, but Sant Nirmal Dass-led Sri Guru Ravidass Sadhu Sampardai Society, a representative body of the sants and deras of the community, had refused to accept it and reiterated their resolve to follow Guru Granth Sahib as it contained the Bani of Guru Ravidas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/give-adi-dharmi-as-religion-in-2021-census-ravidassia-leaders/articleshow/76930915.cms||IP Singh
July 13, 2020||India||Punjab arrests BSF man in drugs racket, seizes ammo||JAMMU/AMRITSAR: A Border Security Force (BSF) personnel posted along the India-Pakistan international border in Samba sector in Jammu & Kashmir has been arrested by the Punjab Police in a drug smuggling case. The BSF personnel, a resident of Gurdaspur, has been arrested by the Punjab Police, and arms and ammunition have also been recovered from him, according to the BSF. One pistol, 80 rounds of ammunition, two magazines, and two rounds of 12 bore, along with three mobile phones, have also been recovered from him, it added. Sources said, “On the basis of information received by Punjab Police, a team of Border Security Force and Punjab Police apprehended the jawan from his place of posting along Indo-Pak International Border (IB) in Samba district on Saturday evening.” “At about 6.30pm on Saturday, Constable Sumit Kumar of B Coy of 173 Bn BSF, at present deployed at BOP Manguchak, and performing duties on Mound No-10/33, was arrested by Punjab Police in connection with inappropriate activities,” sources confirmed. As per Punjab Police, Sumit used to hide the weapons and drugs consignments from across the border and later he would hand over the same to the specific individuals. A senior BSF official said, “BSF has initiated a departmental probe in this connection against the accused person.” The Punjab Police have taken him along for interrogation. Investigations are on to ascertain who his accomplices were and his connections across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-arrests-bsf-man-in-drugs-racket-seizes-ammo/articleshow/76930914.cms||---
July 13, 2020||World||$1m US aid for Tibet admin to boost ‘cultural resilience’||This is expected to be followed by a de-escalation by moving back troops and weapons from what is called ‘depth areas’. “It’s not as if we’re conceding territory to them,” an official involved in the negotiations said. The process is expected to take a long time. Meanwhile, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) gave a grant of $1 million to the Central Tibetan Administration to “strengthen the financial and cultural resilience of the Tibetan people and contribute towards sustained resilience of the Tibetan people’s economic and cultural identity”. This is the first time the Tibetan government in exile has received direct funding from the US (with a nod from India) for development assistance. This is part of the new elements that have encroached on the India-China relationship. The events of the past couple of months, culminating in the bloody clashes in Galwan Valley, will mean that fresh boundary management rules will have to be worked out between the two sides. “Several decades of confidence building measures and protocols for boundary management, patrolling protocols etc have all been destroyed. We have to go back to the drawing board,” an official said. The degree of mistrust is the highest it has ever been between the two neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/1m-us-aid-for-tibet-admin-to-boost-cultural-resilience/articleshow/76930926.cms||---
