July 14, 2020||Chennai||Residents Vs Resident Welfare Associations: Are RWAs acting high and mighty in these times of corona?||A joke that has been circulating on social media and WhatsApp during these COVID-19 days is that there are three people who are the most powerful during this pandemic — the prime minister, the chief minister and the secretary of an apartment complex! Intriguingly, the observation couldn’t be more apt if you ask those who live in apartments. The relationship between residents and their RWAs (Resident Welfare Association) is mostly tenuous at best and the coronavirus seems to have widened the existing disagreements between the two, say residents of gated communities in the city. The major grouse for residents is that the rules the RWAs make are largely opaque and leave no room for others to have their say. As the battle between them rages on, we try to decode the allegations by residents and what RWAs have to say to such charges. What the law saysRWAs don’t have any statutory powers. If they try enforcing rules forcibly in the name of bye-laws, it can be challenged in the court of law. If someone feels they have been intimidated or harassed, (like limiting autonomy, decision-making power and access to certain resources), they can file a case at the nearest police station. As a legal recourse, one can get an order from the court to investigate the case, too. An aggrieved member can file a complaint with the Registrar of Societies, who will hold an enquiry into the complaint, and in appropriate cases, cancel the registration of the association. - M Vigneshwaran, High Court lawyer Residents allege... In the last three months, many residents’ associations have not been allowing maids, drivers, car cleaners and even nannies. In some places, residents are required to go to the lobby and bring them. No door delivery of food, groceries and vegetables. Residents have to go up to the gate to collect them in some apartments. Newspaper supply have also been stopped by some RWAs. The RWA decides who should visit you and who should not, including family members and friends. All decisions are unilateral and rules are imposed overnight. No participative mechanism even on chat groups, in which admins alone can message, thus disabling online grievance mechanisms.  Residents who complain are isolated and harassed by RWA, which asks for explanation letters, imposes fines and penalties on them.  RWAs instigate other residents against the complainants and harass them on chat groups and online.  RWAs retort... It’s our duty to protect our residents. We want to ensure that no one is infected in the pandemic, so we have stringent rules. We don’t want delivery personnel to use lifts; this is to reduce the chances of contamination. We are doing voluntary service, so it’s not fair to question us. Those who complain don’t come forward to take up responsibilities.  How do we make residents obey the society rules without imposing fines? We don’t want residents to file complaints against us; we have all the rights to question them/ask for explanations. The two sides of the coinRules are only for us residents, not for the RWAsWhile our RWA is strict and doesn’t allow house help and drivers due to COVID-19, they held a meeting in our clubhouse with 16 people in the night! They even made me switch off all recording devices. - A senior professional, on condition of anonymity Being an office-bearer comes with its own set of challengesBeing an RWA office-bearer is not a fancy job unlike what many think. One needs a bit of experience, leadership quality, basic accounting skills, knowledge of the law, and should be aware of the dos and don’ts. Though a voluntary position, if not careful, it can land one in legal trouble. Transparency is the key and the welfare of the residents should be the priority. - K Srinivasan, an office-bearer of an RWA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/residents-vs-resident-welfare-associations-are-rwas-acting-high-and-mighty-in-these-times-of-corona/articleshow/76947832.cms||Sindhu Vijayakumar
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Reactor blast at pharma company triggers panic in Vizag; 6 injured||VISAKHAPATNAM: In yet another industrial accident at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC), at Parawada in Vizag city, six workers of Ramky CETP Solvents pharma company sustained burn injures in a series of blasts (reactor blasts) in the company on Monday night. The incident took around 10.45 pm on Monday. Workers in the JNPC and people in Parawada and surrounding areas heard the deafening blast sounds. Smoke and fire engulfed in the company and workers of the other pharma companies in the JNPC ran out of the premises in panic. The officials are yet to ascertain the exact reasons for the blasts and accidents in the company. However, the leaders and activists of CITU (Trade Union) alleged that the management of the company ignored the safety norms. Visakhapatnam District Collector V Vinay Chand told newsmen that around 10 fire tenders pressed into the service to control the flames. The preliminary reports said that at the time of the incident few workers in the company and there were no casualties in the incident so far, he added. The injured persons have been shifted to hospital, he added. It may be recalled that two persons died and four others injured when Hydrogen Sulphide leaked from a reactor at Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited Pharma Company at JNPC in Vizag on June 30. In May 7 in Vizag city, 12 persons died and over 600 were hospitalized following the leakage of Styrene vapour from LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram. The district administration will seek the support of the defence establishments in the city to control the flames. The officials have mobilized the ambulances at the JNPC to shift the people in the event of any more injuries are sick people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/reactor-blast-at-pharma-company-triggers-panic-in-vizag-6-injured/articleshow/76948423.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 14, 2020||India||Down with Covid, he ensured UP Police helpline stayed up||Uttar Pradesh residents can thank one committed cop for keeping the state police’s 112 emergency helpline, which gets 75,000 calls a day, running through the Covid crisis. Ten members of the helpline’s technical team in Lucknow tested positive for the coronavirus between June 20 and 22. The service had to be shut down when 11 more staffers were found infected at the Ghaziabad office on June 23. It was a desperate situation. The pandemic had hit daily life hard and communication was essential for the police’s working. That’s when Brajesh Gupta, database administrator of the UP 112 call centre who had himself tested positive on June 20, rose to the occasion. He worked round-the-clock from his hospital bed and restored the service within 48 hours. With remote access to the server, Gupta worked through a laptop from the hospital where he had been admitted, ensuring that the steady stream of calls was routed to various centres efficiently, so that there were no clogged lines and call drops. After the total shutdown of the helpline on June 23, limited operations resumed on June 25 with skeletal staff, but calls were dropped as they landed up only on a few lines. UP 112 was helpless as its technical team was in hospital. Read AlsoIndore hotspot where women doctors were attacked heals itselfThe first attack on doctors helping Covid patients in India took place in Taatpati Bakhalin in Indore. Today, the area is Covid-free, and visiting doctors are showered with petals. There has not been a single Coronavirus case here in two months. It’s the elders of the locality who took the lead, andAsim Arun, ADG of UP 112, had to call an emergency meeting of the staff and technical experts. “Only four controllers were present at the meeting as six out of 10 technical experts had tested positive. The controllers only manage the distribution of calls. The four officers present and working said they would not be able to tackle the situation while the calls made to UP 112 were dropping rapidly,” said Arun. When Gupta heard about the crisis, he volunteered to resolve it. “He remote-controlled the systems and gave directions while working on his laptop from the hospital room. He was available round-the-clock over the phone to ensure that the service operated properly,” Arun said, adding that the helpline’s response gradually improved from June 25 to early morning on June 26, till they were able to take calls properly. “Brajesh’s resolve and contribution are unparalleled. It’s far beyond the call of duty. I salute his motivation and positivity which all of us must imbibe from him,” Arun told TOI. Gupta shouldered the responsibility at a stressful time when his wife Sunita and two children, Ajitesh (5) and Amitesh (16), had also tested positive. The family was given a separate room in a Covid ward, before they were discharged after 17 days of hospitalisation. “My husband is part of the emergency services. Very few get such an opportunity to serve the country,” a beaming Sunita told TOI. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch Down with Covid, he ensured UP Police helpline stayed up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/down-with-covid-he-ensured-up-police-helpline-stayed-up/articleshow/76943789.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 14, 2020||India||Large part of media captured by Fascist interests: Rahul||NEW DELHI: Even as Congress grappled with its latest political crisis with Sachin Pilot rising in revolt in Rajasthan, former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Monday that he would share his views on video about a large part of the Indian news media being “captured by fascist interests”. Gandhi, who has been aggressively attacking the Modi government first over its handling of coronavirus and then the border stand-off with China in Ladakh, said on Twitter, “Today a large part of the Indian news media has been captured by fascist interests. A hate-filled narrative is being spread by television channels, WhatsApp forwards and false news. This narrative of lies is tearing India apart.” Today a large part of the Indian news media has been captured by fascist interests. A hate filled narrative is bein… https://t.co/oOBXdxWioJ— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1594645902000He also claimed he will make the “truth” available to those who are interested in it, and share his thoughts about these insights on video. “I want to make our current affairs, history and crises clear and accessible for those interested in the truth. From tomorrow, I’ll be sharing my thoughts with you on video,” he added. I want to make our current affairs, history and crisis clear and accessible for those interested in the truth. Fr… https://t.co/dcHMoeERFZ— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1594645910000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/large-part-of-media-captured-by-fascist-interests-rahul/articleshow/76948644.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||I-T & ED raid ‘loyalists’ of besieged Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: As the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan battled a siege within, Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate teams on Monday conducted coordinated raids on offices and properties belonging to businessmen and politicians known to be close to the CM, prompting Congress to accuse BJP of “misusing investigative agencies for its self-fulfilling goals”. I-T officials said unaccounted-for cash, jewellery, property papers and lockers were seized during simultaneous raids on offices and other premises of some state Congress functionaries and businessmen in Delhi, Mumbai, Jaipur and Kota. Properties owned by Rajeev Arora and Dharmendra Rathode, both of them said to be Gehlot loyalists, were among the premises that were searched. A hotel in Jaipur where Congress MLAs from the Gehlot camp are staying was raided too. The hotel is owned by Om Kothari, a Kota-based businessman. In Delhi, there were raids on premises belonging to one of Kothari’s siblings who is facing allegations of irregularities in dam construction after bagging a mega irrigation project contract in Rajasthan. Sources said the office premises of Om Metals Infra Projects Ltd in Saket and Kothari’s residential premises in the Sainik Farms area were searched. According to ED sources, investor Ratan Kant Sharma, an aide of Gehlot’s son Vaibhav, is under the agency’s scanner. Congress’ media in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala hit out at BJP, saying the Centre had made a habit of letting loose central investigative agencies on its rivals. He also likened the I-T department, ED and CBI to frontal organisations of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-t-ed-raid-loyalists-of-besieged-rajasthan-cm/articleshow/76948710.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||Sachin Pilot sticks to guns even as Rahul, Priyanka call up||JAIPUR/NEW DELHI: The political crisis in Rajasthan showed no signs of abating with CM Ashok Gehlot holding a show of strength by convening a meeting of party legislators and later placing them in a resort and the camp of his rebellious deputy Sachin Pilot challenging the CM’s claim to numbers while rejecting reports that a compromise was being worked out as being “too little, too late”. While a team of senior Congress leaders sent to Jaipur appealed to Pilot to call off his rebellion, he made it clear that the overtures were insufficient and measures such as a rejig of portfolios and assurances on his tenure as state chief were not enough. Efforts of Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who spoke to Pilot and sought to persuade him to return to Jaipur, were met with a similar response with the deputy CM not ready to settle merely for assurance of grievance redressal and insisting on a stature on par with Gehlot. Read AlsoAshok Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot: A bitter turf war in which the Big Two gave no quarterChief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot have shared uneasy relations for long. Sachin used to say that when he assumed charge as the party chief after the party's worst debacle in 2013 assembly polls, the morale of party workers was at its lowest. He started reviving the party byThe Gehlot camp appeared to be struggling to make up the numbers with at least 20 MLAs (Pilot included) of the 107 party legislators staying away from the Congress legislature party meeting despite the party issuing a whip to be present. By Monday evening, they appeared to concede that Pilot’s claim of having the support of 25 MLAs could not be bereft of substance, and played down the absence of MLAs by saying that hose missing had sought exemption. State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas claimed that there were 109 MLAs at the CLP meeting. They included 10 Independents and one CPM MLA, Balwan Poonia, who was suspended by his party for voting for Congress in the recent Rajya Sabha elections. Read AlsoWith Gujjar &amp; Meena support, Pilot an ideal choice for BJPWith his efforts to bring about a mutual accommodation between Gujjar and Meena communities so that their political animosities decline to the extent of accepting co-existence, Congress leader Sachin Pilot has given a new dimension to the caste equations in Rajasthan. BJP will not need to worry muchLate night, a video was uploaded on Pilot’s official WhatsApp group showing around 16-17 MLAs, who skipped the CLP meeting, seated together. Sources close to Pilot said the video was from a hotel in Manesar. The CM has called another meeting of the Congress legislature party on Tuesday and the party has threatened to take action against MLAs who don’t turn up. The suspense about the outcome of the high-stake power tussle is likely to continue because of the uncertainty about any collaboration between Pilot and BJP. While income tax raids on three businessmen perceived to be close to Gehlot were interpreted by many in political circles as a manoeuvre to help the disgruntled deputy CM and attracted allegations from Congress. BJP refrained from revealing its cards. Read AlsoPerception of bleak future driving members away from CongressThe latest crisis in Rajasthan has again raised questions over Rahul Gandhi's preparedness to intervene and grapple with the actual business of political negotiation and management.Congress circles are convinced that Pilot is acting in tandem with BJP while the saffron party is glad over the latest embarrassment to the Congress leadership. Late on Sunday evening, there was a strong likelihood of a meeting between party chief J P Nadda and Pilot. While the meeting did not happen on Monday, speculation about a possible deal did not die with many saying the two sides could be finetuning the details of a likely deal. Sources in Congress highlighted the presence of a majority of party MLAs at the meeting convened by Gehlot as proof that Pilot had failed to enlist enough support, expressing confidence that the latter would sue for peace sooner than later. Read AlsoIT, ED raid houses and offices of bizmen close to GehlotJAIPUR/KOTA: The political crisis in Rajasthan took a new turn on Monday after Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate teams raided multiple premises of businessmen connected to people from chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s camp. According to I-T officials, simultaneous searches were conducted in Delhi,Earlier, Congress moved swiftly to herd party MLAs by moving them to a resort. Ramila Khadiya, MLA from Kushalgarh in Banswara, who was mentioned in the SOG FIR as the one who was allegedly being contacted by BJP to switch loyalties, was brought to Jaipur in a chopper. The nub of the issue remains the state police FIR and a special investigation squad that brings Pilot in its ambit over allegations of a BJP plot to topple the government and the leader’s view that he is being denied the political space he “ceded” to Gehlot. Arguing that the CM now lacks numbers and has not been able to show a head count or a list of signatures in his support, MLAs close to Pilot on Monday evening demanded a change of leadership. Some senior leaders felt Gehlot had the advantage of corralling a large number of MLAs and Pilot, though having support, did not have enough to oust the CM. But there remain doubts over the loyalty of Independents currently pledged to Gehlot and the Pilot camp has challenged the CM’s numbers. The two-member Bhartiya Tribal Party has also withdrawn support. Pilot continued to deny that he had plans to join BJP. There were other elements of drama too with the day beginning with income tax searches on two Gehlot aides — PCC vice-president and jeweller Rajiv Arora and Dharmendra Singh Rathore — in Jaipur. A luxury hotel where the Gehlot loyalist MLAs were shifted later in the day was searched by the ED for alleged FEMA violations, sources said. Gehlot’s son Vaibhav’s partner R K Sharma is said to have a stake in the hotel. Congress, on the other hand, pulled down posters of Pilot from the PCC headquarters. Much would depend on how many of the 13 Independent MLAs stay loyal to Gehlot. On Saturday, Congress turned away three Independents — Suresh Tak, Om Praksh Hudla and Khusveer Singh — saying it did not need their support as they were allegedly involved in toppling the Gehlot government. In some good news for Gehlot, CPM, which has two MLAs, extended support to the Congress government. Hitting out at Pilot without taking his name, CPM state secretary Amra Ram said, “The CPM state secretariat has expressed surprise how Congress state president and other senior leaders have revolted and are joining hands with BJP-RSS.” Watch Rajasthan political crisis: Sachin Pilot sticks to guns even as Rahul, Priyanka call up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sachin-pilot-sticks-to-guns-even-as-rahul-priyanka-call-up/articleshow/76948798.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 14, 2020||India||SC junks PIL seeking Amarnath Yatra ban||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a PIL seeking ban on this year's Amarnath Yatra on the ground of Covid-19 and ruled that decision to grant or denial of permission to a religious congregation was solely within the domain of the government and not the judiciary. Dismissing the PIL filed by Shri Amarnath Barfani Langars Organisation, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph said, "the decision as to whether a pilgrimage should be permitted and, if it is permitted, the safeguards which should be observed, are matters which fall within the domain of the executive arm of the State." The bench said, "the issue as to whether the Amarnath Yatra 2020 should or should not be held is a matter that must be left to the competence of the local administration. Any decision that is arrived at has to be based on law and on relevant statutory provisions holding the field. Entertaining a writ petition under Article 32 at this stage would necessarily involve this Court taking over an executive function of oversight over the local administration." It said, "We decline to exercise the jurisdiction under Article 32 to take over these powers under the rubric of judicial review. The principle of separation of powers requires that administrative decisions must be taken where they are entrusted, namely by the executive arm of the state. The court will step in where the parameters for judicial 6 review, as explained earlier, arise." To persuade the court to intervene in stopping the Amarnath Yatra to stop the spread of coronavirus, senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and advocate Rajesh Inamdar cited the case of world famous Puri Jagannath Rath Yatra. But, the bench was aware of the flip flop done by the Odisha government leading to the SC modifying its complete ban on the chariot festival to allow it with a limited number of sevaits who have been tested negative for Covid. Kamat said that the Centre under Disaster Management Act has already banned large congregations and attempted to salvage the lost cause by appealing to the court that the Jammu and Kashmir government could make arrangements for 'live darshan' of the ice-lingam at the shrine through the internet and electronic media. But, it failed to cut the ice with the bench, which was unequivocal that it was purely an administrative decision. The bench said, "In arriving at a decision, the administrative authorities must bear in mind statutory provisions governing the field and policies and administrative circulars issued in pursuance of statutory provisions. An assessment of the situation will be based on ground realities." "This assessment lies in the domain of the administrative functions of the state. The duty of the court is to step in where (i) the decision making process is flawed by a failure to observe statutory or constitutional requirements; or (ii) where a decision is contrary to law; or (iii) the failure to take a decision results in a breach of a statutory duty or a fundamental right," it said. "Once a decision is taken, its validity can be tested on procedural and substantive grounds including proportionality and manifest arbitrariness. The power to take a decision on whether a pilgrimage should take place in a given situation lies with the executive arm of the state," said the bench led by Justice Chandrachud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-junks-pil-seeking-amarnath-yatra-ban/articleshow/76948869.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 14, 2020||India||Travancore royals get managerial right over Padmanabha temple||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday restored the right of “Managership or the Shebaitship” of Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple at Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala to the royal family of Travancore but the administration of the temple will be managed by a committee headed by a district judge. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Indu Malhotra ruled in favour of the royal family over right to manage and administer the affairs of one of the richest temples of the world. The family had challenged the order of the Kerala High Court which had held that the royal family could not claim to be in control or management of the temple as successor to the last ruler. The family, however, would not have absolute say in the administration as it agreed before the court to delegate its power to the administrative committee. The family, however, cannot claim the property of the temple as it made an “unequivocal stand” before the apex court that “the temple is a public temple and no claim can probably be made by the petitioner or anyone to owning the temple or its treasures”. It told the court that it was only seeking the right as a trustee of the temple to manage and administer. Accepting the suggestion of the family for setting up of an administrative committee, the court said its composition would not be loaded either in favour or against the trustee. The committee will be headed by the district judge of Thiruvananthapuram and also consist of chief ‘Thantri’ of the temple and three others nominated by the trustee, the Kerala government and the culture ministry. The Bench, however, refrained from directing unlocking of ‘Kallara (vault) B’ which is said to be containing a large amount of treasures in terms of gold and other precious items. It left it for the administrative committee to take a call on the issue. The court had earlier directed preparation of an inventory of ornaments and precious stones in Kallara A to F but later clarified that Kallara B would not be opened without express order of the apex court. The bench also directed appointment of an advisory committee, comprising a retired HC judge nominated by the Chief Justice of the Kerala HC as the chairperson, one eminent person to be nominated by the trustee; and a reputed chartered accountant to be nominated by the chairperson in consultation with the trustee. The committee will advise the trustee and ensure regular annual audit of the finances of the temple. The court said all members of both the committees will be Hindus. Granting managerial rights to the royal family, the bench said, “Shebaitship is like any other heritable property which would devolve in accordance with custom or usage, and that the rule of custom must prevail in all cases, even after the death of the erstwhile Ruler of Travancore in 1991, the Shebaitship of the Temple being unconnected with the official status of the person who signed the Covenant, must devolve by the applicable laws of succession and custom”. It said the “Constitution of India as well as the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act did not, in any way, upset or abridge the status enjoyed by the Ruler of Travancore as Shebait of the temple and also did not, in any manner, adversely impact the right of administration vested in the Ruler of Travancore”. The court directed the royal family to file an appropriate affidavit of undertaking within four weeks agreeing to the verdict and said it will be binding on the family members and its successors. It said both the committees will have to be constituted and become functional within four weeks after the affidavit is filed. Granting managerial rights to the royal family, the bench said, “Shebaitship is like any other heritable property which would devolve in accordance with custom or usage, and that the rule of custom must prevail in all cases, even after the death of the erstwhile Ruler of Travancore in 1991, the Shebaitship of the Temple being unconnected with the official status of the person who signed the Covenant, must devolve by the applicable laws of succession and custom”. It said that the Constitution of India as well as that of the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act did not, in any way, upset or abridge the status enjoyed by the Ruler of Travancore as Shebait of the Temple and also did not, in any manner, adversely impact the right of administration vested in the Ruler of Travancore. The court directed the royal family to file an appropriate affidavit of undertaking within four weeks agreeing to the verdict and said that the undertaking will be binding on the family members and its successors. It said that both the Committees shall be constituted and become functional within four weeks after the affidavit is filed. Watch SC upholds rights of Travancore royal family in Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple’s administration||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/travancore-royals-get-managerial-right-over-padmanabha-temple/articleshow/76948913.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||The show must go on: Tolly brigade refuses to stop work despite COVID-19 fear||The news of the Bachchan family testing COVID-19 positive along with Anupam Kher’s mother and TV actor Parth Samthaan has left many shaken in the country. Closer home, Koel Mallick’s family and Rachel White have also tested positive. In the wake of all this, the city’s actors and technicians, who returned to the studios in June after nearly three months, are bracing for the worst but hoping for the best. According to all of them, come COVID-19 or high weather, the show must go on. Read on to know what they told us. I don’t have enough savings to sit at home for months: Rachna Banerjee, actress who also hosts a reality show We were shooting in a studio at Khamar, which has been declared a containment zone. Our shooting is now stalled and we are taking a seven-day break. We will soon decide if we’ll go back to the studio or shoot at a city hotel. I believe in destiny and know that no precaution can guarantee that I’ll always stay Covid-19 negative. So why stop work? Unlike Bollywood biggies, I don’t have enough savings to sit at home for months. As for insurance, I already had a medical cover and so, didn’t opt for the new one. It’s a shame that people had to learn how to wash hands after the pandemic: Rishi Kaushik, TV actorThe virus can attack anyone and the Bachchans are proof of that. I can only take precautions and maintain hygiene. The rest is not in my hands. It’s a shame that had to learn how to wash hands after the pandemic. Our forefathers had taught us that long ago, but some of us had conveniently ignored it. Now, we have to make it and wearing masks a part of our culture. Providing us with medical insurance is a great initiative. Mine is under process. I feel it’s a matter of luck: Indrani Halder, actress who is working as a lead in TVI didn’t opt for medical insurance, as I already have one. And I hear everyone else’s is under process. In the meantime, if, god forbid, anything happens to anyone in the team, I’m sure everyone will pitch in to help. The news of big names in Bollywood getting infected is worrying, especially because we know that they must have taken all precautions. I feel it’s a matter of luck. But then, work can’t stop. On the sets, I am alert about hygiene and make sure it’s maintained. The rest is luck. The spike in the cases was anticipated: Saibal Banerjee, TV producerWe have stepped up our health and hygiene monitoring. We have also paid for the artistes’ insurance in full. The technicians’ insurance is in process. Everything is taking longer as none of the offices are working with full strength. The spike in the cases was anticipated. In my opinion, we have to continue to work or the economy will collapse. However, we will abide by the decision the government will take in this situation. Each one of us is maintaining precaution in our personal life also: Chandrasekhar Chakraborty, TV production controllerThe insurance procedure for my team has started. Meanwhile, we are taking all precautions — repeated thermal checks, rounds of sanitization, constant use of masks and face shields and so on. I told my technical team that one small mistake can jeopardise our livelihood. Hence, each one of us is maintaining precaution in our personal lives also. The rest is up to god. It is a tough situation: Shankar Chakraborty, working president of Artists ForumPrecautions are being taken but the fear is always there. People are suffering from financial stress as many were out of work for months. We have started work after a lot of discussions with the government and channels. I am part of two serials — Krishnakoli and Sorbomongola and as an actor, I am tense too. It is a weird situation. As far as medical insurance is concerned actors are getting theirs but I guess technicians are yet to have their medical tests done for it. It is a question of bread and butter: Yash, actorThe medical insurance of the entire team, including technicians, was done by the production house before the film went on the floors. The latest news of Koel Mallick’s and Amitabh Bachchan’s families and Rachel White being tested Covid-19 positive is alarming. Of course, as an artiste, the fear is there as I work with so many people in a film. But this is the new normal and the show must go on. It is a question of bread and butter and pursuing your dreams. That can’t take a back seat for long. Work can’t stop till a vaccine is invented. Our technicians have to work for their livelihood: Swarup Biswas, president, Federation of Cine Technicians & Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI)The insurance procedure for the technicians is in its final lap. Everything should be in place in another seven days. We have to take precautions to safeguard ourselves and each shooting unit is taking every measure to create a safe work environment. Our technicians have to work for their livelihood. From the federation, we have tried to provide as much support as possible. Now it is time to maintain hygiene and start working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/the-show-must-go-on-tolly-brigade-refuses-to-stop-work-despite-covid-19-fear/articleshow/76948885.cms||Ruman Ganguly
July 14, 2020||Business||Amid China app ban, FB-Jio deal, Google to pump $10bn into India||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Google declared that it will pump in $10 billion (around Rs 75,000 crore) in India over the next 5-7 years. While named the Digitization Fund, this amount is earmarked for Google’s operational expansion, as well as investments into other companies. The investment follows commitments made by other US tech majors Facebook and Amazon, earlier this year. “We’ll do this through a mix of equity investments, partnerships, and operational, infrastructure and ecosystem investments,” said Google’s CEO Sundar Pichai through a video address. Its investment is focused in four areas – (i) affordable access to information in local languages; (ii) building new products for India; (III) digitising businesses; and (iv) applying technology and artificial intelligence in health, education and agriculture. This morning, had an extremely fruitful interaction with @sundarpichai. We spoke on a wide range of subjects, parti… https://t.co/L3IMC91yFd— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1594626397000 Pichai had an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and Google’s announcement was attended by Union communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Experts said that such investments are welcome, but should be scrutinised carefully. They also highlight the urgency of enacting the privacy law, given Google and Facebook’s wide-ranging ecosystem reach, data collection efforts, and US-centric data warehousing. "Such investments are welcome but we need data privacy law, data sovereignty law and data residency law. We should be careful that the investment does not increase Google's digital monopoly in India," said Mohandas Pai, chairman of Aarin Capital. A recent draft report on regulating anonymized data from a government-appointed committee headed by Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan also highlighted the issue of digital monopolies in a market like India.  At the event, Google announced two new partnerships in India. The company has tied up with Prasar Bharati to launch an edutainment series on Doordarshan on how small businesses can adopt digital tools and adapt to coronavirus. It has also partnered with CBSE to train over 1 million teachers in 22,000 schools across India by the end of 2020, to deliver blended learning that combines the classroom approach with online learning, using free tools like G Suite for Education, Google Classroom and YouTube. While serving these constituencies, these efforts will also increase the company’s penetration into the education market. The US-based search engine giant is looking to double down on adoption of digital services in the country, as more people stay at home following the global Covid-19 pandemic. Recent border tensions with China has led to ban on several popular Chinese apps such as TikTok and has increased scrutiny on investments from that country. This has in turn boosted market interest in Indian startups, which have become more competitive after the limitations on Chinese competition. As India becomes the most important emerging market for US tech companies, Google and other companies are feeling pressure to validate not just business growth, but also value generated for India to ensure their market position. Google has an advertisement-based revenue model and had clocked revenues of Rs 9,337 crore or $1.23 billion in India in the financial year ending March 2018. Sources said its current revenues are over $2 billion in India, which would make it the largest advertising media company in India. However, Google reported a fall in topline to Rs 4,147 crore or $548 million for year ending March 2019, due to change in accounting standards. At the same time, it has also had run-ins with tax authorities over classifying part of its revenues as cost. Government had introduced a levy on digital advertisement spending, unofficially called ‘Google Tax’, for revenues generated within India, regardless of where it is billed. The declared investment comes as India has become a key market for Google’s expansion, with over 90% of smartphones using its Android operating system, and its recent aggressive foray into payments, with Google Pay. “Today, 26 million small and medium businesses are discoverable on search and maps, driving connections with more than 150 million users every month. Small merchants across the country are now equipped to accept digital payments,” Pichai added in his address. Pichai also cited the success of Google Pay which recorded 540 million transactions in May on Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and now has the largest market share in terms of both volume and value, alongside its dominant digital advertising business. There are still concerns around big tech companies’ policies around data-sharing and privacy. With Google’s leading position with Android smartphones, Google search, video with Youtube, internet browsing with Google Chrome, and now payments with Google Pay, Google’s consumer data collection is vast. Meanwhile, Centre for Internet and Society researcher Arindrajit Basu pointed out that the data-sharing terms and conditions, including privacy policies of American companies, though better than Chinese apps, are incomprehensible and open to manipulation. "There is one fundamental difference - at least on paper - between the products developed by Silicon Valley companies and Chinese apps. In the former, there is no blank check obligation to share data with government and intelligence agencies," he said, adding that US companies' policies are long, incomprehensible and full of legal jargon that can be manipulated when convenient. Union Minister Prasad said that Google's commitment is a big boost to India's target of becoming $1 trillion digital economy and can help with the initiative of building 1 lakh digital villages. “I will appreciate if Google picks up a good cluster of villages in India in various parts and develop it as a model digital villages of empowerment, skilling, healthcare, telemedicine, distant education and most important, from agriculture to rural empowerment,” said Prasad, while also calling Pichai "a powerful symbol of the creative potential of India's digital human resource." Watch Google to invest Rs 75,000 crore in India: CEO Sundar Pichai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-to-invest-10-billion-in-indias-digitisation-push/articleshow/76948991.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 14, 2020||India||India’s Covid count crosses 9 lakh; 28.6k+ cases, 538 deaths on Mon||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 caseload zoomed past the 9 lakh mark, just three days after crossing 8 lakh, as the new week began with the addition of over 28,600 cases and 538 deaths in the country. The past week saw the biggest rise in both cases and deaths from the virus in the country, discounting the third week of June when 2,003 deaths, mostly back-dated, were added in a single day. Over 1.83 lakh cases and 3,466 deaths were recorded in the past week (July 6-12), at a daily average of over 26,100 cases and 495 deaths. On Monday, 28,648 new cases emerged across the country, taking the total caseload to 9,07,041, as per data collated from state governments. With 538 more deaths, India’s Covid-19 toll rose to 23,695. While more than 5.7 lakh patients have so far recovered from the infections, there are 3.12 lakh active cases. The count of fresh infections was slightly below Sunday’s record number of 29,271, in keeping with the general trend of a dip in cases every Monday. Yet, at least six states reported their highest single-day surge in cases, with Andhra Pradesh detecting 1,935 infections, Uttar Pradesh 1,664, Gujarat 902, Madhya Pradesh 575, Punjab 357 and Chhattisgarh 184 (tied with Sunday’s peak). Maharashtra recorded 6,497 fresh coronavirus cases, its lowest increase in the last six days. With this, the overall Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 2,60,924. Cases in Mumbai too registered a dip, reporting 1,158 cases. The number of patients currently under treatment in the state is over 1.05 lakh. Delhi continued to report a dip in cases, with 1,246 on Monday, while the day's death toll rose slightly by 40. Karnataka reported 2,738 fresh cases of Covid-19, the second-highest single-day increase, including 1,315 from Bengaluru. However, the state reported 73 deaths, including 47 in Bengaluru, the highest for a single day in the state and its capital. Karnataka and Bengaluru both reported more deaths than Tamil Nadu (66) and Chennai (24) during the day, with Bengaluru also reported more fresh cases than Chennai (1,140). Andhra Pradesh recorded 37 deaths on Monday, the highest single-day roll, taking the cumulative toll to 365. The state continued to witness an upward trend in infections with 1,935 new Covid-19 cases detected on Monday. AP tested 19,247 samples on Monday and of them, 1,935 were found positive. This translates into a case positivity rate of about 10%. Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 2,032, with 66 fatalities reported on Monday, including 24 deaths in Chennai. TN logged more than 4,000 fresh cases for the second day, taking active cases to 48,196. Chennai’s numbers fell again to 1,141 of the 4,328 new infections. The city now has 16,601 active cases. However, the tally of its three neighbours continued to rise, recording 908 cases on Monday -- 219 in Chengalpet, 352 in Kancheepuram and 337 in Tiruvallur. In Ahmedabad, not wearing a mask will now attract a heftier fine of Rs 500. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Monday became the state’s first civic body to hike fine for mask violation from existing Rs 200 in a bid to deter most people from violating the mandatory-mask-in-public rule. People spitting at and around pan shops will also be fined Rs 500. The move comes on a day when Gujarat recorded the highest 902 cases in 24 hours. Telangana recorded nine deaths and 1,550 new cases of Covid-19. State authorities said Ranga Reddy districts saw its highest single-day surge in cases since the onset of the pandemic. The count of cases in the district, adjoining Hyderabad, stood at 212 on Monday. Bihar recorded 14 Covid-19 deaths on Monday, including the first death of a doctor due to the infection, taking the toll to 151. Dr Ashwani Kumar, a physician practising in Gaya who was admitted in hospital on July 2 and was on ventilator, died at AIIMS-Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-count-crosses-9-lakh-28-6k-cases-538-deaths-on-mon/articleshow/76949156.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||Bengal BJP MLA found hanging outside shop||NORTH DINAJPUR: The body of CPM-turned-BJP MLA from Hemtabad, Debendra Nath Roy was found hanging in front of a closed shop 1.5km from his residence on Monday morning, sparking a war of words between the BJP and Trinamool Congress (TMC) on how and why he died. The Bengal government ordered an inquiry by CID into the unnatural death even as BJP called a 12-hour bandh in eight north Bengal districts on Tuesday, demanding a CBI probe. North Dinajpur superintendent of police Sujit Kumar said, “prima facie”, it was a suicide case. “We have found a suicide note from his pocket. It points to some people responsible for his death,” he said. Senior state BJP leaders, however, said they were not certain whether the “killing was political” and that was why an impartial probe was needed to establish the truth. The 59-year-old MLA’s family, including wife Chandrima Roy, too, alleged that he was murdered after being “picked up from home”. TMC denied any role in the incident. “A probe is on and I hope it will establish the truth. There is no point speculating,” party’s North Dinajpur president Kanaia Lal Agarwal said. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, however, trashed the “suicide” angle and said the police version was “indicative of a cover-up”. He wanted an “autopsy videographed in accordance with SC directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-bjp-mla-found-hanging-outside-shop/articleshow/76949211.cms||Subhro Maitra
July 14, 2020||India||PTI gets Rs 84 crore govt bill||UPDATE: In reference to this news report, a PTI spokesperson has pointed to the following errors. The claim that PTI was being charged for “not paying rent for the ground floor offices since 1984” is incorrect. The spokesperson said "This is entirely incorrect. The demand notice has nothing to do with paying rent for ground floor offices. The statement is also illogical since PTI doesn’t pay rent but gets rent from its tenants on the ground floor.” PTI also denied the claim that India’s public broadcaster Prasar Bharati has asked for a seat at the news agency’s board. “As far as we know, Prasar Bharati has never asked for a seat on the PTI Board. In any case it is not eligible for a seat under the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, which says only shareholders or independent directors with no financial links to PTI can be on the Board. Prasar Bharati does not meet either criteria,” the agency’s spokesperson added.NEW DELHI: Less than a month after Prasar Bharati threatened to snap ties with Press Trust of India (PTI), the government has now served a Rs 84.48 crore bill on the trust-run news agency for allegedly flouting the terms of the lease agreement on the basis of which it was allotted land for its New Delhi office. Sources said PTI was charged with not paying rent for the ground floor offices since 1984, and for carrying out “illegal construction” on the premises. Last month, amid widespread criticism from journalists’ organisations, the government had referred to PTI’s coverage of the border tensions with China as “detrimental to India’s national interest”, and bordering on “anti-national”. At the root of the sudden cold shoulder was PTI’s interview with the Chinese ambassador to India, and also PTI’s 16-member board’s denial, so far, of a seat at the table to India’s public broadcaster Prasar Bharati. While there is still no word on whether the government will follow through with its threat to pull the plug on its Rs 7 crore annual subscription of PTI services — the government is PTI’s largest subscriber — the Rs 84 crore bill is in continuation of the pressure the government appears to be mounting on the premier news agency. The notice served on PTI by the housing ministry’s land and development office (L&DO) on 7 July gave the agency a month to pay up, failing which it would be liable to pay a 10% penalty on the dues. The agency has also been granted a week, ending on Tuesday, to seek clarifications from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pti-gets-rs-84-crore-govt-bill/articleshow/76949229.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||India to decide soon on seeking review of Jadhav’s sentencing||NEW DELHI: India is expected to take a decision in the next few days on whether or not to seek a review, as asked by Islamabad, of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav’s sentencing by a Pakistani military court. The May 20 Pakistani ordinance meant to facilitate the review, as claimed by Islamabad, allows Indian time only up to July 20 to convey its decision. Pakistan’s refusal to allow India remedial consular access, meaning private and unrestricted, and also a lawyer from outside Pakistan to represent him has left India with little choice. The review offered by Pakistan is purely on its own terms. India also doubts Pakistan’s motive in introducing an ordinance when Islamabad had said in the past that there were already laws which allowed for a review of Jadhav’s death sentence. Despite the International Court of Justice ruling asking for an effective review and reconsideration of sentence, Pakistan has failed to make up for fact that it failed to provide consular access to Jadhav before it recorded his “confessions”. India has repeatedly told Islamabad that it’s incumbent on Pakistan to provide consular access “in private” in an environment free from fear of intimidation to fulfil ICJ judgment mandate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-decide-soon-on-seeking-review-of-jadhavs-sentencing/articleshow/76949516.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||How bad is the labour crunch? Mohali may have to wait extra year for more potable water||MOHALI: Labour crunch because of the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic may cause the district to miss its December deadline for lifting more drinking water from phases V and VI of the Kajauli headworks. Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) faces a possibility of the project's getting delayed till May 2021. During the lockdown, Mohali saw the flight of more than 26,000 to their home states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, and Madhya Pradesh, leaving factories, construction sites, and farms short of hands. Gmada is on with building the water augmentation plant at Signpura village. The work is in the hands of French company Veolia India. The authority has kept 18 months to build the plant on 34 acres. The deadline was extended to March 2021 once and now it has been pushed further to May 2021. Gmada chief engineer Sunil Kansal said: “We are short of 50% labour force and trying to get more workers.” Earlier, this was stopped because of a pre-existing religious structure on the site. Gmada failed to get the possession despite striking a deal with religious factions and awarding them an alternative site. The authority warned the temple management against doing any fresh construction on the land and, later, had to demolish the temple. This wasted some time. In May 2012, Gmada started laying the pipelines to send a water supply of 80 million gallons a day to Mohali district and Chandigarh from phases V and VI of Kajauli. Out of a cost of Rs 200 crore, Chadigarh was to bear Rs 100 crore and keep 35 out of 40 MGD water, while 5 MGD was for Mohali. Currently, Mohali gets 10 MGD water from Kajauli and another 10 MGD from 75 tube-wells but it is still short of 12 MGD every summer. Kajauli water works located on the Bhakra Mainline Canal near Morinda in Ropar district meets the requirements of Chandigarh, Mohali, and Chandimandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/how-bad-is-the-labour-crunch-mohali-may-have-to-wait-extra-year-for-more-potable-water/articleshow/76949568.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 14, 2020||India||Lt Colonel moves Delhi HC against Army ban on apps||NEW DELHI: A senior officer of the Indian Army approached the Delhi high court on Monday, challenging a new policy banning armed forces officials from using social networking platforms. Lieutenant Colonel P K Choudhary, currently posted in Jammu & Kashmir, has said that he uses Facebook responsibly and needs it to connect with friends and family as most of them are settled abroad, including his elder daughter. The petition, likely to come up for hearing on Tuesday, sought the court’s direction to the Director General of Military Intelligence to withdraw its June 6 policy to the extent that it orders all the members of the Army to delete their accounts from Facebook and Instagram and 87 other applications. The plea argues that the government, by its June 6 ban order, is violating “the fundamental rights of armed forces personnel” and urges the HC to ensure these “are not abrogated, amended or modified by arbitrary executive action, which is not backed by the mandate of law, offends the provisions of the Army Act and Rules made thereunder and is unconstitutional”. Choudhary says he got to know through a July 9 news report about the Army’s order requiring him and other personnel to delete Facebook, Instagram and 87 other applications by July 15. On July 10, he received a letter titled “Policy On Use Of Social Media Platforms And Mobile Phones In IA” issued by the Director General of Military Intelligence, banning the use of 89 applications and websites and directed deletion of the accounts, the plea said, adding that since the policy is classified as restricted, he is not reproducing any part of it in the petition. The plea claimed that the provisions of the policy violate various fundamental rights of the petitioner under the Constitution, including the right to freedom of speech and expression and right to privacy. It said soldiers serve in remote areas, extreme weather conditions, difficult terrain, with the lingering threat of an enemy attack at all times and the professional hazards are a direct cause of soldiers committing suicide and in some cases shooting at their fellow soldiers before taking their own lives. “In a majority of cases, the precursor to such incidents is denial of leave to the soldier. The soldiers rely on social networking platforms like Facebook to address various issues arising in their families while posted in remote locations and often use the virtual connect to compensate for the physical distance existing between themselves and their families….Soldiers can view pictures, videos etc. of events such as weddings, birthdays and other events of cultural significance in real time or even at a later date as per their convenience and need. This is the beauty of social network platforms like Facebook. Therefore, the respondents (authorities) must wake up to the benefits that these websites/applications enable the use of these websites and applications for soldiers and put in place a mechanism to ensure its misuse,” the petition submits. “It is submitted that no other professional army serving in a constitutional democracy has put such unreasonable and mindless restrictions on its soldiers. The respondent no. 2 has conveniently shifted its own burden and responsibility to regulate use of social networking platforms onto the soldiers, assuming that it has unfettered power to abrogate and restrict the fundamental rights of soldiers,”it adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lt-colonel-moves-delhi-hc-against-army-ban-on-apps/articleshow/76949602.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 14, 2020||India||India faces joint Pak-China threat in Indian Ocean||NEW DELHI: The collusive China-Pakistan threat along the land borders is slowly but surely extending to the maritime domain as well. Even as China steps up its naval forays into the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), it is also helping Pakistan build its maritime combat power in the overall attempt to stymie India in its own backyard. China is assiduously following a twin-pronged approach by facilitating Pakistan to build its fledgling Navy while hunting for more overseas bases to offset its “tyranny of logistics” in the IOR as compared to India, say Indian defence establishment officials. Pakistan, for instance, is on course to get from next year onwards eight Yuan-class diesel-electric submarines with air-independent propulsion for great underwater endurance, four Type-054A multi-role stealth frigates and other naval platforms and weapons from China under deals worth over $7 billion. China now accounts for over 70% of arms imported by Pakistan. “China is simultaneously looking for more military bases in the IOR after establishing the first one at Djibouti on the Horn of Africa in August 2017, in addition to Karachi and deep-water Gwadar port in Pakistan, to expand the operational reach of its warships and submarines,” said a defence official. Though India can currently outmatch both China and Pakistan in the IOR in terms of naval capabilities, and can exploit Beijing’s “Malacca dilemma” if the need arises, it needs to systematically plan to retain the edge in the years ahead. The People’s Liberation Army-Navy (PLAN), for instance, is expanding at a furious pace, having commissioned at least 117 major warships in the last decade alone. “It’s just a matter of time before Chinese aircraft carriers begin entering the IOR,” said another defence official. PLAN already has two aircraft carriers, with another two under construction, as well as 33 destroyers, 54 frigates, 42 corvettes, 50 diesel-electric and 10 nuclear submarines, among other warships. It is also building larger amphibious warships, like the Type-075 Landing Platform Docks, to add to its expeditionary capabilities. Though the 140-warship Indian Navy has a huge geographical advantage in the IOR and is currently well-poised to take on any challenge, it has a force-level of only one aircraft carrier, 10 destroyers, 14 frigates, 11 corvettes as well as 15 diesel-electric and two nuclear-powered submarines at present. Pakistan Navy’s ongoing modernisation is another emerging concern. Pakistan currently has only nine frigates, five submarines, 10 missile boats and three minesweepers, apart from aircraft and helicopters. But it’s slated to get the four new stealth frigates, with a range of almost 4,000 nautical miles and well-armed with surface-to-air and anti-submarine missiles, from China in 2021-2022. Similarly, the first four of eight Yuan-class or Type-039A submarines, considered among the quietest diesel-electric boats in the world, will be delivered to Pakistan by 2022-2023. The other four will be built at Karachi. Pakistan has also gone in for a $350 million upgrade of its five French-origin Agosta-90B submarines from Turkey. It will also get four Milgem-class anti-submarine warfare corvettes, under a $1.5 billion deal with Turkey, in the 2023-2025 time-frame. India has no option but to prepare for this emerging new China-Pakistan collusive challenge in the maritime domain. Watch India faces joint Pak-China threat in Indian Ocean Region||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-needs-to-cater-for-china-pakistan-collusive-threat-in-ior/articleshow/76949639.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 14, 2020||Business||L&T elevates 2 top executives to its board||MUMBAI: Engineering major Larsen & Toubro has elevated two senior executives to its board, expanding the number of directors to 19. Early last month, the company had extended the chairmanship tenure of A M Naik by three years till September 30, 2023. S V Desai and T Madhava Das, both L&T lifers, have been appointed as executive directors of the company for a period of five years from July 11. Desai oversees the transportation business of L&T, while Das is responsible for the power and water & effluent treatment businesses. L&T also redesignated Subramanian Sarma to executive director from non-executive director. Sarma is currently the CEO of L&T’s hydrocarbon unit. With the rejig in Sarma’s position, L&T will have just two non-executive directors on its board. Both the non-executive directors are representatives of LIC, which is the largest shareholder of the $21-billion engineering major. Though there is no limit on the number of directors a listed company can appoint, proxy advisory firms suggest that a board should not consist of more than 15 members. “Our guidelines recommend that boards should be of a size between six and 15 directors to ensure all get an equal and balanced chance to contribute. Boards with large sizes may mean that some directors aren’t meaningfully contributing,” said InGovern Research Services’ MD Shriram Subramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lt-elevates-2-top-execs-to-its-board/articleshow/76948175.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 14, 2020||Business||Used car, bike sales grow on fear of public transport||CHENNAI: The used car and two-wheeler market is buzzing with action. Since the lockdown, this segment has attracted attention as people become wary of public transport fearing the spread of the coronavirus. As a result, for used vehicle marketers like Mahindra First Choice Wheels, Droom and Cars24, leads are now higher than last year’s sales. Droom founder-CEO Sandeep Aggarwal said traffic on his platform is up 175%, and leads are up 250%. He has $6 billion worth of inventory on the platform. But, while customers are still rooting for old favourites Swift, Dzire, Honda City, i10, Scorpio and Santro, among others, their ability to buy has dropped by 13%-15% during the lockdown, pushing them to scale down their choices to slightly cheaper wheels. However, financing has increased — from 20% to 30-35% after the lockdown. Two-wheeler financing is still “a huge challenge” said financiers and marketers. A combination of all these has pushed the prices of used vehicles by 1-2% . “While June demand was higher than both June 2019 and January 2020, supply is an issue because customers are not buying too many new cars. So, exchange programmes are not bringing in fresh supply of used vehicles. Additionally, the loan moratorium till August means the stack of repossessed vehicles is also low, so prices are going up,” said Mahindra First Choice Wheels CEO Ashutosh Pandey. Most of the demand is coming from smaller towns and cities, which are not under lockdown. “There are some metros including Bengaluru, NCR and non-metros like Jaipur and Lucknow which have recovered better, but with more containment zones in place in these cities, tier-2 and -3 demand is showing strength,” said Cars24 co-founder and CMO Gajendra Jangid . As for used two-wheelers, the demand is strong though financing is a big problem. Cars24, said Jangid, launched its pre-owned two-wheeler platform on May 4 with Delhi-NCR and is already selling 300 units a month. “We plan to scale up to 30 cities by end 2020,” he added. As a new category for organised used car platforms, pre-owned bikes are growing very fast. “Used bike sales are growing at double the speed of used cars on Droom,” said Aggarwal. And while banks and NBFCs are still reluctant to finance used bikes, the good news is the financing penetration has gone up in pre-owned cars and SUVs. Droom, for instance, saw an 85% increase in loan application in June alone. Watch Covid-19: Used car, bike sales rise as people avoid public transport||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/used-car-bike-sales-grow-on-fear-of-public-transport/articleshow/76947941.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 14, 2020||Mysuru||Evaluation of SSLC answer scripts commences at six centres||Mysuru: The valuation of SSLC exam answerscripts started at six centres in the city on Monday. The process will be held for six days, and the results will be announced by the first week of August. The valuation is being carried out between 10am and 4pm in the following centres: Gnanaganga High School (Kuvempu Nagar), Chinmayi School (Jayalakshmipuram), Sadvidya School (Narayanashastri Road), Vijaya Vittala School (Saraswathipuram), Nirmala School (VV Mohalla) and St Philomena’s (NR Mohalla).. Around 3000 teachers, including assistant and chief examiners, are on the job. According to education department authorities, each valuation centre will have only 14 teachers. Prohibitory orders have been enforced in 200m radius around the centres. SOP in place for hassle-free process Teachers who are aged 55 and above and those suffering from health problems have been exempted from the evaluation duty. Teachers who have been certified Covid-19 positive, or those under quarantine or have gone through medical check-up (and waiting for test results) have not been deputed for the duty as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) pertaining to the evaluation process. Before the commencement of valuation, all centres and the furniture there were sanitised. As per the direction from the department, evaluators had brought their water bottles, personal sanitisers, face masks, umbrellas and lunch boxes. However, it has made arrangements for drinking water and disposable cups at the centres. It has also arranged transportation facilities for evaluators coming from taluks. Before their entry into centres, all teachers are thermally scanned and their health checks done. DDPI Panduranga told TOI that four buses are being run from each taluk so as to ferry teachers to and from rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/evaluation-of-sslc-answer-scripts-commences-at-six-centres/articleshow/76948331.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 14, 2020||Patna||BJP, JD(U) flay Lalu Prasad Yadav for holding ‘durbar’ at hospital||PATNA: A picture showing incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad holding ‘darbar’ at RIMS, Ranchi has evoked sharp reactions from the BJP and its ally JD(U) in Bihar. The RJD, on the contrary, described it a design of the rivals to scuttle chances of his possible release before the assembly election in Bihar. Lalu is undergoing treatment at RIMS while serving jail term in fodder scam cases. Senior BJP leader and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Monday said the judiciary and the CBI should take cognisance of Lalu holding a darbar at RIMS where he is admitted for treatment. SuMo slammed Lalu for violating the Prison Manual and said those who were pleading for his release on parole citing Covid-19 pandemic as the prime reason should know that he (Lalu) is not a political prisoner. “It’s up to the judiciary (read court) whether Lalu should be released from jail. But some political activists were trying to pressurise the court by demanding Lalu’s release on the grounds of Covid-19 outbreak,” he tweeted. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad also said, “The central government must act on the ‘lawless culture as we don’t expect any action from the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand, which survives on RJD and Congress’s support.” He said even if Lalu was released on bail, it would not impact the upcoming assembly poll results. “There is more or less a similar situation as it was in 2010 when Lalu had campaigned for the RJD which had won only 22 seats,” he added. However, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said BJP and JD(U) leaders were suffering from ‘Lalu phobia’. “Whenever his name surfaces, they become more active and start levelling baseless allegations, which reflect their frustration and disappointments,” he said. He also described it to be a design of the rival parties to create such a situation that chances of his possible release become bleak. “But they will not succeed as Lalu ji has always honoured the judiciary and abided by its directions. Moreover, he meets the visitors at RIMS as per Jail Manual,” Tiwari said. Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand alleged that Lalu’s picture with Jharkhand health minister and others had been made viral on social media by the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-jdu-flay-lalu-for-holding-durbar-at-hospital/articleshow/76946991.cms||Ramashankar
July 14, 2020||Patna||Patna records over 12% of corona cases in Bihar||PATNA: With total 2,096 cases, Patna district has reported more than 12% of the Covid-19 cases in Bihar till Monday. More than 100 positive cases every day, on an average, have been reported in the district since June 30, with majority of them from Macchli Gali, Rajvanshi Nagar, several areas in Boring Road, Kankarbagh and Kadamkuan, Alamganj in Patna City, Paliganj, Beur and Bihta areas. The number of cases started surging from 42 in April to 245 on May 31 and from 713 till June 30 to 2,096 on Monday. In fact, 235 cases were reported on June 8, the maximum on a single day in Patna till then. But the 228 fresh cases on Monday is the single-day highest in the district so far. Even as patients from only Bhojpur, Buxar, Vaishali, Rohtas and Kaimur are being treated at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) after the health department order last week to mark the districts to several other government hospitals across the state, NMCH nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said hundreds of patients from Patna had been treated there prior to that order. “Most corona patients admitted in the hospital were from Patna City. The area has been severely affected by the virus,” he said. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said teams have been formed for contact tracing. “More than 700 people have been traced in the last two days. We have also created buffer as well as containment zones in order to restrict the spread of the virus. Besides, different areas are being sanitised regularly,” he said. He attributed lack of caution among residents during unlock period as the main reason behind the spike in Covid cases. “People misused the relaxations during the unlock phase. They attended weddings and other functions, which increased the chances of getting infected. Apart from that, crowds at marketplaces, especially at fruits and vegetable markets, contributed to the rapid increase in cases,” Ravi said. He said legal action was being taken against those found defying the rules. “Earlier, people were violating rules because of no punishment. Now, we are not only charging them but also seizing vehicles and getting the market areas sealed for violations,” he said. Residents, especially in the affected areas, said the growing number of Covid cases has increased panic level among people. Hanuman Nagar resident Ankita Kumar said several people from her locality have been tested positive. “My house is only a few metres away from the one where a person got infected by the virus. Most people are not even aware of the cases and roam around on the streets,” she said. Sikandar Prakash of Kadamkuan said he was concerned about the fake news among people in his locality. “Residents have started cooking their own stories. The worst thing is that people still don’t wear masks or maintain social distancing,” he said. FOR GRAPHICS: Rising trend in Patna: Total Covid-19 cases: 2,096 In last 7 days July 7: 56 July 8: 235 July 9: 132 July 10: 73 July 11: 133 July 12: 177 July 13: 228 Most affected areas: Macchli Gali, Rajvanshi Nagar, Boring Road, Kankarbagh, Kadamkuan, Alamganj in Patna City, Paliganj, Beur and Bihta. Containment zones: 90 Main Patna: 34 Danapur: 21 Patna City: 20 Paliganj: 8 Masaurhi: 7 Measures taken: Contact tracing Containment zones Buffer zones Sanitisation Vehicles seizure Shops closure||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-records-over-12-of-corona-cases-in-state/articleshow/76947077.cms||Archi Rani
July 14, 2020||Surat||Surat death toll at 317 as 15 more succumb, 207 new cases||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday urged industrial units, offices and residential societies to use a oximeter to check the oxygen level of individuals visiting the premises.Five more doctors and as many nurses tested positive on Monday.SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said that if oxygen oxygen level of anyone is found below 94, he/she should immediately be referred to government or private hospital. “We have come across cases where a person was found to have oxygen level below 94 and the medical team adviced him to get admitted into hospital but he did not report to hospitals and later died. Therefore, I urge all concerned societies, business houses, industrial units to ensure that oxygen level does not drop below 94,” Pani said.On Monday, Surat city reported 207 fresh Covid-19 cases, again highest in the state. According to SMC officials, 15 patients succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday taking the death toll to 317 in the city.Varachha (A) reported the highest number of cases with 40 persons found infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-death-toll-at-317-as-15-more-succumb-207-new-cases/articleshow/76948113.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Diabetic capital tops in diabetic retinopathy too||SURAT: Gujarat, which has earned a rather ignominious tag of being the ‘diabetes capital of India’, also leads other states in diabetic retinopathy (DR), a high sugar-related complication that can lead to blindness. Data compiled by the National Programme for Prevention of Blindness and Visual Impairment (NPCBVI) shows that Gujarat had 1,574 DR patients, the highest in the country in the current year. In 2019-20 too, there were 1,668 diabetics in the state suffering from DR, which was also the highest in India. “The data shows a correct and a worrisome trend in Gujarat. We treat around 15-20 diabetic retinopathy patients every month at our hospital,” Dr Uday Gajiwala, ophthalmologist at private-trust run Tejas Eye Hospital in Mandvi town near Surat, told TOI. The hospital carries out 13,000 eye surgeries every year. Dr Parth Rana, a retina specialist based in Ahmedabad, said, “The cases of DR are increasing in Gujarat. As the symptoms are mild, people don’t go for retina check-up. We have seen several cases where people come for eye check-up for the first time and they are diagnosed with DR as well as diabetes too.” NPCBVI, which is run by the Union ministry of health, has made a live dashboard on eye care and prevention of blindness in the country. The dashboard has been started recently as there were no recent studies on the prevalence of DR in different parts of India, making it difficult to plan screening and treatment programmes. The government plans to rope in Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers to conduct door-to-door blood sugar tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diabetic-capital-tops-in-diabetic-retinopathy-too/articleshow/76948261.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
July 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 cases surge drives down train occupancy||PATNA: The massive surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has affected the occupancy rate of passengers travelling by the 19 special trains originating under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). The occupancy rate has also come down in trains reaching Bihar. “The occupancy rate of passengers in the Rajendra Nagar– New Delhi Rajdhani special train, which has 1,134 berths, is around 43%, causing loss of revenue. The Rajgir-New Delhi Shramjeevi Express special and Shampoorna Kranti special are running with 85 per cent occupancy rate,” said ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar, adding, the special trains coming from New Delhi also don’t have full occupancy. The Patna–Howrah Janshatabdi special, which was running with better occupancy rate of passengers, has down due to an exponential increase in coronavirus cases from several parts of Bihar. “The special train has low occupancy on its return journey from Howrah while the Patna – Ranchi Janshatabdi special has been running between Patna and Gaya only and Danapur – Tata special has been cancelled from July 13 onwards,” he said. The occupancy rate of passengers travelling by Saharsa–New Delhi special, Darbhnga–New Delhi special, Muzaffarpur–Anand Vihar special and Raxaul – Anand Vihar special has also marginally come down on both onward and return journeys trips due to the Covid-19 pandemic fear among passengers . Danapur – Secunderabad special ( 02792 ) and Danapur – Bengaluru special ( 02296 ) are likewise running with low occupancy rate of passengers while special trains originating from Patna and other places from Bihar to Mumbai have better occupancy rate of passengers. “The sudden fall in number of passengers travelling by special trains from Bihar was first noticed on July 7 when 19 special trains originating from Bihar had left with 35,000 passengers only,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-cases-surge-drives-down-train-occupancy/articleshow/76947717.cms||Kumod Verma
July 14, 2020||Patna||Many north Bihar rivers in spate, floodwaters enter villages||PATNA/BAGAHA/SITAMARHI/MOTIHARI: Several rivers in north Bihar continued to flow above their corresponding danger levels on the third consecutive day on Monday. Water discharge from Valmikinagar barrage on Gandak river in West Champaran was recorded at this year’s highest at 3.07 lakh cusecs even as rainfall intensity reduced slightly on both sides of the India-Nepal border. As the water discharge at Valmiknagar barrage crossed the 3 lakh-mark, the excess water entered low-lying areas in Jogapatti, Nautan, Gaunaha, Bagaha-1, Bagaha-2, Ramnagar , Majhaulia and Narkatiaganj blocks in West Champaran. People in villages claimed that SSB jawans rescued them by taking them to safer places even as a SSB’s border outpost at the same village remained inundated for the third consecutive day. The BDO of Bagaha -2 block Pranav Kumar Giri said dry food like Chura-Gur was being provided to people displaced due to swollen Gandak. Gandak apart, water level is rising in other hilly rivers originating from Nepal, including Pandai, Harbora and Manihari rivers entered Sathi, Koerigawa, Machhahii, Manjharia, Murli, Rakhahi, Pohara, Lachhanauta under Narakatiaganj sub-division. Arunmaya Devi, Mukhiya of Karamabiya-Banakatawa panchayat in Ramnagar block claimed that Bakhari road, which connects Gobarahiya Done and Banakataw Karmahiya panchayats under Valmiki Tiger Reserve, covering population around 20,000 people, were cut off from Ramnagar block headquarters due to incessant rain coupled with rise in water level in Champapur river. The daily flood bulletin issued by the water resources department on Monday stated that Bagmati was flowing above the danger level at five places in Sitamarhi district and one place in Muzaffarpur. Kamla Balan was flowing above danger level at two places in Madhubani district. Bhutahi Balan river was also flowing above the corresponding danger level in Madhubani district. Kosi was flowing above the danger mark at five places in Supaul, Khagaria and Bhagalpur districts. Similar, Adhwara, Mahananda and Ghaghra rivers were also flowing above the danger level at one site each in Sitamarhi, Kishanganj and Siwan districts. Lalbakeya river was also flowing above the danger level in East Champaran district. Flood waters from swollen Lalbakeya and Bagmati spread to low–lying areas in at least 24 villages of Patahi block, eight villages of Fenehara block and seven villages of Dhaka block in the district. Also, swollen Dudhaura and Bangari hilly rivers overtopped Jamindari embankment near Chhoradano and gushing waters of the rivers inundated 200 acres of land of paddy in Narkatiya, Purainiya, Bhatnahiya, Tinkoni and Hiramani villages under Chhoradano block. Circle officer of Chhoradano, Pankaj Kumar, said they were keeping a close watch on the situation. Communication has been disrupted on Motihari-Sheohar road for the past four days. However, East Champaran DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok said flood water was receding in the area and situation was improving. In Sitamarhi district, normal life has been thrown out of gear in 19 panchayats mainly in Belsand, Sonbarsa, Sursand and Parihar blocks due to flood waters gushing in the villages. Rivers like Bagmati, Lalbakeya, Rato, Jhim, Hardi, Adhawara group and Lakhadei are flowing above danger mark in the district. Floodwater has overtopped Sitamarhi-Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar and Sitamarhi-Sheohar roads causing a lot hardships to commuters. Sitamarhi DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma said constant patrolling is underway on Bagmati river embankments by a group of engineers and officials. “Sufficient boats and relief materials are in the reserves. The BDOs have been instructed to help the marooned masses with food, relief and rehabilitation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-north-bihar-rivers-in-spate-floodwaters-enter-villages/articleshow/76946820.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Rapid antigen tests to start in 6 divisions from this week||Nashik: The civic administration has decided to start conducting rapid antigen tests for early detection of suspected Covid-19 patients in the containment zones in all of its six divisions by this week.Currently, antigen tests are being conducted for suspected cases in Wadalgaon area in Nashik East division and Peth Road area in Panchavati division. Both the areas have emerged as major hotspots in the city with more than 250 Covid-19 patients.“We started antigen tests for suspects in Wadalagaon and Peth Road. Currently, we are conducting around 250 antigen tests in both these areas. We are conducting antigen tests for high-risk contacts of confirmed Covid-19 patients and providing immediate treatment to those who have tested positiv,” said officials of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). “We also have plans to increase the number of antigen tests at the containment zones in Nashik Road, Nashik West, Satpur and Cidco but we need more lab technicians for the purpose. We are already in the process of recruiting lab technicians to speed up the testing procedure,” said officials.Both Nashik East and Nashik West account for 60% of the Covid-19 cases registered in the city while the remaining 40% is scattered in the other divisions. The cases are gradually increasing in the four other divisions. NMC has sought 1 lakh antigen kits from ICMR, of which the first lot of 9,000 kits have arrived. The civic body is also waiting to receive 25,000 antibody kits from the ICMR which will help determine the immunity of the civic health staff, employees and patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rapid-antigen-tests-to-start-in-6-divisions-from-this-week/articleshow/76946831.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 14, 2020||Patna||CBSE Class XII results: Patna boys Hitesh, Qamar shine in science stream||PATNA: Hitesh Anand of DAV Public School, Khagaul and Md Qamar Farooque of St Karen’s High School have scored 98.6% each to emerge as two of the best scorers in science stream in CBSE Class XII examinations, the results of which were announced on Monday. Hitesh scored 100 each in chemistry and informatics practices (IP), 99 each in mathematics and physics and 95 in English, while Qamar scored 100 in biology, 99 each in chemistry and IP and 97 each in physics and English. Hitesh wants to pursue computer science and engineering course. “I had appeared in the first round of Joint Entrance Examination in January and scored 99.88 percentile. I’m going to appear in the second round as well. My dream is to study at Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. Besides, the second option that I have in mind is the research programme at IISC-Bengaluru,” he said. Qamar, on the other hand, wants to secure admission in All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. “I’m preparing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. I studied 8-9 hours a day for the board exams,” he said. DAV Public School-BSEB student Shivam Drolia, who scored 98% in commerce stream, has wants to secure admission in Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi University. “As I got 99 in accounts and 98 in business studies, I think I will get a good college. Further, I want to do MBA and then start my own business, probably in hospitality sector,” he said, adding the Covid-19 pandemic did not deter his ambition. “The online classes are the new normal and I am quite used to it now,” he added. By scoring 99 each in English, history and geography, 98 in Hindi and 97 in economics, Preeti Kumari of Kendriya Vidyalaya-Kankarbagh is among the top scorers in arts stream in the city. Overall, the girl has scored 98.5%. She wants to crack UPSC exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cbse-class-xii-results-patna-boys-hitesh-qamar-shine-in-science-stream/articleshow/76947777.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar reports third Covid death||Mysuru: Chamarajanagar on Monday reported 14 Covid-19 cases. A town municipal councillor is among those infected. With this the total number of cases touched 187, of which 93 are active. A 65-year-old man succumbed to the virus. This is the third death reported from the district. The man had high fever and died on the way when he was being shifted from his house in Palya village to Kollegal government hospital. Deputy commissioner Dr MR Ravi has directed health officials to expedite lab tests. He said priority should be given to conduct throat swab tests of infected cases, secondary contrcts in containment zones and people with high risk as those aged above 70, pregnant and breastfeeding women. Six men die in MysuruSix men died of Covid-19 infection in Mysuru district on Monday. As many as 151 people, including 10 children, all aged below 10, contracted the virus, making it the largest single-day spike in the district. Among the 10 infected children, two are girls. With this, the toll has gone up to 37, and the number of positive cases to 966 in the district. Clerk in Bandipur office is +ve A first division clerk serving at Bandipur Tiger Reserve director’s office located in Bandipur has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Health department officials sealed the office on Monday. The clerk who was residing in Mysuru used to travel to Bandipur TR for duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chamarajanagar-reports-third-covid-death/articleshow/76948405.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mysuru||CT Ravi undergoes treatment at his farmhouse||Chikkamagaluru: The staff and family members of tourism minister CT Ravi tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday even as the minister tested positive in the confirmatory swab test. The minister took to twitter to update his testing report and tweeted,“Feeling absolutely fine. For now, I'll continue to work from here and undergo treatment.” “My family and staff underwent Covid test. Fortunately, my wife and all staff who have been with me in Chikkamagaluru tested negative for Covid-19. The third testing result confirmed my Covid infection. However, I am fine and taking treatment at farmhouse,” he tweeted. The minister has not been hospitalised and is undergoing treatment at his farmhouse. Entry of people people to the farmhouse has been restricted, the health department officials informed TOI. Netas reject Covid test With two MLCs and a minister testing positive in Chikkamagaluru, officials of the district administration are on their toes trying to trace the contacts of the patients as several BJP, JD(S), and Congress leaders who have come in close contact the patients failed to appear for Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ct-ravi-undergoes-treatment-at-his-farmhouse/articleshow/76946048.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||Devotees perform Rudrabhishek at home||PATNA: With weeklong lockdown enforced in the city and all Shiva temples closed, many devotees performed Rudrabhishek and other rituals at home on the second ‘Somwari’ of the holy month of Shrawan on Monday. “This is the first time that I did not offer milk on Shiva Linga on Shrawan’s Monday. Even the temple in my residential society has been shut,” said Pritee Prasad of Kadamkuan. Aman Sinha of Boring Road said: “I am happy that the temples are shut as devotees don’t care about anything while praying. The situation would have become even worse. Besides, there are so many options to perform rituals like Rudrabhishek at home.” Temples across the city usually witness large number of devotees on the Shrawan Mondays. This time, however, all Shiva temples and shrines are closed till June 16. Shyam Upadhyay, a priest, said the auspicious month dedicated to Lord Shiva holds great significance for the devotees. “Most devotees also observe fast on Mondays (Somwari) and visit Shiva temples. This is probably the first year that a situation like this has come up. The devotees should, however, understand that it is for their own welfare,” he said. However, in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Shrawani Mela at Deoghar has also been cancelled and the century-old shrine has been closed for people in general.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-perform-rudrabhishek-at-home/articleshow/76947040.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||Class XII results: Patna region scores 74.57%, stands last||PATNS: The Patna region (Bihar and Jharkhand) scored an overall pass percentage of 74.57 in class XII, but finished last among the regions despite 7.8% improvement in its performance compared to 66.73% previous year. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared the results on Monday. Like CISCE, the CBSE has not released the merit list of students due to Covid-19 pandemic. According to the information provided by CBSE officials, Bihar registered an overall pass percentage of 68.06 while Jharkhand had 87% score. Girls once again outperformed boys in Bihar with a pass percentage of 74.74 compared to 64.76% by the boys. Altogether 68,031 students appeared for the class XII exam held in February and March in Bihar and 46,302 of them (including 16,824 girls) managed to clear it. Total 14,152 students would appear for the compartmental exams. The CBSE analysis for the All India Senior School Certificate Examination results shows that 98% students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in Patna region passed the exam while Kendriya Vidyalayas had 99.1 pass percentage, private 37 and independent 77.12%. CBSE city coordinator Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said the state performance would not improve unless the schools stop flying candidates. “Patna region’s performance has slightly improved, but the other states have performed much better,” he said. Meanwhile, 388 out of 395 students of St Michael’s High School passed the class XII exam. Four students secured perfect 100 in physics and eight in physical education. Altogether 293 students of Notre Dame Academy cleared the exam with 138 of them scoring above 90%. Altogether 279 out of 281 students of Loyola High School cleared the exam. St Karen’s High School, The Tribhuvan School, Bishop Scott Girl’s School and Gyan Niketan Boys’ School have recorded 100% results. Usha Martin World School recorded 99% and Ishan International School 98.8% results. Altogether 93 out of 95 students of Army Public School at Danapur Cantonment cleared the exam with three of them scoring above 95% and 20 more than 90%, its principal Dharmsheela Pandey said. VS Ojha, principal of DAV BSEB, said 324 out of 326 students in science stream, 161 out of 163 in commerce and all the 131 in arts stream cleared the exam. DAV Khagaul secured 100% results in commerce and 98.4% in science stream. At KV Danapur Cantt, seven out of 138 students scored 90% and above, 70 got 70% or above and 110 above 60%. St Anne’s High School registered 97% results. International School achieved 99% results and 22 of its students secured above 90%. Baldwin Academy had 88.4% results. Holy Mission Secondary School administration claimed that 442 of their students passed with first division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/class-xii-results-patna-region-scores-74-57-stands-last/articleshow/76947904.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 14, 2020||Patna||PMCH junior doctors resume work after daylong boycott||PATNA: The junior doctors at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) called off their boycott of work on late Monday evening. More than 200 junior doctors had stopped working in all departments, except the emergency ward, since morning alleging lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other protective gears such as masks and gloves for the safety of health workers while treating people with Covid-19 symptoms. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak told this newspaper that the junior doctors resumed their duty at 10.30pm. “I have assured them that their genuine demands will be fulfilled by the hospital administration. I also gave them in writing to meet their genuine demands,” he said. Earlier, the Junior Doctors’ Association (JDA) of PMCH said the medical staff had not been provided with PPE kits in outpatient department (OPD) and other wards (except emergency wards) to protect themselves from the infection. JDA president Dr Harendra Kumar said there was no supply of gloves in any department, not even in OPD, for the last 15 days. “There is also shortage of PPE kits and masks are given only once a week. The patients often complain that the doctors are not following the safety norms. It is the health department and hospital administration’s duty to provide safety gears to health workers,” he said and added: “We are scared of getting infected due to lack of PPE kits. It has been causing psychological stress to the doctors.” The doctors have been demanding a cabin or separate room for the last three months to change PPE kits, Dr Deepak Kumar Sinha said. “There should be enough PPE kits and other safety gears for doctors in all wards,” said Dr Kumar Sharat. PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary refuted the allegations regarding the shortage of PPE kits and protective gears. “We have enough PPE kits, gloves and masks for medical staff. About a week ago, there was some shortage of gloves but the hospital administration purchased the items from the market on its own,” Dr Choudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmch-junior-doctors-resume-work-after-daylong-boycott/articleshow/76947429.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 14, 2020||Patna||Triple murder accused MLA plans roadshow||PATNA: Controversial JD (U) MLA Amrendra Kumar Pandey whose name figured in the sensational Gopalganj triple murder case recently, hogged the limelight once again after a poster related to his road show ‘Apka Vidhyayak Aapke Dwar’ was put up by his supporters on Monday. According to the poster, the Kuchaikote MLA will launch his roadshow from Derwapul on July 26 and conclude at Mahanthda Jitan Mor (Panchdewari) on July 27. The proposed road show has generated political heat not only in Gopalganj but also in Patna. The main opposition RJD questioned how a man accused in the triple murder case can be allowed to organize a road show. “Has he been given a clean chit by the police in the case?” stated a tweet posted by RJD’s twitter handle. RJD also didn’t miss the opportunity to take a potshot at DGP Gupteshwar Pandey for his failure to arrest the MLA. The state police chief had to turn to his official twitter handle to clarify the police’s stand and the role of the MLA in the killing of three people and injuries to another at Rupanchak village in Gopalganj district in May. The deceased were identified as Mahesh Choudhary, his wife Sankesia Devi and their son Shantanu. Their another son JP Choudhary alias JP Yadav, who had survived the murderous attack, was admitted to the Patna Medical College and Hospital for treatment. Yadav’s statement was recorded at the PMCH. Subsequently, an FIR was lodged with the Hathua police station in Gopalganj against four people—Armendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, his elder brother Satish Pandey, his son Mukesh Pandey and Batehwar Pandey. Mukesh happened to be the chairperson of the Gopalganj district board. The MLA, on the other hand, pleaded innocence and alleged that he and his family members were being implicated in the case due to political vendetta. Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari said three out of the four named accused, including Satish Pandey and Mukesh Pandey, have already been arrested and sent to jail in the case. “The allegations against the MLA are being verified. Scientific evidence is being collected by the investigating team to ascertain the truth,” he added. DGP Pandey had also visited Gopalganj soon after the incident and assured residents that they would see the police action against outlaws operating in the region in days to come. Even a contingent of the STF was deployed in Gopalganj for the purpose. Authoritative sources said the MLA has more than 10 cases registered against him, which includes murder and extortion whereas his brother Satish Pandey, a history sheeter, has over 150 cases lodged against him in Bihar and Eastern Uttar Pradesh. Earlier, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had met governor Phagu Chauhan and demanded a CBI probe into the triple murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/triple-murder-accused-mla-plans-roadshow/articleshow/76946947.cms||Ramashankar
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Has any state completely wiped out corona, KTR asks opposition||Hyderabad: Dismissing allegations levelled by opposition parties that the TRS government failed in controlling Covid 19 cases in the state, municipal minister KT Rama Rao on Monday asked the parties to tell which state in the country had completely wiped out coronavirus. “If rising number of Covid-19 cases is failure of KCR and the TRS government, India stands third in the world in the number of cases. Can we say it is the failure of Modi-led BJP government at the Centre?,” he questioned. The minister, who participated in various developmental programmes in Mahbubnagar along with ministers Eatala Rajender and V Srinivas Goud, said it was not the right to time to make allegations against the government and demoralise doctors, who were risking their lives while treating patients. Reacting on low testing allegations, he said Covid-19 tests were being conducted in the state as per the ICMR guidelines. “Ninety-eight per cent patients are recovering and less than two per cent are succumbing to the infection,” he said. KTR said some private hospitals were hesitating and rejecting treatment to patients, but government doctors were treating them without any fear. KTR said that if the rising cases in here are a failure of TRS government, then India’s standing as the third-most affected country is Modi-led governments’s failure||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/has-any-state-completely-wiped-out-corona-ktr-asks-opposition/articleshow/76947861.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||‘CM will keep irrigation water promise’||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organization) RCP Singh on Monday said CM Nitish Kumar would fulfil his promise of providing irrigation water to each and every farmland across the state in his next term. Addressing a virtual meet of the party’s farmers’ cell via different social media platforms, Singh said, “He (Nitish) promised to provide electricity to all households. It was done. He promised to provide separate feeders for agriculture works. It is being implemented. There is a plan for supplying Ganga waters in Gaya and Rajgir towns. Now, he has promised to provide irrigation water to each farmland across the state. This promise, too, will be fulfilled at any cost in the coming term.” The CM had made the promise of providing irrigation water to every farmland while addressing JD(U) workers of Magadh division at a virtual sammelan on June 12. Singh, who is also the JD(U) leader in Rajya Sabha, said Bihar’s land is the same, farmers are the same. But the agriculture sector reported exceptional increase in production just because of change in policy and the leadership after 2005. “Bihar reported 130% increase in production of paddy, 116% in wheat and 184% in maze,” Singh added. Referring to the exponential rise in farm budget, Singh said the state’s 80% population was dependent upon agriculture yet in 2005 the agriculture department’s total budget was just Rs 16 crore. “Today, it has increased to Rs 3,152 crore in FY 2020-21. A separate budget of Rs 1,178 crore has been earmarked for the animal husbandry and fisheries. It is a dream of Nitish Kumar that at least one Bihari cuisine must be on the plate of every Indian,” Singh said. He said the farmers’ cell workers should inform fellow farmers about the schemes of the state government. They should also educate rural people on how to avail benefits of online schemes. The farmers’ cell state president Manoj Kumar also addressed the virtual meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-will-keep-irrigation-water-promise/articleshow/76947013.cms||Madan Kumar
July 14, 2020||Patna||Patna: SP goes under quarantine after scribe tests positive||PATNA: City SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said on Sunday he would undergo home quarantine as a precautionary measure after a scribe who had attended his press conference on Friday tested positive for coronavirus. “We will follow the SOPs of Centre as well as state government for such circumstances. Other policemen present during presser would also be directed to go in self-isolation,” he said. The scribe had given his sample for testing on July 1 at isolation centre in Hotel Patliputra Ashok. He was informed by the district control room over the phone on Saturday about being testing positive. The city SP’s presser was attended by several journalists and photographers from print and electronic media. The scribe said the caller told him that his test report was released on July 7, but they had received it on Saturday. “The caller also took details of my family members for further testing. On Sunday, I went to the hotel on my own for getting retested. But they didn’t test me citing ICMR guidelines that a person becomes negative on his own in 10 days. However, my family members’ samples were collected,” he said. The scribe said he had suffering from fever, cough and cold since June 27 midnight. “I gave my sample for testing on July 1,” he said. “The authorities at the hotel had told me to remain in touch with the civil surgeon office. I tried to get update from the civil surgeon office but was told that only those testing positive were being informed and my report might be negative,” he said. “I stayed in home isolation till July 5. My symptoms had vanished and I became well. I rejoined work on July 6 after seeking permission from my office,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sp-goes-under-quarantine-after-scribe-tests-positive/articleshow/76929503.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 14, 2020||Patna||As Covid-19 cases rise, air travel takes a hit in Bihar||PATNA: With the rise in number of coronavirus cases in the state, footfall of passengers at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here has fallen drastically in the last few weeks. Occupancy of seats has come down from earlier 80-85% to 45-50% in incoming as well as outgoing flights. Executives of different airlines said only migrants and people who have urgent businesses are flying in and out of the city. A GoAir executive at Patna airport on Monday said the footfall of flyers has reduced by 50% following rise in coronavirus cases in Bihar, Maharashtra and Delhi. “People are scared to travel due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown in Patna and other cities,” he said. An executive of IndiGo, which operates maximum number of flights from city airport, also expressed similar opinion. “Only the migrants and those with urgent work opt for air travel,” he said. Some flyers even cancel their tickets following enforcement of fresh lockdown in Patna. Shivam Porwal, who lives in Ahmedabad and was supposed to visit his family in Patna on July 16, cancelled his ticket. “The Covid cases are increasing rapidly in Bihar. It is risky to visit my parents, who live on the outskirts of Patna,” he said. Md Danish, a city-based travel agent, said air ticket business was badly hit due to rise in Covid cases. “After the enforcement of lockdown, several people cancelled their trips, especially to Mumbai and Delhi,” he said. Through its twitter handle, the Patna airport has informed the flyers about the precautionary measures being taken by the Airports Authority of India (AAI)-Patna and other stakeholders. “Whether it is day or night, safety remains top priority for #AAI. Our safety services teams are always on alert round the clock to meet any challenge. Night inspections and safety drills are part of measures to keep the flight operations safe at all times (sic),” the Patna airport tweeted on Sunday. Sharing the pictures of sanitization of airport premises and air buses, the city airport further wrote, “We are thankful to our airline partners for their continued commitment to give top priority to the safety of passengers to bring back confidence in air travel and making sure that air travel continues to be the safest mode of transport (sic).” Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi, had also claimed that air travel is the safest mode of transportation for people in this pandemic. The airport currently presently operates 22 pairs of flights on Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Amritsar and Hyderabad routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-covid-cases-rise-air-travel-takes-a-hit/articleshow/76947747.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||No clarity yet in probe into 10-year-old girl’s death||Kolkata: Four days after the death of a 10-year-old girl under mysterious circumstances at New Alipore’s E block, the probe is still incomplete. The cops are waiting for two crucial reports, including one from the autopsy surgeon who will submit his final report only after visiting the spot. The New Alipore police — that allegedly took longer than usual to inform Lalbazar about the incident — has lodged an unnatural death case. The local police, though, have denied all claims and said they were waiting for the final post-mortem report. The statements of the child’s mother and a man who frequented the house and who accompanied the child to hospital, are being matched. The history of illness of the child is being checked. “We are ascertaining if she had epilepsy. Her grandfather spoke of the child being afraid of ghosts and suffering from diarrhoea for the past few days. We will ask for the doctor’s opinion to know if her health was under strain,” said an officer. Sources said there are some grey areas. “The way in which she was taken to two hospitals before Vidyasagar Hospital is under scrutiny. While the mother says giving a fake address was a slip on her part, it is questionable that E block became T in the entry books of Vidyasagar Hospital,” an officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-clarity-yet-in-probe-into-10-year-old-girls-death/articleshow/76948603.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Roorkee police station closed after officer tests Covid-19 positive||ROORKEE: Gangnahar police station in Roorkee has been declared a containment zone and sealed indefinitely after a sub-inspector tested positive for Covid-19. Six personnel, including the police station in-charge, have been put under home quarantine. The rest of the staff has been shifted to a police outpost in Ramnagar locality of the city. The sub inspector and her team had gone to Bahelna police outpost in Muzaffarnagar on July 7 for an investigation after which she developed symptoms of the coronavirus. “Six police personnel, including her husband, have come in her contact. All have been put under home quarantine,” said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh. “We have started sanitization of the entire police station and are collecting samples from other members of the staff there for coronavirus tests. Till the health department declares the police station Covid-free, its operations will be held from a Ramnagar-based police chowki,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/roorkee-police-station-closed-after-officer-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76946825.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 14, 2020||Patna||Two coronavirus patients traceless in Gaya||GAYA: Two Covid-19 positive persons are ‘traceless’ in Gaya. DM Abhishek Singh said they provided wrong contact numbers and police were looking for them. Altogether nine Covid positive persons had gone missing on Sunday evening as per reconciliation of the statistics concerning corona cases. However, Singh said on Monday that seven of them had been tracked. “Five of them are in Gaya town, while two went to Delhi for treatment,” he said. As per figures released on Sunday evening, 364 persons had been tested Covid positive in Gaya district and 275 of them recovered while four died. Of the remaining 89, 25 were undergoing treatment in the Covid special Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College and Hospital, while nine could not be traced. The remaining were kept in isolation at different facilities, including the Military Hospital. Asked about the five positive cases tracked in the town, the DM said a medical board would decide whether to put them in home isolation or notified isolation centres. “In case they are kept in home isolation, their health parameters will be monitored on a daily basis,” he said. Singh said asymptomatic cases with no morbidity may be put under home isolation provided they give an undertaking to fully observe the isolation protocol. On the point of random pool testing, the DM said the priority was to first test those showing Covid symptoms and close contacts of the infected persons. “Antigen test facility has been established and as such more tests are now being conducted. Besides the Antigen test facility in the Pilgrim Hospital, RD-RP and RT-PCR tests are also being conducted in the ANMMCH,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-coronavirus-patients-traceless-in-gaya/articleshow/76946929.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hubballi||Jarkiholi welcomes new car at graveyard||BELAGAVI: To challenge blind beliefs, Congress working president Satish Jarkiholi on Monday welcomed his Toyota Fortuner car by steering it around a cemetery in Belagavi. Jarkiholi said there are many blind beliefs attached to a cemetery and people think it is a bad omen. “But in reality, this is just another place,” he said. Last year, he had spent a night at a graveyard to debunk myths and spread awareness of scientific temper. Speaking on lockdown, he said district administration should not go for a lockdown as it brings hardship to many persons. “We do not need a lockdown both in the district and in the state. The government should think of poor people who are already troubled due to job losses,” he said. On choosing 2023 as the registration number of the car he said, “The upcoming assembly poll will be held in 2023 and the target of the Congress is to come back to power defeating the BJP. To remind me about target, the number 2023 was chosen,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jarkiholi-welcomes-new-car-at-graveyard/articleshow/76948069.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||Intensity of rainfall to reduce in Bihar: Met||PATNA: In what could be music to the ears of people facing flood-like situation in north Bihar, weathermen have said monsoon trough line has shifted downwards from the foothills of the Himalayas, which, in turn, would lead to reduction in intensity of rainfall. Heavy to very heavy rainfall in Terai region of Nepal and districts along India-Nepal border over the last three to four days led to rise in water level in rivers flowing from Nepal to Bihar. Sanjay Kumar, meteorologist at Patna Metrological Centre, said the trough line shifted slightly downwards from the foothills of the Himalayas on Monday and it would shift further down in the coming days. “Accordingly, the intensity of rainfall along the foothills of the Himalayas in Bihar as well as Nepal would reduce in the coming days. We expect heavy rainfall in north Bihar only at isolated places over the next 48 hours,” he said. Though rainfall in north Bihar is set to reduce its intensity, some districts in southwest Bihar adjacent to Jharkhand would receive moderate to heavy rainfall as trough line is passing through Jharkhand. Moreover, southwest monsoon has been active over Bihar. Patna Meteorological Centre, in its daily forecast, stated that rainfall with thunderstorm would occur in all 38 districts till July 16. As far as Patna is concerned, light to moderate rainfall would occur in isolated manner over the next 48 hours, it said. According to the weather bulletin, extremely heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places in northeast, very heavy rainfall at some places in north-central and heavy rainfall at one or two places in northern as well as south-eastern parts of the state during the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/intensity-of-rainfall-to-reduce-in-state-met/articleshow/76946848.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||WBCS officer in charge of migrants’ welfare dies of Cov||Chandernagore: A deputy magistrate in charge of migrant workers’ welfare in Hooghly’s Chandernagore died of Covid-19 on Monday. Debdutta Ray, the 38-year-old West Bengal Civil Service (executive) officer, passed away in a Serampore Covid hospital at 8.45am. A resident of Dum Dum’s Lichubagan, she had been posted as deputy magistrate and deputy collector at the Chandernagore SDO office. Hooghly district administration sources said Ray would arrange for food and transportation for all migrant workers who had been arriving at Chandernagore from other states throughout the lockdown. Additionally, she had never displayed Covid symptoms during that time. Senior district officials said she last interacted with a group of returnees on June 26. Her husband Pabitra Sarkar said, “She displayed symptoms at the end of June and was tested. After the report came positive, we tried to get her admitted to Bangur Hospital or some nursing home in Kolkata, but couldn’t find a place for her. We then admitted her to the Serampore Covid hospital.” Ray tested positive for Covid on July 1and she took leave to remain quarantine at home. She was on medication. On Sunday, her condition deteriorated and she complained of breathlessness and developed fever. Ray was finally admitted to Serampore Covid hospital on Sunday afternoon. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “Grieved to hear about the untimely passing away of Debdutta Ray, who was posted as deputy magistrate and deputy collector in Chandernagore. A young WBCS (exe) officer, she was at the forefront fighting the pandemic and displayed outstanding devotion in discharge of her duties. I, on behalf of the government of West Bengal, salute her spirit and the sacrifice she made in service of the people of #Bengal. Spoke to her husband today and extended my deepest condolences. May the departed soul rest in peace and the Lord give her family strength to endure this loss.” Hooghly DM Y Ratnakar Rao said, “She was a young officer of our administration. I am deeply saddened over her death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wbcs-officer-in-charge-of-migrants-welfare-dies-of-cov/articleshow/76948515.cms||Falguni Banerjee
July 14, 2020||Surat||Surat’s Athwa zone pounded by 60 mm of rainfall||Surat: Suratis woke up to a rainy morning on Monday when most parts of the city received heavy rainfall. According to the flood control room officials, the highest rainfall of 60 mm was in Athwa zone followed by 50 mm in Limbayat, 34 in Central, 33 in Katargam and 27 mm in Varachha (A) zone in the city. Waterlogging was reported at VIP Road, City Light area, near Swaminarayan temple on Surat-Navsari road, at the underpasses in Udhna and at the New Civic Hospital campus. Valod in Tapi district received 26 mm of rainfall while Ahwa in Dang received 26 mm. According to the State Emergency Centre, the South Gujarat region has received 17% of its average annual rainfall till Monday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a rainfall forecast for the South Gujarat region for next four days. “Light thunderstorm with lightning and surface wind less than 40 kmph (in gust) accompanied with light to moderate rain very likely at isolated places in all the districts of Gujarat, Saurashtra-Kutch and in Diu, Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Heavy rains are very likely at isolated places in the district of South Gujarat region namely Valsad and in Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli,” said IMD’s Monday bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-athwa-zone-pounded-by-60-mm-of-rainfall/articleshow/76948082.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Surat||LRD cop who took on Gujarat minister’s son wants to become IPS||SURAT: Sunita Yadav, the lok rakshak dal (LRD) constable, who became an overnight Twitter sensation for taking on a minister’s son for defying curfew, expressed her wish to resign saying that she wants to pursue civil services exam and become an IPS officer. On Monday, Yadav went to meet city police commissioner RB Brahmbhatt and after discussions with other senior police officers, she was finally allowed to meet him. Yadav informed the top cop that she wants to become an IPS officer and serve the society while expressed her wish to resign from the post. "I instructed her to behave properly with people. No police officer should use abusive language with people," Brahmbhatt told TOI. Yadav had stopped state’s junior health minister Kishore alias Kumar Kanani’s son Prakash on July 8 who was arrested on Sunday along with his two friends for defying curfew orders. Yadav’s video and audio clips questioning Prakash for violating curfew orders had gone viral. Based on the video, they were arrested and released on bail. However, Yadav found massive support on Twitter after the incident. On Monday, another video and pictures of the woman cop surfaced. In one such video, Yadav is seen making people do sit-ups outside shops in Varachha area for violating social distancing rules. Wearing a camouflage printed mask, she is also seen threatening to hit people with her baton. “The incident was brought to notice of senior police officials of Varachha police station after which she was shifted to another location as locals complained about her rude behaviour. There are complaints about she using abusive language,” said a senior police officer. A photo in which Yadav is seen posing with a car with a board ‘police’ written on it was also doing rounds on social media. The car is registered in name of her father Madanlal. Screenshots of a twitter handle with her name and photo registered in March 2012 also went viral. Over the past few days, multiple fake accounts with Sunita Yadav’s name and photos have also cropped up. On Monday, her Whatsapp display picture (DP) was that of Priyanka Chopra as an IPS officer she played in Bollywood movie Jai Gangajal. On the photo, it is written IPS goals on graphic image of burning fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lrd-cop-who-took-on-mins-son-wants-to-become-ips/articleshow/76948053.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank probes auto loan practices||MUMBAI/CHENNAI: HDFC Bank’s probe into allegations of improper lending practices and conflicts of interests in its vehicle-financing operation are being linked to the exit of its former auto loan head. Ashok Khanna, who built the bank’s auto loan business, completed his term in March 2020 and was not granted an extension. On Monday, Bloomberg carried a report stating the bank had conducted an internal probe into irregularities. While the nature of irregularity is not known, there has been speculation on impropriety in cross-selling of a GPS system to auto loan borrowers. The timing of Khanna’s exit — months before a new CEO steps in — has led to speculation that there may be some kind of a shake-up ahead of a change of guard, as founder-CEO Aditya Puri steps down in October. Another senior executive — IT head and CIO (chief information officer) Munish Mittal — had also quit. Macquarie Capital research analyst and associate director Suresh Ganapathy said there is no requirement under any current law that the company needs to report to the exchanges about business heads leaving. That’s because, according to technical rules and regulations, business heads don’t fall under the head of KMP (key management personnel), where exits need to be reported. “In absolute terms, the auto non-performing loans went up 60% YoY compared to 30% YoY for the entire bank in FY19. This was mainly on account of a fraud that happened in dealer financing account in the northern part of India. Also, we have seen some repeated IT failures with respect to systems being down in the past. So, we believe, the exits could be linked to the above reasons,” said Ganapathy in a note. The vehicle-financing business has seen some churn ever since the slowdown hit the automobile industry. Shrinking sales and the transition to BS6 hit dealer margins and caused big-ticket defaults in Motown. In the last three years, out of 1,896 dealerships, 370 have shut shop. Of these, 100 closed in the 15 months between January 2018 to April 2019. The hit on dealer financial health prompted auto financiers to cut back on inventory financing from June-July 2019 onwards. In one instance last July, HDFC Bank stopped inventory finance to some two-wheeler dealerships. While these inventory loans are often backed by collaterals and attract penalty in case of default, the procedure differs from bank to bank and dealership to dealership. In many cases the loans are given based on letters of comfort from the vehicle manufacturer. In recent years, there have been several high-profile cases of dealer fraud. Among the most well known is that of Rashy Todd, whose company Zineca group was the largest Audi and Porsche dealership in India. Todd was arrested by the Delhi Police Economic Offences Wing in September 2018. HDFC Bank, one of the lenders to the Todd companies, had complained that the balance sheet submitted for availing loans was fabricated and forged. Cases like these are not uncommon. Many auto dealerships have closed down due to dealer promoters diverting bank financing to other businesses or real estate, and then defaulting on loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-probes-auto-loan-practices/articleshow/76948225.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Neighbours ostracize New Alipore bizman for putting up Covid warriors in guest house||Kolkata: A prominent businessman in the city who runs a popular speciality restaurant and several banquet halls, has been facing social ostracization for letting out his guest house in New Alipore to doctors of Bangur Hospital. After hosting them since the beginning of the outbreak, the businessman, who has requested anonymity, has now called it a day because his goodwill gesture has boomeranged. Locals have now stopped ordering food from the home delivery outlet he runs and have been speaking out against both the outlet and the guest house fearing infection. The owner of the place has repeatedly tried to reason with the local residents, showing video recordings of the three-time sanitization routine being followed daily. He now fears that business will never pick up again if people of the locality behave so insensitively. At the beginning of the lockdown, when the KMC was desperately looking for additional accommodation to house doctors and nurses of Covid hospitals, this businessman had offered his guest house. It has 11 rooms and they were soon filled up with doctors who were attending to Covid patients at Bangur Hospital. A sanitization regimen was sent to the guest house by the KMC, which was strictly followed thrice a day. However, the local people soon started speaking out against the guest house, saying that it would spread infection in the community. This publicity started influencing customers who would place orders at the food outlet, making them fear that the food was infected. “We had bulk orders being repeatedly cancelled due to this. We started taking videos of the sanitization routine and posting them. We also said that the food joint is in no way connected with the guest house. But nothing worked,” rued the businessman. Local people allegedly even masqueraded as customers and reportedly spoke to the manager of the guest house in order to snoop around and spread propaganda. Eventually, the owner of the guest house wrote to the KMC, appealing that the building be removed from the list of those hosting doctors because he was desperate to get back to business. Keeping doctors on the premises would add to the stigma and will act as a barrier, he said. He also feared that this stigma might affect the reputation of his other business premises, which, in any case, are going through an extremely rough patch. “The KMC has let us go and we are sanitizing every day. But it will be a long time before we can win back the confidence from the community and can host our corporate guests with pride. There is no question of spreading any infection from our guest house or food outlet, but, perhaps, only time will make the locality see reason. At a time like this, sensitisation of the community is imperative. Otherwise, people like me will never come out to help in this war,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neighbours-ostracize-new-alipore-bizman-for-putting-up-covid-warriors-in-guest-house/articleshow/76948494.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Death toll in Dakshina Kannada crosses 50 mark||Mangaluru/Udupi: A slight dip in number of Covid-19 cases reported in Dakshina Kannada on Monday was the only bright glimmer on an otherwise bleak day in the coastal district. The number of fatalities owing to Covid-19 touched the 50 mark in the district, with the death of four people reported since Saturday being confirmed as having been victims of the novel coronavirus. Of the 184 fresh cases reported in the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, the former accounted for 131, its total Covid tally now rising to a staggering 2,361 while the latter had 53 and total number of positive cases rising to 1,621. The pattern of Covid fatalities in Dakshina Kannada followed a pattern that has been observed in the past month, with many people with co-morbidities succumbing to the novel coronavirus. Among the four Covid victims in the district, two were septuagenarians, one a sexagenarian and one was a 53-year-old. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that the pre-existing conditions among the patients included pneumonia, diabetes, hepatitis and carcinoma of the lung. Of the 131 fresh cases reported in DK, 63 were those with a history of influenza-like-illnesses (ILI), 16 have been recognised as primary contacts of previously infected patients, ten had severe acute respiratory infection, while the source of the Covid-19 infection of 38 patients was yet to be traced. Total active cases in the district as on date is 1467 and those discharged both from designated Covid19 and private hospitals including 62 on the day stood at 844. In Udupi, a 72-year-old man from Uppunda who succumbed to the novel coronavirus, had multiple ailments. His death took the total number of Covid fatalities in Udupi to five. Of the 53 fresh cases reported in the district, 12 were identified as having a history of ILI., while the remaining 41 patients are primary contacts of previously infected people, said Dr Sudhir Chandra Sooda, Udupi district health and family welfare officer. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said that the total number of active cases in the district stood at 378, with 1,280 patients having been discharged thus far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/death-toll-in-dakshina-kannada-crosses-50-mark/articleshow/76946441.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 14, 2020||Allahabad||HC at Allahabad not to sit on July 14, 15||Prayagraj: There will be no sitting of court on July 14 and 15 in the high court at Allahabad only for effective and proper sanitization of high court premises to check spread of coronavirus. In a notification, Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court Govind Mathur said that for effective and proper sanitization of high court premises, there shall be no sitting of courts on July 14 and 15 in the high court at Allahabad only. The cases, which have been fixed for July 14 and 15, shall be taken up on July 17 and 20, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-at-allahabad-not-to-sit-on-july-14-15/articleshow/76947444.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||Private hospitals reluctant to treat Covid patients||PATNA: Private healthcare facilities seem to be reluctant to treat Covid-19 patients in Bihar despite the state government’s call in this regard on Sunday. Health department sources said no private hospital till Monday evening offered to treat Covid-19 patients. Health department’s additional secretary Kaushal Kishore had invited private hospitals to submit applications to their respective civil surgeons along with information regarding infrastructure and availability of doctors, nurses and other medical workers at their facilities. They were also told that the patients would bear the expenditure incurred on their treatment. However, big private hospitals fear they will lose non-Covid patients if they started treating the virus infected ones. Director of a private hospital in Patliputra Colony, Dr Satyajit Singh, said mixing of Covid-19 patients with others will increase the fatality rate. “Countries like Italy and Spain have had a very bad experience. Other patients also got infected and the number of deaths increased. Government should select those hospitals and nursing homes which do not carry out life-saving operations,” he suggested. He also cited the example of a private hospital in Delhi which have two separate blocks for Covid and general patients intermixing of even attendants is not allowed. “State government should see all these parameters,” he said. Manager of another private hospital in Patna said they had no such plan. “We are not treating any Covid-19 patient. In fact, none of the private hospitals is admitting such patients,” he said. Even Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association has asked the health department to be more specific in inviting private hospitals and also fix the rate of treatment. “In other states, the government has fixed charges for private hospitals, but no such amount has been fixed in Bihar. This is also one of the reasons why private hospitals are reluctant in treating Covid-19 patients,” said IMA (Bihar) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar. However, a senior health department official said private players were simply invited to extend their help. “We are not forcing anyone and have not fixed any rate. But if need be, we will interfere if excess amount is charged,” he said. Another official added, “We may take stringent steps, if private healthcare institutes continue to deny treatment to Covid-19 patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-hospitals-reluctant-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/76946905.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 14, 2020||Surat||IOT-based saline bottle indicator designed||Surat: The students of Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET), part of the Sarvajanik Education Society, has got funding of Rs 50,000 from the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) for preparing ‘IOT Based Hospital Bottle Indicator’ prototype. Students including Rishika Jain, Dhriti Uttamchandani, Priya Parekh, Nandani Patel and Reema Pandya- had proposed the project. “We had presented our idea to GTU’s under the Students Start-up and Innovation Policy (SSIP) and secured funding to prepare its prototype. This innovation is The Internet of Things (IOT) based on real time monitoring of saline fluid quantity status in the bottle,” Prof. Dhatri Pandya, who is guiding students on this project, told TOI. Currently, the nurse has to physically check the saline level of the bottle. As the number of patients in the hospital increases due to Covid-19 infection, it becomes difficult for the nurse to monitor the saline level physically. “To ease the work for monitoring the saline level, IOT based hospital bottle indicator has been designed which will measure the saline quantity in the bottle, its flow and completion time,” added Pandya. “We will submit the prototype within the next three months to GTU and then it will go for trial,” Pandya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/iot-based-saline-bottle-indicator-designed/articleshow/76948066.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hubballi||Jarkiholi welcomes new car at graveyard||Belagavi: To challenge blind beliefs, Congress working president Satish Jarkiholi on Monday welcomed his Toyota Fortuner car by steering it around a cemetery in Belagavi. Jarkiholi said there are many blind beliefs attached to a cemetery and people think it is a bad omen. “But in reality, this is just another place,” he said. Last year, he had spent a night at a graveyard to debunk myths and spread awareness of scientific temper. Speaking on lockdown, he said district administration should not go for a lockdown as it brings hardship to many persons. “We do not need a lockdown both in the district and in the state. The government should think of poor people who are already troubled due to job losses,” he said. On choosing 2023 as the registration number of the car he said, “The upcoming assembly poll will be held in 2023 and the target of the Congress is to come back to power defeating the BJP. To remind me about target, the number 2023 was chosen,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jarkiholi-welcomes-new-car-at-graveyard/articleshow/76948060.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Surat||Medical store owner held for black marketing of medicines||Surat: Police arrested a mediator on Monday, who was involved in the black marketing of medicines that are on high demand for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The racket was busted by the Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA). Mitul Shah, who runs a medical store in Adajan, was arrested for allegedly playing a role in arranging Tocilizumab for a city-based medical store. Shah purchased the injection for Rs 45,000 and sold it for Rs 50,000 to another accused Uma Kejriwal, owner of another Sarthak Pharma, a medical store in Vesu.Earlier on Friday, police had booked seven persons at Umra police station for involvement in the racket. The accused were arranging injections from Ahmedabad on forged papers and selling it at Rs 57,000 against its actual MRP of Rs 40,545. Police booked Kejriwal and Shah, owner of New Shanti Medicines _ both residents of Surat _ Amit Manchharamani, Ghanshyam Vyas, Abhishek, Bhavesh Solanki of Dhruvi Distributors, four from Ahmedabad and Bhavesh, a resident of Mumbai. The accused were booked under the various sections of the Indian Penal Code for criminal breach of trust, conspiracy and others. They were also booked under two separate Acts, the Drug and Cosmetics Act and the Essential Commodities Act. On June 19, FDCA had laid a trap at Sarthak Pharma on Vesu-Abhva Road following specific information of black marketing of Tocilizumab. FDCA sent a dummy buyer and the medical store owner agreed to arrange the injection. After a few days the injection was arranged and sold to the buyer at Rs 57,000. Investigation by FDCA revealed that Kejriwal bought the injection from Shah who bought it from Manchharamani. “Police are searching for other accused involved in the case,” said an officer at the Umra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/medical-store-owner-held-for-black-marketing-of-medicines/articleshow/76948222.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: CA arrested for murder confesses to 52 snatchings||RAJKOT: The arrest of a 25-year-old Rajkot man in a murder case not only revealed his involvement in this crime, but also the fact that he had eschewed a bright career as a qualified chartered accountant and resorted to as many as 52 chain and mobile snatching too. Amreli local crime branch (LCB) arrested Vrushant Dhanesha alias Shyam for allegedly clubbing to death a 30-year-old man Jignesh Dhakan in Shani Ashram of Odia village near Savarkundla on the night of June 7. Investigation revealed that Dhanesha had killed him as he suspected that Dhakan had got to know about his heists and would inform police. “Dhanesha frequented the ashram and became friends with Dhakan. During casual conversations, Dhakan started asking Dhanesha about his background. He got suspicious that Dhakan had come to know about his criminal background,” said RK Karamta, in-charge police inspector with Amreli LCB On the evening of June 6, when Dhanesha visited the ashram, Dhakan again started asking him about his background which only strengthened his suspicion. However, while leaving the ashram, Dhanesha forgot to take his bag, which he came back to take. At that time, he saw that Dhakan was asleep and there was an iron rod lying nearby. Dhanesha then clubbed Dhakan to death with the rod. “The ashram priest saw him fleeing on the bike. We focussed our investigation on the ashram premises as Dhakan lived there. We came to know that Dhanesha used to frequent the ashram and that he had become friends with Dhakan. On the day of the crime, we found that Dhanesha had come to the ashram and had met Dhakan. As our suspicion grew, we rounded up Dhanesha, who, during interrogation, confessed to killing Dhakan,” said Karamta. Watch Gujarat: CA arrested for murder confesses to 52 snatchings||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-ca-arrested-for-murder-confesses-to-52-snatchings/articleshow/76946840.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Parties play it safe as netas test Covid-19 positive||PATNA: Amid the debate over conducting assembly polls at its scheduled time in October-November, more political leaders are testing positive for Covid-19 in the state. A BJP MLA from north Bihar, a spokesperson of the saffron party and a JD (U) functionary are the latest ones to have contracted the virus. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said several party workers and functionaries have given their samples for test after another spokesperson of the party tested positive for the virus. Moreover, the offices of all major political parties, including BJP, RJD and JD(U), are closed and only a limited number of people are allowed inside for carrying out essential work, mostly related to poll preparations. BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar said though the party office is closed for common people, a limited number of workers, including those from the information technology (IT) cell, look after day-to-day digital interactions and other works. “The party office is closed due to enforcement of fresh lockdown in Patna. Workers entering the office follow social distancing norms and wear face masks,” he said. Meanwhile, the Covid-infected JD(U) functionary, who is also a doctor, said he, his wife and two children had tested positive for the virus. “First, my wife complained of fever three days ago. Being a doctor, I immediately got her Covid test done. Later, I also went for test along with our two children and the results came positive. Fortunately, all of us are asymptomatic. We are under home quarantine,” he said. Even as most parties are going ahead with digital electioneering despite expressing reservations over conduct of the polls, many leaders have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days. RJD national vice-president Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and a former parliamentarian had earlier tested positive for the virus. Both have, however, recovered from the disease. Bihar legislative council acting chairperson, a state minister and three MLAs – one each from BJP, Congress and RJD – have also tested positive for the virus. “It is definitely not a safe time to go to crowded places or get large number of people gather at any place. That is why our party office is closed and only limited number of people are allowed for organisation works,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parties-play-it-safe-as-netas-test-covid-ve/articleshow/76946881.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Surat||Voluntary shut down of Surat diamond units till July 19||Surat: The diamond cutting and polishing units in Surat are not likely to reopen from Tuesday with the diamantaires deciding to keep their factories voluntarily shut till July 20 due to rising Covid-19 infections among those associated with the diamond industry.Following the sudden spurt in coronavirus cases from the diamond hub of Varachha and Katargam, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had issued a notification for the mandatory closure of the diamond units till July 13.Official sources said over 50% of the Covid-19 cases were reported from Katargam and Varachha zones in the last 10 days. Out of the total 2,043 cases, 1,047 cases were reported from Katargam and Varachha.The Surat Diamond Association (SDA) has appealed the diamond units and the markets to observe voluntary shutdown for a week. Responding to the call, the diamond merchants in Varachhha’s Mini Bazaar and Mangadh Chowk have voluntarily decided to shut the market till July 19. Also, the safe deposit vaults in Varachha will remain shut till July 19.Babu Kathirya, president of SDA told TOI, “For the safety of our workers, traders and unit owners, we have urged them to keep their units and markets voluntarily shut for a week.”President of Surat Diamond Merchants’ Association (SDMA), Nandlal Nakrani said, “Except for Mahidhapura diamond market, the diamond markets in Varachha will remain shut for a week. There are very less cases in Mahidhapura and the merchants have started the office following the SOP issued by the SMC.” Chairman of Shree Ramkrishna Export (SRK), Govind Dholakiya told TOI, “For the safety of our workers and ourselves, we have unanimously decided to keep the factories shut till July 20. We will review the situation after July 20 and then take a call on whether to commence operations or not.”Spokesperson of Dharmanandan Diamonds told TOI, “We will restart the unit from Tuesday, but the workers have been told to take decision whether they want to come on duty or not. Even if they don’t come, it is fine. The safety of workers is paramount for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/voluntary-shut-down-of-surat-diamond-units-till-july-19/articleshow/76948133.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||Buxar mob attacks Telangana cops||PATNA: A mob attacked a police team from Telangana and damaged their vehicle on the suspicion of their being kidnappers. The police personnel were in civvies and in a private vehicle. The incident took place Monday morning when the police team was returning to Telangana from Moharia under Dhansoi police station in Buxar district with one Ramji Ram, who had eloped with a married woman from Medipally police station area on July 1. The woman was recovered from Rajpur police station area in Buxar. Later, Ramji, who earlier worked at a plastic factory at Chenghicherla in Telangana, was arrested. Ramji alighted from the vehicle near Bhagatganj under Kochas police station in Rohtas district on the pretext of answering the call of nature and started fleeing. The cops chased him and forced him to sit in the vehicle. Some local residents suspected the policemen as kidnappers and pelted their vehicles with stones and also thrashed two of them. Though the cops showed their ID cards, the mob didn’t relent. The situation was brought under control when a police team from Kochas reached the spot. The statements of injured cops — Ram Chandran and Panchalingam — were recorded at the Kochas police station. The vehicle driver, Ashok Kumar, said the mob looted Rs15,000 and his cellphone. They also didn’t spare a relative of the woman, who was travelling with the police team in another vehicle. Kochas SHO Dhirendra Kumar Singh said an FIR has been lodged against unidentified people. “Raids are on to arrest the culprits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buxar-mob-attacks-telangana-cops/articleshow/76946965.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 18 hours after escape, infected accused nabbed||BATHINDA: An undertrial infected with Covid-19, who had fled from police custody while under treatment at a hospital in Bagha Purana, was arrested on Monday afternoon, within 18 hours of his escape. Balkar Singh of Faridkot had tested positive for the virus on June 7, after he was arrested last week on the charge of subjecting his wife to cruelty. He fled from the isolation ward of Bagha Purana civil hospital in Moga district and was later traced to Malha village. Police and health authorities are checking the people the accused came in contact with when he was on the run. A fresh case has been registered against Balkar and four cops who were deputed to take care of him in the hospital. On Sunday evening, Balkar broke open the window of the ground floor room where he was being treated and fled. Four cops who were deployed with him, failed to trace him. Bagha Purana police station SHO sub-inspector Harmanjit Singh said hospital staff on Sunday evening informed them that Balkar was not in hospital and seemed to have fled. “We inquired from the four policemen deployed with him who feigned ignorance about his whereabouts. It is to be probed whether cops have any hand in the act. A case was registered against Balkar and the cops — assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) Lakhvir Singh and Hardeep Das, and constables Harvinder Kumar and Gagandeep Singh. The accused is back in the isolation ward,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/18-hours-after-escape-infected-accused-nabbed/articleshow/76948617.cms||Neel Kamal
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Shopkeepers down shutters to protest barricades at Moti Bazar entry points||DEHRADUN: More than 70 shop owners at Moti Bazaar market area on Monday closed their shops in protest after police and administrative officials put barricades at entry points of the market. While similar measures were taken in other market areas, including Paltan Bazar, Darhani Chowk and Hanuman Chowk on Sunday, traders at Moti Bazaar said the move was keeping away customers. “The barricades give the impression that the area has been declared a containment zone. Officials have promised to come up with a solution at the earliest, but we are losing business,” said Gopal Gupta, a shopkeeper at Moti Bazaar. The shopkeepers said that they have requested authorities to keep a small passage open for the movement of vehicles, but the entry points had been completely blocked. In an effort to regulate crowd at the city’s market areas, the district administration has been assigning numbers to shops and is planning to implement an odd-even arrangement. This has been a bone of contention between the administration and traders, who are saying that the regulations are affecting their fledgling business. “We had barely reopened for business with a handful of customers due to the pandemic, when these additional limitations were imposed. We are maintaining social distancing at our end and trying keep customers safe,” said a trader at Moti Bazar who did not wish to be named. Pankaj Mason, president of Doon Valley Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, a traders’ body, said, “We had a meeting with police officials and it was decided that four wheelers and three wheelers will not be allowed in the market till the situation returns to normal. Businessmen might face challenges but it’s necessary for us to keep ourselves safe. We do not want a situation where we are again forced to shut down for several days, which has been happening at several places of late.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shopkeepers-down-shutters-to-protest-barricades-at-moti-bazar-entry-points/articleshow/76946815.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||Covid testing: Easier to ‘climb a mountain’, say Patna residents||PATNA: Getting tested for Covid-19 has become an arduous task even as coronavirus cases are multiplying by the day. While two major private labs have stopped their Covid testing services, others have made it mandatory for people to get it recommended by a doctor. At government institutions, there is a huge rush and tests are being done only after approval from doctors at those hospitals. However, state health department secretary Lokesh Kumar said anyone who is symptomatic, or those who have come in touch with Covid-19 positive people can get their tests done at government facilities. “We are also doing random testing,” Lokesh added. A doctor at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), one of the four dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Bihar, said, “A person is examined by a doctor from our hospital. If he is symptomatic and needs a test then the doctor will give it in writing.” Even at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, only doctors deployed there take the call regarding Coviod-19 testing. “We do not test on recommendation of a private doctor,” said a senior doctor. The Patna Medical College and Hospital superintendent, Dr Bimal Karak, said they have a flu corner in the hospital, where person who has to get tested waits. “He has to fill a form giving details of his address and medical history and then his samples are collected. His report is given another day,” said Dr Karak. But people who have been to these hospitals shared their bitter experience of delays in testing as well as in getting their results. An official working at a private firm in the state capital rushed to the NMCH on July 7 after he had difficulty in breathing and his oxygen level came down. He waited till the next day, but no one came for his sample collection. Manoj Kumar (name changed) who went to PMCH on Monday to get himself tested said, “No one was taking samples. Some were saying staff is on strike. Climbing mountains is easier than getting tested for Covod-19 at government hospitals.” A staff at Sen Diagnostics, a private lab, said, “We follow ICMR guidelines for testing. One has to come with prescription from a doctor recommending a test.” For RT-PCR, this lab charges Rs 2,500 and for rapid antigen it charges Rs 1,000. Two other labs, which were given permission, have stopped this work. While at one lab, its staff have tested positive, the other had some technical issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-testing-easier-to-climb-a-mountain-say-patna-residents/articleshow/76947813.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 14, 2020||Surat||Diamond exports dip 41% to Rs 7k crore in June||Surat: Export of cut and polished diamonds declined 41% to Rs 7,000 crore in June compared to Rs 16,000 crore during the same month in previous year. According to the GJEPC, the export of diamonds between April-June fell 45% to Rs 13,638 crore against Rs 24,000 crore export during the same period in previous year. Industry sources said that it was expected that the polished export would dive to more than 60% due to the weak demand and about 40% of the diamond units in Surat still unable to reopen. Sources in the GJEPC stated the export of gems and jewellery, especially diamonds has been affected due to the severe dip in the demand following coronavirus pandemic globally. However, demand in China, Europe and has recovered to a great extent. Majority of the diamonds exported from India was bound to Hong Kong, which is the gateway for China. Kirti Shah, diamond exporter said, “We expected the diamond export would decline by more than 60% in June. However, the GJEPC figures are quite encouraging for the industry. Majority of the export has come from the online sales by the diamantaires. We are hoping to get more business from US in the coming months.” “The data shows that the industry is on the recovery path. If there is enough credit availability and more quicker progress made on ease of doing business, the industry will come out of the pandemic situation very soon,” said a senior official of GJEPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-exports-dip-41-to-rs-7k-crore-in-june/articleshow/76948188.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Business||Prices of resale apartments drop 10% to 25%||Chennai/Delhi: Madhusudan’s apartment in Velacherry, a southern suburb in Chennai was sold for Rs 88 lakh, when a similar sized one in another block inside the same complex was picked up for Rs 1.10 crore last November. Prices of resale properties across the country are down 10% to 25% as cash strapped owners, most of whom had picked up their second apartment as an investment, try and liquidate. “Prices appear to have dropped mainly in the resale market, which was expected. The drop is anywhere between 12% to 15%,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock Property Consultants. Agrees, Srinivas Anikipatti, senior director at Knight Frank, for Tamil Nadu and Kerala markets, “While there is not much of a fall in primary sales as developers are waiting to see how the post moratorium period is emerge, there is a definite decline in resale prices, in some cases by as much as 25%. There is huge mismatch in the asking and offer prices of the residential units in the India realty secondary markets resulting into far and few deals getting closed since the lockdown has been lifted on May 18, 2020. “Real estate prices have fallen over the past three years and we are seeing sales of affordable housing units increase,” said Keki Mistry, vice-chairman and CEO of country’s largest mortgage lender HDFC. While centralised or verifiable data is not available, some say the fall is not very steep. According to Magicbricks, the average of the prevailing prices on which deals were closed in the country fell by only 1.5%. The maximum fall of 5.2% in the average price of ready to move in (RTM) apartments is recorded in Hyderabad. According to 360 Realtor, fall in prices are a bit sharper. The prices in the western suburbs of Mumbai fell by 5.5%, in Thane by 3.6% and central suburbs by 10.1%. But in Pune, 360 Realtor is also suggesting a similar fall — in Wagholi the fall is 0.5%, in Hinjewadi it is 1.8% and PCMC 0.6%. A senior Delhi broker Rajesh Chopra said that there is a huge mismatch between offer and asking price. While buyers are offering 20% discount due to covid pandemic over the March 2020 prices, the seller is not ready to sell at a discount at the moment. Shishir Baijal, CMD, Knight Frank India said, “With the pandemic, we saw a further erosion of buyer sentiments. The lockdown has caused both demand and supply side challenges. Impact of the pandemic can be felt of the pricing in prime residential markets, which are witnessing a moderate reduction in transacted prices in the range of 3% - 6% (year on year) in 2020 in a bid to attract fence sitters to take their purchase decision.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/prices-of-resale-apartments-drop-10-to-25/articleshow/76947912.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
July 14, 2020||Business||Yes Bank sets aside Rs 4.5k cr for anchors||MUMBAI: Yes Bank has set aside Rs 4,500 crore or nearly a third of its follow-on public offer (FPO) for anchor investors — institutional investors who are assured of allotment and are subject to a lock-in period in return for supporting the issue. The bank’s Rs 15,000-crore FPO will open on July 15 and close on July 17. The bank’s MD & CEO Prashant Kumar said that after the issue, the bank’s tier-1 capital adequacy ratio would increase from 6.3% to 13% and allow it to grow for two years without raising additional capital. He said that the bank would bring down the share of corporate business to 40% from 55% and increase the share of retail to 60% from 45%. The price band for the issue — Rs 12-13 per equity share — is at a deep discount to the current market price of Rs 22. After the Yes Bank reconstruction scheme was notified by the government in March this year, SBI, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Federal Bank, Bandhan Bank and IDFC First Bank invested Rs 10,000 crore in the private lender. SBI will be investing an additional Rs 1,760 crore to ensure that its holding does not fall below 26%. Kumar said that the bank has provided substantially for its bad loans and has been conservative in its projections by not taking into account the gains through deferred tax and bad loan recoveries. He said that the bank proposes to hive off its bad loans into a separate unit under professional management with additional investors. If implemented, the recoveries made by the subsidiary would be shared by both the bank and the financial investors. He said that the setting up of a recovery arm was subject to RBI permission. To reduce costs, the bank will be optimising footprint of branches and office premises, taking into account the new post-Covid normal and implementation of process automation and digitisation. It will also cut manpower costs by rationalising outsourced headcount. The bank is also going for a hiring freeze and will not be replacing staff who leave as part of natural attrition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-sets-aside-rs-4-5k-cr-for-anchors/articleshow/76948138.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mysuru||Daily-wage workers anxious over possible lockdown||Mysuru: Even as debate over cordoning-off parts of Narasimharaja assembly segment continues following an increase in Covid positive cases and deaths, residents here are anxious as the decision could inconvenience them. Most residents are daily-wage earners. Women here roll beedis and incense sticks to keep the fire burning. Plans of a lockdown could push them to the wall. The district administration says some individuals from the constituency delayed seeking medical help and have breathed their last. Some residents in the constituency aren’t willing to get tested and have been cooperating with health staff. The crux of the matter is that most of them live in single-room houses and a lockdown makes them stay indoors for a longer time where they can’t maintain social distance. Former mayor Pushpalatha Jagannath said lockdown has become inevitable to contain the spread of the infection. “However, what is worrying is that people in this part of Mysuru are all living a hand to mouth life and they need to work daily to make a living. We’re in a catch-22 situation,” said Pushpalatha, who is also a corporator of ward 11. Ayub Khan, a corporator, admits there is an increase in cases in the last two weeks and a lockdown-like restriction is inevitable. Being alive is important than all other things, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/daily-wage-workers-anxious-over-possible-lockdown/articleshow/76947713.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 14, 2020||Business||‘Liquidity steps helped cut yields to decade low’||MUMBAI: The RBI has said that the liquidity measures it undertook to counter the financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has helped in reducing borrowing costs for AAA- and AA-rated borrowers to their lowest level in a decade. According to a report by the RBI, provision of liquidity through unrestricted (long-term repo operations) as well as targeted instruments (targeted long-term repo operations), together with policy easing, has enabled even lower rated companies to raise funds. Last week, speaking at SBI’s economic conclave, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said that the central bank’s policy measures appeared to be working. He said that one of the objectives of the RBI’s measures was to ensure that the financial markets are stable and do not freeze. According to the RBI report, its measures have resulted in markets remaining resilient, liquid and stable, establishing conditions for a finance-led recovery of the economy ahead of the revival of demand. The RBI’s measures to open the floodgates also resulted in yields in government bonds dropping to their lowest level in more than a decade. This was despite the increase in government borrowings and the significant loss of revenue due to the lockdown. The RBI also took measures to ensure that smaller players were not denied liquidity by targeted repo operations, which refinanced banks who invested in bonds of small and mid-sized corporates, including non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and micro finance institutions (MFIs). The return of risk appetite was seen in the shrinking of the difference in rates (spread) between private and government debt. The decline in spread for AAA-rated NBFCs was the maximum at 170 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point), followed by PSUs, FIs and banks (147bps) and corporates (146bps). For AA-rated entities, the fall in spreads was 156bps for NBFCs, 143bps for PSUs, FIs and banks, and 138 bps for corporates. Spreads on the instruments issued by the PSUs, FIs and banks category have reverted to pre-Covid levels. While the pain was averted for most segments of the market, NBFCs with short-term liabilities are still vulnerable. According to the report, outstanding commercial papers of private NBFCs in particular fell by 71%, from Rs 2.22 lakh crore as on July 31, 2018 to Rs 64,253 crore as on April 30, 2020. “Thus, while corporates and financial institutions continue to benefit from lower interest rates on short-term instruments, the NBFCs and HFCs (housing finance companies) have had to reduce their reliance on short-term financing,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/liquidity-steps-helped-cut-yields-to-decade-low/articleshow/76948212.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Data of patients in public domain||Health officials are under pressure to ensure safe data processing of Covid patients in the Nilgiris, but a part of the confidential data has found its way out to family Whatsapp groups. Several relatives of Covid-19 patients have complained that the names, addresses and contact numbers of patients have been made public.“Officials should take strict action to ensure data is safe. Privacy of a patient should be maintained at any cost,” said K Kannan, a relative of a Covid-19 patient. When informed of the data leak, Dr P.Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said, “Compiled daily data of details of patients are sent to various departments, including revenue and police. Data sharing procedure among departments on the frontline is unavoidable”. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/data-of-patients-in-public-domain/articleshow/76948588.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Panel lists various faults of polluting industry in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A joint committee set up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to look into environmental violations by Chemplast Sanmar industries in Tamil Nadu has pointed out various shortcomings by the industrial unit in an inspection report. The Tamil Nadu government had granted lease to Chemplast Sanmar Limited to establish five different units to manufacture various chemicals. A petitioner, K Gemini, had alleged that the units were discharging poisonous effluents into river Cauvery and that the resultant water pollution had increased cancer, skin disease cases in nearby Gonur and Veerakkalpudur villages. The NGT principal bench, in September 2019, constituted a committee consisting of representatives of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and other related state agencies to look into the issue. The panel inspected the industries thrice and submitted its report on June 1. According to the report, hazardous waste generated from plant-I, II and III was being disposed of in captive Secured Land Fills (SLFs) instead of being sent to Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility (TDSF). Another recommendation on installation of a stormwater management system was not complied with, the report said. The system was to collect and store surface runoff (contaminated with product or raw material), so that no water was let out in public drains. No steps were taken to install continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQM) for monitoring particulate matter (PM), nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulphur oxide (SOx). Only volatile organic compound levels were measured, and that too was not on a real-time basis, the report added. CPCB guidelines were violated partially at SLF operations and there was no waste inspection data maintained. Besides green norms, industry safety measures too were inadequate, said a separate study by the state industry department. National Geophysical Research Institute is assessing water samples from open and bore wells in nearby villages. Counsel appearing for Sanmar has sought time to file a detailed objection. The case has been adjourned to August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/panel-lists-various-faults-of-polluting-industry/articleshow/76947863.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 14, 2020||Shimla||Congress protests Himachal Pradesh'ss go-ahead to tourism, CM points to Rajasthan||SHIMLA: The Congress protested in Shimla on Monday over the state government’s move to open Himachal Pradesh’s borders to tourists. In reply, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the Congress protesters should first ask Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot to do the same in Rajasthan as the state there had opened its borders to tourists before Himachal Pradesh. Congress state president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the decision should be suspended till the time infrastructure was not created on state borders for checking tourists. He said Congress was not against tourism and other businesses, but it was more important to be cautious, so the state government should reconsider its decision. He said even hotel owners and other traders were against the idea, so the government should wait. Thakur, in reply to the demands by Congress leaders, said it would have been better if Congress leaders of state had made similar suggestions to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot as Rajasthan had more Covid cases. He said a large number of Covid-19 cases had been reported in Rajasthan, but its borders were open to tourists. He said the state government had imposed many conditions on tourists and these need to be fulfilled before entering the state. He said tourists were coming by following protocol. He said no relaxations would be given in guidelines and restrictions. “Since opening the borderm not even a single tourist has tested positive for Covid-19,” he added. He said that Congress has submitted a memorandum and it is quite shocking and unfortunate that it is opposing the return of stranded Himachalis. He said that opposing the return of 2 lakh Himachalis who have returned from different parts of country would put Congress in trouble in coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cong-protests-hps-go-ahead-to-tourism-cm-points-to-raj/articleshow/76948621.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Subdued rainfall for next 48 hours, monsoon to pick up from July 15: Met||DEHRADUN: After witnessing widespread rain activity in the past three-days, the regional meteorological centre has predicted dry weather conditions across Uttarakhand for next two days. The rain spells have already become weak across the Himalayan state with very light-to-light showers being received at isolated places. Pauri, Ukimath, and Tharali received 10 mm rainfall, according to the Met office. “Subdued monsoon activity will be witnessed in Uttarakhand for the next 48 hours and dry weather is expected at almost majority of places,” said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre. However, the rain activity will one again pick up in Uttarakhand from July 15 onwards with heavy showers expected at few places, Singh added. The temperatures are also settling around normal levels in both hills and plain areas of the state. The highest maximum temperature of 33.1 degree Celsius was recorded at Pantnagar while the lowest temperature of 14.4 degree Celsius was recorded at Ranichauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/subdued-rainfall-for-next-48-hrs-monsoon-to-pick-up-from-july-15-met/articleshow/76946870.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Mudragada quits Kapu movement||Vijayawada: What comes as a rude shock to the followers, former minister Mudragada Padmanabham, quit the Kapu movement. Padmanabham wrote an open letter to his supporters on Monday stating why he left the movement. Padmanabham, in his two-page-long open letter to his supporters, expressed pain and anguish over the remarks being made against him in the media and social media by people who he described to have “vested interests”. He said he had launched the movement decades ago to lend voice to the community and recalled how he was subjected to humiliation and brutality by the governments during the course of the movement, particularly in the last five years. He said his family members too were subjected to brutality but he had accepted it all in the larger interests of the community. He took strong exception to the allegation of mismanagement of funds for the movement, stating that he never used money from the movement to fund his personal requirements. Referring to the infamous Tuni agitation, where activists went on rampage and set on fire a train, police station and other government properties, he said it was the expression of the anger felt by the community for being denied reservation. While stating that a movement involves different forms of struggles and stages, he said his critics have failed to understand them; pained by the constant criticisms he has decided to leave the movement. “We were shocked with his decision. We don’t know what to do as of now. Time will solve all the problems. But, his decision was unfortunate and his loss to the movement cannot be compensated,” said Kapu JAC leader Vasireddy Jesudas to TOI on Monday. Padmanabham, a long time frontline warrior of the Kapu movement in the state, was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mudragada-quits-kapu-movement/articleshow/76946855.cms||Gopi Dara
July 14, 2020||Allahabad||HC seeks Govt, SESSB reply in writ against 2016 result||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has asked state government and UP Secondary Education Services Selection Board (UPSESSB) to file their respective counter affidavits (replies) in response to a writ petition challenging final result of TGT-2016 physical examination. Trained Graduate Teacher (TGT) means a graduate, who is trained in teaching. Hearing a writ petition filed by one Vimal Tiwari, a candidate who had participated in the exam, Justice VK Birla directed to list this matter after nine weeks for the next hearing. The petitioner had participated in the examination but was declared unsuccessful in the final result. Hence, the petitioner had challenged the result on the ground that the reservation policy was wrongly implemented by the authorities. For example, the benefit of reservation policy was given at each stage of the recruitment process to the candidates belonging to reserved categories which, according to him, is against rules. Appearing for the petitioner, his counsel Pratik Chandra contended that giving benefit of reservation during preliminary examination and then again at the time of final selection was against the reservation policy. “Candidates belonging to reserved categories were unduly benefited because of wrong implementation of policy as benefit of reservation cannot be given at each stage of recruitment process,” the counsel said. In the petition, the requests were made to apply reservation policy afresh and issue revised result for TGT, physical examination. It is to recall tht the advertisement of TGT examination was issued in the year 2016. Preliminary written examination was conducted on March 8, 2019. Later, interview was conducted on February 18, 2020, and on March 19 final results were declared for the posts. This order was passed on July 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-govt-sessb-reply-in-writ-against-2016-result/articleshow/76947492.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Key phase 3 clinical trial waived for Biocon drug||Mumbai: The government has waived key Phase 3 clinical trials on Biocon’s drug Itolizumab, the first biologic to have received approval for treating Covid-19 patients, raising questions by doctors and researchers. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Itolizumab on July 10, under ‘emergency use’ for treatment of moderate to severe ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) patients due to Covid-19. The drug’s approval is based on results from clinical trials on 30 patients at hospitals in Mumbai and New Delhi. Researchers and doctors whom TOI spoke to have also questioned the sample size of patients which the study enrolled, saying it’s inadequate to make a “scientifically robust conclusion’’. Over last few months of the Covid-19 pandemic, there have been instances where drugs like hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, lopinavir-ritonavir have been used, without robust clinical studies. Phase 3 clinical studies are considered crucial in establishing efficacy data of a drug, as these are done on a larger number of people, typically a few hundreds, before the drug is approved for use in populations. These are important to compare the drug to standard therapies for the disease, and to evaluate overall risks and benefits of the drug, which may have gone unnoticed, or may have not been even reported in earlier Phase 2 studies. These also provide more confidence to clinicians to use the drug on populations. When contacted, Dr Sandeep Athalye chief medical officer, Biocon Biologics said “150 patients have benefited from the drug as doctors have used it under compassionate use. We will be publishing the trial data as well as real world data to further strengthen the body of evidence for Itolizumab. The drug has a seven-year proven safety track record, having been used in treating acute psoriasis in India’’. The average cost of therapy by using Biocon’s biologic Itolizumab is about Rs 32,000, or Rs 8,000 per vial. Terming the waiver as “unusual’’, Dr Anant Bhan researcher and former president International Association of Bioethics, said conditions of skipping an entire stage need to be made public. Phase 3 clinical studies are important to establish the drug’s efficacy, even if there is enough safety data since it’s an old drug being repurposed for Covid-19. Also, it is unclear who are the members of the “Subject Expert Committee’ and the government should put these details out in the public domain”. Doctors said they would be reluctant to use a drug that has been tested only in 20 patients and compared with 10 controls in a phase 2 trial. “People assume that because we are in a global pandemic and in an urgent need of solutions, the scientific bar can be lowered. Even in a short span of a few months, this assumption has lead to poor treatment choices: the use of hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, lopinavir-ritonavir, all of which were touted to be “miracle drugs” from small studies have eventually not shown much promise in large randomised clinical trials”, Dr Lancelot Pinto consultant respirologist at PD Hinduja Hospital told TOI.  Dr CS Pramesh director, Tata Memorial Hospital tweeted ‘’The last old drug we repurposed for Covid-19 had 6,425 patients - RECOVERY trial for Dexamethasone. A 30-patient study is not enough to prove efficacy even for an old drug’’. Dr SP Kalantri physician and epidemiologist posted on twitter ‘’Recovery and Solidarity trials could enroll thousands of participants for their COVID19 trials. So did Remdesivir trialists in NIH and Wuhan. In just 8 weeks. India recorded 850000 COVID cases & 22500 deaths. Why Indian trials have such appalling numbers as 30, 100, and 120?’’ “We have yet another drug added to the growing list of drugs for off-label emergency use, but none with proven efficacy for routine use. What we need is a safe drug that would work for most if not all patients, and for that, proving efficacy and safety in a phase 3 randomized controlled trial with a larger sample size is the gold standard’, Dr Arvinder Soin chairman Medanta Liver Institute, said. He added a disclaimer: he is the national lead for the Indian multi-center Phase 3 tocilizumab (another drug being used in Covid-19) trials. Phase II represents the first time in which a drug is tested in actual patients, ranging from 50 to 200 patients in most studies. Phase II trials also called “therapeutic exploratory” trials, are conducted in a small number of diseased participants. Because of the small number of participants and safety concerns within a Phase II trial, these trials lack the power to establish efficacy of a drug, an expert explained. Of note, once the drug has passed Phase II trial, less than half of them show sufficient benefits in Phase III to make it to the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/key-phase-3-clinical-trial-waived-for-biocon-drug/articleshow/76948701.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
July 14, 2020||Goa||‘Don’t visit Calangute police stn’||Calangute: The Calangute police has advised the public not to visit the station and to lodge their complaints over phone call. This comes after a lady constable attached to the Saligao police station, which is housed in the same building, tested positive. The Calangute police station is manned by a skeletal staff as all those who had been on the same shift as the constable last Friday have been asked to home quarantine, sources said. Their swab samples have also been collected and the reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-visit-calangute-police-stn/articleshow/76948622.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||2 foreigners among 3 tourists found Covid-19 positive in Rishikesh, hotel owner booked||RISHIKESH: The owner of a local hotel was booked for allegedly flouting the Covid-19 guidelines after three tourists, including two foreign nationals, tested positive for Covid-19 in Rishikesh. According to police, a 60-year-old woman from the US and her 42-year-old friend from Himachal Pradesh had come from Goa to Rishikesh on June 19 and stayed at a local hotel. Meanwhile, they met a 56-year-old woman from Germany, who had been staying at another hotel in Rishikesh since she arrived here from Dehradun on May 7. Muni Ki Reti police station SHO RK Saklani told TOI, “As they had a plan to visit Himachal, they gave their samples for Covid-19 test at AIIMS, Rishikesh, and found to be positive for the novel coronavirus, following which hotel staff and other tourists staying in both hotels were quarantined. “We found the owner of the hotel where the German woman was staying at allowed her to live in the hotel even as the government had then prohibited the entry of tourists. A case has been registered against the hotel owner under relevant sections of the Pandemic Act and the Disaster Management Act,” said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-foreigners-among-3-tourists-found-covid-positive-in-rishikesh-hotel-owner-booked/articleshow/76946849.cms||MS Nawaz
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Resident associations pitch in to raise Covid-19 awareness||Coimbatore: The Race Course and Neighbourhood Association (RANA) last week circulated a brochure on Covid-19 to provide information about the deadly virus. Most importantly, it explained what a patient should do when symptoms manifest. Besides details of government and private hospitals approved to provide treatment and whom to notify if samples at a private laboratory tests positive, the RANA document also listed the medical equipment people in the risk group should have at home, from where they can be bought and how to home isolate.“While we circulated it on WhatsApp, we also printed 150 copies to distribute to households that have elderly people,” said J Sathish, a member of the association.The pandemic has prompted several resident associations to come up with innovative ways to create awareness and reassure people.The resident association of Ganapathymanagar, which has 1,100 houses spread across four blocks, launched a WhatsApp group with 200 members. “We keep updating the number of sanitary inspectors in our ward, whom to contact if residents have symptoms and the nearest PHC they can visit to give sample. We also asked our members to update their status on the Aarogya Setu app,” said association president Pugazhendhi. “We keep in touch with ward 41 coordinator Salim Kumar and update our residents with information on new containment zones in the area and places to stay away from.”Ward 54, which falls in Ramnagar, also has an active resident-driven WhatsApp group. Members who are in the corporation’s Swachh group give updates on latest prevention measures and strategies.Keeping residents informed reduces the burden on the government and the health department, said Sathish. “We came across several residents who had many questions regarding handling the virus. We decided to create this document to pacify our neighbours, who were constantly calling the Covid-19 helpline to clarify doubts and to bring down the number of anxious people turning up at hospitals. Now, they can call the point person and take it from there,” said Sathish. “Keeping residents informed also make them more cooperative when health officers’ surveillance the area and launch disinfection measures,” said Pugazhendhi.The trend has prompted the Coimbatore corporation to develop a document in both English and Tamil on symptoms of the virus, what to do, whom to contact and how to home isolate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/resident-associations-pitch-in-to-raise-covid-19-awareness/articleshow/76948628.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Noida||Government releases Rs 100 crore for Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS||GHAZIABAD: In a major boost to the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project, the UP government has released Rs 100 crore to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) for the project. The amount is part of the Rs 900 crore package that the government had allocated in its state budget 2020-21 in February. The Centre in its union budget this year had allocated Rs Rs 2,487 crore for all RRTS projects, including the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS project that is currently being undertaken on a priority basis. “The project cost has been pegged at Rs 30,724 crore, of which Rs 6,500 crore has to be borne by the state government,” said an NCRTC official. “The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS — the country’s first rapid rail project — is being executed by the NCRTC from Sarai Kale Khan to Meerut,” added the official. Meanwhile, the NCRTC on Monday launched the first precast segment between Guldhar and Duhai. This is the first of 12 segments that have been launched on the 17-km-long priority section from Sahibabad to Duhai, for which the NCRTC has set March, 2023 as the deadline. “Launching of girders under the prevailing circumstances marks an important phase of work. Soon, a superstructure will be visible on the RRTS alignment and we are hopeful that by March 2023, we will open up the priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai,” said the official. “The 12 segments that would be launched and connected to create the RRTS viaduct. It will take around 6 days to join and complete the span, following which the launcher will be moved towards Ghaziabad side from the present location,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/govt-releases-rs-100-cr-for-del-gzb-meerut-rrts/articleshow/76949501.cms||Abhijay Jha
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||Theft suspect lynched by mob in Gujarat's Kutch||RAJKOT: A theft suspect was allegedly lynched by a mob of 25-odd people at a hotel near Lakadia village of Bhachau taluka in Kutch early Sunday morning. Police said, the victim, identified as Jamal Dafer, had allegedly come with the intent to commit theft from the trucks parked at Hotel Hanuman. “A hotel staff, identified as Gokalram Jat (28), spotted Dafer and ran after him. Dafer slashed one of his legs with a knife. Soon a crowd of truck drivers and cleaners woke up from their slumber and grabbed Dafer,” said an official from Lakadia police station. The mob led by the hotel owner, Hanumanram Jat, Gokulram Jat and Kevalram Jat overpowered Dafer, tied him with ropes and then started raining fists and kicks on him. Dafer was later handed over to Lakadia police station, where his condition deteriorated. He was taken to Lakadia primary health centre, where he succumbed to his injuries. “Hanumanram Jat, Gokulram Jat and Kevalram Jat along with 25 others have been booked for Dafer’s murder on the complaint of his father Jusab Dafer,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/theft-suspect-lynched-by-mob-in-kutch/articleshow/76946891.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||‘Body ache to diarrhoea, Covid has many symptoms’||Panaji: Besides the regular flu-like symptoms, Covid patients in the state have been presenting symptoms of loose motions, body ache with no fever, pain in the abdomen and even loss of smell. While most symptomatic patients are being brought in with fever and other flu-like symptoms, there are a few who have complained of gastric problems, including diarrhoea and loss of smell. Dr Sunanda Amonkar, who heads the clinical management at the Covid hospital, told reporters that most patients have complained of fever, body ache, malaise, sore throat and cough, with a few presenting complaints of loose motions. In-charge of Covid hospital and MS Hospicio Hospital, Dr Ira Almeida said Covid can have many presentations. “Some have only weakness and others only body ache with no fever or cough at all. Covid can have various presentations — skin presentations and pain in the abdomen among others.” One should immediately get themselves checked if they experience symptoms she said. “People need to report immediately. Any symptoms that cannot be accounted for need to be checked by a doctor. Any unexplained signs and symptoms need to be immediately investigated and accounted for,” she said. So far, all the children admitted to the Covid hospital have presented with mild symptoms. The hospital has a dedicated six-bed PICU. In addition, the 220-bedded hospital also has a six-bed ICU, and a 20-bed intensive treatment unit of which 12 beds have been kept for patients requiring non-invasive ventilation. The other eight beds are for other serious cases, Dr Almeida said. The hospital also has 200 oxygen beds of which 76 have panels for piped oxygen, 80 ventilators, two dialysis machines and one high flow oxygen system, with four more expected in the week. The hospital, which is currently filled to half its capacity, has five caretakers of which three are ex-positives. “We give them PPE and provide them with accommodation,” Dr Almeida said. The hospital’s kitchen is fully functional again. It was closed for a few days last month following two kitchen staff and a tea boy testing positive. It had reopened, but only for lunch and tea, with the hospital outsourcing breakfast and dinner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/body-ache-to-diarrhoea-covid-has-many-symptoms/articleshow/76948627.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Detained TJ members to be moved to Haj facility||Chennai: All the 129 foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat, currently detained in a special camp for various violations, will be soon moved to Tamil Nadu Haj Service Society facility in Choolai, Tamil Nadu government told the Madras high court on Monday. According to the prosecution, 53 of the detained are from Indonesia, 17 from Malaysia, 14 each from Thailand and Bangladesh, 13 from Myanmar, eight from Ethiopia, five from France, three from Comoros, and one each from Congo and Belgium. “They have been detained for various lockdown violations and for involving in preaching of their faith violating visa conditions. So far, 14 FIRs have been registered. The state has decided to accommodate them in the society in Choolai. It has 89 rooms and separate place for women,” state public prosecutor A Natarajan said. The prosecutor made the submissions on a plea seeking direction to the state to release the TJ members, who are detained in a special camp for foreign prisoners. Opposing the submission, senior advocate for petitioners, Ajmal Khan, contended that all the detainees are foreign nationals and do not know the regional language. While so, how could they be involved in religious preaching, he said. Recording the submission, a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani adjourned the hearing to July 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/detained-tj-members-to-be-moved-to-haj-facility/articleshow/76947866.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand students overcome obstacles, fare well in boards||DEHRADUN: Two Class XII CBSE students from Uttarakhand — Kamla Joshi and Akash Pal — lived up to French writer Molière's quote "the greater the obstacle, the more glory in overcoming it". While Joshi, a B1 (no vision at all) category student, scored 97.6% in her Class XII board exams; Pal, son of a migrant daily wager from Uttar Pradesh, scored 95% marks. Joshi, 20-year-old, is a student of National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Visual Disabilities (NIEPVD), the renowned institute for visually impaired students. She has scored 488 out of 500 marks (Hindi 99, Sociology 99, English 97, Political Science 98, and History 95). Her last two exams — Hindi and Sociology — were not held due to Covid-19 outbreak and she was awarded marks on the basis of CBSE’s newly implied alternate marking scheme. Her father is a security guard. Talking to TOI, Joshi said, "I joined NIEPVD when I was in Class IX. I desire to pursue a BA programme from St Stephen's College or Lady Shri Ram College of Commerce in New Delhi. I want to get a hang of all the major Humanities subjects instead of specialising in just one subject as my dream is to become an IAS officer." When asked about her physical struggles, Joshi added, “I would like to thank God for whatever he has given to me. I also thank my teachers who have been very supportive.” Meanwhile Pal, a science stream student, is a student of Purkal Youth Development Society in Dehradun. “My father is a mason and my mother works as a small-time tailor. I am thankful to my institute for providing me free of cost education,” said Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-students-overcome-obstacles-fare-well-in-boards/articleshow/76946886.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Beds with O2 lines planned for every taluka in Jalgaon dist||Nashik: The district administration in Jalgaon has decided to have in place at least 25 beds with oxygen lines in every taluka to provide better treatment to Covid-19 patients. “We have Covid care centres in rural areas and dedicated Covid health centres in the talukas. Considering the nature of the treatment required for people suffering from the infection, we have decided to introduce oxygen lines and reserve beds in the rural areas for those who would require oxygen support,” said a senior officer from the administration. With the many health check-up camps that have been lined up in the towns and urban areas with the help of NGOs, the administration claims to have been successful in identifying more Covid-19 patients in the early stages. “Since a large number of patients were identified during the early stages of infection, we could provide timely treatment. This helped us reduce the death rate from 7.63% on June 20 to less than 5.51% currently. That the situation is turning better is evident from the recovery rate which now stands at 59%,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/beds-with-o2-lines-planned-for-every-taluka-in-jalgaon-dist/articleshow/76946862.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers seek e-pass to bring workers from other districts||Coimbatore: The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) on Monday sought e-passes for farm labourers from the neighbouring districts.E-pass applications to bring the labourers are getting rejected, said AIKS district president S Palanisamy, who submitted a petition to the Coimbatore collector. “As the small onion harvest season has begun, farmers are struggling to bring labourers from Tirupur, Erode and Namakkal. The officials are giving e-passes to industries and those with GST numbers and not farmers,” he said.Small onion is cultivated on 12,000 hectares in the district. “While small farmers manage with labourers in and around their villages, big farmers find it easy to get people from Tirupur and Erode,” said K Manikandan, a farmer from Thondamuthur. “ While I am willing to pay for a van to bring labourers, the person I am hired to bring them says that he cant get an e-pass. If we get too much rain in the next few days, the crop will be spoiled.”The association also registered protest against the move to make central banks issue farmers ID card and not the agriculture department. “Agriculture officers used to visit our farms, check documents and issue the card. Now they want us to get the card from a bank manager, who we have to convince to visit our farm, verify documents like patta and chitta to issue the card, which is an impossible task,” said Palanisamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-seek-e-pass-to-bring-workers-from-other-districts/articleshow/76948623.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||4 more cops test positive for Covid-19||Coimbatore: After five cops attached to the Thudiyalur police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, four more turned positive on Monday. While two are from the Thudiyalur police station, one is from Podanur and another from the city crime branch (CCB) based in the city police commissionerate. All of them are undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital. The CCB office has been closed for fumigation.The Thudiyalur police station has been shifted to a marriage hall. Only seven cops should be present in the station, superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said. “A sub-inspector, station writer, assistant writer and four cops can work in the station. The rest should not visit the station,” he said. “Cops should take precautionary measures to control the spread of Covid-19.”Some cops of the Thudiyalur and Sulur station have been given rest for five days. Cops from the rural armed reserve police will replace them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-more-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76948626.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ghaziabad||Government releases Rs 100 crore for Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS||GHAZIABAD: In a major boost to the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project, the UP government has released Rs 100 crore to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) for the project. The amount is part of the Rs 900 crore package that the government had allocated in its state budget 2020-21 in February. The Centre in its union budget this year had allocated Rs Rs 2,487 crore for all RRTS projects, including the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS project that is currently being undertaken on a priority basis. “The project cost has been pegged at Rs 30,724 crore, of which Rs 6,500 crore has to be borne by the state government,” said an NCRTC official. “The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS — the country’s first rapid rail project — is being executed by the NCRTC from Sarai Kale Khan to Meerut,” added the official. Meanwhile, the NCRTC on Monday launched the first precast segment between Guldhar and Duhai. This is the first of 12 segments that have been launched on the 17-km-long priority section from Sahibabad to Duhai, for which the NCRTC has set March, 2023 as the deadline. “Launching of girders under the prevailing circumstances marks an important phase of work. Soon, a superstructure will be visible on the RRTS alignment and we are hopeful that by March 2023, we will open up the priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai,” said the official. “The 12 segments that would be launched and connected to create the RRTS viaduct. It will take around 6 days to join and complete the span, following which the launcher will be moved towards Ghaziabad side from the present location,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/govt-releases-rs-100-cr-for-del-gzb-meerut-rrts/articleshow/76952678.cms||Abhijay Jha
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Tiruporur firing brings focus on shady land deals||Chennai: The firing incident on Saturday at Tiruporur, off OMR, over the alleged encroachment of temple land has brought into focus organized gangs involved in shady real estate deals involving private, public and ‘promoboke’ land on the stretch as well as on ECR. The firing had left a passerby injured. Double documentation, fake papers and the involvement of unscrupulous land sharks have always cast a shadow on land transactions along the entertainment and IT corridors that run parallel for about 30km from Sholinganallur and Injambakkam till Mamallapuram. Stakeholders familiar with realty developments along the corridors point to an unholy nexus among the real estate mafia, government officials and elected representatives to usurp land. For instance, a swathe of 2,000 acres of vacant land belonging to Arulmigu Kandaswamy Temple at Tiruporur and Arulmigu Alavandhar Nayakar Charity at Mamallapuram, together worth around Rs 60,000 crore, has come under the radar of land sharks. Administered by the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department, it comes under the jurisdiction of Tiruporur sub-registrar office. Registration officials who worked at Tiruporur say about 20 gangs, including some with political clout, are eyeing this land. “There were multiple attempts to register HR&CE properties illegally with some claiming stake from different parts of the state using forged documents. Those refusing to fall in line for clandestine offers are often threatened by local politicians,” said a registration official who experienced such intimidation in the past. While two fraudulent registrations with regard to Alavandhar Nayakar Charity emerged in 2018, registration department sources say steps have been taken to protect the land. Online transactions of 92 survey numbers in Tiruporur block have been blocked for registration, a senior official said. A HR&CE official said action had been initiated to protect temple land from encroachers. The Tiruporur sub-registrar’s office registers about 15,000 documents every year, covering areas from Navallur to Sirudhavur on OMR and between Injambakkam and Mamallapuram along ECR. In several developed pockets along the two highways, some realty agents have been engaged in malpractices such as double documentation, forging documents and misusing power of attorney of private properties, said the official. “In a specific case at Thaiyur, a real estate dealer was found selling housing plots using power of attorney after the demise of the original owner. In fact, we were alerted about the racket by the dealer’s rival,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tiruporur-firing-brings-focus-on-shady-land-deals/articleshow/76947890.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Death of 7-year-old could be ‘sacrifice’||Mohali: Four days after a seven-year-old boy died under mysterious circumstances at Sakrulapur village in Gharuan, Mohali police have registered a case of murder against a woman and arrested her. Police suspect that the woman, Amandeep Kaur, was trying to conduct some kind of sacrifice. She will be produced in court on Tuesday. At first, police initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPc but started investigation on suspicion. The deceased has been identified as Harpreet alias Happy. Superintendent of Police (SP), Rural, Ravjot Grewal said, “It is suspected that the accused was trying to conduct some kind of sacrifice. At first, parents of the deceased told us it is a snake bite but later when we saw the body, we got suspicious. We inquired with doctors who told us that it doesn’t seem to be a snake bite. It’s not an accidental death and there is something suspicious.” The police official said the deceased had little injury marks all over his body. “We are waiting for the medical report and we have taken the viscera report. A board of two doctors will conduct the medical examination. Prima facie, it doesn’t seem like a snake bite,” she said. A case has been registered under Section 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadar Kharar police station. On July 9, Harpreet was playing outside his house with other children. Everyone went home but he stayed back. Later, he went missing. He was found lying in the bushes near his house after what appeared to be an attack by some venomous animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/death-of-7-year-old-could-be-sacrifice/articleshow/76947899.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||27 more cases take tally to 1,291 in dist||Coimbatore: The district recorded 27 more cases of covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 1,291 . Though the bulletin says we have 960 active cases, officials say there are only 668 active cases in the district.The 27 cases include five people who tested positive for the virus from Pollachi and Valparai. While four of them have been sent to ESI Hospital, one of them has been sent to the Covid care centre in Pollachi Women’s Higher Secondary School. Health department officials said a lorry driver from MGR Nagar, in Pollachi, had a travel history to Bengaluru, a woman from Thonimundi in Valparai who recently visited CMCH also tested positive and the wife of a man at the Koli Kamuthi Elephant rearing camp has also tested positive.Corporation officials took samples from another 40 officials of the income tax office on Monday. They have already collected samples from 16 senior officers in the department, as part of tracing the chief commissioner’s contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/27-more-cases-take-tally-to-1291-in-dist/articleshow/76948633.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation redefines containment zones||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), which stopped designating containment zones, is sealing localities again. If more than four cases are identified in a 50-metre radius, then the area will be sealed , GHMC officials said. On ground verification revealed that unlike earlier, officials of line departments were not stringent with residents at a containment zone. At NBT Nagar, Road Number 12, Banjara Hills, where a lane was sealed, people were freely moving outside the cluster. Similarly at Bharat Nagar in Moosapet, a lane near the vegetable market was barricaded, but people were seen moving around freely by removing barricades. GHMC officials, however, said police were deployed near containment clusters. “The entry/exit point of clusters are monitored by police round the clock,” a GHMC special officer for one of the circles told TOI. Another officer said they were identifying more containment zones. “If there are 10 cases in a building, we will not seal the lane, but if there are five cases in different buildings, the area will be declared a containment zone,” he said. GHMC Several residents who were seen coming out of containment clusters said they were heading for work. GHMC officials emphasised that home isolation kits would be given only to people who were advised home isolation by doctors. GHMC and health department has data of all people advised home isolation, he added. “A total of 15,000 home isolation kits have been distributed across the city. Additional 5,000 kits are kept on standby,” said DS Lokesh Kumar, GHMC commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-redefines-containment-zones/articleshow/76947880.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Police step up surveillance in 4 big containment zones||Nashik: With fresh cases of Covid-19 coming to the fore from Phulenagar, Bhadrakali, Wadalagaon and Gosaviwadi areas of the city, police have increased surveillance in the containment zones drawn up in these areas. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Amol Tambe told TOI, “Most of the entry and exit points to these four containment zones have been barricaded and are being manned by police round-the-clock to restrict the movement of people and vehicles.” The staff of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) uses thermal scanners to check the temperature of those who want to enter the containment zones. The DCP said patrolling has also been increased across the city, including the containment zones, to prevent people from violating norms like not wearing masks, not observing social distancing norms, etc. “We have also set up nakabandi on the outskirts of the city to check entry of vehicles. We have instructed our teams not to allow vehicles into the city swithout valid passes,” said Tambe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-step-up-surveillance-in-4-big-containment-zones/articleshow/76946913.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||After Covid-19 cases surge, 3-day lockdown imposed in Bazpur & Rudrapur||RUDRAPUR: As Covid-19 cases surge in different cities of Udham Singh Nagar, a three-day lockdown was announced in Bazpur and Rudrapur towns of the district. AB Vajpayee, sub-divisional magistrate of Bazpur, said, “A three-day lockdown will be imposed in the city and all adjoining rural areas. The lockdown will start from midnight today (July 13) and will be effective till July 16. This will be a complete lockdown and only the shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to open for four hours in the morning.” The decision has been taken after 24 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the city in the past two days and the sample of the woman who died at a city-based private hospital on July 9 also tested positive. Meanwhile, the traders’ union of Bazpur has demanded a 10-day lockdown in the city. Gurpreet Singh, president of the traders’ union, told TOI, “With the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the city, we fear a risk of community transmission. We need a complete lockdown to avoid any untoward situation.” Gurjeet Singh Girte, chairman of the local municipality, echoed similar sentiments. He said that he has written a letter to the SDM demanding a 10-day lockdown. “In the meeting held with all ward members, we have decided to conduct thermal screening of all the city residents. Also, we will sanitise all the colonies during the lockdown period.” Meanwhile, a three-day lockdown (from Monday midnight to Thursday) was announced in Rudrapur as well. Earlier, the police officials had held a meeting with the traders’ union and discussed the terms of the lockdown. “The meeting was called in order to prepare ourselves and the traders for any situation in the near future,” said superintendent of police (city) Devendra Peencha. President of Rudrapur traders’ union Sanjay Juneja, said, “We gave the nod for lockdown as Covid-19 cases are on a rise. The carelessness can lead to a community spread. Shops selling medicines, milk, and other essential commodities have been allowed to remain open during this lockdown period.” A day before, the Udham Singh Nagar administration had also announced to put Kashipur town of the district under lockdown till July 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-covid-19-cases-surge-3-day-lockdown-imposed-in-bazpur-rudrapur/articleshow/76946851.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Siddha-based Covid-19 care centre at Codissia goes live tomorrow||Coimbatore: The district administration has readied a 25-bed facility for treatment of Covid-19 patients using siddha medicines in Codissia complex. It will be inaugurated on Wednesday. Modelled on a similar facility in Chennai, the care centre will have 30 siddha practitioners on duty. The decision to set up the facility came after the collector’s nod when district siddha medical officer Dhanam and her team met collector K Rajamani on Monday and expressed their desire to treat Covid-19 patients. “As of now, the 25-bed facility at Codissia complex will exclusively treat Covid-19 patients with siddha medicines. Initially we plan to provide treatment for asymptomatic patients. Based on the results, the number of beds will be increased,” said Rajamani.Siddha practitioner Dr Sivanandan said that they will wear PPE kits and the duty doctors will work at the care centre for five days at a stretch. Later, they will be sent for a week-long quarantine at a hotel.“Covid-19 positive patients will be given kabasura kudineer, four siddha tablets and a syrup. Siddha medicines won’t have any side effects,” said Dr Sivanandan.A day in the life of a Covid-19 patient at the siddha care centre will begin with a gargle of salted hot water at 6am, followed by herbal tea. The patients will be asked to walk in the sunlight for 45 minutes and then practice pranayama from 7.30am to 8.15am, followed by kabasura kudineer at 8.15am.Around 8.45am, a herbal breakfast rich in zinc and protein will be served to patients, followed by steam inhalation at around 10.30am. Then they will be given immune enhancers like amla juice, lemon juice or ginger juice at 11am followed by some rest.Around 1pm, herbal lunch will be served to patients and at 4pm, a repeat dose of kabasura kudineer will be given. Dinner will be served at 7pm followed by a herbal drink at 8.30 pm, along with siddha medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/siddha-based-covid-19-care-centre-at-codissia-goes-live-tomorrow/articleshow/76948629.cms||A Subburaj
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Govt arts colleges may begin admissions ahead of others this yr||Trichy: For the first time in several years, government arts colleges will begin the admission process ahead of self-financing arts and science colleges in the state. Online applications are likely to be rolled out in a day or two, say highly placed sources from the higher education department. However, no directions have been issued to the self-financing arts and science colleges on beginning the admission process. It is the self-financing arts colleges and government aided-colleges who usually issue applications anticipating Class XII results. Government arts colleges start issuing applications only after the state board Class XII results are declared. This year, the results have been delayed.“Usually, aided colleges start the admission process much early with majority of the students join them. This results in seats remaining vacant in government colleges every year,” said zonal secretary, Tamil Nadu government college teachers’ association (TNGCTA), P David Livingstone. The government must have come out with such a move to prevent such situation, he said. Many new courses were started in the last two years by government arts and science colleges. Further, government colleges charge fees less than self-financing colleges, besides offering free bus passes and scholarships. “Admissions may be affected in all colleges because of the ongoing pandemic. The move to start admissions early may be aimed at filling the seats early,” he said.But, self-financing colleges don’t want to be left behind in the race. The colleges are sharing information related to various courses, salient features and their infrastructure to create curiosity among students. Some have started online registration for admission by asking willing students to register themselves for their favourite course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-arts-colleges-may-begin-admissions-ahead-of-others-this-yr/articleshow/76949221.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Court peon held for raping minor multiple times after ‘paying’ her father||PALANPUR: A 45-year-old man working as peon in Patan district court was arrested on Sunday for allegedly raping a Class VII girl multiple times over the past 2-3 months with the ‘consent’ of the minor’s father. Police said that the accused Chandresh Rawal used to pay money to the girl’s father after allegedly raping her. K M Priyadarshi, police inspector Patan B Division police station said that they have also detained the 13-year-old girl’s father (47) for abatement of rape and sent him for Covid-19 testing. “The girl’s father will be arrested after his test results arrive,” said Priyadarshi. The incident came to light after video of the minor girl accusing Rawal of raping her went viral in Patan town. In the video the girl has also accused Rawal’s family of threatening her. After the video got viral, the girl’s neighbours confronted her father accusing him of abetting his daughter’s rape. However, the girl’s father claimed innocence and said he was not aware of what had happened. When the neighbours pressurised him, the girl’s father lodged a police complaint a couple of days back. “We called the counsellors from the local Mahla Mandal to talk to the girl. During questioning, the girl told the counsellors that her father used to take money from Rawal before he left the house, leaving the girl and Rawal alone. Rawal had been frequently visiting the girl’s house over past few months,” said Priyadarshi. “Based on the girls statement we have arrested Rawal for rape and detained her father for abetting the crime,” he added. Priyadarshi said that the girl’s father was a casual labourer and his wife had left him about a year ago. According to police Rawal has been booked for rape and criminal intimidation besides under various sections of the The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/court-peon-held-for-raping-minor-multiple-times-after-paying-her-father/articleshow/76946919.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||CBSE Class XII results: Doon schools post excellent scores||DEHRADUN: Several students of city-based schools have scored excellently in their CBSE Class XII board exams. The city’s prestigious Welham Boys’ saw Aryan Kathuria scoring 98%, Piyush Daga scoring 97.4%, and Devansh Agrawal scoring 97%. Similarly, The Kasiga School saw Prateek Bhalotia scoring 95%, Vishv Patel scoring 94.5%, and Yusra Farooq scoring 89.5%. The Asian School's Aayush Kumar Baranwal scored 98% while Aditi Tomar and Ananya Sanjeev Dulta both scored 97.8%. The Kendriya Vidyalaya (IMA) saw Preeti Danu scoring 97% and Roshan Raj scoring 95.2%. The Indian Academy's Ashna Gusain scored 97.2% and Abhishek Bhatt scored 96.6%. The Universal Academy's Prashant Chamoli and Akansha Dubey scored 95.4% and 94.75% respectively. Another Kendriya Vidyalaya student Ansh Kohli scored 96.6%. The Delhi Public School of Dehradun saw Rinzin Youtso Bhutia and Nandini Bisht both scoring 98.8%. Maithali Kandwal of Kendriya Vidyalaya (Hathibarkala) scored 97%. The Vivekananda School also saw Khushi Garg scoring 96%. The Ecole Globale International Girls School saw Aayat Azim scoring 98.8%. The Doon International School saw Ishpreet Kaur and Deeksha Pandey both scoring 98.2%. The Tula’s International School saw Shahzaib Rafiq scoring 97% and Parmeshwar Tayal scoring 98%. The Selaqui International School saw Rashi Kudesia scoring 99.25%. The Convent of Jesus and Mary Waverley in Mussoorie saw Ishi Isser and Kavya Kalra both scoring 93.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cbse-class-xii-results-doon-schools-post-excellent-scores/articleshow/76946902.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Six masked assailants attack shopkeeper||LUDHIANA: Six assailants attack a confectionery shop owner with sharp-edged weapons in Jawahar Nagar Camp on Monday morning and fled. The victim suffered injuries on his arms, hands and chest. The incident was also captured in a CCTV installed in the shop. The victim, Rajesh Kumar, 42, said that he was present in his shop on Monday. Around 9.30am, six masked assailants came there on two motorcycles. Three of the accused remained outside, while three of them barged into the shop. Before he could understand anything the accused attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. He resisted and raised an alarm. When the accused saw there were more workers in the shop, they escaped. Following this, Rajesh Kumar called the police. Sub-inspector Tarlochan Singh, incharge at police post, Kochar market, said that the assailants remained there for only 20 seconds. It is being suspected that the accused had come with the intention of hurting the shopkeeper as they had not made any attempt to rob him. The sub-inspector added that it could be a matter of some old rivalry. The incident has been captured in the CCTV installed in the shop. More CCTVs installed in locality, are being scanned to trace the accused. The police are recording the statement of the victim to lodge an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-masked-assailants-attack-shopkeeper/articleshow/76947864.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||10-year-old raped in Bageshwar||PITHORAGARH: A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 35-year-old neighbour in Kapkot tehsil of Bageshwar district on Sunday. Police sent a team to the girl’s village and arrested the man on Monday. The survivor, a student of class 5, had gone to a nearby jungle to graze cows when the incident happened, said station house officer (SHO) of Kapkot Kailash Bisht. “The girl reached home and confided in her parents, following which her father called up the police helpline. A constable was then sent to the village,” he said. The girls’ parents took her to the nearest community health centre, 50km away from the village, for a medical test. On Monday, after the test was done, an FIR was registered under section 376 (rape) of the IPC and relevant sections of the POCSO Act, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/10-year-old-raped-in-bageshwar/articleshow/76946868.cms||Prem Punetha
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||CBSE results: Pass % goes up, girls outperform boys||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand's overall pass percentage shot up in comparison to the last few years. This academic session (2019-20), 80.36% students cleared their CBSE Class XII examinations. Out of the 37,443 students from the state who wrote their CBSE Class XII exams this academic session, a total of 30,213 students passed. The overall pass percentage in the last few years were — 79.90% in 2018-19, 79.78% in 2017-18, and 75.07% in 2016-17. Like previous few years, girls again outperformed boys this academic session. The percentage of girls who passed the exams was 88.94% and that of boys was 84%. Out of the total 20,310 boy students, 17,061 cleared the examination while among the total 14,907 girl students who appeared for the examinations, as many as 13,258 passed. However, as many as 3,450 students will have to appear for compartments (exams conducted by CBSE for students who fail in one out of five subjects). Yet another 1,091 students would have to repeat Class XII. Coming to the performance of the institutions, government CBSE schools recorded a pass percentage of 96.68% and independent schools registered 84.79%. Among the Centrally-funded institutions, Kendriya Vidyalaya schools in the state posted a pass percentage of 99.51%, followed by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya schools (98.74%), and Central Tibetan Schools (98.42%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cbse-results-pass-goes-up-girls-outperform-boys/articleshow/76946915.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Thickly-populated Selvapuram is Coimbatore’s biggest cluster||COIMBATORE: Selvapuram has emerged as the biggest cluster in Coimbatore with close to 100 cases officially declared so far and is continuing to grow. In the last week alone, Selvapuram, a thickly populated locality with a mix of working class and business community, has reported more than 60 cases. These are just official figures. Health department sources say there are at least 50 more Covid-19 cases which will be declared in batches in the coming days. What has come as a cause of deep concern is that this cluster is spreading to nearby localities too. “Selvapuram is a challenge, because it’s thickly populated. We are stepping up our efforts to contain the spread here,’’ deputy director of health services G Ramesh Kumar said. Selvapuram was spared from Covid onslaught in the first wave of April–May, and saw its first case only on June 12, when a 24-year-old man transiting through the city tested positive. He was dismissed as an imported case, but within days cases started surging in the locality. Now, Telugu Street has about 10 cases and Sullivan Street six cases while Ayyappa Nagar has the highest of 50 cases. In Chetti Street, four people – AIADMK MLA Amman Arjunan and three of his family members - tested positive. It was during contract tracing after he tested positive, the health authorities found 13 people from the neighbouring Ayyappa Nagar test positive on July 1. On June 6, 34 people from one gold smithery in Ayyappa Nagar tested positive. The cluster from gold smiths on the road has now grown to 60 officially, but sources say the number of Covid positive patients are double and are likely to be declared in the coming days. “From gold smitheries, cases have started spreading to gold outlets on Raja Street, Gandhipuram, Big Bazaar Street and Ukkadam,” the official said. Collector K Rajamani who visited the locality a few days back was visibly annoyed. “There are 100-odd buildings in each street, with 10x10 ft rooms, each of which have 10 people working inside,” he said. “It is impossible to maintain any sort of social distancing and masks can’t protect at that level of proximity,” he added. The corporation and health department instantly understood that “do not touch what others have touched” policy would not work here. “First four people touch one piece of jewellery that they work on, touch and lean on the same walls while walking, leaning and climbing. Since they were all asymptomatic, they must have had severe fomite and aerosol transmission,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. Civic body officials are now on overdrive to contain the growth of this cluster as soon as possible. “Besides shutting down gold smithies, we have distributed immunity boosters, closed off entry and exit into Ayyappa Nagar, Ashok Nagar and a portion of Raja Street. We have also conducted fever clinics in the area and are doing door-to-door surveillance to check for symptomatic patients or those who may have been in contact with earlier positive patients,” said a corporation official. “We hope that in 14 days we can prevent further spread and contain the cluster like we did at Chinniampalayam and R G Pudur,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/thickly-populated-selvapuram-emerges-as-biggest-cluster/articleshow/76948632.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||UT bans all types of gatherings||Chandigarh: The UT administration on Monday banned all types of social, religious, cultural and other gatherings, except for marriage and cremation, announcing it will take a call on weekend lockdown and other restrictions on Wednesday. UT adviser Manoj Parida said as per the central government instructions, all social, religious, cultural and other functions are banned, except for marriage and cremation. The gathering of people for any other event is not allowed. Plantation drives will continue under “Van Mahotsav” without any formal official function. He stated that the deputy commissioner has been authorized to give specific permission in emergency cases of any gathering. If any such event takes place without the permission of the DC, the police will take penal action against the defaulters. To maintain social distancing, gathering of not more than 50 people are allowed at wedding functions and not more than 20 people in the last rites During the review meeting on Monday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed doctors and health officials to enhance contact tracing and increase house-to-house screening. He also advised them to check Aadhaar addresses, so that the location of the patients could be noted. He sought the views of doctors regarding further restrictions to be imposed in the city. The administrator also directed Mohali and Panchkula deputy commissioners to have strict control on borders. He ordered that all vendors and police personnel working in the field should be specially screened and checked for symptoms and accordingly tested. Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar informed that joint teams of SDMs, SHOs and RWAs have been constituted to monitor asymptomatic cases and report symptomatic cases, if any, in the areas, so that the cases could be detected early and medical treatment provided. He stated that during the weekend, 500 challans have been issued against the persons not wearing masks. The administrator directed secretary, labour, to ensure that no person, who was treated and cured of Covid is denied from returning to his job in the private or government sector. He stated that such people are quite safe, since they are not likely to contact corona again. Box: Awareness drive UT DGP Sanjay said a special campaign will be launched by audio announcements through PCR vans to make people aware of the precautions to be taken to avoid infection. He stated that during the weekend, 31 FIRs have been registered for violation of night curfew, 39 people were arrested, 24 cars were seized and 2,500 persons were challaned for not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-bans-all-types-of-gatherings/articleshow/76947867.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 14, 2020||Goa||Unlicensed takeaway joints to get support||Panaji: Taking note of the concerns raised by the hospitality sector about the mushrooming unlicensed eateries or takeaway joints, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) has decided to help such home-based entrepreneurs to obtain necessary approvals while also assisting them with marketing and finance. “Chamber’s managing committee recognised that these home-based food or takeaway joints are the need of the hour, helping many unemployed people, who have lost their jobs or businesses due to the lockdown, earn livelihoods.”. GCCI said that it received complaints from members in the hospitality sector that a large number of food joints are operating from homes and are eating into the already depleted business. “It was decided that instead of opposing them, the chamber would help them to obtain necessary approvals, teach them about hygiene, packaging, marketing, finance and other things so that they can graduate into normal businesses,” said GCCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unlicensed-takeaway-joints-to-get-support/articleshow/76948638.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Allahabad||Registrations begin in UP board schools||PRAYAGRAJ: UP board has announced that the authorities of over 28,000 schools of the state can commence the advance registration of students taking admission in classes 9 and 11. The board has set August 25 as the last date for admissions in classes 9 and 11. These students will be eligible to appear in UP board’s high school and intermediate examinations as regular students in 2022. The principals of the schools concerned will deposit an advance registration fee—Rs 50 per student—through a challan in the government treasury, mentions the notification of the UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla. The schools have begun the process of registering the details of each student on the official website of the board— www.upmsp.edu.in — and the same has to be completed by 12 midnight on August 25. The principals will receive a check-list regarding details of students registered to be uploaded and undertake a scrutiny between August 26 and September 5, following which they can make necessary changes in the information uploaded by them between September 6 and September 20. However, no information of any new student not already registered in advance till August 25 by the school will be permissible and only corrections in already uploaded information will be possible, the notification clarified. The principals concerned will then deposit a list of advance registered students along with their photographs on the list, receipt of the registration fee deposit and receipt of each student at their respective office of the district inspector of schools (DIOSs) by September 30. The DIOS office will then inform the regional office of the board concerned about these details, a UP Board official said citing the notification. On behalf of the UP Board, the DIOS offices will issue user Ids and passwords to newly affiliated schools for 2022 high school and intermediate exams, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/registration-of-class-9-and-11-students-begins-in-up-board-schools-will-last-till-aug-25/articleshow/76947497.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A third of patients can’t donate plasma||NEW DELHI: Three out of 10 people who have recovered from Covid-19 do not have enough neutralising antibodies in their blood that is needed to fight against the novel coronavirus. This was revealed by doctors at India’s first convalescent plasma bank at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in south Delhi. However, doctors haven’t been rejecting plasma donations and asking the recovered patients to come after two weeks. It’s also not clear whether the small amount of antibodies puts the recovered patients at the risk of being infection again, doctors said. Dr SK Sarin, director of ILBS, said, “If the neutralising antibodies in recovered patients aren’t of the desired level, the donors are asked to come again after two weeks.” US FDA recommends neutralising antibody titers (measuring ratio) of at least 1:160 for plasma donation. A titer of 1:80 may be considered acceptable if an alternative matched unit is not available. Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director of Max Healthcare, said at least 25% of plasma donors at their hospital have less than 1:40 antibody titers, which is very less. “We don’t know yet whether the lack of antibodies can make a person more susceptible to infection. It is also not known what level of antibody is required to prevent infection. In the absence of this crucial information, it’s difficult to comment whether people with low levels of neutralising antibodies are more susceptible to being infected again,” said Dr Rommel Tickkoo, associate director, internal medicine at Max Saket. Using convalescent plasma collected from previously infected individuals to protect or treat Covid-19 patients is being widely practised in the absence of any other known cure. Max Healthcare has given plasma therapy to nearly 200 patients. ILBS has collected over 250 units of plasma within 10 days and the hospital authorities say it’s enough to cater to the current needs. Indian Council of Medical Research is conducting multi-centric trials to assess the same. “Many patients improved clinically and cleared the virus, but the role of convalescent plasma treatment is unclear because these patients received at least one additional therapy, including antivirals, antibiotics or antifungals, and corticosteroids,” said experts. Watch A third of recovered patients can’t donate plasma in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-third-of-patients-cant-donate-plasma/articleshow/76948641.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Good rain in catchment areas makes water managers happy||Chennai: Catchment areas of the four reservoirs supplying the city received good rain on Saturday night and Sunday, bringing cheer to the water managers. The Cholavaram area got 55mm of rain, Poondi 42mm, Red Hills 26mm and Chembarambakkam 11mm on Sunday, but only the Poondi and Red Hills reservoirs registered an inflow at the rate of 40 cusecs (cubic feet per second) and 55 cusecs. A senior PWD official cautioned that the first rain of the season, though welcome, would not bring heavy flow into the reservoirs as the soil needs to be saturated before there is a visible inflow. However, the rain would certainly reduce water consumption, he said. Veeranam tank in Cuddalore district, one of the major sources of supply for Chennai, received water at the rate of 440cusecs on Sunday and now has a storage of 450mcft (million cubic feet) against its the capacity of 1,465mcft. The PWD official said Metrowater was only drawing water at the rate of 65cusecs daily from the tank due to reduced storage levels. Since June, water from the Mettur dam was being released at the rate of 10,000cusecs and a part of it was helping fill Veeranam tank. The water from Mettur is mainly released for the benefit of farmers in the Cauvery delta region ‘Aadi Pattam’, the sowing season for all types of crops, grains and vegetables. Farmers in the delta region have appealed for the release of water at the rate of 15,000cusecs and the government would announce an increase depending upon the inflow, said the official. At present the combined storage levels in the four reservoirs supplying water to Chennai is 4,869 mcft against the capacity level of 11,257mcft. But, said Metrowater officials, the ongoing southwest monsoon would bring in more water that will be sufficient to manage the summer of 2021 too. Several open wells in Tiruvallur district and the quarries at Sikkarayapuram and Erumaiyur in Chennai’s suburbs remain as reserves, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/good-rain-in-catchment-areas-makes-water-managers-happy/articleshow/76947911.cms||P Oppili
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 40 new cases as virus spreads to remote areas||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 40 new cases of Covid-19, including 20 women, on Monday taking the district tally to 222.Of the 40 new cases, 23 had attendeed a wedding in T.Oranalli, where a Coimbatore returnee attended the function with symptoms of fever. The 65-year-old woman died last Tuesday and had tested positive after death. The new cases also include family members of the bridegroom. Another 11 cases pertain to secondary contacts of the PRO of a private needle manufacturing company. While four cases are with travel history tested positive, the remaining two cases are secondary contacts of an earlier positive case.The district currently accounts for 65 containment zones. Another important concern for health and civic officials in the Nilgiris is the spread of Covid-19 in remote parts of the district, with a 35-year-old tribal pregnant woman testing positive for Covid-19 on Sunday in Koundankolli, a tribal hamlet in Gudalur taluk. Located in Devarsolai panchayat in Gudalur taluk, the Paniyar tribal hamlet housing around 40 families has been declared as a containment zone.The pregnant woman, after being referred by the Gudalur GH to Coimbatore for advance consultation for delivery, tested positive in Coimbatore. Her primary and secondary contacts are being tracked by health officials.  While social activists fear that Nilgiris is heading towards community spread, Sidhartha Krishnan, environmental sociologist, said, “Media reports state that state governments are substituting mass testing for contact tracing. But we have no official word from state authorities that community spread is on and that mass testing policy be adopted”.Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya requested the public to inform the control room on 1077 if they notice outsiders getting into villages or colonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-40-new-cases-as-virus-spreads-to-remote-areas/articleshow/76948637.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nashik||NMC realty tax collection falls by 32% in first quarter||Nashik: The property tax collection of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has declined by 32% during the first quarter (April-June) of the current financial year as compared to the same period in the previous year owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. According to an NMC official, the property tax collection for the first quarter of the current financial year stands at Rs 31 crore, while it was Rs 46 crore during the corresponding period last financial year.“The Covid-19 outbreak has led to the drop in property tax collection. The citizens are focusing more on saving the money instead of spending or paying the taxes,” the official said.In order to increase the collection the NMC even started offering 5% concession to those paying the annual property tax in one go. The concession was introduced for the first three months of the financial year, but now has been extended till August.“The civic body’s property tax collection in the first two months of the current financial year (April-May) was Rs 12 crore only, but we collected Rs 19 crore in the month of June alone due to the 5% concession scheme,” the official said.At Rs 141 crore, the NMC had for the first time recorded an all-time high collection of property tax during the last financial year 2019-20. The previous year (2018-19) the collection stood at Rs 113 crore. For the current financial year, the property tax collection target has been set at Rs 150 crore.There are over 4.5 lakh property tax payers across six divisions of the municipal corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-realty-tax-collection-falls-by-32-in-first-quarter/articleshow/76946930.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||HC to hear PIL seeking punishment for Covid-19 rule violators today||CHANDIGARH: A fine of Rs 3.46 lakh has been collected from defaulters for not wearing masks and failing to adhere to social distancing norms. A total of 1,010 persons have been challaned so far. Of these, 807 persons have been challaned for not wearing a mask and 56 have been challaned for not adhering to social distancing norms. A total of 18 persons have been challaned for spitting in public and 129 persons have been challaned for violating social distancing norms. Not a single person has been challaned for violating home quarantine instructions or under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). These details have been submitted by the Chandigarh administration to the Punjab and Haryana high court in the PIL seeking punishment for any person not wearing mask in public places under Section 188 of the IPC rather merely imposing a fine. Advocate Kamal Deep Sehra argued that instead of effectively curtailing spread of the disease, authorities are encouraging violators by charging a nominal fine. The PIL will be heard in high court on Tuesday. The status report filed by Kuljit Paul Singh Mahi, additional secretary, health Chandigarh stated that the Chandigarh administration has taken measures to contain the spread of Coronavirus infection. These measures are related to violation of social distancing norms, spitting at public places, not wearing masks and violation of home quarantine instructions. It was stated that wearing of 3 ply or cotton mask has been made compulsory by the Chandigarh disaster management authority on April 9, 2020 for all persons moving out of the house. On June 2, the Chandigarh administration also imposed a fine for not wearing a mask. Those not paying the fine would be liable to prosecution under Section 188 of the IPC. On action taken by SDM, Central, the high court was informed that 257 persons have been fined for not wearing a mask. A fine of Rs 1,28,500 has been imposed on violators. A total of 13 persons have been fined for not observing social distancing norms and fine of Rs 6,500 has been imposed. Four vehicle owners have been challaned for not observing social distancing norms in their respective vehicles and fine of Rs 8,000 has been imposed. As far as SDM south is concerned, 229 persons have been fine for not wearing masks, five persons have been challaned for not observing social distancing norms and 63 vehicle owners have been challaned for not observing social distancing norms. On action taken by SDM East, the court was informed that 318 persons have been fined for not wearing masks, 38 have been challaned for not the observing social distancing norms and 62 vehicle owners have been challaned for not observing social distancing norms in their respective vehicles. Advocate Kamal Deep Sehra stated that simply challaning defaulters is not enough and punishment has to be stringent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-to-hear-pil-seeking-punishment-for-covid-19-rule-violators-today/articleshow/76947910.cms||Neha Sharma
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||UK relaxes norms for PhD scholars||Hyderabad: Even as other countries place restrictions on the entry of foreign students, the United Kingdom is taking the opportunity to extend post-study work visa for international PhD students. The move has been welcomed by students who want to pursue their higher education abroad. “As part of the new graduate route, international students who complete a PhD from summer 2021 can stay in the UK for three years after study to live and work,” the UK government said in a statement recently. “The UK wants to attract the brightest and the best students from around the world – which is why we are extending the period of leave to PhD students under the graduate route to three years, with undergraduate and masters students getting two years,” British deputy high commissioner to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Andrew Fleming said. “Extending the length of the graduate route for PhD students sends a global message that the UK is an open and attractive destination for international students as the world recovers from the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. Students, even those hoping to pursue a masters, sounded positive about the decision. “I plan to pursue my MSc in physics in the UK,” said Kamini Rao, a resident of LB Nagar. She said that a PhD would be the next step for her and the current policy shift only made her decision to head to the UK firmer. “This will give me more time to stay and work in the UK,” she added. Previously, PhD students were allowed four to six months like with other Tier 4 visas, a year’s extension was possible with the Doctorate Extension Scheme||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-relaxes-norms-for-phd-scholars/articleshow/76947914.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks NCDC to file serology survey report||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday asked National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to file its sero-surveillance report on the results and analysis of antibody testing carried out in the city. The court directed NCDC to place the results before it by July 16 and added that the report should include analysis of the results. Earlier, AAP government had said that between June 27 and July 5, 21,793 antibody samples were collected and sent to NCDC, which had till date not given the results. The court also asked the NCDC director to be present on the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-hc-asks-ncdc-to-file-serology-survey-report/articleshow/76968707.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Coimbatore||MSMEs seek changes in new notification||Coimbatore: Representatives of a micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) association in the city have written to the Union minister for MSMEs, Nitin Gadkari, seeking changes in the reclassification of MSMEs.Members of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia) said the new changes undermined the identity of micro and small units and shifted focus to the creamy layer of medium enterprises.According to the gazette notification on June 26, a medium enterprise is where the investment in plant and machinery or equipment does not exceed Rs 50 crore and turnover does not exceed Rs 250 crore.If implemented, it will equate a micro unit with less than Rs 1crore turnover with a medium enterprise, which has more than Rs 250crore turnover, excluding export turnover, said a Focia representative. “As per statistics, 95% of MSMEs are micro units, 4.5 % are small and only less than 0.5% are medium enterprises. The changes should focus to uplift the downtrodden.” “The notification makes mandatory for MSMEs to register on the Udyam portal, which does not enhance the ease of doing business. The existing Udyog Adhar Memorandum (UAM) should be continued. The reservation for procurements by public sector undertakings from cottage, micro and small enterprises should be increased from 25% to 50%,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msmes-seek-changes-in-new-notification/articleshow/76948639.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Cattle smuggling racket busted in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: City police claimed to have busted a cow smuggling racket on Monday. Three cows and a calf were rescued during the raid and three accused were held. The police officials have said that the bovine were brought from Dehradun to Haridwar for slaughter. The gang was allegedly involved in the smuggling of cows for a long time. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “We were trying to trace the gang for the past several days. On Monday, we identified a small loader vehicle in which three cows and a calf were being transported. The accused tried to escape but the police team stopped them near Rodibelwala check post. A case has been registered against them under sections of the cow protection act and further investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cattle-smuggling-racket-busted-in-haridwar/articleshow/76946927.cms||MS Nawaz
July 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||District schools shine in CBSE Class XII exams||Thiruvananthapuram: Students in the district did exceedingly well in the CBSE Plus Two examinations, the results of which were announced in New Delhi on Monday. Majority of schools claimed cent percent victory as several students in these schools scored 95% and above in the exams. In Army Public school, Pangode, 40 of the 42 students who appeared for the exam cleared it with distinction while the rest two passed with first class. At least 13 students scored about 95% in the exam. Devika Ajith topped the Science stream with 97.4%, Sunil John topped the Commerce stream with 96.6% and Aiswarya S topped the Humanities stream with 95.2%, school authorities informed. Among the 294 students who appeared for the board exam at St Thomas Central School, Mukkolakkal, 274 students secured distinction and 19 secured first class. In the science stream, Nasreen Anzer (98.2%) and Sreeram Sivaramakrishnan (98.2%) emerged toppers. in commerce stream, Shayna Leya Suni (98%) emerged topper and in Humanities, Diya B R (98.4%) secured the school first. In Jyothis Central School, Kazhakkoottam, 145 of the total 155 students appeared for the examination passed it with distinction and the rest 10 got through with high first class. Kavya R of the school bagged the fifth position at the national level with 494 marks out of 500. A total of 70 students scored 90% and above in aggregate. Four students in Carmel School, Peyad, secured more than 95% marks and 15 secured more than 80% marks, said the school authorities. In St. Mary’s Central School, Poojappura, 66 of the total 81 students who appeared for Plus Two examination passed with distinction and the rest of the students cleared it with high first class, school authorities said. In Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, 39 students passed with distinction and seven with first class. A total of 46 students took exam at the school. Out of the 132 students who appeared for the exam in Sarvodaya Central Vidyalaya, Nalanchira, 43 scored 90% and above marks, 66 secured distinction and 23 students cleared it with first class. Sreya Susan Mathew (99.6%) is the school topper in the Humanities stream and Anagha Viswanath (98%) came first in the science stream. Kendriya Vidyalaya, Peroorkada, authorities said 68 of the total 77 students who appeared for the examination have cleared it with more than 75% marks. J Krishnendu (98.2%) emerged school topper in Science stream. L Aishwarya (97.6%) is school topper in Commerce stream. A total of 31 students scored over 90% marks in the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/district-schools-shine-in-cbse-class-xii-exams/articleshow/76947925.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur topper gives credit to elder brother for success||GORAKHPUR: Divyangi Tripathi of GN National Public School in Gorakhpur topped the district with 99.6% marks in class 12 CBSE board exams. Although CBSE has not announced any merit list, the information gathered from various CBSE schools of Gorakhpur confirms that Divyangi bagged first place in the district. Both Uvirja Pandey and Vaibhav Gupta of Academic Global School stood second in the district with 97.2 marks. Divyangi gives credit of her success to her elder brother Divyansh Tripathi. “My elder brother is my mentor and he helped me a lot in my studies. He runs an IT startup company where he is able to channelize his innovative skills,” said Divyangi. When asked about her career plans, Divyangi said, “I have not decided my career yet as I’m still pondering over various career prospects. However, there is high probability that I may take up a career medicine.” “I never followed any schedule in my studies and I’m not a person who follow the clock. Apart from studying, I love to dance, sing and practise boxing,” she added. Her father Umesh Nath Tripathi, who is a professor in the chemistry department of DDU Gorakhpur University, expressed his happiness over the success of Divyangi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-topper-gives-credit-to-elder-brother-for-success/articleshow/76947913.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||71 new Covid-19 cases, two deaths reported from Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: A total of 71 Covid-19 cases were reported in Uttarakhand on Monday, taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 3,608. Two deaths of people infected with the coronavirus were also reported on the day, taking the state’s tally to 49. According to the health department, among 71 fresh cases, 38 are from Udham Singh Nagar, which has the highest number (220) of active cases so far. “Haridwar reported 11 new cases, followed by seven in Dehradun, six in Nainital and five in Pauri. Almora reported two positive cases, while one case each was reported in Tehri and Chamoli,” Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room informed. With 70 people recovering from the infection, the total number of recoveries reached 2,856 in Uttarakhand. Tripathi said that the death of a 55-year-old man was reported from Susheela Tiwari Medical College on Sunday. The reason of death, according to the death summary, was bilateral pneumonitis, pulmonary tuberculosis and severe COVID Pneumonia. “The other death that has been reported was of a 45-year-old man from Dehradun, who tested positive for the virus and died on Monday. The cause of death is awaited,” Tripathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/71-new-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-reported-from-uttarakhand/articleshow/76946925.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Two dead, four injured as truck hits a car in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A couple was killed and four others got seriously injured in a head-on collision of a car with an unidentified truck on Bareilly-Haridwar National Highway-74 in Pilibhit district. The car that was carrying six members of a family was on the way from Jhanjhu Nagar village in Bareilly to Patti village in Amaria tehsil of Pilibhit on Sunday night. Police have sent the bodies for autopsy. The injured were first shifted to Amaria community health center but were later referred to the district government hospital at Pilibhit. Area SHO Udai Veer Singh said that an FIR has been lodged against the anonymous truck driver, who had fled the spot with his vehicle after hitting the car. The deceased were identified as Ahmad Hussain (50) and his wife Shahin Beghum (48). They were going to see one of their relatives who had been bitten by a snake, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-dead-four-injured-as-truck-hits-a-car-in-pilibhit/articleshow/76946937.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Six-year old leopard trapped in Nashik||NASHIK: A six-year-old male leopard was trapped early on Monday at Samangaon village, around 8km from Nashik Road area of the city. This is the second time that a leopard has been trapped in a fortnight. Officials from the forest department had installed a cage in the area after a four-year-old boy was injured in a leopard attack here around a fortnight ago. Officials said that they managed to capture the big cat almost 11 days after a five-year-old female leopard was trapped in Jakhori village — around 6km from Samangaon village — on July 2.  “The health check up of the animal is being conducted and the leopard will be released after following the official procedure,” said officials. Earlier, on June 16, a leopard killed a four-year-old girl in Babhaleshwar — just 2km away from Samangaon village on the Nashik-Pune Road. On June 15, a 75-year old person was killed by a leopard in Donwade village, about 10km from Babhaleshwar village. Since then, the forest department has installed 17 cages at various places in Donwade, Babhaleshwar and Samangaon villages. In the past 11 days, two leopards, including one on Monday, have been trapped. Forest officials said that it was very difficult to ascertain whether these two were the same leopards involved in the previous three attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/six-year-old-leopard-trapped-in-nashik/articleshow/76946944.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Fee dispute: Parents, schools harden stand in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The row over fees escalated on Monday with both school managements and parents of students hardening their stand. As guardians hit the streets in protest, some institutes started removing students from online platforms over non-payment or partial payment of school fees. A large number of schools, which are affiliated to the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), have appealed to the Association of Schools for the Indian School Certificates for help, expressing their distress over their depleting coffers. They claimed they were gradually moving towards a situation, in which payment of salaries might become impossible.  “Schools by the hundreds have approached us for help. We are trying to look for a solution. We have already told them to comply with the state government request and send us a copy before we can start a dialogue,” said Ranjan Mitter, head of the association. Parents of a school in Behala blocked Diamond Harbour Road, demanding the administration meets them with a rollback of fees. Into third day of the protest, the demonstration went on for over 20 minutes, forcing cops to reroute vehicles to James Long Sarani. The road road block led to multiple buses getting stuck on one carriageway, linking Behala Chowrasta with Taratala. Many bus passengers were seen joining the cops and requesting guardians to withdraw their protest. “We have forwarded the guardians’ petition to the school, which has promised a dialogue,” said a police officer who convinced the guardians to withdraw their sit-in. A guardian claimed they were ready to pay tuition fees, but did not “see any reason why 16 stationery items, mostly notebooks, would cost Rs 2,200”. Parents at Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, also staged a demonstration on similar grounds. A prominent central Kolkata school that has several branches started removing students from the class WhatsApp group by the “admins” or teachers because parents had either not paid fees or made partial payments.  Twenty-four Class VII students and nearly 10 from classes XI and XII each were removed from the online groups, where they were sent links and passwords for online classes during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fee-dispute-parents-schools-harden-stand/articleshow/76949225.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad team finds cause for low platelet count in dengue patients||HYDERABAD: Researchers from University of Hyderabad (UoH) have unravelled the mystery that causes reduction of platelets in dengue patients. The new finding will help in better management of the viral disease while ensuring that there’s no loss of platelets in patients. Infection caused by dengue virus is a major health threat in both Telugu states. Over the decades, dengue has emerged as an endemic infection in AP and Telangana. The seriousness of the dengue viral infection can be gauged from the fact that almost 40% of the population is vulnerable to it. Like in any viral infection, treatment to dengue is based on symptoms.  UoH team has found out the mechanism that leads to reduction in platelet count in dengue patients. Loss of platelets leads to internal haemorrhage and often death if not treated on time. The genome of this virus encodes three structural and seven non-structural (NS) proteins along with two un-translated regions, one each on both ends. Among them, dengue protease (NS3), a non-structural protein, plays a pivotal role in polyprotein processing and virus multiplication. NS3 is also known to regulate several host proteins that contribute to the disease. The UoH group led by Dr M Venkata Ramana and professor Naresh Babu Sepuri showed that the non-structural protein-3 (NS3) enters the host mitochondrial matrix and cleaves a very important matrix protein (called GrpEL1), which is essential for major functions of the mitochondria. This is the first-ever report, for human and animal viruses, that an important viral protein (NS3) enters the mitochondrial matrix. Research group observed a possible correlation between reduced levels of GrpEL1 and the import of NS3 into mitochondrial matrix in severe dengue infected clinical samples. The study suggests mitochondrial dysfunction might be one of the reasons for the decrease in number of platelets that results in ‘thrombocytopenia,’ a condition manifested in dengue patients. “By virtue of its interaction with NS3 of dengue virus, GrpEL1 could be a potential target to develop anti-dengue drugs that may reduce the severity of dengue,” they said in their research published in the Journal of Virology. The seriousness of dengue can be gauged from the fact that almost 40% of the population is vulnerable to it. Like in any viral infection, treatment to dengue is based on symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-team-finds-cause-for-low-platelet-count-in-dengue-patients/articleshow/76947921.cms||Syed Akbar
July 14, 2020||Varanasi||One more accused booked under NSA||VARANASI: One more accused in June 9 Bhadethi violence, Aftab Alam alias Noor Alam alias Hitler of the village in Saraikhwaja police station area of Jaunpur district was booked under the stringent National Security Act (NSA) on Monday. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said the Jaunpur police initiated the action of booking Alam under NSA even as he had already been booked under Gangster Act for his involvement in the violence. Earlier, the main accused of arson in Bhadethi village Javed Siddiqi was booked under NSA on Saturday. Javed and Alam were among the 57 accused persons allegedly involved in setting ablaze the house of Dalits after thrashing them in Bhadethi village on June 9. Bhadethi had witnessed violence over a minor dispute between children of SC dominated area and those of another community. The village head had intervened and pacified the two groups and the situation had normalised in the evening, but at night a group of people from another community had raided the SC dominated area, attacked and injured many people, ransacked homes and set seven hutments on fire. After chief minister Yogi Adityanath took a strict note of the incident of attack on Dalits and ordered prompt action, police arrested 37 accused by June 11. The Sarai Khawaja police station in-charge inspector Sanjiv Mishra was also attached to police lines over the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-more-accused-booked-under-nsa/articleshow/76948245.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||CO Helper App to provide info on Covid-19 beds, ambulances||HYDERABAD: A city-based NGO has developed an App that provides real-time information not only on bed vacancy in government and private hospitals, but also help in finding funeral services for Covid-19 victims. CO Helper App is updated by about 50 doctors and a dedicated team of workers to help Covid-19 patients get info on ICU and ventilator beds and paid and free quarantine facilities. Two software engineers of the NGO, Social Data Initiatives Forum (SDIF), developed this unique App that can be downloaded from Google Playstore. Azam Khan and Khalid Saifullah told TOI that login facility is provided to doctors of various hospitals across the state to update vacant bed positions in real time. “The data is daily updated in website (http://coronahelper.in) and App by five full-time employees and 50 plus doctors of Hyderabad. This App covers info from as many as 84 service providers, including hospitals and pharmacies. We are not associated with any hospital. This is only a service to help patients and their relatives to find requirements in this chaotic situation,” Khalid said. Details like names of hospitals, location, capacity, telephone numbers, available beds and last updated status are available. One can also find info on oxygen suppliers, coronavirus tests, ventilator beds, ICU beds, corona pharmacy, free and paid isolation centres, funeral services and ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/co-helper-app-to-provide-info-on-covid-19-beds-ambulances/articleshow/76947930.cms||Syed Akbar
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Addicted to PUBG, unemployed man hangs self||DEHRADUN: A 24-year-old man allegedly killed himself at his residence in Rishi Vihar Colony under Vasant Vihar police station jurisdiction on Monday. His body was found hanging from a ceiling fan by his mother who had come to his room to wake him up for breakfast at around 11am. The deceased, identified as Pranay Kumar, was a computer graduate. He had completed his Bachelor in Computer Applications (BCA) course from a Dehradun-based private university and was working for a website development firm before the Covid-19 lockdown. However, he had lost his job and was currently unemployed. “The family of the deceased has told the police that he was an introvert and was addicted to PUBG, an online game. He used to play the game all night long. We have not found any suicide note from his room,” said Nathilal Uniyal, inspector of Vasant Vihar police station. Meanwhile, the police have launched a probe to ascertain the exact cause behind the suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/addicted-to-pubg-unemployed-man-hangs-self/articleshow/76946934.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Court refuses to stay MBBS examinations||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court on Monday refused to stay the second and third professional MBBS exams due to the Covid-19 situation, as demanded by 10 MBBS students in a petition. While the court said the exam would be held on scheduled dates—from July 14 to 21—it clarified that those with valid reasons for their absence could seek an alternative examination.The MBBS students had pleaded that many of them were outside Bengal and were unable to travel back in the absence of regular train and bus services.After hearing WBUHS, state government and the aggrieved students, represented by Bikash Bhattacharya and Firdous Shamim, Justice Subrata Talukdar stated, “This court is not persuaded to stop the examinations.” The HC permitted all students who have enrolled for the exams slated for Tuesday to sit for it, including the petitioners. The HC said all candidates, who had enrolled for exams but could not appear due to bona fide reasons for to the pandemic, would have to justify their reasons for their absence before the WBUHS Controller of Examinations. The HC directed the controller to take a decision on a replacement exam for the deserving candidates.Bhattacharya pleaded the HC had stayed BAMS exams of WBUHS, meant for Ayurvedic final-year students. But Supratik Roy, appearing for WBUHS and Advocate-General Kishore Datta said only 45 of the 650 2nd-year and 13 of 444 3rd-year Part I MBBS students were unwilling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/court-refuses-to-stay-mbbs-examinations/articleshow/76949228.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
July 14, 2020||Varanasi||Four Covid positive mothers deliver healthy babies in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: Four Covid positive mothers delivered healthy babies at BRD Medical College of Gorakhpur in the last three days. The mothers and babies will be tested for Covid-19, and if negative, will then be discharged after 10 days of delivery, informed principal Ganesh Kumar. . A 29-year-old mother of GIDA area of Gorakhpur was found Covid positive on Sunday. The same day she delivered twins after a C-section. As per doctors, the infants are healthy. Kushinagar’s 28-year-old woman and her attendant were found Covid positive. However, the woman delivered a baby by undergoing normal delivery on Saturday evening. The baby is healthy, said principal Kumar. Two more women tested Covid positive and delivered healthy babies after caesarian surgery on Sunday and Monday. Head of the gynaecology and obstetrics department of BRD Medical College, Dr Vani Aditya, said, “We have asked the mothers to wear a mask, sanitize hands and breasts before feeding the baby, and only come in contact with the baby at the time of feeding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-covid-positive-mothers-deliver-healthy-babies-at-gorakhpur-brd-medical-college/articleshow/76948240.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kanpur||Victim recalls Vikas’s tale of terror in Shivli||Kanpur: Such was the terror of Vikas Dubey that former chairman of Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli Nagar Panchayat Lallan Vajpayee, who was a prime target of the gangster, used to spend his nights in a secret scaffolding that he had got constructed on the first floor of his house and pull up the ladder so that no one could reach him. “This continued for months and years. Now, I can sleep on the ground floor of my house where the rest of my family sleeps,” Vajpayee told reporters on Monday. In 2001, Vajpayee, whom the gangster had gone to kill at Shivli police station, but on not finding him had allegedly murdered cabinet minister Santosh Shukla. Vajpayee was the chairperson of Shivli for 22 consecutive years from 1995 to 2017. He was subjected to multiple murderous attempts by the slain gangster. Recounting the horror tale from 2001,Vajpayee said: “He (Vikas) was barely 17, but was involved in heinous crimes like murder. He had come to murder me but minister Santosh Shukla died at his hands.” “After Shukla’s murder, there was no looking back, and his name became synonymous with terror in Shivli,” said Vajpayee. When Vikas was a teenager, he used to visit Vajpyee’s theatre situated in the front portion of the house. “Village folks used to throng the place, and Vikas was one of them. “Even then, he often used to quarrel with theatre staff saying that he would watch movies for free,” recalled Vajpayi. He added that with an aim to kill him, Vikas had once hurled bombs at his house killing three of his people on the spot. “Three people were killed while I sustained serious wounds. Since this incident, I used to take extra precaution from the gangster. None dared to oppose him openly like I did. He was madly behind me and he had once carried out a murderous attack on my brother also,” said Vajpayee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/victim-recalls-vikass-tale-of-terror-in-shivli/articleshow/76948274.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 14, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Revenue department probes land grabbed by Vikas Dubey||KANPUR: A team of the revenue department on Monday visited Bikru, the village of slain Gangster Vikas Dubey, and recorded the statements of people who were deprived of their agricultural land allegedly by the gangster and his aides in the last two decades. Villagers, who were victimised by the gangster said that he was in habit of terrorising and forcibly taking possession of the poor farmers agricultural land, which they had inherited from their ancestors. One Abdul Jaleel of the village said his dispute is over 10 years old. “We were surprised to know that the gangster’s servant Gayadeen had purchased the land on which we had been farming for several decades. The land belongs to our ancestors and we could not understand how it was sold. When we questioned his servant and challenged the deal, we were terrorised by Vikas.” Similarly, the gangster was accused of getting the ‘bainama’ done on cheaper rates. Ramji of the same village said, “We were called to the gangster’s house and thrashed by his goons who also threatened to shot us. When we tried to approach local police, they shooed us away from the police station.” These were not the only one victimised by the gangster’s and his aides, a number of other people like Ghafoor, Lal Mohammad and Lallan are running from pillar to post to gain control of the agricultural land they inherited from their ancestors. “We have launched an investigation in this regard after procuring actual map of the agricultural landscape of the village and are in the process of recording statements of the complainants. We would initiate action as per the law,” said treasury inspector Ram Khilawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/revenue-dept-probes-land-grabbed-by-vikas/articleshow/76948298.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: As city’s fire temple turns 100, Parsis reminisce rich history||SECUNDERABAD: This isn’t the centenary celebration that Hyderabad’s Parsi community had envisioned. But with the Covid-19 outbreak, most members of this close-knit group are likely to give their trip to the fire temple — referred to as the ‘Khan Bahadur Edulji Sohrabji Chenoy Anjuman Dar-e-Meher — among them, a miss on Tuesday. But while the celebrations are low-key, with priests shying away from mass gatherings, the day doesn’t stop eminent members of the community from reminiscing about their rich history — the time they first made their way into the city — and sharing their concern over their dwindling numbers. Right now, there are a little over 1,000 Parsis, comprising about 430 families, in town. One of the prominent families, among them, is the Chenoy family. In 1803, Sohrabji Pestonjee Chenoy, son of Pestonjee Maneckjee Chenoy, along with 14 other Parsi men, arrived in Hyderabad from Jalna, and settled here. While 60% of them are in various businesses, the remaining 40% are either serving in the armed forces or associated with private jobs. “It would not be wrong to say that the history of the Chenoy family was closely knit with the history of the Hyderabad State for over a century and a half,” said Gulbanoo Yadgar Chenoy, president of the Parsi Zoroastrian Anjuman of Secunderabad and Hyderabad. Over the years, the community has branched out into various businesses, while many have become doctors, chartered accountants, lawyers etc. Several among the younger lot have even taken off to the US, Australia, Canada and the UK for work. Predictably, the community in Hyderabad has shrunk significantly. “Though there are different reasons for the declining numbers, it is mostly either because of late marriages or inter-caste marriages,” said 70-year-old Noshir Mehta, a former Indian first-class cricketer. Chartered accountant and trustee and member of the Anjuman, Secunderabad, Jehangir Bisney, chipped in, “Also most new families are now against having children or restricting it to maximum two. That is also why our population isn’t growing.” The small group, however, is very thick and its members ensure that they meet each other during festivals or special occasions. Most of the members of the community meet twice a year in March and August to celebrate ‘Navroze’, the Parsi New Year. The elders of the community spend a large part of their day in prayers which are offered from home and/or an Agiary. While they would have hoped to meet and greet on the centenary celebrations of the fire temple, on Tuesday, as well, the community now plans to pray at their respective homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-citys-fire-temple-turns-100-parsis-reminisce-rich-history/articleshow/76947945.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 14, 2020||Kanpur||Bithoor cop gives description of attack||KANPUR: In-charge of Bithoor police station inspector Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, a part of 35-member team, who suffered two gunshot wounds in the fierce gun battle which left 8 policemen men dead, reached Bikru village on Tuesday to help investigators reconstruct the crime scene and the sequence of events that followed on the intervening night of July 2 and July 3. He happens to be the first eye-witness and the victim of the attack who provided detailed description of how miscreants fired at the police from the rooftops. Kaushalendra Pratap Singh informed SIT members that his police station had received a phone call from SO Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, who asked us to accompany a raid team from his police station that day. “We left at around 12.30am on the night of July 2 to conduct a raid at gangster Vikas Dubey’s residence. We parked our vehicles near the site and started walking towards his house,” Singh said. “A JCB was parked near his house in such a way that only one person could move to the other side. As soon as we crossed the JCB, a volley of bullets was sprayed on us,” Singh added. Such was the attack, that our force, particularly personnel who were unarmed ran for cover , while others took position and retaliated.” “I took position behind the wall with two other police personnel, who were unarmed. Later, our colleague Ajay Sengar told me that he was shot in the stomach. One more police personnel was shot in the hand. As the criminals resorted to firing from the rooftop, we couldn’t see them,” he added. “We thereafter took both the injured policemen to a nearby police vehicle and informed our seniors, said Singh. The team from three police stations--Bithoor, Bilhaur and Chaubeypur-- which went to conduct the raid consisted of almost 35 police personnel, he said. “When we reached Bikru village, lights were there, and taking advantage of the criminals on the terrace easily spotted the locations of police personnel and took position accordingly. Soon, the village plunged into darkness owing to a power cut. SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari was accompanying us only but as soon as the criminals opened indiscriminate firing, Tiwari was nowhere in the scene. Maybe, he took refuge and tried to position himself,” Singh further said. To recall, the Special Task Force (STF) sleuths probing the Bikru village massacre, had on Wednesday taken the two arrested policemen--SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari and SI KK Sharma--to the crime spot to recreate the sequence of events. Police carried out a similar exercise on Friday night (July 2) in the presence of both the arrested policemen, also the eyewitness of the case to see the conditions that would have been there at the time of the incident and how the slain or injured policemen could not be able to shield them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bithoor-cop-gives-description-of-attack/articleshow/76948321.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||Voice samples hold key to Rajasthan horse-trading case: SOG||JAIPUR: Voice samples of the duo arrested by the Special Operations Group for alleged horse-trading of Congress MLAs in Rajasthan will be collected and matched with recordings of an intercepted phone conversation in which they are purportedly heard discussing the possibility of a BJP government in the state and a position in the Union cabinet for Sachin Pilot, officials said. The two accused, identified as Ashok Singh Chouhan from Udaipur and Bharat Malani from Ajmer, were produced in court on Monday and remanded in judicial custody. They had been picked up from Udaipur and Ajmer on Friday night after the SOG intercepted their mobile conversation. Additional director general Ashok Rathore (SOG and ATS) said, "On interrogating them, we found out that they had been in touch with others as well. We will send teams to those locations to substantiate the findings so far." Investigators suspect the two of them were part of a larger network. The duo's phone conversations came under surveillance on June 13 after the SOG learnt from a source that they might be linked to a mafia dealing in arms and explosives. It transpired that they could be involved in horse-trading as well. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has, meanwhile, started a preliminary investigation into alleged horse-trading by three independent MLAs who had been denied tickets by BJP and Congress to contest the 2018 polls. The MLAs – Om Prakash Hudla (Mahuwa), Khushveer Singh (Marwar Junction) and Suresh Tak (Kishangarh) – have yet to be interrogated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/voice-samples-hold-key-to-rajasthan-horse-trading-case-sog/articleshow/76949712.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 14, 2020||Goa||Glenmark reduces price of Covid drug, studies effect on 1k patients||310 words Panaji: Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, which has a manufacturing facility in Goa, announced that it has started studying the effect of its anti-viral drug FabiFlu on Covid-19 patients who have mild to moderate symptoms. As part a wide study, Glenmark is monitoring 1,000 Covid-19 patients to further establish that the oral drug is safe for patients. Glenmark has already completed phase 3 clinical trials with FabiFlu in mild to moderate Covid-19 patients and the results are expected shortly, the company said. The drug firm also announced that lower production costs helped the company pass on the benefits to patients by reducing the price of the drug by 27% in India to Rs 75 per tablet. The drug was earlier priced at 103 per tablet. “We expect this post marketing surveillance study to shed more light on the drug’s clinical effectiveness and safety in a large cohort of patients prescribed FabiFlu,” said senior vice-president and head-India business Alok Malik said. Malik said that the company’s priority is to offer effective treatment for Covid-19, while also ensuring accessibility. “Our internal research shows us that we launched FabiFlu in India at the lowest market cost as compared to the cost of Favipiravir in other countries where it is approved. And now we hope that this further price reduction will make it even more accessible for patients across the country,” he said. Glenmark developed the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and the formulation for FabiFlu through its own in-house research team. The API is manufactured at Glenmark’s Gujarat production facility which is US FDA and MHRA–UK approved. The formulation product is manufactured at the facility in Himachal Pradesh, which is also USFDA and MHRA-UK approved. On June 20, Glenmark said it received approval from the country’s drug regulator to manufacture and market FabiFlu to treat mild to moderate Covid-19 cases. The approval’s restricted use requires the patient consent before the treatment begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/glenmark-reduces-price-of-covid-drug-studies-effect-on-1k-patients/articleshow/76948652.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta high court to stay shut till July 19 amid coronavirus concerns||KOLKATA: Calcutta high court would remain closed till July 19, said an order issued by the HC Chief Justice, TBN Radhakrishnan, on Monday. The order coincided with reports that a senior Calcutta HC official had tested positive for Covid-19. Sources, however, said the court’s closure had nothing to do with the deputy registrar’s Covid-positive report. The order issued by the Chief Justice cited the new phase of lockdown in Kolkata, the increasing number of containment zones and a rise in Covid cases in the city and its suburbs as reasons for the temporary shutdown. “On account of the new phase of lockdown in Kolkata and constant increase in the containment zones and rapid increase of Covid-19 patients in the city of Kolkata and its suburbs, judicial and administrative work of the High Court, Calcutta shall remain suspended till July 19,” the order stated. The Chief Justice had earlier suspended judicial and administrative work at the Calcutta HC from July 10 to 13 on account of the new phase of lockdown in Kolkata, declaring considerable part of it as containment zones, according to Registrar General Rai Chattopadhyay. The high court had earlier reopened its doors for physical hearing of cases on June 11, after a gap of over two-and-a-half months as normal functioning was stopped during the lockdown. It had been taking up only very urgent matters through video-conference hearings. To ease work during the lockdown, the HC had earlier proposed hybrid hearings from June 17, in which litigants or their counsels might appear in person, while the other litigants might choose to appear through a video link. It was proposed that six benches — four division benches and two single benches — would continue to hold hearings in which both sides appeared through video links as well as hearings, where both sides appeared in person. The physical hearings were to start on June 11 but lawyers stayed away due to Covid scare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-to-stay-shut-till-july-19-amid-corona-concerns/articleshow/76949231.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur police didn’t act against Dubeyon eight plaints of land-grabbing in 2017||Lucknow: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the rise of gangster Vikas Dubey would especially focus on at least eight instances of land-grabbing three years ago in Kannauj in which there was enough evidence against him to pin him down, but not a single FIR was lodged. The then inspector general, Kanpur range, had ordered a probe in 2017 by an ASP-rank officer from Kannauj police after he received eight complaints of land-grabbing in the district against Dubey and his aides Amar Dubey, Jai Vajpayee, Arvind alias Guddan Trivedi and Atul Dubey. For an impartial investigation into the matter, he marked the complaints to be registered at Bajraia and Nazirabad police stations of Kanpur and ordered the probe before formal FIRs could be registered. In his report, the investigating officer said there was enough evidence against Vikas Dubey and his aides but the gangster was trying to influence the probe and was not letting police to lodge an FIR against him. Complainants in the case had then alleged that when they asked local cops to take action against Dubey, they misbehaved with them. The SIT constituted by the government will find out why a probe report indicting the don remained unattended. Talking to TOI, additional director general, (law and order) Prashant Kumar said, “The ambit and mandate of the SIT is so wide that no case related to the gangster will remain untouched.” “No policeman who shielded Dubey or his aides would be let off. The SIT will also look into the role of officers in other departments,” he said. The officer who carried out the probe said, “Kanpur police could have at least filed an FIR or informed their senior officers about the case. But they did not take any action.” He said he had no idea what happened to the investigation after he submitted his report to the IG, Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-police-didnt-act-against-dubeyon-eight-plaints-of-land-grabbing-in-2017/articleshow/76948630.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Blended mode of teaching here to stay: Minister||Thiuvananthapuram: A blended mode of teaching — combination of traditional classroom teaching and online classes — would be the new normal in the post Covid era. Teaching community should equip themselves to make better use of the imperative change, said higher education minister K T Jaleel here on Monday. He was inaugurating a five-day online workshop on virtual teaching, organized by the faculty development centre under the state higher education council. “We all know that virtual teaching cannot substitute classroom teaching. Nonetheless, in the current circumstance of physical distancing, virtual teaching/learning is the sole alternative,” said the minister. Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in transformation and diversification of educational technology and tools., said council vice-chairman Rajan Gurukkal. In the first slot N J Rao (IISc), Rajanikanth and Chandrasekhar (IIIT, Bengaluru) initiated the teachers in the use of online instructional methods/tools. Madhusoodhanan (VC, Cusat) and Sabu Thomas (VC, MGU) would engage the classes in the coming days of the workshop that seeks to cover areas like software-driven course designing, web-based instruction, computer-mediated communication, mind mapping, administration of videos, imaging technology, infographic visualization, hosting the audio/video podcasts, effective management of digital content, and instructional system model. The workshop run through Cisco Webex would involve instructions on the Zoom, Google Talk, Google Hangouts, Google Classroom, Google Docs, Google Forms, Google Meet etc., beside open source platforms such as Swayam and Moodle.  KSHEC plans to train 2,500 teachers before January 2021, said council member secretary Rajan Varghese.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/blended-mode-of-teaching-here-to-stay-minister/articleshow/76947949.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: SCB starts free Covid testing centre in Tadband||SECUNDERABAD: In an effort to provide free Covid-19 tests to residents of the Cantonment area, a testing centre has been set up at the Govt Primary School in Tadbund, Secunderabad, on Monday. On the first day, 28 people from Bowenpally area availed the services. “Out of the 28 cases, eight were positive and we asked the patients to go in for home quarantine,” Dr Avanti, in-charge medical officer, DM&HO, told TOI. “Every day we will conduct tests for 25 people and then, based on the results, will refer them to various hospitals,” she said and added that any person with Covid symptoms can visit the testing centre. SCB and Telangana State Medical and Health Department have jointly set up this centre as private hospitals are collecting huge amounts for testing. The school premises has been cleaned by removing garbage and unwanted vegetation. As the school has been shut for the last four months, it needed to be spruced up,” said SCB senior sanitary superintendent Mahender. Ward No.VI member Pandu Yadav visited the centre and reviewed the arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-startsfree-covidtesting-centrein-tadband/articleshow/76947952.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Pilot sticks to guns even as Rahul, Priyanka phone||Jaipur/New Delhi: The political crisis in Rajasthan showed no signs of abating with CM Ashok Gehlot holding a show of strength by convening a meeting of party legislators and later placing them in a resort and the camp of his rebellious deputy Sachin Pilot challenging the CM’s claim to numbers while rejecting reports that a compromise was being worked out as being “too little, too late”. While a team of senior Congress leaders sent to Jaipur appealed to Pilot to call off his rebellion, he made it clear that the overtures were insufficient and measures such as a rejig of portfolios and assurances on his tenure as state chief weren’t enough. Efforts of Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who spoke to Pilot and sought to persuade him to return to Jaipur, were met with a similar response with the deputy CM not ready to settle merely for assurance of grievance redressal and insisting on a stature on par with Gehlot. The Gehlot camp appeared to be struggling to make up the numbers with at least 20 MLAs (Pilot included) of the 107 party legislators staying away from the Congress legislature party meeting despite the party issuing a whip to be present. By Monday evening, they appeared to concede that Pilot’s claim of having the support of 25 MLAs could not be bereft of substance, and played down the absence of MLAs by saying that those missing had sought exemption. State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas claimed that there were 109 MLAs at the CLP meeting. They included 10 Independents and one CPM MLA, Balwan Poonia, who was suspended by his party for voting for Congress in the recent Rajya Sabha elections. Late night, a video was uploaded on Pilot’s official WhatsApp group showing around 16-17 MLAs, who skipped the CLP meeting, seated together. Sources close to Pilot said the video was from a hotel in Manesar. The CM has called another meeting of the Congress legislature party on Tuesday and the party has threatened to take action against MLAs who don’t turn up. The suspense about the outcome of the high-stake power tussle is likely to continue because of the uncertainty about any collaboration between Pilot and BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-sticks-to-guns-even-as-rahul-priyanka-phone/articleshow/76948686.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||18% cases in 1 week are kids & elderly||Thiruvananthapuram: Of the Covid-19 cases reported in the district in the past one week, children and elderly people constitute 18%. These include a baby as young as four-months-old to an 85-year-old woman, who was one among the 63 positive cases reported in the district on Monday. With 95 of 521 cases in seven days being either children or elderly people who are regarded as highly vulnerable, the unhindered formation of clusters of cases in densely populated areas has thrown up glaring instances of compromise in reverse quarantine. The CM has been insisting on reverse quarantine of elderly population and also the need to protect children from infection. A slight let up in caution had led to breaches in social distancing norms, setting off a community outbreak at Poonthura. The authorities now seem to have more tasks at hand with vulnerable persons in families constantly falling ill. Poonthura has already reported its first death when a 66-year-old man who had been tested positive died on July 10. His son has also been tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 38 children aged 10 and below have been tested positive in seven days across different parts of the district; mostly from Poonthura and adjoining wards. Four persons aged above 80 are under treatment for Covid-19 in the district; all having acquired infection through local transmission. As total of 15 persons are currently under treatment in the age category of 60-70. As many as 10 persons aged 70 and above are under treatment. Comorbidity has been a recurring factor in all the deaths reported in the district till date. Babies ageing a few months to two-year-old have also been tested positive for Covid-19 in the district. Local body authorities and health team have been in talks regarding identifying vulnerable sections in areas declared as critical containment zones. However, a final action plan on isolation is yet to be derived. Meanwhile, people aged above 60 and with underlying health conditions are contracting infection in cluster outbreaks across the district, especially in coastal belts. Raising concerns over the unbroken chain of transmission in coastal areas; fresh cases emerged from Poonthura, Beemapally, Kottapuram and Venganoor on Monday. Cases with unknown sources emerged from Chirayinkeezhu, Nedumangad and Anavoor on Monday. More city areas reported of Covid infection with cases surfacing at Pongumoodu, PMG and Thirumala. Indicative of spread in coastal community; Cheriyathura and Vallakadavu also reported cases. Minor relaxations granted for lockdown in the city other than containment zones came into effect on Monday. With private offices and shops that sell non-essential items remaining shut, city wore a deserted look except for morning and evening hours. People were seen queuing up in front of grocery and vegetable shops and super markets from 7am to 12 noon and 4pm to 6pm when the sale was permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/18-cases-in-1-week-are-kids-elderly/articleshow/76947983.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali rattled as 31 cases of Covid-19 surface in one day||MOHALI: Mohali witnessed the highest ever single day spike of Covid-19 positive cases on Monday. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said 31 positive cases have surfaced, taking the case tally to 423. On Sunday, 25 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Mohali. Six patients have been discharged, the civil surgeon said. Ten cases have been reported from various sectors of Mohali city, six from Peermuchalla, five each from Kharar and Derabassi, three from Lalru and one each from Balongi and Kumbra village, Dr Manjit Singh said. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan attributed the spike in positive cases to people hiding details of their travel from other states. He said such cases have been detected during extensive sampling. He also warned that people who hide their travel history end up infecting their family members or close contacts. “We have been pressing upon people to disclose their travel history, but they conceal it, which leads to transmitting of the virus to others during the period of concealment. If they come forward voluntarily, the health department can isolate them and prevent them from coming in contact with their family members or close contacts,” he said. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said 10 cases reported from Mohali city include two persons, including a four-year-old boy from Sector 116, two persons from Phase IV, two from Sector 97, one from Sector 88, one each from phase 3B2, phase 3B1 and phase 6. Six persons have tested positive in Peermuchalla while four have tested positive in Sunny Enclave and Dashmesh Nagar. In Derabassi, five persons from Avinash Colony tested positive. Three women have tested positive in Lalru, while one person from Kumbra and Balongi have tested positive, the civil surgeon said, adding that most patients have been admitted in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, PGIMER, Chandigarh and Chandimandir in Panchkula. He also said most of the patients are asymptomatic and are responding well to treatment. Six patients have been discharged, taking the number of active cases down to 139. Those who have been cured are from Samgoli, Sunny Enclave, Kharar, Kurali, Sector 66, Mohali and Derabassi. At present, there are 423 cases out of which 277 have recovered, 139 are active, while seven persons have died of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-rattled-as-31-cases-of-covid-19-surface-in-one-day/articleshow/76947979.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 14, 2020||Goa||Glenmark drops med price, studies effect on 1,000 patients||PANAJI: Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, which has a manufacturing facility in Goa, announced that it has started studying the effect of its anti-viral drug FabiFlu on Covid-19 patients who have mild to moderate symptoms. As part a wide study, Glenmark is monitoring 1,000 Covid-19 patients to further establish that the oral drug is safe for patients. Glenmark has already completed phase 3 clinical trials with FabiFlu in mild to moderate Covid-19 patients and the results are expected shortly, the company said. The drug firm also announced that lower production costs helped the company pass on the benefits to patients by reducing the price of the drug by 27% in India to Rs 75 per tablet. The drug was earlier priced at 103 per tablet. “We expect this post marketing surveillance study to shed more light on the drug’s clinical effectiveness and safety in a large cohort of patients prescribed FabiFlu,” said senior vice-president and head-India business Alok Malik said. Malik said that the company’s priority is to offer effective treatment for Covid-19, while also ensuring accessibility. “Our internal research shows us that we launched FabiFlu in India at the lowest market cost as compared to the cost of Favipiravir in other countries where it is approved. And now we hope that this further price reduction will make it even more accessible for patients across the country,” he said. Glenmark developed the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and the formulation for FabiFlu through its own in-house research team. The API is manufactured at Glenmark’s Gujarat production facility which is US FDA and MHRA–UK approved. The formulation product is manufactured at the facility in Himachal Pradesh, which is also USFDA and MHRA-UK approved. On June 20, Glenmark said it received approval from the country’s drug regulator to manufacture and market FabiFlu to treat mild to moderate Covid-19 cases. The approval’s restricted use requires the patient consent before the treatment begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/glenmark-drops-med-price-studies-effect-on-1k-patients/articleshow/76948659.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Sunday downpour claims one, floods parts of Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 43-year-old man was found reportedly electrocuted around 11.30pm on Sunday when he was returning home from a hosiery factory in waterlogged stretch amid pouring rain. The incident was reported from the Saheb Bagan area in front of 18, East Canal Road under Maniktala police station. The victim — Shyamal Dey of Harish Neogi Road and the only earning member of the family — was declared dead at the RG Kar Medical College, said a police source. Dey was electrocuted as he came in contact with a wheel barrow that was in contact with a live wire of an electric post that was submerged in storm water. Vast stretches of Maniktala and its neighbouring areas were inundated on Sunday night, following heavy rains that lashed several parts of north and south Kolkata. Compared to south, north was more affected as large parts of Maniktala, Ultadanga, Chittaranjan Avenue, Amherst Street, Beliaghata, Muktarambabu Street, Thanthania, went under knee-deep water because of the heavy downpour. According to KMC sewerage and drainage department sources, drainage pumping stations like Palmerbridge (Beliaghata) and Thanthania recorded more than 100mm rainfall between 10pm (Sunday) to 6am (Monday). Drainage pumping stations Dhapa Lock and Maniktala recorded 92mm and 84mm rainfall during the same time. Storm water receded from major of north Kolkata areas from Monday afternoon except from stretches like Muktarambabu Street and few pockets of Beliaghata and Maniktala-Ultadanga belt. In south Kolkata, areas like Ballygunge, Jodhpur Park, Kalighat and Mominpore were waterlogged as these areas recorded over 60mm rainfall. A KMC drainage department official said civic officials at all major drainage pumping stations were put on high alert. “We had sent a high alert to officials of all major drainage pumping stations to keep heavy-duty pumps ready to flush out storm water,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sunday-downpour-claims-one-floods-parts-of-kolkata/articleshow/76949244.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Two Vande Bharat flights expected from UK next week||PANAJI: Air India will operate 14 additional repatriation flights between UK and India under the Vande Bharat Mission, including two to Goa, said officials. Bookings for the flights opened on Monday afternoon on the Air India website. The flights from London are scheduled for July 20 and 21 with Goa Airport director Gagan Malik confirming that the flights would land at Goa International Airport. Several Goans who were working or studying in UK remain stranded. Till date, 27 repatriation flights have landed at Goa International Airport and 6,426 passengers have returned to Goa from across the world. On Sunday, a repatriation flight arrived from Kuwait International airport with 145 passengers. The flight, operated by GoAir, was arranged through the efforts of Goan Cultural Centre (GCC) in close coordination with the Indian Embassy, the directorate of NRI Affairs and aviation authorities in Kuwait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-vande-bharat-flights-expected-from-uk-next-week/articleshow/76948681.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown back in many districts of Vidarbha||Nagpur: Rising number of Covid-19 cases in Amravati has made the administration in all five districts of the division to impose lockdown-like restrictions on public movement. Most parts of Amravati division will follow these restrictions from July 15.Chandrapur and Wardha in Nagpur division will also go for lockdown-like restrictions. The period of lockdown and rules and regulations differ in every district.Even as Amravati division is smaller in area and population compared to Nagpur division, it accounts for 55.22% of the total Covid-19 cases and 77% deaths in the region. Rural areas of Buldhana, Washim, Amravati, and Yavatmal districts have witnessed sudden surge in the number of cases since unlock-I due to people returning from other places. As all these districts have started using rapid antigen tests, number of cases have gone up significantly in the last 10 days. Talking to TOI about the lockdown strategy, divisional commissioner of Amravati Piyush Singh said, “Amravati District will have lockdown only on weekends. In Washim, two tehsils — Mangrulpir and Risod — will be under lockdown from Tuesday for the next 7 days. In Buldhana, there is lockdown up to July 21 with restricted timings,” he said. “There is no lockdown in Yavatmal but activities will take place in restricted timings from 10am to 2pm. In Akola, there will be lockdown on coming weekend and Monday,” he added.On July 14, Amravati collector Shailesh Naval issued an order bringing down the number of marriage attendees to 25, including bride and groom, from earlier 50 in wedding halls. Violation of this will invite a fine of Rs25,000 on the wedding hall owner.Washim will not allow people from other districts to enter without travel passes, neither residents of Washim will be allowed to move out without any emergency. “Risod and Mangarulpir tehsils will observe complete lockdown. Timings of shops have been rescheduled in other tehsils,” said district collector Hrishikesh Modak. In Yavatmal, district collector MD Singh announced restricted timings of shops from July 15. Establishments including essential shops will remain open from 10am to 2pm. Only hospitals and medical stores will remain open as per their schedules.In Buldhana, lockdown is already in place from July 7 and will continue till July 21. Shops are allowed to stay open only between 9am to 3pm. In Chandrapur also, district collector Dr Kunal Khemnar has announced complete lockdown for four days between July 17 and 20 in light of rising number of Covid-19 patients. No outsider will be allowed in the city during the period. As the recent spread of Covid-19 cases was due to a marriage function, Wardha district collector Vivek Bhimanwar has imposed strict restrictions on such functions. Only 20 guests are now allowed for marriages in Wardha. Gondia, Buldhana, Gadchiroli and Nagpur districts have not issued any additional measures or lockdown till now.Locked againAmravati: Total lockdown on weekends, only 25 guests for wedding Akola: Total lockdown on July 18, 19, 20Yavatmal: Shops open only from 10am to 2pm from July 15Buldhana: Lockdown up to July 21, shops open only from 9am to 3pmWashim: Lockdown from July 15 to 31; restrictions differ as per tehsilsChandrapur: Complete lockdown from July 17 to 20 Wardha: Restrictions on marriage functions, only 20 guests allowed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-back-in-many-districts-of-vidarbha/articleshow/76987877.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Will teachers take pay cuts, asks HC as PIL seeks no Covid duty||Chennai: Chiding a government teachers’ association that sought exemption from Covid-related work, the Madras high court wondered whether the teachers would accept pay cuts since schools are not functioning. Observing that teachers should be role model for younger generations in serving the society during difficult times, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha said, “Teachers should rise to the occasion and stand out in helping the people rather than boycotting it.” The court made the observations while dismissing a public interest writ petition filed by Tamil Nadu Elementary Teachers’ Association, on Monday. According to the petitioner-association, the state has so far engaged more than 200 teachers to provide counselling for Covid-19 patients. It said teachers are not trained to provide counselling, adding that a teacher had also contracted the infection. The work assigned included collecting information of contacts of infected people, manning Covid-19 call centres operated by the corporation, and to carry out any other work assigned by the zonal team. “Despite efforts, teachers are put at high risk of infection, their health conditions are not considered before engaging them,” the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-teachers-take-pay-cuts-asks-hc-as-pil-seeks-no-covid-duty/articleshow/76948002.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Worst spike of 29 cases in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The city on Monday reported its highest single-day surge of 29 Covid-19 cases since March 19, when the first case was confirmed. The positivity rate which had dropped last month has risen to 7% due to the spike in July. The rise indicates low testing while positive cases are rising. In less than two weeks, 148 cases have emerged. The infection rate has grown by an average of 2% every day, which had reduced to 1% last month. The positivity rate was 6% in April and May and had declined to 5% last month. “The positivity rate of more than 2% is taken as high. Also, with 7% rate of positivity implies that it requires 14 samples to test a positive. This was around 16 to 18 samples in the previous months,” said a data scientist. Among those detected positive were four different families of seven people from Manimajra and six residents from Sector 45. Besides these, the patients included six from Sector 32, two from Sector 52, three family members from Sector 50, two family members from Sector 21, one each from Ram Darbar, Dhanas and Sector 46. The youngest is a 6-year-old boy from Sector 50, while the oldest is 68-year-old man from Sector 45. Meanwhile, six residents were discharged from Sood Dharamshala, PGI and Command hospital. The active count is 157, while the total is to 588, including eight deaths. As many as 423 have been cured and discharged till date. Virus invades PGI campusThe PGI campus is seeing cases which were initially confined to the hospital. Recently, a senior resident in PGI contracted the virus from his staff member. The family of the doctor is quarantined. Also, there was a marriage function in the campus, where a junior engineer contracted the virus. The office of the engineering department in the School for Public Health building has been sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/worst-spike-of-29-cases-in-city/articleshow/76947994.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 14, 2020||Goa||6 bizmen file plaint against fake message||Panaji: Owners of a few restaurants and bakeries on Monday filed a police complaint against unknown persons before cyber crime cell of Goa police for circulating fake messages on social media stating that the public should avoid these places due to Covid-19 cases. “We will take necessary action in the matter,” superintendent of police (crime branch) Shobhit Saxena told TOI. The complaint is signed by six owners, who have also attached the message circulated on social media. “We strongly believe this fake news is being mischievously circulated with the sole intention of creating fear and panic in the minds of the people of Goa,” the complainants stated. They have stated that such fake and malicious news causes a lot of economic damage and hardship to their business and reputation in these difficult times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/6-bizmen-file-plaint-against-fake-message/articleshow/76948696.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||Cause for concern as three more Covid deaths rock Vasco constituency||Vasco: Mormugao municipality’s ward 16 lost two of its residents to Covid-19, while another person from Varunapuri, Vasco succumbed to the virus on Monday morning. Mormugao taluka has so far accounted for 11 of the 17 Covid related deaths in the state, of which nine are from Vasco and two from Chicalim. Meera Sharma, 47, and Laxman Gadekar, 60, both residents of Belabai ward, died at the Covid hospital. “The woman was suffering from blood cancer for the past couple of years and was undergoing treatment,” said councillor Fredrick Henriques. Sharma’s husband worked for the Indian Navy, and following retirement was employed with South Western Railway. They were residing in a flat opposite BSNL Mangor Hill junction, near the barricades of the containment zone where the police shelter is set up. “The Sharmas have two daughters and a son - one daughter is a doctor at Goa Medical College and Hospital, while the other is an intern at the hospital. Except the son, who is a school student, all four members tested positive and were undergoing treatment,” Henriques. Within hours of her death, ward residents were shocked to learn of Gadekar’s demise. Gadekar, who had retired six months back, is survived by three brothers and one sister. All five had contracted the virus. MMC vice-chairperson Reema Sonurlekar claimed that the ambulance took four days to pick up the rest of family after they had tested positive. “If there is a shortage of ambulances, the government should at least make arrangements for buses to shift Covid patients as they risk infecting others. Now, the concern is that the Gadekar family uses public toilets which are also shared by more than 200 people in the locality,” Sonurlekar said. The third victim, Ratnakar Bhikunavar, 58, was declared brought dead at the Chicalim sub-district hospital. The Varunapuri resident was an employee with Military Engineering Services (MES). The health officer of the sub-district hospital, Dr Rajendra Borkar, said the victim was accompanied by his daughter. The medical staff at the hospital was informed that Bhikunavar was suffering from cold and fever since the past few days and was undergoing treatment privately. The doctors at the sub-district hospital later conducted a swab test of the body, which returned positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cause-for-concern-as-three-more-covid-deaths-rock-vasco-constituency/articleshow/76948687.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: East-West Metro work stalled after 20 test Covid-19 positive||KOLKATA: East-West Metro tunnelling has been stopped after more than 20 workers tested Covid-19 positive. The last leg of tunnelling for the beleaguered Metro project had resumed on June 19, but now it is the virus that has sent it into limbo once again. Urvi, the tunnel-boring machine (TBM) digging the east-bound tunnel, is now lying below BB Ganguly Street, 500m from its destination, Sealdah Station. Tunnelling has stopped since Friday as many labourers and supervisors, involved in operating the TBM, tested positive. Following this, 175 people employed with contractors ITD ITD Cementation, General Consultants and Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the agency implementing the 16-km link between Howrah Maidan and Salt Lake’s Sector-V through the Hooghly riverbed, have undergone swab tests for Covid-19. “Their reports will be made known by Wednesday, but under the current situation, tunnelling work will remain stalled for the next fortnight,” Manas Sarkar, MD, KMRC, said on Monday. The TBM was scheduled to reach Sealdah by August. The latest disruption should delay this deadline to mid-September or later. The 2.45km journey of the twin East-West Metro tunnels from Esplanade to Sealdah has been saddled with challenges. Not only did it mean digging below 700-plus century or more unstable buildings, but halfway into the zig-zag route, on August 31, last year, Urvi’s twin, Chundee, which was digging the west-bound tunnel, hit an aquifer. This had led to largescale subsidence that had buildings in Bowbazar falling like a pack of cards. Tunnelling was stopped and resumed in February on Calcutta high court’s orders. As Chundee lay defunct 14m below Durga Pituri Lane off Bowbazar, Urvi took over the digging. But this TBM ran into the lockdown as it reached the cave-in zone (the 300 radius around the spot, where the tunnelling disaster happened last year). Tunnelling resumed on June 19. Since then, Urvi has curved towards BB Ganguly Street negotiating another 40 shaky structures, which were already emptied after the August 31 accident. In fact, 27 other buildings that had either collapsed or damaged beyond repair had to be razed, making the cave-in zone turn into an open space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-work-stalled-after-20-test-ve/articleshow/76949259.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Highest single-day spike of 105 cases makes Ambala cross 600||AMBALA: With the highest-ever 105 people testing positive for Covid-19 in a single day on Monday, the Ambala district’s tally reached 612. Six rural medical practitioners (RMPs) and six with travel history from foreign countries are among the patients. Medical officer Dr Bela Sharma said, “Intensive contact tracing helped us detect so many cases. Among the fresh cases, 55 are from Ambala City areas, 27 from Ambala Cantt, 16 from Barara, three each from Shahzadpur and Naraingarh, and one from Chourmastpur area of the district.” “Out of 16 cases of Barara area, six are RMPs who practise in that area and 33 are from Cloth Market of Ambala City. The reports of 1,326 samples collected from Cloth Market are awaited”, said Dr Bela. “So far, we have collected 22,379 samples in Ambala and the Covid-19 testing is also being conducted with rapid antigen testing kits”, she said. “There are 121 active containment zones and so far, there have been a total of 206 containment zones in Ambala," Dr Bela added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/highest-single-day-spike-of-105-cases-makes-ambala-cross-600/articleshow/76948014.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Shot fired, realtor has a narrow escape||Times News Network Ludhiana: Wanted in attempt to murder cases, a notorious criminal, along with an unidentified accomplice, opened fire outside the house of a realtor in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar early on Monday.Police said Ajay Pandit and his aide fired a shot at Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal, 30, who ducked it. A bullet shell has been recovered from the spot. Realtor Sandeep and Ajay lives in the same locality. Sandeep said, “On April 23, my friend Shammi had come to meet me at my office, which is at my house. After Shammi left, I learned that he and Ajay were fighting in the locality. When I reached there to resolve the issue, Ajay, his brother Rajan Pandit and their accomplices tried to shoot at me. The gun, however, did not go off. They then thrashed me and fled.” In the incident, Division 7 police had booked Ajay, Rajan and their accomplices under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restrain), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and the Arms Act.  “Ajay wanted to strike a compromise with me in the attempt to murder case, but I refused. He then pressured me and even threatened me of dire consequences through neighbours,” Sandeep added.“Around 12.30am Monday, my doorbell rang. I then heard somebody say, “Sandeep come out’. Smelling a rat, I went upstairs to check who was there. When Ajay saw me on the rooftop, he fired a shot at me. I had a narrow escape. There was a masked man with him. When I raised the alarm, they escaped on a bike. There was a car parked at some distance. I feel Ajay’s accomplices were sitting in the car.” Sandeep then called up the police. Assistant commissioner of police (East) Devinder Chaudhary said, “Ajay is wanted in two attempt to murder cases. He is a notorious criminal, with several criminal cases against him. The accused will be traced soon.” On May 3, Ajay and his accomplices Naveen Negi, Mandeep Sanhotra, Mandeep Monu, Vishal Kumar, Shashi Kumar (an illicit liquor smuggler) and two unidentified ones were booked in an attempt to murder case on the complaint of victim Sandeep Kumar, 33 of Kasabad village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shot-fired-realtor-has-a-narrow-escape/articleshow/76947065.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Voluntary 8-day lockdown in Goa's Nerul after cases spike||By: Denver D’Souza SALIGAO: Following a spike in Covid cases in Nerul on Monday, a decision to enforce an eight-day voluntary lockdown in the village was taken at a joint meeting attended by the villagers, Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar, deputy collectors Akshay Potekar and Mamu Hage, health officer of Candolim primary health centre Dr Roshan Nazareth, sarpanch Nerul Reshma Kalangutkar and all the panch members. It was decided to hold a meeting after 26 positive cases were detected in Fottavaddo on Monday and 26 from a chawl at Malvankar Housing Colony on Sunday. In all, Nerul now has 52 cases. Sources at the Nerul panchayat told TOI that the the lockdown will be in force up to July 20, but the villagers will be allowed to step out of their houses from 7am to 12 noon only to buy essential commodities. Vehicles from other villages will not be allowed to enter Nerul as the police have barricaded the area to restrict the movement of people. “Wards having the highest number of cases will be sanitised either on Tuesday or the day after tomorrow,” said the Nerul sarpanch, while adding that the presence of a large number of migrants in the village had led to the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Kalangutkar also said that a vehicle fitted with a public addressal system will move around in every ward of the village creating awareness and urging people to stay indoors. “People should only step out to buy essential items,” said Kalangutkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/voluntary-8-day-lockdown-in-nerul-after-cases-spike/articleshow/76948699.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||CM to e-dedicate RMC’s five projects worth Rs 69cr today||Rajkot: Chief minister Vijay Rupani will e-dedicate five projects worth Rs 68.88 crore of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Tuesday. He will also preside over e-inauguration of this project. According to a release issued by the state government, these projects include high-level bridge over Aji River on Dhoodhsagar Road, built at the cost of Rs 3.25 crore, Hinglaj Nagar Housing Scheme Part-1 constructed at the cost of Rs 15 crore, smart bus stop under Pan City project of Smart City, at the cost of Rs 70 lakh, water treatment plant with the capacity of 50 MLD at the cost of Rs 42.25 crore and the urban forest to be created near Aji Dam at the cost of Rs 7.67 crore. The bridge over Aji Dam on Dhoodhsagar Road was a low-level bridge which would overflow when the river was in spate during monsoon seasons. Hence, it was decided to convert it into a high-level bridge, said the release. Hinglaj Nagar Housing Scheme Part-1 is being built under ‘Pradhanmantri Awas Yojana - Housing For All 2022’ and Gujarat Slum Rehabilitation Policy. Under this scheme, each beneficiary will be provided with a house of two bedrooms, hall, kitchen, two toilets and two bathrooms, the release informed. Under the smart bus stop under pan city project of Smart City, 10 smart bus stops have been built in different areas of Rajkot. That apart, urban forest will be created near Aji Dam in 47 acre area which will include compound wall and fencing, admin office, cycle track, walking track, drinking water facility, toilets, playground for kids, entry gate, boxes for different plants and parking, added the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cm-to-e-dedicate-rmcs-five-projects-worth-rs-69cr-today/articleshow/76947058.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Boy from Chennai school scores 498/500||CHENNAI: A student from a city school, A Balakrishnan scored 498 out of 500 marks in the CBSE Class XII exam results that were released on Monday. Though students have scored high marks, many schools said the number of centums has come down compared to the previous year. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, commerce students couldn’t write two papers (business studies and IT) while science students couldn’t write computer science exam. Teachers said these are the papers where usually they expect more centums, but given the circumstances, it wasn’t possible this year. Students were awarded marks in these subjects based on their best three marks in other subjects. A Balakrishnan from Maharishi Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School scored a centum in maths, physics, chemistry and computer science while scoring 98 marks in English. “I expected a score above 490. I was surprised to get 498 out of 500,” said Balakrishnan. He is preparing for JEE. He wants to pursue computer science engineering at IIT Madras.  A Rahul Reddy, B Srivathsan from the same school got 496 out of 500 marks "I would like to study engineering in IITs and yet to decide the stream," said Rahul Reddy. He scored 100 marks in physics and secured 99 marks in English, maths, chemistry and computer science. "Out of 471 students, 455 students have passed with distinction and 316 students scored above 450 marks," said S Namasivayam, senior principal of Maharishi Vidyamandir. Sujatha Venkatesh, a commerce student from Vels Vidyashram in Pallavaram, scored 495 out of 500. She got 99 in all five subjects - English, Accountancy, Business Studies, Economics and IT. She is now preparing to give her foundation exam for Certified Management Accountant, which is scheduled to be held in September. “Considering the situation, the students have given their best. We are proud of them,” said Vasanthi Vishwanathan, Principal, Vels Vidyashram at Pallavaram. S Samuel Rozario from Alwin Memorial Public School in Tambaram and Gargi Lakshmi Narasimhan from Modern Senior Secondary School in Nanganallur have scored 494 out of 500 marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/boy-from-city-school-scores-498/500/articleshow/76948015.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||Dr Ambedkar’s statue desecrated in Sihor||Rajkot: A statue of Baba Saheb Ambedkar was allegedly desecrated at Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Chowk of Sihor in Bhavnagar district on Sunday night. “The accused had put an empty bucket on the head of the statue and placed empty bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) by the side of it,” said an official from Sihor police station. The incident sparked off a widespread protest among the members of Dalit community who went to Sihor police station and made a representation before the police. The police registered their complaint and filed the case under section 295 of the Indian Penal Code dealing with hurting the religious sentiments. Mawji Sarvaiya (44) of Gundala village of Sihor taluka in Bhavnagar district filed the complaint with the police.Complainant Sarviya said, “Some miscreant did this mischief with the statue during the night, which we noticed in the morning and informed the police. The miscreants in the past too broke the glass covering the statue, but none was arrested so far. We demand to install CCTV cameras around the statue.” “We are checking the footages of different CCTV cameras installed at the Chowk to trace and identify the accused,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dr-ambedkars-statue-desecrated-in-sihor/articleshow/76947084.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||CCP staff from Camrabhat to stay home as fresh case emerges||Panaji: After a fresh case of Covid-19 emerged from Camrabhat, Taleigao, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) on Monday deferred its decision on allowing its workers from the area to resume duty. They include garbage collectors, drivers and sweepers who were supposed to restart work in the state capital from this week onwards. “For almost a week, there were no new cases reported from Camrabhat. We were going to decide on Monday how workers from there would resume their duties. We then received information that there has been one Covid-19 positive case reported from the area,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar, said. He, however, clarified that while the infected person is not a CCP worker, the patient’s brother is employed with the corporation and is among the many who had been asked not to report to duty after news of Covid-19 cases broke out in the area. “Though siblings, the two do not reside in the same house, but they live in a thickly populated area. Therefore, we have decided to not let the brother or the other residents of Camrabhat resume duties this week, as a precautionary measure,” Madkaikar said. The CCP has now postponed a decision in the matter to next week. A total of 115 CCP workers, 90 of whom are from Camrabhat, and at least 15 from Chimbel, were asked to stay home until further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-staff-from-camrabhat-to-stay-home-as-fresh-case-emerges/articleshow/76948707.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi high court extends all interim orders till August 31||NEW DELHI: Indicating that courts may continue to function in virtual mode for the time being, Delhi high court on Monday extended till August 31 all interim orders, including bails granted to accused in various cases. These orders were set to expire on or after July 15 and included cases pending before the high court and district courts in the city. To ensure the safety of litigants, lawyers and undertrial prisoners during the Covid-19 pandemic, a special bench headed by Chief Justice DN Patel said it was extending the interim orders, as prisons remain overcrowded and if any prisoner returned to jail from outside, there would be a high risk that he might bring the infection with him and it could spread among other inmates. The bench, also comprising justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, noted: “These are unusual times calling for unusual measures. It is an unprecedented situation,” adding that orders were being extended “to protect everyone.” State government standing counsel Rahul Mehra said initially the court had extended all interim orders till May 15 and thereafter, they were extended to June 15 and July 15, as people were not able to approach courts due to the pandemic. “However, people are now approaching courts, including the high court, in a wide variety of matters and the matters are being listed and heard without much delay. Therefore, bail matters be decided on their individual merits,” Mehra said. The bench, however, said it was extending the interim bails as it did not want asymptomatic prisoners to return to jail and spread the infection. Chief Justice said in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, the court was extending its directions passed on March 25, May 15 and June 15 till August 31 on the same terms and conditions and listed the matter for August 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-extends-all-interim-orders-till-august-31/articleshow/76948723.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||NU likely to get new VC by July-end||Nagpur: Nagpur University (NU) is likely to get its new vice chancellor by the end of July, said officials. The office of chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has asked the search committee led by former Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court Dilip Bhosale to speed up the process which has been moving at a snail’s pace due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The panel also comprises principal secretary Sanjay Chahande along with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, chairman Abhay Karandikar, who was nominated by NU’s management and academic councils. NU’s deputy registrar Wasim Ahmed is the liaisoning officer while IIT Bombay registrar R Premkumar is the nodal officer. Premkumar told TOI that 130 applications have come in. The search panel has been regularly holding its meetings via the online platform. “Shortly, the panel will be finalizing the candidates for interaction. The panel itself will decide if the interaction would be in-person or online. It depends on the travel permissions and the prevailing situation,” he said. NU officials said the panel shortlisted candidates after scrutinizing their applications which were based on their basic qualifications. “Since a large number of applications have been received, candidates will be further shortlisted as per the desirable qualifications which include representation on statutory bodies in academic life, research activities, etc,” they said. Indications are that the last five names would be finalized in a week’s time while the VC will be named by the end of the month. On the number of applicants to be called for interaction, officials said, “Last time, 25 candidates were called. This time it is likely that at least 15 or more would be called.” On June 16, TOI had reported that over 125 candidates have applied for the post of Nagpur University’s (NU) vice-chancellor (VC). The panel had extended the date for receiving hard copies of online applications and supporting documents to June 15. If not for the Covid pandemic and subsequent lockdown, NU probably would have by now seen a new full-time officer occupying the VC post which is lying vacant following the completion of SP Kane’s tenure on April 8. Amravati University VC Murlidhar Chandekar is holding the additional charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-likely-to-get-new-vc-by-july-end/articleshow/76948717.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 14, 2020||Goa||Locals in Betki micro zone get disinfectant||Ponda: After 52 people were detected with Covid-19 in Betki-Khandola, the local primary health centre (PHC) decided to provide sodium hypochlorite solution to disinfect houses of those infected by the virus. With the sudden spike in Covid positive cases, Haldanwada-Khandola was declared a micro-containment zone on Sunday. Of the 52 active cases, 39 are from Haldanwada. Dr Brenda Pinto, health officer of Betki PHC, said that she along with her staff have distributed the disinfectant to all houses in the micro-containment zone. Of the two persons working at Verna industrial estate, the one from Volvoi infected five persons, while the other from Haldanwada is suspected to have transmitted the virus to 38 members of joint families residing in seven houses, Pinto said. “The testing of residents from the buffer zone will commence from Tuesday, the health officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-in-betki-micro-zone-get-disinfectant/articleshow/76948711.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 14, 2020||Goa||Tivrem-Orgao locals impose self-isolation to curb infection||Ponda: After a surge in Covid positive cases in neighbouring Betki-Khandola and Volvoi panchayat areas, the Tivrem-Orgao panchayat called for a self-imposed lockdown from Monday up to July 20 to control the spread of the virus in the village. In all, 39 persons from Haldanwada in Betki-Khandola have been infected with the virus. Shops are allowed to remain open from 7am to 11am for people to purchase essential commodities. Stating that they have achieved 95% success on Day One of the lockdown, deputy sarpanch Jayesh Naik expressed confidence that the lockdown will prevent the spread of infection. Naik said the lockdown will control the flow of people at the otherwise busy Marcel bazaar of Tivrem-Orgao, where locals from surrounding villages converge in large numbers for shopping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tivrem-orgao-locals-impose-self-isolation-to-curb-infection/articleshow/76948719.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||Woman with learning difficulties reunited with family||Rajkot: Junagadh police reunited a woman aged between 65 and 70 with learning difficulties with her family members on Monday.“The woman was found on Junagadh-Jetpur Highway near Vadal village seven to eight months ago. As she had learning difficulties, she did not remember her name or postal address. We gave her new clothes and a pair of sleepers and offered her food,” said Junagadh superintendent of police Saurabh Singh in a press release. As she had nowhere to go, Junagadh deputy superintendent of police Pradeepsinh Jadeja thought of sending her to a shelter home.“I knew one Manav Seva Ashram in Bagodara and sent the woman there. At this ashram people with learning difficulties are looked after and taken care of. The woman stayed in the ashram for seven months. On Sunday, Dinesh Lathiya of the ashram contacted me, saying that the woman had recalled her address and the names of her family members and that she was now completely cured,” said Jadeja. The woman said she was from Devala village of Gondal taluka in Rajkot district. Acting on this information, Junagadh taluka police station sub-inspector V U Solanki contacted Devala village sarpanch Gopal Shingala, who put him in touch with the woman’s son Bhavan Adivasi.“Bhavan came to the police station and we handed him over the custody of his mother. Bhavan thanked Lathiya profusely for having taken care of his mother for so many months,” said Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-with-learning-difficulties-reunited-with-family/articleshow/76947122.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala accepts SC verdict, won’t file review petition||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the state government deciding to accept the verdict of Supreme Court regarding the ownership and management of Sree Padmanabhasway temple, the legal battle that began 13 years ago in the high court has concluded. The SC order, while upholding the rights of Travancore royal family, has also given ample power for the state government and the high court in crucial decisions regarding constitution of advisory committee and administrative committee of the temple, creating a win-win situation for both parties. Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran said the state government accepted the SC verdict and would take steps to implement it. “The SC has taken the decision after listening to arguments from all concerned. We need to know the details of the verdict before finalising other things”, Surendran told reporters. He also said the government wouldn’t file a review petition against Monday’s order. On opening the vault B, the minister said as per initial reports, the court has authorized the administrative committee to decide on opening the vault. Former chief minister V S Achuthanandan, who had campaigned for the government takeover of temple administration, said the stand of the previous UDF government on the issue had been presented in the Supreme Court and that might have reflected in the verdict. “I couldn’t read or study the verdict in detail. Based on media reports, I infer that the verdict gives some special rights to Travancore royal family, differing from the high court verdict,” he said in a Facebook post. The opposition UDF and BJP used the verdict as an opportunity to criticize the LDF government. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the verdict has underlined the stand taken by the previous UDF government in the issue. “The verdict upholds the sentiments of devotees and this is a victory of devotees. The court has now ruled that assets of Sree Padmanabhaswamy belong to him only. Like in Sabarimala, the court has considered belief as sacrosanct here too,” he said. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said the verdict was a setback to the LDF government. “The SC verdict is in favour of royal family and believers. The previous UDF government had considered the opinion of believers and royal family. Temple, its customs and assets will be safe at the hands of devotees,” he said. BJP state president K Surendran welcomed the SC verdict and said the verdict could be extended to other temples, including Sabarimala. “Minister Kadakampally Surendran welcomed the order as there is no other option left. Will CM Pinarayi Vijayan and CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan repeat what he said? If they welcome the order, they should also tell public that their old stand was wrong. The verdict is a clear message that temple management should be entrusted with devotees. Political parties and government don’t need to decide on temple affairs. This is a verdict which will be applicable for Sabarimala and other temples too,” Surendran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-accepts-sc-verdict-wont-file-review-petition/articleshow/76947107.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||RCCI seeks more land for Khirasara GIDC||Rajkot: Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) has sought more land for the newly declared industrial estate at Khirasara GIDC. Rajkot got sanction for Devgam-Khirasara industrial estate in Lodhika taluka after efforts of over a decade. In July 2018 the GIDC invited application from industrial players and started development of 97 hectare land. The Khirasara GIDC is expected to be operational in 2021. While the original plan was to set up the industrial estate in 341 hectare, the state government in 2018 allotted 97 hectare land as part of the first phase and assured more land in the next phase. According to RCCI the GIDC received about 11,000 applications for the allotments of plots out of that only 471 plots have been allotted due to non-availability of land. Players engaged in small engineering parts, diesel engines, submersible pumps, auto components, casting and forging, kitchenware and hardware sector players have applied to get plots at Khirasara. Vice president of RCCI Parth Ganatra said “Rajkot is a hub of engineering industries and there are many units willing to buy plots so we have requested government to develop the area surrounding Khirasara GIDC so that those left could be accommodated.” According to rule, government gives price relaxation to those applicant who apply for less than 3,000 square meter plot. RCCI has also demanded to extend this benefit for those who want plot of 5,000 square meter, in order pass on more benefits to MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rcci-seeks-more-land-for-khirasara-gidc/articleshow/76947098.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kochi||SC panels oversaw key infrastructure projects in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though court interventions in the administrative affairs of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple left devotees frustrated, the Supreme Court-appointed panels that have overseen affairs since 2011 were able to carry out some major infrastructure work. Long-pending demands for cleaning the Padmatheertham pond and repairing the sancta sanctorum were carried out by the panels under the supervision of the amicus curiae, Gopal Subramanyam. Around Rs 75 crore worth of restoration work was taken up in the last eight years. The incumbent committee, led by a district judge and with an IAS officer as executive officer, is overseeing development works, expected to cost Rs 63 crore, on the temple premises. The four entrances to the temple are being spruced up. Overhead electric and telephone lines have given way to underground cables and underground ducts for water supply, sewage and rainwater flow through underground ducts are being built. Heritage-inspired ornamental lights will replace street lights in and around the premises. The cleaning and conservation of the pond and 11 mandapams are also part of the swadesh darshan scheme. Renovation of the main sreekovil roof and Sree Narasimhamoorthy sreekovil, installation of a new dhwaja sthambha of Thiruvambadi Sree Krishna Swamy and renovation of tantri madam, nambi madam were taken up in the last few years. The committee received 7kg of gold as donation for gold plating of the sreekovil. But the work is pending. The most recent achievement of the committee was organizing the 56-day murajapam ritual from November 2019, which culminated with lakshadeepam on January 15. Murajapam is celebrated every six years at the temple. V Ratheeshan, who took charge as executive officer in June 2017, initiated two schemes tulasi vanam project, whereby tulasi saplings are planted inside the temple and the same are offered to the deity, and the Rs 7 lakh second gaushala project. Improving the amenities for the devotees, a virtual queue system was introduced which is temporarily stopped due to Covid-19 restrictions. A new crowd management system was introduced whereby senior citizens, disabled persons, etc, can have darsan through a separate entrance. A 19-year-long claim relating to tasdik allowance and the receipt of Rs 1.67 crore from the Tamil Nadu government were also settled in November 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sc-panels-oversaw-key-infra-projects/articleshow/76947123.cms||Anasooya.S
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana registers 9 Covid-19 deaths, 1,550 new infections||HYDERABAD: On a day when Telangana recorded nine deaths and 1,550 new cases of Covid-19, authorities said Rangareddy district saw its highest single-day surge in cases since the onset of the pandemic. The total number of cases in the district, adjoining Hyderabad, stood at 212 on Monday. Indicating how the spread of the virus in districts around Hyderabad was a big concern, a senior health official said: “Since Hyderabad city overlaps part of Medchal, Rangareddy and Sangareddy the movement of people criss-crossing these areas is resulting in the rapid spread. Despite regular alerts, many people are not following the safety precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.” With the latest count, the total number of positive cases now stands at 36, 221, while the death toll is 365. The state currently has 12,178 active cases and 11,525 samples were tested on Monday. In Hyderabad’s Gandhi Hospital, which is the nodal centre for Covid-19 treatment, newly-recruited nurses were stopped by police while entering the hospital. The nurses who were recruited less than a week ago have not been issued any identity card so far, which caused the police to bar them from entering the hospital. Meanwhile, officials from the drug control administration conducted checks on the availability of Remdesivir and Toclizumab drugs for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals. Medchal, Sangareddy, Medak, Nalgonda, Karimnagar and Khammam continued to see an upward trend apart from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, which is still recording many cases. The rapidly increasing number of coronavirus cases across the state is keeping health officials on tenterhooks with many assessing ways to step up the fight against Covid-19. With the monsoon setting in, there is an expected rise in the number of dengue cases as well, forcing authorities to think of innovative measures to see that health facilities in the state are not overburdened as cases come in over the days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-registers-9-covid-19-deaths-1550-new-infections/articleshow/76948020.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 14, 2020||India||BJP demands Ashok Gehlot take floor test||NEW DELHI: Rejecting Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s claim that he enjoys majority in the face of rebellion by his deputy Sachin Pilot, BJP on Monday demanded a floor test, a line which has been taken by the Congress rebel’s camp too. “Ashok Gehlot must immediately call for a floor test, prove his majority, save Rajasthan the drama and get on with the business of governance,” BJP media cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted soon after the CM claimed that he had majority. “Congress leaders who were till last week pontificating on how to resolve the India-China issue are not able to resolve a simple dispute that has been festering for long between two warring individuals in their own party. Sonia Gandhi’s leadership has never looked weaker,” Malviya said. At the same time, the Pilot camp questioned Gehlot’s claim of having majority and said it was to be proven on the floor of the assembly and not in the lawn of the CMO. BJP and the Pilot camp may be on the same page over questioning Gehlot’s claim of majority but a formal alignment between the two still looks uncertain as the saffron party is still not sure about the numbers for government formation. BJP is also not too enthusiastic about entering the fray openly as there seems to be differences among its state leaders on how to accommodate Pilot, who is the PCC chief and deputy CM. Top state leaders like former CM Vasundhara Raje have not uttered a word on the matter so far. Party sources said they had not shut the doors on Pilot but he would have to decide on how to go about it with a concrete plan of action which should not be limited to toppling the Gehlot government but also lay out the contours of the next formation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-demands-ashok-gehlot-take-floor-test/articleshow/76949755.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||Thief wanted in three cases arrested||Rajkot: A thief wanted for three burglaries was arrested from Pedak Road by Rajkot B division police on Monday. Police said the accused, identified as Pradeep Padhariya (21), was arrested on the basis of a tip-off about his whereabouts on Pedak Road.“Initially, Padhariya stubbornly refuted all the allegations levelled against him. However, when we put his name in pocket cop application, it was found that Padhariya had been arrested in as many as nine thefts, from which he had obtained bail,” said M V Osura, inspector with Rajkot B division police station. During his interrogation, Padhariya said he had committed three thefts after his release on bail in Rajkot. The biggest theft he had committed was in Jagjeet Apartment on Manhar Plot from where he had stolen cash, gold and silver jewellery, all worth Rs 3.23 lakh, on Saturday. On July 5, Padhariya had broken into a flat of Lokmanya Tilak Township on Morbi Road, from where he had stolen gold jewellery worth Rs 30,000.Last month, he had broken into a house near Kotharia Solvant and committed theft, but he didn’t remember how much amount he had stolen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/thief-wanted-in-three-cases-arrested/articleshow/76947136.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Pune||PMR case tally nears 40k, cured count crosses 25k||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region recorded over 1,000 cases of Covid-19 for the 13th straight day on Monday, taking the tally in the region to 39,835. Besides, 23 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours, pushing the toll up to 1,098. PMR added 1,333 cases on Monday, of which 759 came from the Pune municipal limits, 384 from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits and 190 from the rural and Cantonment areas. A PMC health official said as many as 614 patients were discharged in the municipal limits in the 24 hours ended Monday evening. “With this, over 18,000 patients have been discharged in the PMC limits after being declared cured,” he said, adding that over 25,000 patients have been discharged in PMR. The caseload of active patients in PMC stood at 9,412 till Monday evening. “As many as 486 patients are at critical stage, of whom 174 are on ventilator support, including invasive and non invasive,” the official said. He said 3,736 swab samples were collected and sent for testing on Monday, besides 1,432 antigen tests were also conducted. A total of 361 teams have been conducting door-to-door survey of people in the city, the official added. Among the deceased, four patients died at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 27-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 53-year-old man from the Market Yard area, a 65-year-old woman from Hadapsar, a 75-year-old woman from the Pune Camp area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-case-tally-nears-40k-cured-count-crosses-25k/articleshow/76948725.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 14, 2020||Pune||PCMC collects Rs 5L in fines in one day||Pimpri Chinchwad: The health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation c(PCMC) ollected over Rs5 lakh as fine on July 10 from citizens for not wearing masks and spitting at public places. Anil Roy, medical officer of health, said a fine of Rs3.20 lakh was collected on July 10 from citizens for not wearing masks, while Rs 1.97 lakh was collected as fine for spitting in public places. The action will be intensified further. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-collects-rs-5l-in-fines-in-one-day/articleshow/76948727.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Covid +ve man goes missing in Moradabad, joint team traces him 24 hours later||Bareilly: A labourer, in his 40s, who was tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, allegedly went missing for around 24 hours in Nagphani area of UP’s Moradabad - giving some anxious moments to the authorities. A joint team of police and health department later traced him to a house in Bangla village, Nagphani, and got him admitted to a hospital on Monday. According to officials, the health department had collected samples of suspected people from rural parts of the district last week and the same were sent for examination. The reports arrived later on Saturday. The labourer, identified as Rajeev Kumar, was found Covid positive, and ever since, the department was unable to contact him. Nagphani SHO Sunil Kumar said, “After his report was found to be Covid-19 positive, the health department and police were unable to contact the patient. Officials repeatedly tried to contact him on his phone number, provided by him, but were unable to reach him as it was switched off. Thereafter, we tried to trace him on the address but failed, following which, locals in the area and others in acquaintance were alerted.” Inspector of Nagphani police station Ram Pratap Singh said, “We had put the patient’s contact number on surveillance after he couldn't be traced for 24 hours. However, on Monday, another raid was conducted in the area and we managed to find him this time. The man informed that his mobile plan had expired, and so the incoming facility on his contact number was suspended, of which, he wasn't aware. Thus, he could not be contacted.” Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg told TOI, “The patient was successfully traced later in the day and immediately admitted to the district hospital where he is being provided treatment. We are trying to find out if anyone came in his proximity during the missing period and further action will be initiated.” Around 700 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Moradabad so far and at least 30 people have succumbed to the infection in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-ve-man-goes-missing-in-moradabad-joint-team-traces-him-24-hours-later/articleshow/76944831.cms||Maria Khan
July 14, 2020||Kochi||It’s Lord’s blessing to all devotees: Royal family||Thiruvananthapuram: The members of Travancore royal family expressed their happiness over the Supreme Court verdict upholding their administrative rights over Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple and said that the verdict was a victory of the devotees. In a video message, Pooyam Thirunal Gowri Parvathi Bayi said, “Supreme Court’s verdict should not be regarded as a victory of the royal family, but as a blessing to all the devotees of Padmanabhaswamy. We thank all those who stood with us and waited for the verdict all these years.” After the royal family filed an appeal in the Supreme Court against the high court verdict, SC had handed over the administration to a committee in 2014. Commenting on the SC verdict which upheld the rights of the royal family in the administration and management of the temple, Aditya Varma said, “We are yet to read the complete order. As far as what we have understood about the judgment, we are happy. The Supreme Court has established our rights. The administration of the temple was handed over to the Supreme Court committee in 2014. We had no role in the temple administration till date from 2014. It was informed that the B vault will not be opened. We are yet to get the details related to formation of the new committee and its structure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/its-lords-blessing-to-all-devotees-royal-family/articleshow/76947138.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Animal activists travel 150 km to rescue dog from borewell||HYDERABAD: Seeing an animal in distress may tug at your heartstrings, but very few go out of their comfort zone to pull them out of misery. In one such case, a team of five animal activists from Animal Warriors Conservation Society (AWCS) travelled over 150 km from Hyderabad to Narayan thanda in Warangal, to rescue a dog on Monday morning. After receiving a call from the villagers around 11.30 pm on Sunday about a dog which fell into a 70-feet deep open well, the team immediately hired a vehicle in Hyderabad and set off to rescue the dog the same night. “Our focus at that time was to save the dog. Since we do not have our own rescue vehicle, we decided to hire a car and start immediately. Once we reached, we waited until dawn and set in motion the rescue operation,” said Pradeep Nair of AWCS. Video: Animal activists travel 150km to rescue dog from borewell in Warangal https://t.co/DD1T7iN91A— TOI Hyderabad (@TOIHyderabad) 1594703850000“Once we located the dog, one of our team members had to go into the well using the safety equipment and bring the dog to safety. It was a huge open agricultural well and the dog wouldn’t have survived if the villagers did not raise an alarm,” said Nair. The team released the dog back in the village before returning to the city. Apart from Pradeep, the team members include Sanjeev Varma, Amarnadh, Raghav, Anthony Prabhu and Messi. Known for carrying out some of the most technically challenging rescues, AWCS is a 14-year-old organisation working for animal welfare. The non-profit organisation recently started an online fundraising campaign on Milaap to procure better safety equipment and to buy a rescue vehicle so that they don’t have to hire private vehicles, which is tough to afford on a regular basis. Watch Animal activists travel 150km to rescue dog stuck in bore well||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/animal-activists-travel-150-km-to-rescue-dog-from-borewell/articleshow/76948032.cms||Moulika.KV
July 14, 2020||Pune||38,686 score over 95% in CBSE Class XII, 119% jump over last year||MUMBAI: In what took students and schools across the country by surprise and caused its website to crash for hours, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced Class XII results a little after noon on Monday. Of the 11.9 lakh students who appeared for the exams, 88.8% passed, up by 5.4% over 2019. The results brought cheer to many students as 38,686 of them scored more than 95% and 1.6 lakh got more than 90%, a jump of 118.7% and 67.5%, respectively, from last year. Significantly, this year, CBSE has decided to replace the term ‘Fail’ in the results with ‘Essential Repeat’ in its documents and on its website. While the board did not announce a merit list this year, Divyanshi Jain from Navyug Radiance Senior Secondary School in Lucknow and Tushar Singh of Bulandshahr’s DPS both scored 100% in humanities. The highest score last year was one mark less than the perfect 100. This year, the board couldn’t conduct exams for 12 papers and an additional 11 in northeastern Delhi in March due to Covid-19, and thus scored students on the basis of their average scores in the papers they had appeared for. In Mumbai, students from all the streams could not appear for one of their papers. In Maharashtra, 20,552 students appeared for the exams and the state’s success rate was 90.4%. Pune region, of which Maharashtra is a part, recorded a success rate of 90.2%. Girls outperformed boys, both in India and the state. In line with the national trend, most city schools, too, saw more high scorers with students scoring a perfect 100 in many subjects. The high scores are likely to impact the university admission cut-offs and competition for HSC students could be heightened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/38686-score-over-95-in-cbse-class-xii-119-jump-over-last-yr/articleshow/76950216.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 14, 2020||Hubballi||ASHA workers’ protest enters fourth day||HUBBALLI: Boycotting Covid-19 duties for the fourth day, Asha workers staged a dharna as part of their statewide agitation, here on Monday. Bharati Shettar, an office-bearer of Karnataka State Samyukta Asha Workers’ Association (KSSAWA), said that from tracing contacts of infected patients to raising awareness about Covid-19 among the public, Asha workers have been at the vanguard of Karnataka’s fight against the pandemic. “We want the government to provide us PPEs and a hike in honorarium to Rs 12,000 per month. However, our demands are not being met, nor have we been called to discuss these issues. As many as 42,000 Asha workers have been visiting each and every household across Karnataka,” she said. Another leader, Sujata Hiremath, said that they will not go to work till our demands are met. Asha workers Laxmi, Vinoda Manvachari, Laxmi Sambalmath, Manjula Badiger, and others participated in protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/asha-workers-protest-enters-4th-day/articleshow/76948266.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mangaluru||DK headed for 7-day lockdown from July 16; Udupi to decide today||Mangaluru/Udupi: With nod from chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Dakshina Kannada district is set to go for a 7-day lockdown starting 8pm on July 15 to arrest the spiralling Covid-19 cases. A decision to this effect was taken at a video-conference meet with the CM attended by district administration, district ministers, deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief executive officers of zilla panchayats In a video-message after the meeting with the CM, district in-charge minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari said the week-long lockdown will come into force from July 16. With the government already looking at halting all activities at 8pm every day and night curfew in place until 5am the next day, the lockdown will be in force till 5am on July 23. The decision was taken after considering all prevalent views on the situation, he said. Even as people awaited the fine print on how the fresh lockdown would go, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said the lockdown will enforced from Thursday to Sunday with limited relaxation from Monday to Wednesday for people to buy essentials. Poojari, who on Sunday had said the administration would not enforce a lockdown in haste, said in his video message that people have time to stock up on essentials till Wednesday evening. Neighbouring Udupi will take a call on either sealing down the district borders or going for a total lockdown like DK after a meeting of elected representatives scheduled on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said in case of the former, call will be taken on regulating public life within the district including allowing public transport to function, and in case of the latter, on providing time bound relaxation to people to purchase essential items. Incidentally, Jagadeesha, at the VC meeting had suggested that it will be possible to control the pandemic by enforcing a seal down after allowing people who needed to exit the district to do so on prior notice. Ongoing SSLC evaluation will continue, and facilities given to teachers to carry out the same, he said. The administration has also taken a dim view of violation of social distancing norms in public transport and booked cases, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-headed-for-7-day-lockdown-from-july-16-udupi-to-decide-today/articleshow/76946681.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Four-year-old found hanging from tree, cops suspect boy was sodomised & killed||Bareilly: Police on Monday evening recovered the dead body of a four-year-old boy, who had gone missing the same morning from his house in Aliganj area of Bareilly district. The body was found hanging from a tree and had prominent injury marks on the face. On being informed, Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey rushed to the spot. Initial probe revealed the boy was possibly sodomised and later killed. Based on the complaint of the victim’s father, an FIR was registered in the case against a suspect whose bicycle and slippers were found near the spot, under IPC Section 302 (murder). Police are searching for the suspect, identified as Prempal. This is the fourth case of brutality on children reported from the Aonla circle of Bareilly since June. SSP Pandey told TOI, “The suspect, Prempal (25), had come to the victim’s house along with one of their relatives. On Monday morning, he was playing with the boy when both of them suddenly went missing. Initially, the family thought Prempal had abducted their boy, but a few hours later, they found the dead body of their son hanging from a tree.” He added, “We’ve already gathered some information on Prempal and found he is unmarried and indulges in the company of “undesirable” people. We’ve deployed two teams to arrest him at the earliest. The motive behind the murder seems sexual assault, but we will wait for the autopsy report to confirm it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-year-old-found-hanging-from-tree-cops-suspect-boy-was-sodomised-killed/articleshow/76945799.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 14, 2020||Hubballi||Residents protest last rites at cemetery||Vijayapura: Condemning the burial of a Covid victim, the residents of Chalukya Nagar and surrounding areas here sealed down the burial ground on Monday. Claiming that the cemetery belongs to Siddeshwar Education Society, the residents said government personnel, wearing PPEs, performed the last rites of a Covid victim. “We have resolved not to conduct last rites at the cemetery until Covid crisis is over,” they said, and also shut the gate of the cemetery. Meanwhile, sources in district administration have said that over 30 government employees engaged in Covid-19 tasks have been infected. “According to the test reports that came on Sunday, 14 police personnel deployed at containment areas, 18 city municipal corporation staff, 3 health department staff and 2 staff from Water Board are infected,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/residents-protest-last-rites-at-cemetery/articleshow/76948012.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Move on AIR’s Urdu a blunder: Asad||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday termed the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s decision to curtail the All India Radio’s Urdu service to three hours from 18 hours a strategic blunder. Owaisi said the AIR Urdu service had played a key role in countering Pakistani agenda. Meanwhile, on Monday, three MIM legislators including Ahmed Balala (Malakpet MLA), Ahmed Pasha Quadri (Yakutpura MLA), Jaffar Hussain (Nampally MLA) and ten corporators including former Mayor Majid Hussain tested negative for Covid-19. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/move-on-airs-urdu-a-blunder-asad/articleshow/76948055.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19: 3,300 antigen kits arrive in Karnataka's Dharwad||DHARWAD: With the number of asymptomatic persons testing Covid-19 positive on rise, the health department here has decided to step up testing of the general public in the district and has received 3,300 antigen kits. Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil has told officials to test those visiting hospitals for minor ailments. Persons who are getting admitted with complaints of cold, cough and fever should undergo antigen test and all patients getting admitted to KIMS, Civil Hospital and SDM hospital should be screened, Patil has said. Those testing positive in antigen kits will not be exposed to any other test. But, if the reports are negative and the person has symptoms of Covid-19, throat swab and nose swab test would be conducted. Symptomatic and asymptomatic positive patients should be treated in different units at covid care centres, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3300-antigen-kits-arrive-in-dharwad/articleshow/76945345.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Contract staff at LG Polymers allege non-payment of salary||Visakhapatnam: It has been two months since styrene vapour leaked from the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram killing 12 people and landing over 500 in the hospital. While the company has remained closed ever since the toxic vapour billowed out of the plant on the intervening night of May 7, contractual employees of the company are yet to receive their payments for the last three months. The company, which usually credits wages by the 10th of every month, has stopped paying wages. Meanwhile, the 370 contractual employees of the company, most of them hailing from RR Venkatapuram and neighbouring villages are struggling to eke out a living amid the Covid-19 outbreak which has considerably stilted opportunities to earn a livelihood. Moreover, these contractual employees are also worried about the future of their jobs especially after the arrests of the CEO and directors of LG Polymers in connection with the styrene vapour leak. Now, with the high power committee (HPC) suggesting that the plant be shifted out of RR Venkatapuram, the contractual employees are unsure if their jobs will sustain. U Kanaka Raju, a contractual employee, said that many of them have had to borrow money in order to sustain themselves and their families. “It’s like being caught between a rock and a hard place. We have brought the issue to the notice of the labour department. We request that concerned officials intervene with regard to the release of pending salaries and provide us with job security,” Kanaka Raju added. CPI(M)’s Ganga Rao said that the company should pay wages to all employees till they reach their superannuation, even if the factory is shifted away from Venkatapuram. “I say this because these people are not just employees. They had also parted with their land when the factory was constructed and were paid a meagre Rs 3,000 per acre as compensation,” he said. “The government should provide assurance on wage security by asking the company to submit it (payment of wages) in writing and implement it. Further, the government should also provide rightful employment to people of the villages affected by the styrene vapour leak,” Ganga Rao added. The high power committee (HPC), constituted by the state government to probe the incident, mentioned in its report that despite multiple requests by regulators, LG Polymers has not provided any documentation showing the standard practices for storage of styrene during extended periods at LG’s chemical facilities outside India. “This raises the concern that less stringent standards may have been applied to the Indian facility due to negligence, eventually leading to disaster, the HPC mentioned in its report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/contract-staff-at-lg-polymers-allege-non-payment-of-salary/articleshow/76929211.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Not consistent with modern democracy||The Supreme Court verdict upholding the customary rights of the erstwhile Travancore royal family in the administration of the Padmanabhaswamy temple in Kerala, sets aside the handing over of the rights of administration to the state government by the Kerala high court which had based its observations on the constitutional status of the royalty following the clauses of the Covenant between Indian government and the princely state of Travancore. The Supreme Court has now clearly stated that the nullification of the succession rights after the death of the ruler who signed the covenant need not hold true for other customary rights enjoyed by the erstwhile royal family which includes the trusteeship of the temple. Read the story on TOI+ Why SC verdict on Kerala temple is not consistent with modern democracy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/not-consistent-with-modern-democracy/articleshow/76947155.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Pune||Docs administer Tocilizumab ‘under the skin’ due to crisis||Pune: A section of doctors in the city are treating Covid-19 pneumonia patients with Tocilizumab administered under their skin (subcutaneously) to tide over the shortage and erratic supply of the drug.Subcutaneous administration of the injection requires a lower dose compared to the standard practice of administering it intravenously (IV).The Lancet study, as well as previous studies, have shown that subcutaneous administration of Tocilizumab is almost comparable to IV administration of the drug. This can save costs as well as drug usage and can be a better practice during the current shortage, say experts.The anti-rheumatic drug has shown promising results in counteracting cytokine storm, an abnormal immune response, caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“We started using Tocilizumab injection subcutaneously (under the skin) with good clinical outcome from the last month, when there was a global shortage. Subsequently, the Lancet study also got published, which showed comparable efficacy for the intravenous and subcutaneous administration of the drug,” infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag of Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH) told TOI.The clinical outcome of the subcutaneous administration of the drug has been encouraging. “With a careful patient selection, the benefit/risk ratio for subcutaneous Tocilizumab treatment in patients with severe Covid-19 is promising for rapid and sustained reduction in disease activity, improved respiratory function and reduced pulmonary structural damage,” Prayag saidWhether administered intravenously or subcutaneously, most patients require just a single dose of Tocilizumab. The subcutaneous dose of 324mg costs Rs30,000 per patient. The intravenous dose — 8mg per kg of patient's body weight — turns out to be a dose of 400mg to 800mg (50kg and above) for adults. This translates into a cost between Rs40,000 and Rs80,000 per patient.Administering the drug only in carefully selected Covid-19 patients is another way of addressing the shortage. Tocilizumab yields good clinical outcomes in patients with early-stage of hypoxia (absence of enough oxygen).“Tocilizumab needs to be used early in the course of hypoxia, not when the lung damage has progressed to a level that is almost irreversible. When patients have advanced respiratory failure and are on mechanical ventilation, Tocilizumab is unlikely to make a huge difference,” Prayag said.Doctors working with Mumbai's Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital (KDAH) were also using the drug subcutaneously, he added.Many doctors are preferring to use the drug intravenously, though. “We are not administering the drug subcutaneously,” said Sujata Rege of Bharati hospital.“Currently, the supply of Tocilizumab is better compared to June, but remains erratic,” said another doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/docs-administer-tocilizumab-under-the-skin-due-to-crisis/articleshow/76948734.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Four CHCs in Bareilly to collect samples for Covid-19 testing||Bareilly: Four community health centres (CHCs) in Bareilly -- in Meerganj, Baheri, Majhgavan and Kuan Tanda -- will start collecting samples for Covid-19 testing from Tuesday to enable people residing in rural areas to give their samples near their homes than travelling all the way to Bareilly city for the same.Chief medical officer, Dr Vineet Shukla, said, “The four CHCs will collect samples for testing of Covid-19. These will be sent to laboratories for testing. We will soon start collecting samples at all CHCs to help people.”Officials said at present, they have a target of testing at least 400 samples a day in Bareilly but are trying to increase it to 500 samples a day.The samples of suspected cases are being tested at Indian Veterinary Research Institute and through a TrueNat machine installed at the district hospital. The laboratory at the district hospital was inaugurated on Saturday but is yet to begin testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-chcs-in-bareilly-to-collect-samples-for-covid-19-testing/articleshow/76945827.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF to move no-confidence motion against LDF govt||Thiruvananthapuram: The UDF has decided to intensify the stir with a demand for resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, in connection with the ongoing gold smuggling scam. UDF convener Benny Behanan said that it is for the first time in the history of the legislative assembly that a speaker’s name has been linked to a person who has committed such a grave crime. The UDF is planning to move a resolution to remove the speaker from the post in the upcoming assembly session that will be held for a day or two for passing the finance bill. The UDF plans to go ahead with sustained political attack against the chief minister and the speaker. For moving a resolution for the removal of the speaker, a 14-day notice will have to be served. If that is the case, the notice will have to be served this week itself. For moving a no-confidence motion against the government, notice will have to be moved three days in advance. The UDF has entrusted the leader of opposition Ramesh Chennithala with both the moves. Along with allegations against the the chief minister’s office on the basis of reports that M Sivasankar, the former principal secretary to chief minister, had links with the key accused in the gold smuggling case, allegations were raised against Sreeramakrishnan too. The speaker is under fire for accepting an invitation from Swapna Suresh to inaugurate an automobile workshop. Sreeramakrishnan said that the accused was known to him as a ‘diplomat’ and a ‘secretary’ at the UAE consulate in the capital, because of which he had accepted the invitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udf-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-ldf-govt/articleshow/76947203.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Pune||Fugitive in net 24 hours after fleeing jail||Pune: A 21-year-old robbery accused lodged in a temporary jail set up in a hostel was arrested on Monday night, within 24 hours after he went out of his room on the pretext of going to the washroom and fled on Sunday night. Anil Vitthal Vetal from Koregaon Bhima was taken into custody from one of his relatives’ residence at Shirur near Pune following a tip-off, said senior inspector Yunus Shaikh from the Yerawada police station. He said, “Vetal will be questioned on how he fled and reached Shirur.” Jail constable Vishal Jadhav registered an FIR in this connection with the Yerawada police. Earlier, two accused had escaped from the temporary jail in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fugitive-in-net-24-hours-after-fleeing-jail/articleshow/76948747.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gyms flex their mind, work out game plan ahead of reopening||MUMBAI: Salil Samant, a 28-year-old Mahim resident, can’t wait to hit the gym again. “Maybe they should consider throwing gyms open in a bit. After all, it’s about health and fitness,” says Samant, a regular gym-goer. Samant is ready to adhere to all rules, “After all, we have to live with the virus for now… But that won’t stop me from gymming. I’ll be as regular as before,” asserts Samant. Gym owners, on their part, are sweating it out, of late, devising plans for members before gyms reopen. Already, they’ve chalked out a slew of tentative measures that could change the gymming concept in the wake of the Covid pandemic. City gyms locked up in March as threat of coronavirus loomed. Gyms, where trickles of sweat flow abundantly, were seen as hubs for the infection to spread. For over three months now, regular gym-goers have been starved of their daily fitness regimen. Only recently, the state government announced it would frame a standard operating procedure after which a decision on opening of gym will be taken. This has got gym authorities at the drawing board, reworking rules for clients. At V Fitness, a gym near Shivaji Park in Dadar, a rough game plan is already in place. “We might need to ask members to come in batches, especially during morning and evening peak hour when footfalls are high to help maintain social distancing,” says Ankush Shedge, business partner at V Fitness. He admits that it could invite murmurs of objection. “But gyms have to stick to rules.” At Parindi’s Fitness Hub in Ghatkopar, members would be made to book slots in advance. “It’s going to be a bit tricky, but that’s the way to go,” says Parindi Shah, proprietress of the women-only fitness centre. “Gyms may need to counsel clients about the new form and norm… But rules will have to followed,” says Shah. Gym owners are exchanging notes with other fitness clubs in their proximity and a common refrain seems to be emerging. A face mask during workout is not feasible and is being ruled out. Providing sanitisers, checking temperatures are among common measures gyms are planning. Also, members may be told to get their personal mats and to clean up equipment they use although a housekeeping employee would be around at all times. Members will not be allowed to string up clothes in changing rooms. People’s Gym at Malad (west) used to have around 70 members swarming its five workout areas during non-peak hour. “Now, we need to ensure that no more than 35 are present,” says Anand Modi, owner of the gym that has TV artistes and celebrities among its regulars. “Also, treadmills and other cardio equipment will have to be spaced out, perhaps with partitions, as a distancing measure.” Could it cause drop in footfalls and hit business? “Of course, yes… And we might have to consider hiking fees to stay afloat financially,” says Modi. A view reiterated by Shah. “Business will be affected 100%,” she says. V Fitness too predicts that gyms cannot expect new members to enrol for now. “Obviously, it’s going to be tough for a while at least,” says Shedge. Most city gyms have been weighed down by rents, staff salaries and other fixed costs. What makes it more difficult for them that they have not had new memberships coming in or even existing members renewing their subscriptions. People’s Gym plans to insist on members doing weights before hitting the treadmill. “With weights you do not sweat as much while cardio makes you sweat profusely,” says Modi, explaining the rationale behind the move. “Taking a shower or steam will be out for now.” A school for fitness trainers is already planning to tweak its syllabus to factor in the new rules. “There is too much concern over the spread of Covid. We are tweaking our syllabus to incorporate factual, scientific training to future gym trainers who pass out from our school,” says Kaizzad Capadia, principal of K11 School of Fitness Sciences, a national training school, headquartered in the city. City gyms say if other commercial establishments can be allowed to reopen, gyms should not be kept waiting anymore. “Already, the government has put in place basic rules,” says Shedge. “Reopening gyms won’t be a problem. We’re ready.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gyms-flex-their-mind-work-out-game-plan-ahead-of-reopening/articleshow/76948090.cms||Alex Fernandes
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Land grab: Case registered against fake ‘Baba’||Pilibhit: Following the orders of district magistrate (DM) Vaibhav Shrivastav, Kalinagar tehsildar Rakesh Kumar Maurya registered a case against a fake ‘Baba’ who has illegally acquired over five acres of area on Mala riverbed at Pilibhit-Basti national highway-730 near Mala forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) under Gajraula police station. The matter was first raised before the DM by Pilibhit-based Wildlife Biodiversity Conservation Society in view of an apprehension regarding the "Baba’s nexus with wildlife criminals". The information was shared with the society by officer of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), Dr Daksh Gangwar. “The illegal possession on the riverbed is a matter of great concern. It can be a serious threat to the conservation of tigers as they frequent the spot due to abundance of pure drinking water, its shrubby hideouts and prey,” field director of PTR H Raja Mohan said. “River Mala is like the lifeline of PTR which passes through the vast area of the forest and provides pure drinking water to the animals. Any illegal possession on the riverbed will jeopardize the river's life and will affect the wildlife adversely,” he further said. Identifying the Baba as one Sarvesh Puri of village Mahadia under Deoria police station, the locals told TOI that Puri was a carpenter by profession who had migrated to Gajraula area about two year ago allegedly to illegally acquire land on the riverbed. The DM said that the administration would not tolerate any illegal possession on government land. “I have issued orders to the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Kalinagar tehsil Ram Das to file a comprehensive report in the matter and take action against the offender.” SDM Das said, “Action against the Baba has been initiated and a case against him has been filed in tehsildar’s court. We will get the government land freed soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/land-grab-case-registered-against-fake-baba/articleshow/76945850.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Pune||At 70%, Mumbai’s recovery rate beats Maharashtra’s 55%||MUMBAI: The city’s recovery rate for coronavirus patients has touched 70%, much above the state’s 55% and the national average of 63%. As of Monday, 65,622 out of 94,146 patients in the city had recovered. In comparison, Delhi and Chennai, which too have high caseloads, have a recovery rate of 80% and 77%. Physicians say a better understanding of the disease trajectory, confidence among patients on seeking home care and availability of health infrastructure contributed to more recoveries in the city over the last 45 days. Thane has a recovery rate of 44%, while Palghar and Raigad have a rate of 49% and 47%. After Mumbai saw its first case on March 11, the first 8 patients were discharged on March 25. Recovery numbers, however, languished through April and May when the city witnessed a large number of cases and deaths. It hovered around 20-26% in May and rose to about 50% in June. It rose further, from the end of last month, and touched 61% by the first week of July. BMC chief IS Chahal said that after the decision to allow universal testing, the samples tested have increased from 4,000 to 6,800 per day. “But our total positives have come down from 1,400 to 1,200 now. Out of this, symptomatic patients are fewer than 200, so we need only around 200 beds every day,” he said, adding that after allocating beds to all positive patients on Sunday, 7,000 Covid beds and 250 ICU beds were vacant. Most Covid beds are in field hospitals that were created anticipating a surge in cases. “The field hospitals are one of the key reasons Mumbai has coped with the pandemic better when we hit the peak in May,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s task force. He added that while doctors have a bigger basket of drugs to choose from now, the impact of that would only be better understood in a month from now. According to physician Dr Hemant Thacker, confidence among doctors on treating patients at home and the reduced panic index have played a role too. “For every patient who is hospitalised, I am treating 10 through video consultations. Home isolation has played a crucial part in disease control,” he said. A public hospital doctor said availability and the knowledge about the window to use steroids, antivirals and anti-inflammatory drugs is also aiding recovery. However, the state’s recovery rate that was running parallelly to Mumbai’s initially now is around 55%. One of the reasons could be that districts like Pune, Thane and Raigad continue to have recovery rate of less than 50%. With these districts adding a large number of cases for the last two weeks, active cases have gone up, bringing recovery rate down. The total active cases in the state as on Monday were 1,05,637, of which merely 22% were in Mumbai. Pune, which in June had more recoveries than active cases, has a recovery rate of 42% as the district has been adding cases in large numbers. Smaller cities like Nanded have a recovery rate of just 41%. In July, the state added nearly 86,000 new cases and sent home nearly 53,000 people after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-70-citys-recovery-rate-beats-states-55/articleshow/76950043.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 14, 2020||Thane||At 70%, Mumbai’s recovery rate beats Maharashtra’s 55%||MUMBAI: The city’s recovery rate for coronavirus patients has touched 70%, much above the state’s 55% and the national average of 63%. As of Monday, 65,622 out of 94,146 patients in the city had recovered. In comparison, Delhi and Chennai, which too have high caseloads, have a recovery rate of 80% and 77%. Physicians say a better understanding of the disease trajectory, confidence among patients on seeking home care and availability of health infrastructure contributed to more recoveries in the city over the last 45 days. Thane has a recovery rate of 44%, while Palghar and Raigad have a rate of 49% and 47%. After Mumbai saw its first case on March 11, the first 8 patients were discharged on March 25. Recovery numbers, however, languished through April and May when the city witnessed a large number of cases and deaths. It hovered around 20-26% in May and rose to about 50% in June. It rose further, from the end of last month, and touched 61% by the first week of July. BMC chief IS Chahal said that after the decision to allow universal testing, the samples tested have increased from 4,000 to 6,800 per day. “But our total positives have come down from 1,400 to 1,200 now. Out of this, symptomatic patients are fewer than 200, so we need only around 200 beds every day,” he said, adding that after allocating beds to all positive patients on Sunday, 7,000 Covid beds and 250 ICU beds were vacant. Most Covid beds are in field hospitals that were created anticipating a surge in cases. “The field hospitals are one of the key reasons Mumbai has coped with the pandemic better when we hit the peak in May,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s task force. He added that while doctors have a bigger basket of drugs to choose from now, the impact of that would only be better understood in a month from now. According to physician Dr Hemant Thacker, confidence among doctors on treating patients at home and the reduced panic index have played a role too. “For every patient who is hospitalised, I am treating 10 through video consultations. Home isolation has played a crucial part in disease control,” he said. A public hospital doctor said availability and the knowledge about the window to use steroids, antivirals and anti-inflammatory drugs is also aiding recovery. However, the state’s recovery rate that was running parallelly to Mumbai’s initially now is around 55%. One of the reasons could be that districts like Pune, Thane and Raigad continue to have recovery rate of less than 50%. With these districts adding a large number of cases for the last two weeks, active cases have gone up, bringing recovery rate down. The total active cases in the state as on Monday were 1,05,637, of which merely 22% were in Mumbai. Pune, which in June had more recoveries than active cases, has a recovery rate of 42% as the district has been adding cases in large numbers. Smaller cities like Nanded have a recovery rate of just 41%. In July, the state added nearly 86,000 new cases and sent home nearly 53,000 people after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/at-70-citys-recovery-rate-beats-states-55/articleshow/76950044.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||At 70%, Mumbai’s recovery rate beats Maharashtra’s 55%||MUMBAI: The city’s recovery rate for coronavirus patients has touched 70%, much above the state’s 55% and the national average of 63%. As of Monday, 65,622 out of 94,146 patients in the city had recovered. In comparison, Delhi and Chennai, which too have high caseloads, have a recovery rate of 80% and 77%. Physicians say a better understanding of the disease trajectory, confidence among patients on seeking home care and availability of health infrastructure contributed to more recoveries in the city over the last 45 days. Thane has a recovery rate of 44%, while Palghar and Raigad have a rate of 49% and 47%. After Mumbai saw its first case on March 11, the first 8 patients were discharged on March 25. Recovery numbers, however, languished through April and May when the city witnessed a large number of cases and deaths. It hovered around 20-26% in May and rose to about 50% in June. It rose further, from the end of last month, and touched 61% by the first week of July. BMC chief IS Chahal said that after the decision to allow universal testing, the samples tested have increased from 4,000 to 6,800 per day. “But our total positives have come down from 1,400 to 1,200 now. Out of this, symptomatic patients are fewer than 200, so we need only around 200 beds every day,” he said, adding that after allocating beds to all positive patients on Sunday, 7,000 Covid beds and 250 ICU beds were vacant. Most Covid beds are in field hospitals that were created anticipating a surge in cases. “The field hospitals are one of the key reasons Mumbai has coped with the pandemic better when we hit the peak in May,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s task force. He added that while doctors have a bigger basket of drugs to choose from now, the impact of that would only be better understood in a month from now. According to physician Dr Hemant Thacker, confidence among doctors on treating patients at home and the reduced panic index have played a role too. “For every patient who is hospitalised, I am treating 10 through video consultations. Home isolation has played a crucial part in disease control,” he said. A public hospital doctor said availability and the knowledge about the window to use steroids, antivirals and anti-inflammatory drugs is also aiding recovery. However, the state’s recovery rate that was running parallelly to Mumbai’s initially now is around 55%. One of the reasons could be that districts like Pune, Thane and Raigad continue to have recovery rate of less than 50%. With these districts adding a large number of cases for the last two weeks, active cases have gone up, bringing recovery rate down. The total active cases in the state as on Monday were 1,05,637, of which merely 22% were in Mumbai. Pune, which in June had more recoveries than active cases, has a recovery rate of 42% as the district has been adding cases in large numbers. Smaller cities like Nanded have a recovery rate of just 41%. In July, the state added nearly 86,000 new cases and sent home nearly 53,000 people after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-70-citys-recovery-rate-beats-states-55/articleshow/76949299.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Police arrest three snatchers during checking drive||Pilibhit: Police arrested three snatchers from near the Eidgah at the outskirts of Pilibhit city under Sungarhi police station on Sunday night during a checking drive enforced with reference to the two-day lockdown during the weekend. Police have recovered three snatched mobile phones, a chain, a Nikon camera, a country-made pistol, two assault knives and two live cartridges from their possession. The superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav, said that the snatchers had a history of 17 criminal cases registered against them in the Sungarhi and the Pilibhit Kotwali police station. The miscreants – all aged between 24 to 25 years – were identified as Sunny of ward number 1, Shahid Khan of Kashi Ram Colony and Nitin Rathaur, a resident of Than Singh locality, all under Sungarhi police station. They were wanted in a chain snatching case in which an FIR at the Sungarhi police station was lodged on June 17 under section 392 (robbery).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-arrest-three-snatchers-during-checking-drive/articleshow/76945875.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Pune||Masks worth Rs 12,000 robbed||Pune: Three unidentified men threatened a person near a departmental store in Chinchwad on Saturday afternoon and robbed 570 masks, worth Rs 12,000, from him. Minaz Shaikh of Kalewadi lodged an FIR with the Pimpri police. A S Kamathe, sub-inspector, Pimpri police, told TOI that Shaikh’s relative had been selling masks along the roadside for the past two months. “Around 2pm on Saturday, Shaikh went to meet his relative at his stall. The mask vendor told Shaikh to wait near the stall for some time as he had to go out for some work,” Kamathe said. “At this time, three men approached Shaikh under the pretext of purchasing masks. They robbed the masks after threatening him,” he said. Kamathe said that the spot where the incident took place is not covered by CCTV camera. “Our probe is on,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masks-worth-rs-12000-robbed/articleshow/76948755.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Restobars can sell beer stock to liquor shops||NEW DELHI: With no decision yet on the opening of the restobars, hotels and clubs in the city, Delhi government has decided to allow such establishments to sell their stock of beer expiring by July 31 to liquor shops. According to officials, this is the third time the government has given a relief to the owners of about 800-odd restobars, clubs, pubs and hotels in the city, which are closed since March 25 when the nation-wide lockdown was imposed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Officials said the bottles and cans of beer in Delhi come with an expiry of six months. If not consumed within the given time, the stock of beer will have to be disposed of. The order to sell the stock of beer expiring by July 31 has been aimed at minimising financial losses to such establishments, they added. In its recent order, the excise department said that all hotels, clubs, pubs and restaurants having the licence to allow the consumption of liquor on their premises will have to prepare an inventory of the beer with barcode, which they intend to sell or transfer to a licensed store. “The licensee from hotels, clubs and restaurants shall then submit the barcode list of beer stock and consent letter obtained from licensed vends to the excise department with the request for allowing transfer of beer stock,” the order read. Welcoming the government’s move, Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) director general Vinod Giri said the hospitality industry in the capital was under huge stress and the government’s step would help mitigate it to some extent. “We welcome the decision of the Delhi government to allow bars to sell beer that is getting old. This is what we had recommended to the government in May. Hospitality sector is under great stress and this may help recover some investment stuck in stock,” Giri said. According to an earlier estimate, said Giri, about 30,000-35,000 cases of beer were stuck with bars in Delhi when the lockdown was announced. However, there was no means of finding out how much of them had the July 31 expiry. Watch Delhi: Restobars can sell beer stock to liquor shops||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restobars-can-sell-beer-stock-to-liquor-shops/articleshow/76948781.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||Perception of bleak future driving members away from Congress||NEW DELHI: The spiralling impatience in Congress's GenNext, which has been biding its time for a while now, besides legislators and party workers in general, seems rooted in the perception that the party has a bleak future ahead given the apparent inability of the Gandhi triumvirate to fashion a credible response to a series of political setbacks. The sense of drift has led to the younger set reaching the conclusion that waiting longer will only shut down options. The latest crisis in Rajasthan has again raised questions over Rahul Gandhi's preparedness to intervene and grapple with the actual business of political negotiation and management. Watching colleagues and friends betray unprecedented edginess, Congress insiders say there is a growing negativity among leaders, which was not the case in 2014. The second successive defeat in 2019 and the apparent reluctance of the brass to consider correctives and give younger leaders a chance has been dispiriting. Read AlsoWith Gujjar &amp; Meena support, Pilot an ideal choice for BJPWith his efforts to bring about a mutual accommodation between Gujjar and Meena communities so that their political animosities decline to the extent of accepting co-existence, Congress leader Sachin Pilot has given a new dimension to the caste equations in Rajasthan. BJP will not need to worry muchA Congress leader told TOI that many loyalists betraying impatience were the ones who had come to believe that the party was not going to revive in the coming years and waiting for fruits of hard work would be a waste of time. “That is the reason Jyotiraditya Scindia wanted to be chief minister now when he has age on his side. The same is true for Sachin Pilot who has the ear of the leadership, the required organisational projection besides the age advantage,” he argued. Read AlsoSachin Pilot sticks to guns even as Rahul, Priyanka call upRajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot made it clear to a team of senior Congress leaders visiting Jaipur that overtures to make him call-off his rebellion were insufficient and measures such as a rejig of portfolios and assurances on his tenure as state chief were not enough as he insisted on a statureLinking this restlessness with legislators jumping ship in various states, Congress leaders put it down to deep-set pessimism in the rank and file about the party's political future. “If it is not a platform for the future, what is the point in waiting. So, one seeks immediate rewards,” said a former Union minister, adding, “The leadership has to understand the growing demoralisation among workers and take corrective measures.” Yet, Rahul has persisted in his direct and personalised attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi despite little evidence that they are working. The successive failures in raising allegations regarding Rafale and questioning the Balakot air strikes have failed to prevent him from launching similar attacks over the utility of the lockdown and response to China. On the other hand, he has limited his interactions and is aloof from the organisation, party MPs said. According to harried leaders, there is an urgency for the organisation to assume a face which would assure workers that there is a leadership in control. Strangely, while continuing to occupy the front and centre of Congress’s politics, Rahul publicly steers clear of crises in keeping with his “I am not the president” posture. However, sources said he actively discusses issues like Scindia or Pilot behind the scenes with confidants who are now occupying key organisational posts. “The absence of a clear and permanent leader has done serious damage to the party which nobody is willing to acknowledge. People leaving the party is not just about they being disloyal or ambitious, it is also about the exasperation that the leadership is indifferent,” an MP and old Congress hand said. What is bothering insiders is the new political style where all energy is expended on criticising BJP and the Modi government, with little focus on strengthening the party. “Politics ultimately boils down to winning elections, organisational work should be a priority,” a leader argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/perception-of-bleak-future-driving-members-away-from-congress/articleshow/76949802.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 239 deals in a day net Rs 29 crore in stamp duty||MUMBAI: Monday brought cheer to the Stamp Duty and Registration department as a record 239 documents were registered in the city in a single day since the lifting of the lockdown. The state earned Rs 29 crore in stamp duty and registration fees in Mumbai alone. Most of the documents that have been registered are for the sale of property. “Since May 8, when offices reopened, daily transactions have been around Rs 6-12 crore. Today’s big jump in revenue has been on account of some big deals,” said a senior official from the Stamp Duty and Registration office. Covid-19 norms hit registration of documentsThe stamp duty registration offices resumed operations with minimal staff and strict social distancing measures including no sharing of pens. Anyone wanting to register documents has to obtain an online pass to visit the sub-registrar’s office. “Normally a sub-registrar’s office registers 40-50 documents in a day but due to the numerous restrictions hardly a few documents get registered each day,” said a source. Last year the state government mopped up Rs 27,000 crore in stamp duty and registration fee against Rs 28,277 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 26,118 crore in 2017-18. In its 2020-21 budget, the state government had announced a 1% cut in stamp duty charges for the next two years on properties falling under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and municipal corporations of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nagpur. It is now effectively 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/239-deals-in-a-day-net-rs-29cr-in-stamp-duty/articleshow/76949310.cms||Clara Lewis
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||First-ever DNA-matched reunion of tiger, cub called off||Nagpur: With no signs of a reunion, the country’s first experiment to unite a tiger cub with its mother by matching their DNA in Chandrapur has been called off. A formal proposal in this regard will be sent to the state chief wildlife warden Nitin H Kakodkar soon. “The teams tried their level best to reunite the cub with its mother but now I don’t think it will happen. I’ve been regularly in touch with the officials in Chandrapur and a formal proposal is awaited. In such a situation we’ll have to shift the cub to the Gorewada Rescue Centre,” said Kakodkar. Chandrapur chief conservator of forests (CCF) SV Ramarao said, “A formal decision will be taken soon by the committee set up for the purpose. With delayed time-lag, there seems to be no chance of a reunion now.” According to sources, forest officials involved in the reunion process are preparing a report to be forwarded to the PCCF (wildlife) through CCF. “During the last eight days we did not get any location of the tigress. Due to the continuous rains, even vehicles cannot reach the spot. We’ll recommend the cub to be shifted to Gorewada ,” they said. They added that in the last few days, the presence of a male tiger and a leopard have also been recorded in the same area and it would have been very risky to unite the cub with its mother. Secondly, there has been a huge time-lag due to which there have been human imprints on the cub during the course of the treatment at the Transit Treatment Centre (TTC) in Chandrapur. This was the country’s first operation to reunite the three-month-old tiger cub with its mother after matching its DNA. The three-month-old cub was rescued by foresters on April 24 from Sushi Dabgaon village in Chicpalli range. The cub will be nearly 6 months old on July 24. The team tried to reunite the cub by taking it to the spot for three consecutive days post capture but was unsuccessful as its mother did not turn up. The camera trap survey showed two tigresses in the same area — one with two cubs and another with three. Hence, it made reunion risky and difficult. To know the mother, the DNA analysis was done at the Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad. At night, on June 18 and 19, and in the morning on June 20, officials attempted to reunite the cub by deploying a trap cage near a water body where its mother frequented. On the night of June 18, around 12.30, the cub and its mother exchanged calls for more than 20 minutes. The team sighted the mother tigress 50 metres away from the cage where she had killed bait. However, she did not come near the cage and the motherhood feeling too was missing. The cub was in the cage for more than 48 hours but due to stress, it was brought back in the morning on June 20. “In the last 15 days there have been no attempts to reunite the cub as its mother, who is already moving with three cubs, is not traceable,” officials said. Wildlife experts said, “Being a maiden attempt, one cannot predict the behaviour of tigers in such situations. Two months have passed, which is a long time. The forest department has undertaken many successful reunions of leopards when done within eight days.” TIME OUT * April 24: 3-month-old cub rescued in Sushi-Dabgaon village from a stack of paddy husk * April 25: Attempts made to reunite the cub with its mother for 3 days * April 28: Cub’s swab samples collected for Covid-19 testing and sent to Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC) * May 1: NVC returns samples * May 11: Scat samples of tigresses and cub sent to CCMB (Hyderabad) for testing * May 28: CCMB identifies mother tigress * June 18 & 19: Attempts to reunite by keeping cub in trap cage fail * June 20: Operation called off for a few days * July 13: Operation to be called off||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-ever-dna-matched-reunion-of-tiger-cub-called-off/articleshow/76948122.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Not worried, let NIA book big sharks, says Pinarayi||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said he didn’t bother whether the NIA investigation into the gold smuggling case reaches his office. “If they come to my office, let them. If they find someone, let them. Let the agency conduct the probe properly. Why should someone oppose them?” Vijayan said on NIA probe’s neutrality. Welcoming the probe and promising all help to the sleuths, Vijayan said, “As per the available info, an effective probe is going on. We need to trust the investigators first and observe their mode of inquiry. Do we need to divert probe now?” he asked. “What did the NIA find? As per media reports, NIA has found that the money through smuggling has gone to terrorists. The probe has taken a different route. There are old cases too. Many persons need to be booked. Let all sharks come out. Let the investigators do their duty. Why should you people don their role?” the CM said. He advised media to report the flaws in the probe, if they find any. “Now, with recent amendments in law, NIA has enough power to conduct an effective probe,” he said. The chief minister also didn’t hide his displeasure towards M Sivasankar, his former principal secretary. “He was supposed to work and quietly go home. When there were aberrations, he was removed. For further action, we need further evidence,” he said. To a query, the CM clarified that there was no intelligence report regarding the relationship between Sivasankar and the controversial woman Swapna Suresh. “She worked in a diplomatic mission. Several officials and leaders of all sides might have interacted with her,” he said. On opposition’s allegations against speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, Vijayan said, “They now allege that the speaker had gone for an inauguration of an institution some months ago. If there was some controversy at the time of the event, he should have kept out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/not-worried-let-nia-book-big-sharks-says-pinarayi/articleshow/76947255.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Pune||Demolition of Pune university, E-square flyovers to be completed in 15 days||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority is hoping to expedite the demolition of the Pune university and E-square flyovers during the lockdown. PMRDA officials said the machinery was in place for the work and that demolition was expected to begin on Tuesday or Wednesday. While the demolition was expected to be completed in a month as per the initial plan, it is now expected to be done in 15 days. A PMRDA official said the demolition will be completed in just two phases as against the earlier three-phase plan. Last week, PMRDA had signed a supplementary agreement with Tata-Siemens, the concessionaire for the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro line, to incorporate the demolition into the plan. The flyovers are being demolished to facilitate a new 1.5km-long two-tier flyover that would support both vehicular traffic and the Metro viaduct. PMRDA, in consultation with the SPPU vice-chancellor and the traffic police, has prepared a plan to divert traffic through the university campus — vehicles moving from Aundh to SPPU junction will be diverted through the university’s Millennium Gate (opposite Raj Bhavan guesthouse). PMRDA will foot the bill for the demolition and discuss with the state government ways to fund the new flyover, which is estimated to cost Rs 240 crore. Last Tuesday, PMRDA had issued the work order for the flyovers’ demolition after it got a conditional no-objection certificate from Pune Municipal Corporation, in which the civic body clearly stated that it would not bear the cost of demolition and sought a detailed traffic management plan. PMRDA was also directed to abide by any further instructions issued by PMC’s general body, whenever it meets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demolition-of-flyovers-to-be-completed-in-15-days/articleshow/76948780.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Coronavirus victim’s body lies outside home for seven hours as kin face neighbours’ protest||HOWRAH: A 54-year-old woman who lost her battle against Covid didn’t find peace even in death. The resident of a high-rise in Howrah’s Agrasen Street died on her way to hospital on Monday. As her Covid report came in after her death, the neighbours refused to let her family take her inside the apartment. The body was kept outside the building for seven hours as the family kept waiting for a hearse from Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC). The woman lived in one of Howrah’s containment zones. The death came three days after Satyabala ID Hospital, a government hospital in Ghusuri, collected her swab samples and sent her home after handing her some medicines. The test report, received on Monday, turned out to be positive. After her condition deteriorated on Sunday night, the family set out with her for Belur State General Hospital on Monday morning. But she died on the way and doctors at the Belur hospital declared her dead. When the family returned with her body to their apartment complex, neighbours in the high-rise refused to let them take the body inside. Parbati Sau, a housewife, was married to a businessman. The family has been living in the high-rise for many years. Her elder son, Ghanashyam Sau (32), said: “On Thursday night, my mother had fever, cough and breathlessness. We suspected she had Covid and took her to Satyabala ID (Covid) Hospital on Friday morning. The doctors examined her and collected her swab samples. They then handed us some medicines and asked us to take her home. But, her condition later deteriorated.” “On Sunday night, her breathing problem increased. On Monday morning, we took her to Belur State General Hospital, where doctors declared her dead. We returned with my mother. On reaching our building, neighbours refused to let us take her body inside our flat. She lay outside the building. This being a containment zone, we called HMC for a hearse. But we kept waiting and there was no sign of a hearse. Neighbours turned more restive, saying keeping her body outside for long could spread infection,” Sau added. The family called the former councillor Kalash Mishra. “I reached the spot and called the HMC. But the hearse reached an hour later. I was told the family had waited for six hours for the hearse before my arrival.” The family finally started for Shibpur burning ghat around 4pm. An HMC official said, “HMC headquarters is in a containment zone and there is staff shortage now. Hence, there was delay in sending the hearse.” Howrah CMOH Bhabani Dassaid, “I will inquire what happened at Satyabala hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-victims-body-lies-outside-home-for-7-hrs-as-kin-face-neighbours-protest/articleshow/76948158.cms||Rupak Banerjee
July 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Gang brought 150kg gold since September 2019’||KOCHI: Gold smuggling by the racket involved in the smuggling through diplomatic channel at Thiruvananthapuram airport began in September 2019 and the gang brought in gold consignments of over 1.5 quintal into the country, well-placed sources told TOI. It is yet to be clear whether the accused used only the diplomatic channel to smuggle in the gold. Top officials had revealed to TOI the other day that the same racket had handled gold consignments through the same route on June 24 and June 26 too. “Customs sleuths are looking into earlier consignments brought in by the gang and they are making really good progress. It is possible that the total amount can go even higher. The gold involved can run up to at least a few quintals and the value of the same can go up to hundreds of crores,” said a source with the ministry of finance. On Monday, NIA’s counsel told the court that nine and 18 kilos of gold were smuggled through the same route immediately preceding the seizure of 30kg gold at Thiruvananthapuram airport. It was also submitted in NIA court that the activity began in 2019 and the accused decided to use the diplomatic channel to beat the artificial intelligence-based scanners at the airport. When querried, customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said that the investigation is moving at a fast pace. “The investigation is making good progress. We are hoping to identify the entire organization who exploited this sensitive channel to import huge quantities of gold,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, sources said that accused Ramees was a key link in the racket, and with his arrest, customs officials say that they are closing in on the end destinations of the smuggled gold. “Ramees is basically a middleman and he is deeply involved in the smuggling conspiracy. Once we get his custody and interrogate him further, we would be able to identify other accomplices and higher-ups of the syndicate,” said a senior customs official. Meanwhile, another senior customs official said that at least half a dozen teams of the Commissionerate of Customs Preventive are working in different cities in the state to bust the racket. “We are in the process of collecting statements from persons who are useful links and are expecting to make progress in coming days,” said the official. Sources also said that delay in getting the two other suspects in NIA custody can affect the customs probe. However, efforts would be made to coordinate with the other central agency for further details about the accused, sources said, adding that the efforts are on to get to another suspect Faisal, the racket’s link in the UAE. Watch Kerala gold smuggling case: Non bailable warrant issued against accused Faisal Fareed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gang-brought-150kg-gold-since-sept-19/articleshow/76947285.cms||Disney Tom
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Blood banks told to share details of plasma units collected, distributed||Mumbai: State Blood Transfusion Council on Monday issued an order asking blood banks to submit details of units of convalescent plasma collected from patients and distributed to hospitals for treating patients since July 1. SBTC also asked banks to furnish rates charged for processing plasma units. It said since “off-label” use of plasma has been there, details will have to be shared with state government. State Food and Drug Administration too said the details should be shared with them as it comes under experimental drugs category. Around 10 banks in the city have been given licences to make convalescent plasma from blood of recovered patients. The government warned citizens to beware of people directly donating plasma to patients at a very high cost. There are few plasma centres in the state and it has come to the police’s notice that promising to donate plasma are demanding higher rates. Also, doctors certification and other medical certificates required before donating plasma are being forged. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said if anyone comes across any instance they can report it to www.cybercrime.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/blood-banks-told-to-share-details-of-plasma-units-collected-distributed/articleshow/76948277.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Nabard disbursed 27k crore in AP||Vijayawada: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has advanced Rs 27,992 crore in the state through its regional office during 2019-20, said its chief general manager, Sudhir Kumar Jannawar. Speaking to the staff at the regional office on Monday as part of the bank’s 39th formation day, Sudhir Kumar said a major portion of the bank’s advances were given to nationalised banks in the state to meet their crop loans. The bank had refinanced the banks to the tune of Rs 20,515 crore, which was an all-time high. He said the bank had disbursed more than Rs 2,000 crore to the state government for implementation of infrastructure projects, which included Polavaram project and Chintalapudi lift irrigation scheme. He said Nabard had extended over Rs 4,000 crore to the state government through the AP Civil Supplies Corporation for paddy procurement. The bank also released Rs 2,500 crore as special liquidity facility to the rural banks to meet financial requirements during the pandemic, Sudhir Kumar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nabard-disbursed-27k-crore-in-ap/articleshow/76947283.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur-born youth wins innovation award in US||Nagpur: Suhrid Deshmukh, a native of Nagpur and based in Boston for the last eight years, and his team have been awarded prestigious National Science Foundation Innovation-Corps (NSF I-Corps) award in the US in recognition of their innovation which will help design reliable and safe printed circuit boards (PCBs). The PCBs are critical in growing technological applications like driverless vehicles and energy efficient smart buildings. “Our team is honoured to receive the NSF I-Corps award,” Suhrid told TOI. The award-winning project is on developing novel computational methods for ‘Stochastic modelling, design simulation & sensitivity analysis of electronic devices’ like PCBs, he said. Suhrid said, “The PCBs are extremely critical in energy efficiency and transportation industries. The new algorithms developed by our team will eventually lead to more robust, reliable, failure-resistant PCBs that can operate in uncertain environments. Our algorithms will also reduce the PCB design-time due to advanced innovative techniques used.” He added that his team believes the research algorithms will have a wide-ranging impact in multitude of fields undergoing technological revolution. Suhrid claims his team’s research will provide key breakthroughs in transportation and energy domains such as efficient navigation of driverless vehicles in uncertain environments and robust fault detection in heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) energy systems in buildings. A former student of Somalwar Nikalas School and Dharampeth Science Junior College, Suhrid left Nagpur at the age of 18 to begin his research journey in the US. He studied advanced statistical methods applied to the fields of transportation and energy systems during his graduate studies (PhD and Master’s) at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Son of doctor-couple Dr Avinash and Dr Sadhana Deshmukh, 30-old-year Suhrid is working as operational research scientist with a B2B company in the US. Amid the pandemic times, he is using his skills to meet the urgent need of the health care industry by helping in development of optimized transportation algorithms for delivery of medical products like PPEs, masks, sanitizers and other critical products to essential businesses and the front line health care workers. “The innovation is outcome of additional two years of research after completing my PhD,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-born-youth-wins-innovation-award-in-us/articleshow/76948147.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai metropolitan region: Malls, regular trains not likely to resume soon, says BMC commissioner||MUMBAI: Malls and regular train services are unlikely to resume soon. Even as things seem to be easing on Covid here, increasing cases in Mumbai metropolitan region has BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal worried. “Not yet, please. We have to keep a watch on the situation in MMR,” he said. The city’s hospitals have seen a steady stream of critical patients from MMR, where tertiary care is all but absent. The inter-dependence can be gauged from daily ridership on Mumbai’s suburban trains, which normally is 80 lakh, a clear indication of the population that comes to Mumbai chiefly to work or to attend educational courses. On tackling Covid in MMR, as it directly impacts Mumbai, Chahal said there was no need to reinvent the wheel. “Let them simply repeat our initiatives there,” he said. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who visited many districts in the state and MMR, said the Covid situation was going out of control due to low testing and poor health services. “Only Thane and Navi Mumbai have private facilities. Government facilities are less and in the last four months we neither could increase nor equip existing facilities. When infection ratio is high, aggressive testing is the key, and almost all MMR corporations have an infection ratio of more than 30%, which nationally is 7%,” said Fadnavis. He said detecting more, isolating more and treating the symptomatic was key to control the virus spread. “Transfers (of civic commissioners) at this stage is disruption. The new person may be more efficient but with legacy and no enhancement in facilities he cannot do anything. The government has given very little for Covid preparedness to the corporations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/malls-regular-rly-services-wont-resume-soon-chahal/articleshow/76948279.cms||Clara Lewis
July 14, 2020||Kochi||‘Financier’ Ramees sent to judicial custody till July 27||Kochi: K T Ramees, a key suspect in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, was remanded in judicial custody till July 27 by additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences) in Kochi. The Malappuram native was questioned by the commissionerate of customs (preventive) at the agency’s office in Kochi on Sunday. Customs officials recorded the arrest of Ramees, a suspected buyer and financier behind the racket, late on Sunday night. Meanwhile, Customs has moved a custody application which would be considered on Wednesday. As per the application moved by the Customs at court seeking the custody of the accused, Ramees of Kannamthodi Thekkekalathil House, Vettathur, Malappuram, several documents were collected, including call data records of the accused, as part of the investigation. “On interrogation, Sarith (first accused) revealed the role of a person named Ramees who was then summoned to appear before the investigating officer on July 12. Ramees appeared before the IO on July 12, gave a voluntary statement under Section 108 of the Customs Act before the superintendent of customs. He has admitted to his active role in the criminal conspiracy and smuggling of the huge quantity of gold to India under the guise of diplomatic baggage,” the remand report of Ramees states. In the custody application, Customs stated that a detailed investigation is warranted to identify key persons involved in the smuggling of huge quantities of gold into India, which is a grave threat to the economy and national security. It added that further interrogation was required to acquire clarity on the modus operandi and details of other accomplices behind the smuggling activity. The custody has been sought for five days. “Immediate custody of the respondent is required in order to complete the investigation,” the custody application stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/financier-ramees-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-july-27/articleshow/76947298.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||‘Measure SOFA for mortality prediction’||Kolkata: The Bengal government’s Covid Protocol Monitoring Team (PMT) has advised Covid hospitals to measure the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score of critical patients admitted in intensive care unit (ICU). SOFA, a measure of organ failure or dysfunction in individual patients, is used to stratify mortality risk of those admitted in ICU. “The scores can be used in several ways, including scores for each organ to determine the progression of organ dysfunction. Or, as a sum of scores on a single ICU day. It can also be measured as the sum of the worst scores during the ICU stay,” said Sanjukta Dutta, consultant & head, emergency medicine at Fortis Hospital, Anandapur. The SOFA can be used on all patients in ICU. This is not clear whether it is reliable for patients who have been transferred from another ICU. “Though it is calculated sequentially based on the worst value for each variable in past 24 hours, SOFA score is not meant to indicate the success or failure of interventions or impact medical management,” added Dutta. The PMT has also mentioned that proper oxygen prescription should be made for patients. It has reiterated that injudicious use of antibiotics should be stopped. Hospitals, says the advisory, should use antibiotics based on their antibiotic policy. Modification of antibiotics should be done as per culture sensitivity report or co-morbid conditions. Ventilation strategy, the advisory says, should be displayed in wards or ICU. It has also asked Covid hospitals to stabilize patients before transferring them to another hospital and attach a case report. It adds that quick response teams should be functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/measure-sofa-for-mortality-prediction/articleshow/76948178.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Man impersonating UP speaker arrested||Bareilly: The crime branch of Shahjahanpur police on Monday arrested a man for allegedly impersonating UP legislative assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit while making a phone call to Shahjahanpur superintendent of police S Anand, and seeking favours from the top cop. Anand said he received a call on his CUG (closed user group) number on Friday, in which a person claiming to be the speaker, asked him to meet someone the caller would recommend and take a look into the latter’s concerns. On suspecting that the caller was not Dikshit — he apparently sounded too young — Anand put the phone number on surveillance. After initial probe, Gaurav Mishra was arrested from Powayan area of the district on Monday. Anand further said Mishra, impersonating Dikshit, had earlier called other officials too, and that police was looking into the matter. An FIR was ordered against Mishra, who was in police custody at the time this report was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-impersonating-up-speaker-arrested/articleshow/76944951.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Vegetable vendor ends life||Nagpur: A 33-year-old vegetable vendor ended his life in the wee hours of Monday. Police has identified the deceased as Vishnu Sawarkar, a resident of Swatantra Nagar, Nandanvan slum. Police sub-inspector GE Kaluse from Nandanvan police station said reason behind Sawarkar taking the extreme step could not be ascertained as neither any suicide note was found nor any family altercation took place. The police have registered a case of accidental death. Lift technician dies in freak mishapNagpur: A 20-year-old died after he lost balance while repairing a lift in a multi-storey building in Raj Nagar on Sunday afternoon. Sadar police said Saheb Sheikh, 20, a resident of Noori Colony, Nara road, was attending to a call of snag in a lift at Amartaj Apartment’s third floor in Raj Nagar. While repairing the lift’s door, Sheikh lost his balance and fell down. He sustained serious head injuries and succumbed while undergoing treatment at Mayo Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vegetable-vendor-ends-life/articleshow/76948180.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 9 test +ve at entry points||Aurangabad: The number of people reporting positive for Covid-19 across Aurangabad on Monday stood at 186, taking the district’s tally to 8,650. Those who tested positive of Monday included nine people who tried to enter the city for various reasons and were tested by the police and civic body officials at the checkpoints set up at the entry points of the city. “We carried out antigen tests on these people and the results came out as positive. They have been quarantined and all the possible help and treatment will be provided to them,” a civic official said. Out of the 8,650 people who have tested positive for the contagion, as many as 5,061 have recovered and discharged from various Covid care centres and hospitals. The number of active cases currently stands at 3,235. “Two patients — a 49-year-old man from N6 Cidco and a 76-year-old woman from the Cantonment area — who were admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) succumbed to the infection on Monday. With this the district’s death toll has increased to 354,” the official said. Currently, 190 Covid-19 patients are being treated at the GMCH of which condition of 104 is said to be critical while the remaining 86 are normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-9-test-ve-at-entry-points/articleshow/76945967.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Gold worth Rs 50L seized at Tvm airport||Thiruvananthapuram: Gold worth Rs 50 lakh was seized from three passengers at Trivandrum International Airport on Monday morning. It is the third case of gold seizure reported at Trivandrum airport since repatriation flights started operating to the airport during lockdown. Officers of Air Intelligence Unit seized the gold from the passengers who arrived in a chartered Emirates flight from Dubai at around 3:40am. Based on suspicion, the passengers were intercepted at the airport. The gold was recovered when the customs officers frisked the passengers. The gold in compound form weighing 1.455kg was recovered from the passengers, identified as carriers who are natives of Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu. Two passengers had hidden the gold in paste form in the jeans pant worn by them, while one passenger had hidden in his inner garments. The gold was kept hidden in plastic covers. It was retrieved after chemical extraction of the compound form. A case has been registered and a probe has been launched by AIU. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gold-worth-rs-50l-seized-at-tvm-airport/articleshow/76947317.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||Sachin Pilot sticks to his guns, seeks ways against Gehlot’s ‘unilateralism’||NEW DELHI: As Congress and Sachin Pilot engage in a war of wits, the Rajasthan deputy chief minister contested the "victory" claim of CM Ashok Gehlot, saying the latter did not have the numbers and was in a minority while rebuffing efforts by senior party leaders to persuade him to withdraw his rebellion. Pilot's claim, which sought to put in question the outcome of the Congress legislature party meeting in Jaipur on Monday, made it evident that he is sticking to his guns and is unwilling to compromise after taking the rough road to rebellion. Pilot and his contingent of MLAs stayed away from the CLP meeting. Though Congress managers feel he may not have enough numbers, there is concern that mobilisation against Gehlot — with the help of BJP — will improve the rebel numbers if the crisis drags on. Pilot's response to Congress leaders who spoke to him was that he needed clear answers on how issues he has raised with regard to Gehlot's "unilateralism" are to be addressed. "This is not a casual discussion," a source close to the leader said. Those who spoke to him included Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ahmed Patel, P Chidambaram and K C Venugopal. All of them urged him to return to Jaipur. Though Pilot has indicated he is not ruling out options, rapprochement is looking difficult even as some in Congress feel he might have over-reached. The leader himself is unfazed and sources pointed to an RTI plea which showed that while Rs 25 crore was spent in publicity and advertising relating to the CM, the expenditure for the deputy CM was zero. "This shows how things are being run under the current dispensation," said a source close to Pilot. Congress sources claimed that while Pilot was expected to bring 30 MLAs with him, he could manage only 21. They also alleged that a deal with BJP has been worked out and the numbers need to be delivered. There is a strong belief in Congress that Pilot is now buying time so that the rebel tally can be stretched with fresh efforts. The Pilot camp went on record for the first time on their stance. Senior MLA Hemaram Choudhury told media that they had nothing to do with BJP and were firm in their demand for a leadership change in Jaipur “in the interest of Congress”. Sources said for a compromise, Pilot will have to demonstrate that he had called off his contact with BJP. Sources said “it will not be easy to convince Gehlot to accommodate Pilot” if the former is convinced that he has warded off a threat to his government. If Pilot does not join BJP, he will have options such as floating a regional party as suggested by his loyalists in Jaipur, or staying on in Congress. The latter alternative may force him to accept less gratifying terms like moving out of Rajasthan and accepting a position in the AICC. However, leaders said there was pressure on the leadership to take cognisance of the fact that while Pilot made the fatal error of cosying up to BJP and also trying to topple the party government, the adverse political currents demand that Congress does not lose its known public faces and mass leaders. The steady exodus of legislators and senior leaders has made the situation difficult for an already battered Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sachin-pilot-sticks-to-his-guns-seeks-ways-against-gehlots-unilateralism/articleshow/76949820.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur has got 59% of July rain already||Nagpur: In some good news, the city has already received 59.14% of the total average rainfall for July. According to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the normal rains for July are 470.7mms. Till July 10, the city recorded 278.4mm rain. Overall till now, Nagpur has received normal rainfall this season. Other districts of Vidarbha have also recorded normal rains except Akola, Yavatmal, and Gondia which remain 22, 20 and 32% rain deficit. Washim is the only district in Vidarbha to have received excess rain. As reported by TOI earlier, the city received 135% more rainfall in June this year compared to the same month last year. The coming week will bring in more rains for Vidarbha. As per the forecast of met department, almost all districts will receive light to moderate rainfall along with thunderstorm and lightning between July 14-17. On Monday evening, Nagpur and a few other places in Vidarbha received moderate showers. The highest rainfall was recorded in Chandrapur at 63mms. By the time of filing this report, Nagpur had recorded 17mm rains. With an increase in humidity, the maximum temperature also saw a slight increase. On Monday, the city’s maximum temperature was 35.6 degree Celsius, nearly 4 degrees above normal. Nagpur was the hottest place in the region on the day. The minimum temperature was 24.4 degree Celsius. In the coming week, the maximum mercury levels of Nagpur are expected to decrease to 30-31 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-has-got-59-of-july-rain-already/articleshow/76948218.cms||Manka Behl
July 14, 2020||Aurangabad||HC rejects plea of DHO who was caught with Rs 6.7 lakh||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Bench of Bombay high court recently dismissed a criminal application filed by Aurangabad’s district health officer Amol Gite, who was caught in Jalna district while ferrying Rs 6.7 lakh cash and two bottles of India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) in his private car during the lockdown on April 18. Gite’s car was stopped at a checkpoint near Noor Hospital in Badnapur by Jalna police where the cash and IMFL were recovered. The DHO, who is now suspended, was later booked under provisions of the IPC as well as Disaster Management Act, 2005. Gite, however, approached high court seeking to quash the FIR. He has made the government and police sub-inspector Shivsingh Bahure as the respondents. In his petition, Gite claimed that his father, who is a farmer, had kept the money with him for delivering it to a man on the latter’s behalf. As he was on duty he had to visit various places to check whether the health staff are doing their duty and he did not need a pass for that purpose. Gite also produced details of Rs 6.7 lakh which his father had earned by selling farm produce. While dismissing the criminal application on June 30, the bench, comprising justices T V Nalawade and Shrikant D Kulkarni, noted: “The applicant was not possessing any valid permit or pass to enter the Jalna District on that day (April 18). The question comes, if the applicant was on duty on that day why he did not use his official car/assigned vehicle. The DHO is provided with an official car with chauffeur and no explanation is coming forth from the applicant to that effect.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-rejects-plea-of-dho-who-was-caught-with-rs-6-7-lakh/articleshow/76946002.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Forced by rapist's kin to compromise,22-year-old Dalit woman hangs self||Bareilly: Forced by her “tormentor’s family to reach a compromise”, a 22-year-old Dalit rape survivor allegedly ended her life by hanging in her house in Gola town of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday. In her suicide note, the victim stated that the accused raped her repeatedly over a period of time and also forced her to undergo an abortion, police said. The rape accused — identified as Mohammed Rafeeq alias Mintu — was arrested on July 7 after an FIR was registered against him under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on June 20. The accused was sent to jail. Meanwhile, family members of the victim and locals staged a protest against Gola circle officer RK Verma — an investigating officer who was later removed from the case — accusing him of helping the accused and his family. “On June 29, we had lodged written complaints with the SSP and the DM that the local police were not taking action in the case and forcing us to reach a compromise with the accused. Thereafter, the investigation was transferred to another officer and the rape accused was finally arrested. But Verma is still forcing us to reach a compromise with the accused’s family,” alleged a relative of the victim. According to police sources, Verma was removed from the case "owing to shoddy investigation and his failure to arrest the accused”, following which the case was transferred to Dhaurahra circle officer Abhishek Kumar, who arrested the accused. Meanwhile, taking cognisance of the serious charges levelled against Verma, Kheri senior superintendent of police (SSP) Poonam ordered a departmental inquiry against him. Police on Monday registered a separate FIR against the accused's parents and brother under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC and relevant sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on Monday. They were also sent to jail. Kheri additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh told TOI, “We have booked Imtiaz Ali, his wife Fatimah and son Sheebu following a complaint lodged by the victim’s kin. Meanwhile, a departmental probe was also ordered against Verma, following the protest.” Despite repeated efforts, circle officer Verma could not be reached for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forced-by-rapists-kin-to-compromise22-year-old-dalit-woman-hangs-self/articleshow/76946008.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Swapna booked for cheating, forgery||Thiruvananthapuram: After facing severe criticism for failing to act before Swapna Suresh, one of the main accused in the gold smuggling case, fled the state, the state police have registered a case against her for forging documents to obtain a job at Kerala State IT Infrastructure Limited (KSITL). Police registered a case against Swapna as the first accused, and PricewaterhouseCoopers and Vision Technologies as the second and third accused for forging documents to get a job for Swapna at the KSITL. The case has been filed on the basis of a complaint from the managing director of KSITL Jayashankar Prasad. She was appointed at KSITL through PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Vision Technologies. The police have charged the case under the sections 406, 465, 468, 471, 420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, that deals with criminal breach of trust, forgery, cheating and using forged document for one’s advantage. The charges, if proved, can award imprisonment up to seven years. The FIR said that the first accused used a fake bachelor’s degree certificate of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University and managed to get the post of junior consultant at KSITL with the help of the second and third accused. The case has been registered at the Cantonment police station in the capital. Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that the government decided to institute an inquiry against the appointment of Swapna at KSITL. “The chief secretary and the additional chief secretary (finance) will inquire how she was appointed at KSITL,” he said. If there are lapses by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the government will act against them too by removing them from government projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/swapna-booked-for-cheating-forgery/articleshow/76947343.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Experts roped in as Mumbai cops aged above 55 still dying of Covid-19||MUMBAI: Concerned that personnel aged above 55 years who have been sent on mandatory leave are succumbing to Covid-19, Mumbai Police have roped in experts to visit and counsel them on minimising exposure. Two non-profits working in mental health space will hold weekly sessions with greying policemen and their families. Local police stations or traffic branches where the personnel are attached have also been told to keep tabs on their health. Police commissioner Parambir Singh had on April 28 issued orders sending policemen above 55 on mandatory leave. Those above 50 but suffering from comorbities could avail of leave too. Many constables in Mumbai live in cramped quarters with shared toilets, which make them vulnerable to infection. Another reason for those on leave taking ill was venturing out of home to attend to personal work and not taking precautions. “They were out of contact with superiors as they were not reporting to work any more. We would only come to know of their failing health once they got hospitalised and by then many of them were critical,” said an IPS officer. In two cases, policemen who succumbed contracted the infection from sons-in-law who frequently visited them. A traffic cop who died had been shunting between two houses often. “We tied up with MPower, an Aditya Birla Trust initiative, and Yusuf Meher Ali Foundation. Their members conduct home visits of our staff sent on leave. They provide guidance and counselling to policemen and families on dos and don’ts to keep themselves safe and healthy,” said joint commissioner (administration) Naval Bajaj. Those sent on leave have also been told to visit their department once in 10 days so their superiors can track their health. If they do not turn up, police stations have been told to find out if anything is wrong. Some elderly personnel have reported feelings of emptiness staying back home. A traffic cop from suburbs would turn up at the chowky despite being sent on mandatory leave as he felt “fit enough to work”. “We are trying to assign work-from-home duties for elderly personnel to give them a feeling of worth,” said additional commissioner Dilip Sawant. It will mainly be administrative duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/experts-roped-in-as-mumbai-cops-aged-above-55-still-dying-of-covid/articleshow/76948281.cms||Nitasha Natu
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Man asphyxiates wife to death, held||Vijayawada: A 24-year-old woman was asphyxiated by her husband in Agiripalle village, Krishna district. The incident, which took place on July 11, came to light on Sunday evening after doctors reported it to the police. According to sub-inspector of Agiripalli police station, Kishore, the deceased Thaneeru Sravani was taken to a nearby government hospital by her husband Venkat Rao, who claimed she had been bitten by a snake. However, preliminary examination suggested she had died of oxygen deprivation. “The doctors noticed blood oozing out of the nose and immediately realized that it was not a case of snakebite but that of asphyxiation. They immediately contacted us, and we reached the place and conducted our investigation,” Kishore told TOI. Investigation revealed that Venkat Rao had a petty fight on the evening of July 11. Later that day, a verbal spat ensued between Sravani and Venkat Rao, and in a fit of rage, Venkat Rao thrashed Sravani and choked her to death. Cops said Venkat Rao has been arrested and a case under section 302 of IPC (murder) registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-asphyxiates-wife-to-death-held/articleshow/76947316.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||State universities go digital as MPhil, PhD exams shift online||Visakhapatnam: Several universities in Andhra Pradesh are taking the online route to conduct MPhil and PhD viva-voce examinations to help students complete their research programmes within the stipulated period of time. Viva for all PhDs and MPhil degrees awarded in the last three months have been held online. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the disruption in the academic calendar, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has framed a set of guidelines for examinations and the academic calendar of universities. As per UGC guidelines, universities may conduct viva-voce through video conferencing using Google, Skype, Microsoft technologies or any other reliable and mutually convenient technology, subject to the approval of the concerned statutory authority of the university. The varsities are asked to ensure that the exam will be open to the members of the research advisory committee, faculty members, research scholars and experts, apart from the research supervisor to maintain the sanctity of the exam. Dean (academic affairs), Andhra University, Prof K Venkata Rao, said AU switched over to the virtual mode of conducting viva-voce examinations in the best interests of its students. The UGC has extended the deadline to submit research work by six months for students whose courses have finished or are due for completion. The decision was taken after considering requests from the research fraternity to extend the prescribed period. The extension will also be considered for students who are yet to submit their dissertation or thesis. Meanwhile, Gitam Deemed to be University conducted 18,504 exams online with 98.88% student participation with the University Grants Commission (UGC) asking the universities and colleges to “compulsorily” take final-year exams by the end of September 2020 offline, online, or both. Gitam vice-chancellor Prof K Sivarama Krishna said the university will hold supplementary exams for backlog subjects from July 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-universities-go-digital-as-mphil-phd-exams-shift-online/articleshow/76947345.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 14, 2020||Bhopal||Child sex racket busted in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Bhopal police have busted a high-profile racket in which minor girls were lured to private parties where they were sexually exploited. The alleged mastermind, 68-year-old accredited journalist and newspaper owner Pyare Mian, is on the run. His secretary, Sweety Vishwakarma, who is accused of ‘arranging’ the minors has been arrested. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday ordered police to arrest the accused immediately and bring him to justice. “Those who exploit children are not human beings. I wont spare them,” he said. The government on Monday scrapped his accreditation as a journalist and is revoking a government bungalow allotted to him. A marriage hall he owned, which was allegedly built upon encroached land in Talaiya locality, was razed on Monday. Police have declared a reward of Rs 30,000 for his arrest. Some high-profile people of town are linked to the racket, hinted police, but refused to give any details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/child-sex-racket-busted-in-bhopal/articleshow/76948239.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Students get perfect 100 in English||LUCKNOW: CBSE class XII students succeeded in hitting many centuries in their scorecard. Many others, too, almost made it there. Scoring 98.8%, Satwik Sinha of Delhi Public School, Eldeco branch, scored full marks in mathematics. “I was expecting 100 in mathematics and physics. In mathematics, I succeeded while in three subjects: English, physics and computers, it was just a mark behind with 99 marks,” said the student who wishes to become an engineer. “I scored 100 in chemistry and almost hit a century in physics and computers with 99 marks. It feels great to see full marks in the scorecard,” said 97.4% scorer Sameer of Rani Laxmi Bai Memorial Senior Secondary School. Another student from the same school, Hrithik Verma, also scored a perfect 100 in chemistry. “I was expecting good scores but full marks in chemistry are like a dream come true,” said Hrithik. In theoretical subjects like English and psychology, students succeed in scoring full marks. “I scrolled up and down twice as I could not believe that I had scored 100 in English, a subject in which hardly full marks are awarded,” said 97.8% scorer Shreea of Rani Laxmi Bai Memorial Senior Secondary School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/students-get-perfect-100-in-english/articleshow/76948846.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Health body slaps Rs 10L fine on hosp||Kolkata: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has ordered a private hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh in bank accounts of three infants whose mothers died in the hospital after childbirth. In one case it was a twin delivery. The judgment comes within a year of the two incidents in the same hospital. In the first case, Paulami Bhattacharya was admitted to Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Ltd on the night of July 11 last year. The woman from Kamalgazi delivered a baby girl through C-section. She died the next day. The hospital had said she developed circulatory collapse. Husband Jayanta Sanyal had alleged medical negligence and knocked on the doors of various bodies, including WBCERC. In the second case, Moushri Mandal was admitted to the same hospital on July 12 last year where she delivered twins, a girl and a boy. But within hours of the C-section she developed respiratory distress and was put on ventilation. But she died the next day. Husband Sushovan Das lodged a complaint with WBCERC. The hospital had told the family that she had died due to HELLP (haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelet count) syndrome. “The clinical establishment is duty-bound to explain and answer the flaws pointed out hear-in before. They could not do so. I am convinced they are not above the board,” observed Justice (retd) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairperson of WBCERC. The hospital has been asked to deposit Rs 5 lakh in the account of the daughter of Bhattacharya and Rs 2.5 lakh each in the accounts of the twins of Mandal. Fathers of the kids have been asked to send bank account details of their wards to hospital officials in seven days. The money will be kept as FDs till they attain maturity. Calls and messages to officials of Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital were not answered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-body-slaps-rs-10l-fine-on-hosp/articleshow/76948235.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Panvel locks down till July 24, its civic body to hire 83 docs||Navi Mumbai: Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) extended lockdown till July 24 as Covid cases reported daily by NMMC and PCMC are on the rise, even as the ongoing 10-day lockdown is coming to an end. Between June 24-July 3, PCMC recorded 1,048 cases, which rose to 1,402 during lockdown between July 4-12. Similarly, between June 24-July 3, NMMC recorded 1,962 cases, and reported 2,333 between July 4-13. NMMC reported 233 new cases and two deaths on Monday, taking the total cases to 9,678 and deaths to 305. PCMC added 146 cases, taking it total to 3,980. NMMC reported a 19% increase, compared to pre-lockdown, while PCMC saw a 34% rise in cases, compared to pre-lockdown. PCMC plans to recruit 83 doctors and 85 paramedical staffers, including pharmacists, on contract. The administration called for online applications, offering Rs20,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh a month. “We are falling short of healthcare personnel. Therefore, we decided to launch a recruitment process,” said PCMC deputy commissioner Jamir Lengarekar. “We need three expert physicians, who will serve part-time at sub-district hospital and other Covid care centres and dedicated Covid hospitals,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/panvel-locks-down-till-july-24-its-civic-body-to-hire-83-docs/articleshow/76948285.cms||Umesh K Parida
July 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Activists give satirical bent to protest||Kozhikode: After staging different kinds of agitation against delay in filing chargesheet in the Palathayi Pocso case, activists have turned to an artistic form of protest. Mappilapattu lyricist Nasarudeen Mannarkkad and music composer Nazar Malik have come out with a satirical song ‘thanking’ police for filing the chargesheet. Kuniyil Padmarajan, BJP leader of Palathayi in Kannur district, is the accused in the case of sexually abusing a girl student. After initial inquiry, the case was handed over to crime branch. “Padmarajan will get natural bail if the crime branch does not file chargesheet within two days. Police say the girl is not mentally stable and there are contradictions in her statements,” said activist Sreeja Neyyattinkara, who has been in the forefront of the agitation. Sreeja said it was after much pressure police arrested Padmarajan. “It happened in the constituency of health minister K K Shailaja. We contacted the minister and state police chief seeking their intervention,” she said. The activists had organised a hunger strike by selected women at their houses on July 12. “The Covid-19 situation has imposed restrictions on direct agitations. Not just the police but the government as a whole will be responsible if Padmarajan is granted bail,” Sreeja said. Nasarudeen Mannarkkad who penned the protest song told TOI that the protesters demanded a song as part of a creative agitation. “If chargesheet is not filed within 90 days, the accused will get bail. So, we are intensifying our agitation,” said Nasarudeen, who is an expert in Mappilapattu. “The song is composed in sarcastic mode, ridiculing the policemen for their apathy. Hence, the music has also been adjusted to the theme,” said Nazar Malik, “Artistic intervention of social issues is not new to us. We had created music album during anti-CAA protests,” Nazar said. Meanwhile, activists of Campus Front of India took out a march to the Kannur collectorate protesting the delay in filing the chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/activists-give-satirical-bent-to-protest/articleshow/76947376.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Suspended official held for sending lewd messages to woman medico||Aurangabad: Suspended district health officer Amol Gite has been arrested by city police on charges of sending lewd and abusive messages to a woman medical officer working with the rural health department and who is currently on Covid-19 duty. The woman in her complaint has stated that the accused medical officer has been inappropriately bothering her for the past one year. “I abstained from lodging a police complaint fearing social stigma as well as being harmed professionally,” the woman said. Gite has been arrested under sections 354-D (stalking) and 354 -A (using criminal force with intent to outrage modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. The woman medical officer posted with one of the primary health centres in Kannad said that Gite has been her reporting boss for the past two years. On July 9, the woman started receiving multiple calls from Gite’s mobile as well as landline number. Initially she ignored, and later blacklisted his numbers. Angered by his calls not being answered, Gite called the woman’s husband, who is also a medico with city-based leading private hospital, and abused him. This was followed by Gite sending her lewd messages and raising question on her character. Perturbed by the harassment, the woman medical officer on Sunday night reached Cidco police station and lodged a complaint. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/suspended-official-held-for-sending-lewd-messages-to-woman-medico/articleshow/76946038.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||There are many who are ready to join us: BJP chief Poonia||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia on Monday said their priority was to see that the Congress doesn’t prove majority in the assembly. Reacting to the show of strength by chief minister Ashok Gehlot amid allegations of horse trading, Poonia said under the given situation, they did not want to see the Congress proving its majority to save the government. “Nothing can be said at the moment but we are 75 MLAs including our allies and people are interested in joining us. If the situation favours Sachin Pilot, our priority will be to see that the Congress does not form the government (proving majority),” he added. He also said even if somebody wanted us to support them, the central party leadership will take a call on the terms of engagement. “We are bound by our party high command and will follow their instructions on the subject,” said Poonia. This is for the first time since the tug-of-war for power began in the Congress last week, BJP has strongly reacted. Calling the division in the Congress on ‘expected’ lines, Poonia said the formation of the government was based on internal fissures. “The recent episode exposed the faultlines in the party. Congress has a tradition of sidelining those who speak their mind and reward those who always try to show loyalty. This episode is an example of the Congress way of functioning,” Poonia. Sharpening his attack, Poonia said the Congress had been accusing the BJP for the fiasco they are facing which is due to their style of functioning. “I would like to ask them why many of them did not turn up for the parade. “The party has lost the confidence of the people and the MLAs who have been subjected to the suffering of repeatedly being hostage. It is all being done at the cost of ignoring the welfare of the people,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/our-priority-is-to-see-congress-not-forming-its-govt-says-poonia/articleshow/76948864.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Two history-sheeters arrested after encounters||Bareilly: Two history-sheeters were arrested in separate encounters in Bareilly district on Sunday night. Both the criminals and a sub-inspector suffered bullet injuries during the encounter and were admitted to the district hospital. According to police, they conducted a raid in Hafizganj area following a tip-off that a cow slaughterer, Rashid, and his aide were smuggling bovines in a car. When police signalled them to stop their vehicle, they opened fire at the police team and fled the spot. The police team, however, chased them and shot Rashid in his leg and arrested him. Rashid was booked in eight cases of cow slaughtering and attempt to murder, said police. Meanwhile, police managed to arrest Kalyan Yadav in Bhamora, who is wanted in several cases of murder, loot, road hold-up and cases under the NDPS Act. During the encounter, Kalyan opened fire at the police team and sub-inspector Vishwadev sustained a bullet injury in his hand, said police. Police said another criminal Ram Singh, alias, Babu was arrested with smack and a knife from Kotwali area of the city. He was identified among the top 10 criminals of Bareilly and was sent to jail. In all, police arrested seven history-sheeters, including a group of four robbers, in Bareilly since Sunday night and recovered cash and valuables worth Rs 4 lakh from the robber’s gang. SSP Bareilly Shailesh Pandey said, “We have been searching for the accused in the pending cases. Our police teams have arrested seven accused on Monday. All of them were sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-history-sheeters-arrested-after-encounters/articleshow/76946044.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Second suicide in Covid-19 facility in less than a week||JAIPUR: A 60-year-old man hanged himself at Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) Hospital, the main Covid treatment facility here, on Monday. The deceased was admitted to RUHS on July 10 and his report back negative for Covid on Sunday night. This is the second suicide at the facility in less than a week. On Wednesday last, a 78-year-old patient had jumped from the second floor of the RUHS building. The deceased was identified as Ramnath Singh from Dholpur and was admitted for age-related ailments. Pratap Nagar SHO Purshottam Maheriya said, “The elderly man was admitted for age-related ailment though it is not clear what he was suffering from. He was found hanging from the roof. He had tested negative for Covid and we still do not know the reason as to why he decided to take his life.” The body was handed over to his family after autopsy. An official said, “The patient had been informed that he had tested negative for coronavirus and when the doctors went for rounds in the morning, they found him hanging. He was immediately put on the ventilator but did not survive.” According to RUHS officials, the patient had climbed on a stool which was in the semi-ICU ward and used a towel to hang himself. They also claimed that he did not have any attendant with him. “Some of the patients’ families do not want to risk being close to those who might be suspected of having Covid-19 due to which the patients do get mentally demotivated and possibly this is what happened in this case as well,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2nd-suicide-in-covid-19-facility-in-less-than-a-week/articleshow/76948868.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Covid scare grips 75k in 3 S Kol wards||Kolkata: Several south Kolkata neighbourhoods spread across at least three Kolkata Municipal Corporation wards are reeling under Covid scare after cases crossed the 100-mark in the past two weeks, keeping over 75,000 people on the tenterhooks. Ranikuthi-Azadgarh, Bijoygarh-Bikramgarh, Baghajatin-Jadavpur belts are witnessing a rapid spurt in the number of Covid-positive cases. So much so that major markets of these neighbourhoods are being shut down on and off fearing a further spread of the deadly virus. For example, Bijoygargh market that caters to the entire Bijoygarh-Pallisree-Golf Green residents was closed on several occasions as and when a spurt in Covid cases was recorded in the area. Bijoygarh happens to be the worst infected area in the Ranikuthi-Jadavpur belt with over 40 people getting infected with the virus in the past 15 days. Out of a severe virus scare, Bijoygargh residents themselves decided to abide by lockdown rules to save others in the neighbourhood. “First of all, we decided to shut the market which had become the epicentre of positive cases a fortnight ago. After briefly opening the market for two days, a week ago, we unanimously decided to shut it down again on July 9. We won’t open the market till next five days,” said Subir Ghosh, a Bijoygargh resident. Azadgargh market, which is one of the largest markets located off NSC Bose Road, has also been shut as positive cases are on the rise. Azadgarh has reported five fresh cases in 72 hours, two of which were reported from the market area. “We are shutting down for three days as per the SOP for sanitization of markets,” said Tarak Saha, a member of the market committee. According to KMC sources, even Bikramgarh market will remain shut for the next few days. “It can go up to a maximum of seven days,” said an officer from Jadavpur PS. The KMC is also keeping an eye on Baghajatin market, the largest wholesale fish market in south Kolkata that had remained shut for three days a week ago after three traders had tested positive. Residents of Jadavpur, Bijoygarh, Sree Colony and Pallisree are worried that with multiple markets shut, both Jadavpur Supermarket and Santoshpur (Sulekha) market will witness a rise in footfall. “I have tried ordering from some online facilities. But it takes up to three days for delivery. The markets could have operated on alternate days,” said Amiya Chatterjee, a resident of Bikramgarh. Area coordinators have hinted at over 30-40 active cases in wards 95, 96 and 98.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-scare-grips-75k-in-3-s-kol-wards/articleshow/76948238.cms||Saikat Ray
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Name imbroglio: Delhi HC issues notice to YSRC||Vijayawada: In continuation to the ongoing tussle over the use of YSR Congress instead of Yuvajana Sramika Raithu Congress, the Delhi high court on Monday received a petition seeking disqualification of the party. The court, which admitted the petition, issued notices to the YSR Congress and the Election Commission of India (EC) seeking their reply and posted the next hearing to September 17. Anna YSR Congress president Mahaboob Basha filed the petition in the high court, alleging that Yuvajana Sramika Raithu Congress was using his party’s name to confuse voters in AP. He claimed that EC registered his party as ‘Anna YSR Congress’ and the party now headed by Jaganmohan Reddy as Yuvajana Sramika Raithu Congress. “The Election Commission had also told Yuvajana Sramika Raithu Congress not to use ‘YSR’ in its name,” Basha said, adding that as the party is using ‘YSR’ against the EC’s direction, he has filed the petition seeking derecognition of the party. The issue was first raised by Narasapuram MP K Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who questioned Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy for issuing show-cause notice to him in the name of YSR Congress instead of Yuvajana Sramika Raithu Congress. The MP has also lodged a complaint with the EC on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/name-imbroglio-delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-ysrc/articleshow/76947365.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||Rajasthan govt crisis: Senior netas’ peace plan fails to take off||NEW DELHI: A plan by some of the senior functionaries of Congress to take up the Rajasthan situation with the Congress leadership failed to gain momentum due to a lack of consensus over the utility of the exercise. A senior Congress functionary and former minister, who was approached, demurred from proceeding and a couple of other members gave up after exploring options. The view of a section of the party that was considering raising issues was that it would not be worth the while. These senior functionaries feel that there is a lack of application at the central level to essential issues of organisation and access to Rahul Gandhi remains limited. The members do not feel the situation is likely to change much and so a move to seek a resolution of the dispute in Rajasthan failed to fly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-govt-crisis-senior-netas-peace-plan-fails-to-take-off/articleshow/76949827.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court: Do not act against schools going for standard II online classes||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday directed state government not to take any coercive steps against schools which are conducting online classes for students up to standard II to those willing to avail such teaching. A bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and N R Borkar accepted state pleader B V Samant’s contention and directed, “similarly, no coercive action shall be taken by the schools against those parents who are not willing to force their children studying in class-II and below for availing online classes.” The HC has sought a reply from the state within 3 weeks to a petition filed by Parents Teachers Association of United Forum and two parents challenging the state’s June 15 circular that doesn’t allow online classes for students of pre-primary to standard II. Such restriction is arbitrary and unconstitutional, said the petitioner’s counsel Mihir Desai. The matter will next be heard on August 7.The guidelines issued by the state were set out for online classes as physical opening of schools for the new academic year was difficult due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The restriction imposed by the state circular are sans any scientific backing and the provisions “contrary to each other and arbitrary as well as violative of rights to equality and life’’ since they not only prescribe total restriction on teaching till standard II, but expect the parents to teach their children instead, said the petition. The petition invokes the right of children to free and compulsory education as well. It said the guidelines cannot be implemented in the present form. Early education refers to education in the first six years of a child’s life when the rate of development is exceedingly high and foundations are laid down for cumulative lifelong learning and human development said the petition. And adding that children of this age group learn well from visual presentation and interaction, the petition pointed to a TOI survey which indicated that 64% parents want online classes, said “talking to teachers, singing songs, hearing stories, doing yoga and hearing teacher talk about routines, how to keep healthy are engagements our children require to thrive post Covid-19’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-do-not-act-against-schools-going-for-std-ii-online-classes/articleshow/76948290.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Pilot’s exit helps Gehlot put his man at the helm||Jaipur: Angry Congress workers pulled down the banners and posters of PCC president and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot at the PCC office on Monday after his revolt signalling the end of the road for the longest serving PCC president.There are also speculations galore of the next PCC president. With the exit of Pilot, chief minister Gehlot will have a free run. One of the irritants for the chief minister was his deputy holding two posts — the top post within the party and the second top post within the government — in violation of ‘one man-one post’ principle.There are many names doing the rounds for the PCC president’s post. If the party chooses a tribal, the amiable Raghuveer Singh Meena may be Gehlot’s first choice. Meena who had to face electoral debacle twice was made a CWC member by Gehlot when he was AICC general secretary, organisation, for a brief period.If the party opts for a Brahmin, his loyalist Mahesh Joshi could be deputed for the party post. Joshi is currently the party chief whip in the assembly.The name of Lal Chand Kataria is also doing the rounds. Former union minister and Jat leader Kataria is now a cabinet minister and a strong Gehlot loyalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilots-exit-helps-gehlot-put-his-man-at-the-helm/articleshow/76948870.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odissi fest makes online debut, receives positive response||Bhubaneswar: The first presentation of Udayraga, the online dance festival of Orissa Dance Academy (ODA), left dance connoisseur Nivedita Scudder (72), a teacher, wanting more. “In an auditorium, we get distracted by the movement of people and sounds, but there are no such disturbances in the digital format. I watched the performance in one go,” said Nivedita, who watched the first video of the festival on YouTube. Besides Nivedita, many others have watched the performance by dancer Leema Bhol (40) on YouTube and Facebook since Friday evening. Thrilled viewers were generous in their comments, with most looking forward to subsequent videos. One viewer suggested that the government should provide an auditorium for the videos to be recorded in. “Some of my acquaintances told me that my expressions in Manini were better and more mature than when I first performed on this composition 15 years ago,” said Leema. Manini is an Abhinaya-based piece on the works of Odia poets Bhaktakabi Banamali Das and Gopalakrushna. It has been choreographed by the late Guru Gangadhar Pradhan. The digital version of Manini was hosted by Odissi dancer Sripunya Mohanty, who spoke both about the composition as well as introduced Leema. “In the live performance, I would get to see the stage, the musicians and lighting effects. In the digital format, your viewing choices are guided by the camera. But the online dance festival is the best option during Covid,” said Khirod Pattnaik (65), a behavioural science consultant and a regular at Odissi dance performances. For the recording, Leema had to dance twice to provide different kinds of shots on recorded music. Currently, the ODA is using four technical persons to record and edit the videos at danseuse Aruna Mohanty’s home. “Before the video is recorded, I supervise the performing artist for a week, but after that they have to practise. After the first presentation, we have received suggestions on improving the backdrop,” said Aruna. In the subsequent videos to be uploaded on July 17, July 24 and July 31, the ODA will be presenting Odissi dancers Subham Kumar Ojha, Arupa Gayatri Panda and Abhishree Priyadarshini respectively. Many more dancers have been selected from India and abroad for the festival that will go on till December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odissi-fest-makes-online-debut-receives-positive-response/articleshow/76941836.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Son uses mom’s phone to play games, spends Rs 5 lakh||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI): Around Rs 5.40 lakh was siphoned from two bank accounts after a mother gave her mobile to her son for playing games online. The incident took place in Amalapuram town in East Godavari district. The mother of the 14-year-old boy later noticed that Rs 1.60 lakh from an SBI account in Amalapuram and Rs 3.80 lakh from an Andhra Bank account in Ambaji Peta had disappeared. According to Amalapuram town sub-inspector Yesu Babu, the 14-year-old boy would play a video game called Free Fire. As part of the game, he started to purchase virtual weapons and ammunition over the last 20 days, through his mother’s bank accounts. When his mother realised that over Rs 5 lakh was missing, she approached the police. Police are now mulling over how to book the FIR and against whom it should be booked. While money withdrawn from one’s personal account without the knowledge of the account holder would be fraud, in this case, police say it will not be possible to book anybody as the money was spent through the gamer’s account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/son-uses-moms-phone-to-play-games-spends-rs-5l/articleshow/76953945.cms||Samson Raj
July 14, 2020||Bhopal||With 99%, Bhopal’s Ananya Tripathi tops state||BHOPAL: The state capital fared excellent in class 12th CBSE results declared on Monday. With 99%, city’s Ananya Tripathi, a commerce student, topped the state. Last year, a Humanities student, Zainab Saifee, was the city topper. At 90.95%, Bhopal’s pass percentage is better than the overall 88.78%. This is Bhopal’s first result after it was separated from Ajmer region last year. The state capital performed better than Ajmer (90.24% pass percentage) and Pune (87.60%). State topper Ananya, also a commerce student, scored full 100 marks in — fine arts, business studies and economics. Talking to TOI, she said, “I was confident of a good score as I had prepared keeping admission in Delhi University as my target.” Ananya aspires to become an entrepreneur. Her father Rajkumar Tripathi and Tripti Tripathi are government employees. With 98.8%, a commerce student Tanya Pratap from Carmel Convent School, BHEL ranked second in the city. Due to technical glitch in CBSE website, she could not download her mark sheet till the report was filed. She said, “Focussed studies and teachers’ constant support helped her secure good marks. Though I was surprised after seeing the results, I am happy.” Another girl from Carmel School, Mehzabeen Kaur Ahmed from humanities scored 98.4%. CBSE has replaced the term ‘Fail’ by the term ‘Essential Repeat’. Therefore, no ‘Fail’ term was mentioned in the results on the website, nor in any documents issued to the candidates. a Students and experts have welcomed the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-99-citys-ananya-tops-state/articleshow/76948249.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Son uses mom’s phone to play games, spends Rs 5 lakh||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI): Around Rs 5.40 lakh was siphoned from two bank accounts after a mother gave her mobile to her son for playing games online. The incident took place in Amalapuram town in East Godavari district. The mother of the 14-year-old boy later noticed that Rs 1.60 lakh from an SBI account in Amalapuram and Rs 3.80 lakh from an Andhra Bank account in Ambaji Peta had disappeared. According to Amalapuram town sub-inspector Yesu Babu, the 14-year-old boy would play a video game called Free Fire. As part of the game, he started to purchase virtual weapons and ammunition over the last 20 days, through his mother’s bank accounts. When his mother realised that over Rs 5 lakh was missing, she approached the police. Police are now mulling over how to book the FIR and against whom it should be booked. While money withdrawn from one’s personal account without the knowledge of the account holder would be fraud, in this case, police say it will not be possible to book anybody as the money was spent through the gamer’s account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/son-uses-moms-phone-to-play-games-spends-rs-5l/articleshow/76947388.cms||Samson Raj
July 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Wedding gathering size reduced to 10 in Beed||Aurangabad: The Beed district administration has reduced the maximum number of people allowed to attend a wedding from 50, as allowed by the state government, to 10. In an official notification, the administration has said that the size of a wedding gathering has been curtailed with the aim to contain the spread of Covid -19. “Official permission will be given only to weddings having participation of only 10 individuals. Those attending the wedding ceremony will have follow the social distancing norm,” additional collector Machhindra Sukate said. As per the laid down norms, the organisers will have to mandatorily intimate the nearest police station and local self-governing body. about the ceremony in writing at least three days in advance. Beed district has reported 237 confirmed cases of Covid 19 till Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/wedding-gathering-size-reduced-to-10-in-beed/articleshow/76946060.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Amaravati||Son uses mom’s phone to play games, spends Rs 5 lakh||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI): Around Rs 5.40 lakh was siphoned from two bank accounts after a mother gave her mobile to her son for playing games online. The incident took place in Amalapuram town in East Godavari district. The mother of the 14-year-old boy later noticed that Rs 1.60 lakh from an SBI account in Amalapuram and Rs 3.80 lakh from an Andhra Bank account in Ambaji Peta had disappeared. According to Amalapuram town sub-inspector Yesu Babu, the 14-year-old boy would play a video game called Free Fire. As part of the game, he started to purchase virtual weapons and ammunition over the last 20 days, through his mother’s bank accounts. When his mother realised that over Rs 5 lakh was missing, she approached the police. Police are now mulling over how to book the FIR and against whom it should be booked. While money withdrawn from one’s personal account without the knowledge of the account holder would be fraud, in this case, police say it will not be possible to book anybody as the money was spent through the gamer’s account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/son-uses-moms-phone-to-play-games-spends-rs-5l/articleshow/76953943.cms||Samson Raj
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Virus despite safety measures spooks residents||Kolkata: A resident of an apartment building on Park Street-Loudon Street crossing has tested positive for Covid-19, triggering panic in the upscale neighbourhood with showrooms and other commercial establishments in the building remaining shut throughout Monday. The secretary of the residents’ association said they have been taking all possible precautions including separate entrances for the service staff, regular sanitisation of the premises and monitoring temperature of everyone entering the building. The entire building was again sanitised on Sunday evening. The association has currently stopped entry of outsiders into the building and all commercial outlets on the ground floor of the building have been shut. The ten-storey building which is located a few hundred meters from the Park Street police station has several offices and sari showrooms on the ground floor. The rise in cases in complexes despite all precautions being taken by the residents has stumped the authorities. In a list of containment zones issued by the government last week, most addresses were those of multi-storied buildings which are under a seven-day long lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus in the neighbourhood. Building associations are trying to figure out ways to prevent their residents from getting affected by the virus. They are also devising way to protect the senior citizens staying alone in these high rises. There are about 60 apartments and 10 commercial establishments on the ground floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virus-despite-safety-measures-spooks-residents/articleshow/76948244.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||ACB probing complaint against 3 independent MLAs||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has started a preliminary investigation against three independent MLAs after receiving a complaint that they were involved in horse-trading, though the agency has not moved forward in the probe. The MLAs - Om Prakash Hudla (Mahuwa), Khushveer Singh (Marwar Junction) and Suresh Tak (Kishangarh) - were all denied tickets by the Congress and the BJP following which they contested as independents in 2018 and came out victorious. While Hudla and Tak are BJP loyalists, Singh had previously contested elections on a Congress ticket. “We received a complaint about the three independent MLAs. We are still probing the matter and trying to get more details. None of the MLAs mentioned in the complaint has been questioned yet”, said a senior ACB official. Hudla and Tak both have long associations with the BJP and the latter has spoken about being with the RSS. “In the 2018 Lok Sabha elections, Tak wanted to contest on a BJP ticket but when he was denied, he contested independently from Kishangarh and won. He was with the RSS for around 20 years and speaks about it even today. He won as he also had the support of the marble industry in Kishangarh”, said a political insider. Meanwhile, Hudla won the Mahuwa seat by contesting as an independent after being denied ticket by the BJP though the party did try to lure him by offering a ticket to his wife in 2018 following which he had told TOI that he was a BJP man and would continue to serve the party. Singh, who had triumphed on a Congress ticket from the same constituency in 2003, was denied the ticket in 2018 and insiders claimed that caste politics played against him though he won again. He is known for his endeavours to conserve waterbodies in Rajasthan especially in Marwar region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-probing-complaint-against-3-independent-mlas/articleshow/76948878.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag dist records 50% of Monday’s rainfall in AP||Visakhapatnam: Heavy rainfall with thunderstorms battered several locations in Vizag city on Monday afternoon, inundating low-lying areas such as Gnanapuram, Poorna Market, MVP Colony, Kurupam Market and Kancharapalem. Officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) said their sanitary team had been asked to clear debris off the streets and storm water canals with immediate effect, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have specially focused on containment zones in the city and will clear drainage canals for free flow of rainwater. We have advised people not to roam outside during the monsoon, which is generally when vector-borne diseases surge,” a GVMC medical officer said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) attributed the sudden, heavy rains to an active south-west monsoon. Officials at the AP State Development Planning Society said 98 locations across the state recorded moderate rainfall on Monday. Of these, 45 locations were from Visakhapatnam district. The Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, said the airport received 50.5mm of rainfall on Monday, while IMD’s rainfall measuring centre at Waltair received 16.5 mm of rainfall. “Rains will continue on Tuesday. One or two spells of rains or thunderstorms are likely in the next 24 hours,” a CWC forecast bulletin said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-dist-records-50-of-mondays-rainfall-in-ap/articleshow/76947423.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 14, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal records 800 fresh Covid-19 cases in just 13 days||BHOPAL: More than 800 new positive cases have been reported in the state capital in just 13 days of July. This is 22% of the 3,590 cases that have been reported in Bhopal till July 13 from April 23 when the first positive case was reported in the city. It’s not only restricted to new positive cases, but if compared with the past, the correlation between the number of people testing positive to the number of people recovering has deteriorated month on month in the state capital. In the month of May, a total of 959 people tested positive in Bhopal and 801 people recovered. But in July, 801 people have tested positive and only 477 have recovered so far till July 13. Thus on every 100 new people who are testing positive, only 63 people who are already admitted are recovering. So far in July, 25 people have died ,which is again more than 20% of the total casualties that had occurred since the first case was reported in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-records-800-fresh-covid-cases-in-just-13-days/articleshow/76948288.cms||Amarjeet Singh
July 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow now has highest Covid-19 active cases in UP||LUCKNOW: The city surged ahead of other districts in the state in number of active Covid-19 cases with the addition of 196 new patients on Monday, propelling Lucknow’s caseload beyond 2,500 since the outbreak. The active cases in Lucknow, as per UP government’s bulletin, were 1,460, ahead of Ghaziabad (1248), which was number one so far. Five ground staffers of the Amausi Airport were among the fresh cases. “Their work area has been sanitised and there will be any impact on airport services,” said CMO office spokesperson Yogesh Raghuvanshi. Seventeen recruits under training at the Army Medical Centre also tested positive and are being treated, he added. The virus was under control in the city till May-end. However, it picked up pace soon after relaxations in lockdown in June and is galloping in July. In fact, Monday was the fourth consecutive day when the state capital recorded the highest number of cases in UP, taking the overall caseload to 2,578. Fresh cases also included two from district prison. However, it was not clear whether they were staff members or prisoners. “Sampling was done in the prison and its office recently, but since cases are being reported rapidly, we could not collect information about who actually tested positive,” said Raghuvanshi. Health officers said cases are now being reported in groups from across the city. With virus spreading to new areas, 64 more localities were converted into containment zones, taking the number to 431. Meanwhile, five asymptomatic patients were admitted to Haj House, which has been converted into a 1000-bed Covid-19 medical facility to cope with the shortage of space in the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-now-has-highest-active-cases-in-state/articleshow/76948867.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Three-day-week start for shops in CBD, Salt Lake||KOLKATA: Almost two-third of nearly 25,000 traders, spread between Esplanade and Strand Road in the central business district, kept their shops opened on Monday, the first day of the three-day-week model. Markets in Salt Lake have also started following even-odd day pattern to reduce crowd. Almost half of the shops on Bentinck Street were open while most of the shops on N S Road were closed on Monday. Shops on the Strand Road and Wellington were also closed. A large number of shops selling automobile parts were also closed after the association gave a call for seven-day closure. There has been a dip in the number of buyers post lockdown as compared with the usual days. “It seems that traders are also jittery about the crowd now. We have a meeting on Monday, where we will take feedbacks from each of the member organisations,” said Sushil Poddar, president of the Confederation of the Trade Associations (CTA). “The associations have been asked to identify suitable days of the week when they want their cluster of shops to remain opened. Each of them has their preferences and I think we will streamline things in a week’s time,” said Rajesh Bhatia, secretary of the CTA. Meanwhile, Bengal Cycle Traders Association has asked their members to keep cycle shops open on Tuesday-Thursday-Friday. “There are markets like Tiretti Bazar where it is difficult to enforce such regulations. But most of the organised traders have agreed to the proposition. We have 150 members and they are trying to follow the model,” said Ravi Jajodia, president of Bengal Cycle Traders’ Association. Alternate day closure model started in Salt Lake as well from Monday. Cops campaigned with microphone in some market places, urging people to wear masks and follow other safety measures. In Baisakhi and its adjacent areas under Ward 30, all three markets were closed on Monday and these would also remain shut on Wednesday and Friday. “We have urged the standalone shops at the ground floor of residences to down their shutters after 5pm,” said a civic official of Ward 30. The even-odd day structure was followed across 17 market complexes in Salt Lake. Other local markets in some areas will remain closed on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Some of the markets will follow early morning shifts while some stores will remain open from 6am till noon. The civic authorities are, however, not enforcing any strict order in this regard as they are leaving the matter for local councillors to take a call. “We want all the market complexes to be sanitized at least once a week,” said Shyamal Kanti Roy, secretary of Bidhannagar Kendriya Bazar Byabosayee Samity that has welcomed the civic body’s plan to keep the markets closed on alternate days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-day-week-start-for-shops-in-cbd-salt-lake/articleshow/76948250.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 14, 2020||Mysuru||Restrictions in place in Narasimharaja segment to arrest transmission of novel coronavirus||Mysuru: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, authorities are mulling over involving community members, religious leaders and elected representatives to tackle the pandemic in Mysuru. The district administration has also decided to impose restrictions in pockets of Narasimharaja constituency as a precautionary measure. As part of the plan, door-to-door survey will be carried out in Rajendranagar, Shanthinagar and Bannimantap where maximum number of Covid-19 cases were reported, after restricting the movement of people. The district has reported 32 fatalities till July 12. Over two dozen deaths were reported in the last two weeks and of these a majority of deaths are occurred at Narasimharaja. Several of these patients, according to officials, reached hospital at the last moment. People are not cooperating with health care workers and reluctant to undergo tests, they said. District in-charge minister ST Somashekar on Monday said the decision on restrictions at Narasimharaja would be taken after consulting stakeholders, including religious heads. Former mayor and corporator Ayub Khan confirmed TOI that imposing lockdown-like restrictions in parts of the district is the only solution to break the chain. “Being alive is more important than all other things,” he said. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said there has been spike in positive cases and deaths in Mandi Mohalla, Udayagiri, Subash Nagar and Kalyangiri localities. “People are not cooperating with healthcare workers and are not disclosing details about their health or getting examined for influenza like illness. More than containing spread of the, we are focusing on preventing the deaths. There were several delayed admissions leading to death from these areas,” he said. “Community-led participation is the only solution to tackle the situation. We would intensify screening at their doorsteps involving MLAs, corporators, NGOs and ASHA workers on the lines of Mumbai’s Dharavi model. This is aimed at preventing deaths,” DC disclosed after a video conference with CM BS Yediyurappa. As part of the plan, community leaders have been requested to convince residents to undergo test and disclose their medical history, while health workers take care of testing and treatment. Booth level committees will be established with trained people to ensure all residents receive medical care, the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/restrictions-in-place-in-narasimharaja-segment-to-arrest-transmission-of-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/76947184.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||RTI commissioners now resolve complaints online||Vijayawada: The office of the Right to Information (RTI) in the state is going digital. Given the prevailing situation, the RTI commissioners have started receiving and resolving issues online. This exercise was started on an experimental basis in June and the four commissioners disposed 315 cases, including 203 cases received online during the month. By end of June, the four commissioners had disposed 4,951 cases from the day they assumed charge last year. “The online disposal of the cases has reduced the burden of the information officers and the first appellate officers down the line. Now, they don’t need to rush to the RTI commissionerate here from their respective districts,” asserted information commissioner Ilapuram Raja, while speaking to TOI on Monday. The state government filled the posts of one chief information commissioner and the fifth information commissioner recently and they are expected to take charge sometime this month. As the attendance of other staff in the commissionerate fell due to the pandemic, information officers at the grassroots were not able to travel, “we tried the digital process and it proved successful,” Raja asserted. “We receive the appeals and complaints online and we ask the information officers and the appellate authorities to deal with them online as well,” Raja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rti-commissioners-now-resolve-complaints-online/articleshow/76947434.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Over 97% CBSE Class 12 kids pass, Bengaluru region fares second best||BENGALURU: The Bengaluru region clocked the country’s second highest pass percentage — 97.05 — in the CBSE Senior School Certificate Examination (class 12), results for which were announced on Monday. Performance of the newly formed region, which was part of the Chennai region until last year and covers the entire Karnataka now, is only a notch below Thiruvananthapuram that saw a pass percentage of 97.67. As many as 1,20,889 students appeared for the exam at 111 centres in Karnataka. While Bengaluru region was the second among regions, Karnataka (97.05%) as a state/Union territory was fourth in the country, after Lakshadweep (100%), Kerala (97.67%) and Tamil Nadu (97.31%). The overall pass percentage stood at 88.78%, over 5% more than that of last year. Chennai was third in the list with 96.17%, followed by Delhi West (94.61) and Delhi East (94.24%). Patna was at the bottom with 74.57%. Over 11.9 lakh students from 13,109 schools across the country appeared for the exams at nearly 5,000 centres. Interestingly, the percentage of students who scored more than 90% has doubled in the past two years and those with 95% tripled. This year, over 1.5 lakh students (13.2%) scored above 90% and 38,686 (3.2%) above 95%. In 2019, these numbers were 94,299 (8%) and 17,693 (1.4%), respectively. In 2018, the figures were much lower: 72,599 (6.5%) and 12,737 (1.1%). Forty-two students with special needs notched up more than 95% and 243 over 90% this year. The pass percentage of girls was 92.15%, boys 86.19% and transgenders 66.67%. While the pass percentage of boys grew by 7% and girls 3%, that of transgenders fell drastically by 16%. In Karnataka, pass percentage of girls stood at 97.55% and boys 96.64%. A total of 181 schools sent students for the exams. Two cases of malpractice were reported from Bengaluru. Among various categories of institutions, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas delivered the best performance with a pass percentage of 99, followed by Kendriya Vidyalayas. CBSE didn’t declare toppers as many exams were cancelled — from March 19-30 in 12 subjects — due to spread of Covid-19. Another 11 subjects were cancelled for students of northeastern Delhi. CBSE came up with an assessment scheme for the affected students. Schools in Bengaluru were on cloud nine with students scoring high marks. They pointed out that while the cancellation may not have helped toppers secure the marks they wanted to, as average of best papers was taken, it helped push up scores of other children. Apart from the new assessment format, the change in question paper pattern (more objective questions) also played a role, opined some.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-97-cbse-class-12-kids-pass-bluru-region-fares-second-best/articleshow/76947972.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Cops want schools to be alert against cyber criminals||Bengaluru: With online classes becoming the new normal, city police have requested schools to be on the alert against online fraudsters and hackers who may take advantage of the situation. Last week, a non-teaching staffer of a private school near Bapujinagar, Mysuru Road, was caught when he logged into a primary school teacher’s app used for online classes. “He logged into the online class on his mobile by using the user ID and password of the teacher. The user ID and passwords for all teachers were written on a sheet of paper and pasted on the board of a classroom. This person used one such credentials to login. However, the class was over when the man logged in. He claimed that he did it out of curiosity,” a police officer said. The staffer was let off with a warning as no complaint was lodged. Flagging off the threat posed to online education, DCP (South) Rohini Sepat Katoch tweeted, “In these times of online classes, let’s be alert and aware as parents and teachers, and ensure a safe online teaching and social media experience.” “Teachers and parents should be well trained in using the app and keep the user ID and password a secret,” she added. Another officer said officials from social media giants like Twitter and Facebook requested them to warn the school authorities and parents to follow basic precautionary measures. “One small mistake could result in crimes like child abuse or misuse of personal information,” he said. There were instances of miscreants misusing online classes. In one such incident, a BCom student attended his friend’s online class and made inappropriate remarks against a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-want-schools-to-be-alert-against-cyber-criminals/articleshow/76947997.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||With 99.2%, CPS’ Divya breaks highest score record for Std XII||Nagpur: On Monday afternoon, Centre Point School (Wardhaman Nagar) student Divya Suchak walked into the record books by scoring the highest ever marks in CBSE Std XII in Nagpur. With a 99.2% score in commerce stream, Suchak beat the previous record of 98.6% set in 2018 by Nidhi Chandak of Bhavans’ Civil Lines. Suchak not only broke the 99% barrier but also re-established the dominance of commerce stream in Nagpur. Right from 2012 till 2018, commerce stream produced the highest scorers in Nagpur for CBSE. That consecutive seven-year-long run was broken last year when Jain International School’s Shreyashi Saha, a science stream student, topped the city. However, commerce stream came back with a bang this year as even the city’s second top score witnessed a tie at 98.6% between Bhavans’ Civil Lines student (commerce) Priyadevi Suthar and Bhavans’ Srikrishna Nagar’s Ketki Moghe (humanities). Science stream started its tally with CPS Katol Road’s Arunav Bhowmick scoring 98%. It was after a long time that Nagpur witnessed all three streams featuring in the top three scores. CBSE results this year belonged a close knit group with the top three spots in all streams being shared between different branches of CPS and Bhavans along with Narayana Vidyalayam and Kendriya Vidyalaya (Vayusena Nagar). This branch of KV is now regularly featuring in the top three of either of the streams for last couple of years, and carving a niche for itself among results space, which is usually dominated by private unaided schools. The concentration of top three scorers in all streams between just four schools, albeit in different branches, is also resembling the old times when a handful of schools dominated the CBSE results scene. As per the criteria mentioned above, CPS group of schools bagged five spots, Bhavans group getting three, while Narayana Vidyalayam and KV Vayusena Nagar got one each. Suchak’s highest score record was not the only thing new, as this year for the first time ever Nagpur schools’ administrative control was shifted to the new Pune regional office (RO). Till 2019, all CBSE schools in Maharashtra were being administered by Chennai RO. In Maharashtra, 20,552 students appeared for the board exam of which 18,577 cleared it. Pune RO, which now has administrative control of all CBSE schools in Maharashtra, Goa, Diu, Daman and Silvasa, achieved a pass percentage of 90.24% in its debut year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-99-2-cps-divya-breaks-highest-score-record-for-std-xii/articleshow/76948695.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Now, CBSE students not to get ‘fail’ tag in board exam||Nagpur: If one goes purely by semantics, then you can’t fail in CBSE exams. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided to replace the term ‘fail’ with ‘Essential Repeat’ in all documents issued to students from now on. Many say this is a good move by the central board, as it goes beyond than just ‘softening the blow’. Sumathi Venugopalan, principal of Centre Point School (Wardhaman Nagar), said, “You never know which word will affect the child negatively. Like the use of a red pen symbolizes something which can be detrimental for the student. So, I do believe that CBSE has taken a good initiative here.” Aruna Rao, principal of Central India Public School (Kamptee Road) said that the negativity attached to the word fail had to go. “Conveying the same thing in positive words will give a ray of hope to the students. This motivation might work to improvise performance the next time,” said Rao. Medical practitioner and adolescent counsellor Dr Rajiv Mohta said labels can have a long-lasting impact. “That impact lasts for a very long period as that kind of thought has been imposed by society since childhood. If this label is being removed at an early age, it will probably have a positive impact on children,” said Dr Mohta. Supantha Bhattacharyya, a senior academician who teaches English at Hislop College, said linguistics can have long-ranging impact. “Education psychologists believe that unforgiving qualifiers like ‘failed’, ‘unsuccessful’, ‘compartmental’ etc on the mark sheet can severely impact students. This can also adversely affect their ability to cope with stress and lead to serious mental issues. “Subconscious trauma may develop into pathological examination phobia. Clinical depression is another likely possibility,” said Bhattacharyya. CBSE students Raunak Yadav, Manthan Ronghe and Pratik Pathak agreed that ‘fail’ was a very demotivating word. They said, “Students get affected due to it and changing the term slightly will be beneficial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-cbse-students-not-to-get-fail-tag-in-board-exam/articleshow/76948649.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Cybercrime police solve case in 3 hrs, recover Rs 10k||Aurangabad: A city-based trader, who lost Rs 10,000 in a telephising scam on Sunday, got his money back within three hours due to the timely action taken by city’s cybercrime police. Cybercrime police inspector Geeta Bagwade said soon after being cheated by the conman, the trader rushed to the cyberpolice station and lodged a complaint to recover his money and block the bank account in which the money was transferred. As per the complaint lodged with the cybercrime police, the suspect had called the trader, Ketan Modani, asking him to update the KYC of an online wallet. “The suspect then convinced the victim to download another application that gave a remote access of the trader’s mobile phone to the conman. Taking advantage of the remote access, the accused transferred the money from the online wallet to another account,” Bagwade said. “After receiving the complaint, our team got into action and trailed the money source, blocked the transaction and refunded the money by gathering all the technical details from nodals concerned,” she added. Following this latest incident, cybercrime police have appealed to the people to refrain from downloading any unknown mobile applications or clicking on any weblink sent to them by any unknown person. “In order to avoid getting cheated, people should also not reveal their debit/credit card details or share the OTP received on their registered mobile number to anyone,” Bagwade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cybercrime-police-solve-case-in-3-hrs-recover-rs-10k/articleshow/76946089.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE humanities and commerce were preferred due to quality of curriculum||Nagpur: As has been the trend in Nagpur for CBSE board results in the last decade, commerce and humanities streams have continued to rule the roost. This year Divya Suchak’s 99.2% in commerce took the pole position. Academicians and students both feel that this is due to quality students and good curriculum offered by CBSE.Annapoorni Shastri, director of BVM Bhavans’, says the unique subject combinations are a plus point at CBSE. “I can’t speak for state board, but here we offer math in commerce stream which is an interesting combination. Also, the topics covered in subjects like business studies, accountancy are very in-depth and students find it interesting,” said Shastri. She added that the consistent flow of quality students in these streams has kept raising the bar higher.Shilpee Ganguly, principal of Centre Point School (Katol Road), said many students now prefer humanities because it helps them while preparing for higher studies. “Those who are planning to appear for the CLAT exam to take admission in law, prefer to take up humanities. Also, those looking for a career in civil services get a head start,” said Ganguly. Students who appeared for the board exam this year say it’s a myth that humanities is a scoring stream. Kaumudi Deshpande said, “It’s misleading. The people who are interested in knowing how society works and how the world works can do wonders in this stream. You don’t have clear formulas or theories, you just have to make sure you understand concepts.”Commerce student Golani said it’s better to study what one loves, rather than follow the herd. “According to me, if one pursues a subject according to their aptitude or passion, one can score in it no matter what,” said Golani.Another student, Krishna Kamwani, said studying subjects like humanities help you to evolve and expand the knowledge base.A principal, who did not wish to be identified, said, “Science is slowly gaining traction in CBSE circuit. Earlier, students would flock to state board because attendance is not mandatory and students can spend time at coaching classes. But that’s slowly changing, till then commerce and humanities will continue to dominate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-humanities-and-commerce-were-preferred-due-to-quality-of-curriculum/articleshow/76948651.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid active cases in Jodhpur breach 1,000-mark||JAIPUR: Active cases breached the 1,000-mark in Jodhpur on Monday as it reported 105 new infections. Across the state, eight persons died while 544 others tested positive for Covid-19 taking the casualty count to 518 and the infection tally to 24,936. Jaipur and Dholpur reported two fatalities each taking the toll to 175 and 13, respectively. Alwar reported its seventh casualty, Barmer reported its fifth fatality while Bharatpur reported it 42nd Covid-19 death. One person who died belonged to other state. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (105), Jalore (95), Bikaner (62), Jaipur (52), Alwar (42), Udaipur (31), Ajmer (20), Rajsamand (17), Barmer (16), Nagaur (15), Bharatpur (13), Karauli (9), Dholpur (9), Kota (8), Dausa (8), Sriganganagar (8), Hanumangarh (8), Sirohi (6), Churu (6), Dungarpur (5), Pratapgarh (2), Jhalawar (2), Sikar (2), Sawai Madhopur (1), Jhunjhunu (1) and Bhilwara (1). In the past 10 days, the state has reported 5,884 new infections with an average of 588 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed the active cases to a new high of 5,788. It was 5,779 on Sunday, 5,376 on Saturday, 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday, 4,715 on Wednesday and 4,357 on Tuesday. Jodhpur reported 1,029 active cases on Monday, followed by Alwar (794), Jaipur (624) and Bikaner (578). As many as 527 persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking the tally of recovered persons to 18,630. In Jaipur, 24 different places reported 52 cases. The new cases were reported from Sanganer (6), Jhotwara (5), Chaksu (4), SMS hospital (4), Bassi (3), Jagatpura (3), Shastri Nagar (3), C-scheme (3), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Murlipura (2), Bani Park (2), Sirsi (2), Ajmer Road (2), while case each was reported from Mansarovar, Tonk Phatak, Vaishali nagar, Shahpura, Tonk Road, Kotputli, Jaisinghpura Khor, Sodala, Manak Chawk, Malviya Nagar, Bhandaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-active-cases-in-jodhpur-breach-1000-mark/articleshow/76955771.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||45m stretch of highway at Pernem caves in, no injuries||Panaji: A 45m stretch of the under-construction highway at Amerem, near Porascadem in Pernem, caved in on Monday, following incessant rainfall. This stretch of the highway runs parallel to the Tiracol river. PWD officials summoned the contractors, the designer and consultant for the project for an immediate joint inspection. Hyderabad-based MVR Constructions, along with project collaborators Quingdao, were asked to immediately carry out restoration works and repairs were taken up the same day. PWD officials have told the contractors to work out a permanent solution to this issue. In February this year, there was a depression in another part of the same highway NH 17 (earlier NH-66). Officials believe that unchecked, excessive sand mining in Tiracol river is leading to soil erosion, weakening the foundation for the road. On Monday, the retaining wall for the roadworks on the river side also came off in whole after the road caved in. “The 25.5km highway expansion work from Patradevi to Karaswada was awarded to MVR Constructions and Quingdao, in a joint venture. The work is funded by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), which has been awarded the contract for Rs 444.5 crore. The total sanctioned cost of the project is Rs 634 crore,” said an official. Fortunately, this highway stretch, near the railway bridge in Varkhand region of Pernem, though nearly ready, was not commissioned and therefore not in use by commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/45m-stretch-of-highway-at-pernem-caves-in-no-injuries/articleshow/76948934.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Voice samples of the two accused in alleged horse-trading case, likely to be collected||Jaipur: The two persons arrested by the Special Operations Group (SOG) in the alleged case of horse-trading of Congress MLAs were sent to judicial custody after being produced in court on Monday after their two days of police remand ended. The two were detained from Udaipur and Ajmer late on Friday night after the SOG intercepted their mobile conversation in which the individuals seemed to be talking about attempts to topple the government in Rajasthan. Ashok Rathore (ADG, SOG and ATS) said, “We questioned them to increase the sphere of our probe and through them we found that they were in touch with others as well. We will send teams to those locations to substantiate the facts.” The accused were identified as Ashok Singh Chouhan (57) from Udaipur and Bharat Malani (43) from Ajmer. According to officials, the two appeared to be part of a larger network and cops expect more such modules to come to light as the investigation progresses.To solidify the case against the accused, SOG will also collect voice samples from Malani and Chouhan. “The investigation officer will put a request in court for permission to collect voice samples of the accused which we can then match with the recordings of their phone conversation which were intercepted. This will further add to the evidence”, said Rathore. Their mobile phones were put on surveillance on June 13 after the SOG learnt from a source that the duo might be linked to a mafia dealing in arms and explosives. Police officers investigating the case heard the duo’s conversations on politics and after gathering information for nearly a month lodged the FIR on Friday. According to the FIR, Chouhan and Malani spoke about how a new CM could be appointed after toppling the present government. The officials claimed that the arrested wanted a leader from the BJP to become the chief minister and give Sachin Pilot a place in the Union ministry. Officials claimed that more details in the matter will unfold as the investigation progresses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/voice-samples-of-the-two-accused-in-alleged-horse-trading-case-likely-to-be-collected/articleshow/76948890.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 claims 2 more lives, Lucknow toll at 35||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 (novel coronavirus) claimed two more lives in the city on Monday, taking the toll to 35 so far, of whom 15 died in July. A 69-year-old Krishnanagar resident died during treatment in KGMU. “He was admitted on Saturday night with breathing difficulty. He was taking medication for depression and diabetes. He had short breath since few days and was brought to he hospital late. The lungs were already damaged by then. He died due to respiratory failure despite being put on ventilator,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. Another death was recorded in Para where a 50-year-old man died while on way to hospital. According to family members, the man was suffering from infulenza-like-illness and had gone to KGMU fever clinic on Saturday where his samples were taken and he was sent home after prescribing medicine. The family was informed by a KGMU staff in the wee hours on Monday that the man has tested positive. Another 40-year-old man from Ambedkarnagar died at Lohia hospital, late on Sunday night due to respiratory failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-claims-2-more-lives-city-toll-at-35/articleshow/76948876.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Smooth ride to Kanhan from city soon||Nagpur: Work being executed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Public Works Department (PWD) on the Nagpur-Kanhan section is nearing completion and soon, travelling to Kanhan will be hassle-free. NHAI is building a 18-kilometre long four lane cement road from Automotive Square to Kanhan at the cost of Rs254 crore. It is 80% complete and will be ready by February 2021. PWD is building a new bridge on the Kanhan River which does not intersect the railway line at a cost of Rs28 crore. This will be opened for traffic in October. NHAI project officer Abhijit Jichkar said that the ministry of defence had finally agreed to allow use of its land for road widening. This was the outcome of a meeting between union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and defence minister Rajnath Singh. “We got the permission to build road on Kamptee Cantonment land about a month ago. Since then, work is on in full swing. The road is almost complete in the remaining stretch. Last to be completed will be the railway underbridge (RUB) at Uppalwadi. Here we have shifted water pipelines that were laid below it,” said Jichkar. PWD executive engineer Naresh Borkar said that the work of the new bridge was complete and now it was being linked with NHAI’s four-lane road. “We will start tarring the bridge after rains and open it for traffic in October. The length of the bridge is 415 metres and it is a two-lane structure with maximum width of 16m. It has footpaths on both sides for pedestrians,” he added. Borkar said that the biggest advantage of the bridge was that those using it will not have to stop at the railway crossing. “Kanhan lies on the Howrah-Mumbai line and trains regularly block road traffic at the crossing,” he added. The bridge has six spans of 55m and two end spans of 40m. It’s a box type girder structure using pre-stressed girders. Work on the bridge started late because of land acquisition problems. PWD had to acquire railway land on one end and that belonging to Porwal School on the other. There was some private land on the river bed too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smooth-ride-to-kanhan-from-city-soon/articleshow/76948662.cms||Ashish Roy
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Covid active cases in Jodhpur breach 1,000-mark||JAIPUR: Active cases breached the 1,000-mark in Jodhpur on Monday as it reported 105 new infections. Across the state, eight persons died while 544 others tested positive for Covid-19 taking the casualty count to 518 and the infection tally to 24,936. Jaipur and Dholpur reported two fatalities each taking the toll to 175 and 13, respectively. Alwar reported its seventh casualty, Barmer reported its fifth fatality while Bharatpur reported it 42nd Covid-19 death. One person who died belonged to other state. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (105), Jalore (95), Bikaner (62), Jaipur (52), Alwar (42), Udaipur (31), Ajmer (20), Rajsamand (17), Barmer (16), Nagaur (15), Bharatpur (13), Karauli (9), Dholpur (9), Kota (8), Dausa (8), Sriganganagar (8), Hanumangarh (8), Sirohi (6), Churu (6), Dungarpur (5), Pratapgarh (2), Jhalawar (2), Sikar (2), Sawai Madhopur (1), Jhunjhunu (1) and Bhilwara (1). In the past 10 days, the state has reported 5,884 new infections with an average of 588 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed the active cases to a new high of 5,788. It was 5,779 on Sunday, 5,376 on Saturday, 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday, 4,715 on Wednesday and 4,357 on Tuesday. Jodhpur reported 1,029 active cases on Monday, followed by Alwar (794), Jaipur (624) and Bikaner (578). As many as 527 persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking the tally of recovered persons to 18,630. In Jaipur, 24 different places reported 52 cases. The new cases were reported from Sanganer (6), Jhotwara (5), Chaksu (4), SMS hospital (4), Bassi (3), Jagatpura (3), Shastri Nagar (3), C-scheme (3), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Murlipura (2), Bani Park (2), Sirsi (2), Ajmer Road (2), while case each was reported from Mansarovar, Tonk Phatak, Vaishali nagar, Shahpura, Tonk Road, Kotputli, Jaisinghpura Khor, Sodala, Manak Chawk, Malviya Nagar, Bhandaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-active-cases-in-jodhpur-breach-1000-mark/articleshow/76948872.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Whistleblower who saved taxpayers’ money||BENGALURU: The mandate was clear: Set up Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for asymptomatic patients. But he went beyond that — not only prevented taxpayers’ money from being pocketed by a few groups but also saved the state government from much embarrassment. Rajendra Kumar Kataria’s timely alert made the government rethink the idea of paying hefty rentals to private contractors supplying beds and other infrastructure for the proposed 10,100-bed CCC at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre and other CCCs in the city. The government has now directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to renegotiate with private contractors and purchase the equipment instead of paying a daily rent of Rs 800 per bed. “If not for him (Kataria), there would have been allegations of Covid-related corruption against the government,” said an aide of chief minister BS Yediyurappa. According to a political source, Kataria, an IAS officer, raised the red flag on July 26 during an informal discussion with BBMP officials when he said a technical committee should examine the quotations of four suppliers before giving the green signal. On July 3, he sent a letter to BBMP stating that products such as cots, mattresses, pillows, bedsheets and chairs that were procured on rental basis were of substandard quality and that payment of hefty rents for longer durations was not financially viable. He said the rentals for some products were four times the basic price. While BBMP was ready to shell out Rs 240 crore over the next three months as rent, Kataria said good quality products can be purchased by government at less than half the cost and, post-pandemic, they could be distributed to government hospitals and hostels. “The CM took note of all details and said it would be better to purchase infrastructure rather than hiring it,” the source said. Kataria told TOI: “Though I’m not involved in procurement, a cost-benefit analysis showed it would be prudent for the government to purchase the required consumables and reusables instead of hiring them. I wrote about it to BBMP. Moreover, the chief minister had made it very clear to us when I was picked for the CCC project that there should be no room for error. We shouldn’t waste taxpayers’ money.” So far, Kataria has set up six CCCs with a total capacity of over 2,000 beds to house asymptomatic patients in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/whistleblower-who-saved-taxpayers-money-govt-from-scam-charges/articleshow/76947439.cms||Rakesh Prakash
July 14, 2020||Mysuru||Hundreds from B’luru return to their villages||Mysuru: With the state government declaring a lockdown in Bengaluru from Tuesday, which may likely be extended till the end of the month, hundreds of people were seen returning to their hometowns in Mysuru and Mandya districts. There will be huge traffic snarls on Mysuru – Bengaluru highway on Monday. Due to the spike in Covid positive cases, the government announced a complete lockdown of Bengaluru from July 14 to 22. On Sunday alone, the city reported more than 1,500 positive cases. Further, reports of non-availability of beds in hospitals had created panic among people who preferred to return to their native places. Even though there was less movement of people between Mysuru and Bengaluru in the morning, it increased by afternoon. Huge traffic snarls were noticed on the highway. Namma Chalakara Trade Union member and cab driver Kashi Gowda told TOI that hundreds of people have left Bengaluru towards their villages in bikes, cars, private and KSRTC buses. “There was heavy traffic on Mysuru – Bengaluru Highway and Nelamangala – Kunigal – Nagamangala – Srirangapatna routes but less vehicles on Kanakapura – Malavalli route,” he said. Police at checkposts in Mandya and Mysuru stood helpless as they could not stop vehicles for registering details of the occupants in the vehicles. A police officer at a checkpost told TOI that they only stop vehicles which have registration of other states. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene president Badagala Nagendra told TOI that both state and central government do not know how to tackle the coronavirus. “To save Bengaluru, the state government is spreading coronavirus to villages. We cannot advise people from returning to their villages, but we request those coming from Bengaluru to voluntarily go through medical check ups at primary health centres near their villages and then go to their village,” he said. Rs10k penalty for not undergoing test Migrant workers returning to Chamarajanagar from Bengaluru and Tamil Nadu are being told to undergo Covid -19 test before returning to their houses. Else, they are being threatened that they will be turned away. Each person failing to undergo test must pay Rs 10,000 penalty to their village heads. Blocking entry of outsiders and closing business activities by 2pm are the other measures initiated by the villagers. Sources said there is no provision in the government to impose such penalty or to impose such restrictions. Due to spurt in corona cases in rural areas, especially from migrant labourers, villagers of Mangala in Hanur taluk and 25 other coronavirus affected villages in Kollegal, Gundlupet and Yelandur have resorted to self-imposed lockdown in the district. - With input from S Ramesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hundreds-from-bluru-return-to-their-villages/articleshow/76947991.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 14, 2020||India||‘Congress now faces crisis of defining what it stands for’||NEW DELHI: When Kabil Sibal tweeted on Sunday, "Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables?," the larger meaning wasn’t lost on anybody who follows national politics. The senior Congress politician wasn’t merely referring to the fresh face-off between Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and deputy CM Sachin Pilot but ruminating on the general state of affairs in the Grand Old Party. What ails Congress? Is it a crisis of leadership, or ideology? Social scientist Yogendra Yadav says that "the leadership crisis at the top reflects a crisis of political judgment which in turn reflects a deeper crisis of existence, of defining what this party stands for at the present juncture in history." Rajasthan Congress crisis: Live updatesIn 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Congress won only 52 seats and received less than 20% share of votes. In this backdrop, political scientist James Manor elucidates on Congress’ chances of revival in a forthcoming paper for the journal, Indian Politics and Policy. He divides the states into three distinct categories: (a) States where a Congress revival is probably impossible (total: 260 MPs): (Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand). (b) States where a revival and significant gains in a national election are not unthinkable but will be difficult (total: 110 MPs): Delhi, Telangana, Maharashtra, Haryana, Gujarat. (c) States where a revival or continued success are realistic possibilities (total: 140 MPs): Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Assam. Read AlsoSachin Pilot sticks to guns even as Rahul, Priyanka call upRajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot made it clear to a team of senior Congress leaders visiting Jaipur that overtures to make him call-off his rebellion were insufficient and measures such as a rejig of portfolios and assurances on his tenure as state chief were not enough as he insisted on a statureIn other words, he sums up that the revival, or continued success of Congress is "a realistic" possibility only in states sending 26% of MPs to New Delhi. Nonetheless, he believes that a conditional regeneration is possible. Manor, a professor in University of London, writes, "Congress might achieve something of a revival if it gives its state-level leaders and party units greater autonomy and flexibility to adapt to distinctive conditions in India’s diverse regions; if it strengthens its organisation, partly by mounting agitations (in concert with popular protest movements) against unpopular BJP policies; and if it can competently offer voters an appealing strategy for governing and development." Read AlsoAshok Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot: A bitter turf war in which the Big Two gave no quarterChief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot have shared uneasy relations for long. Sachin used to say that when he assumed charge as the party chief after the party's worst debacle in 2013 assembly polls, the morale of party workers was at its lowest. He started reviving the party byBut Manor, a tracker of Indian politics for several decades, proposes a bunch of solutions, notably re-democratisation, re-federalisation, organization building. But he also points out the risks in making such an effort. One of them is the serious potential for infighting within Congress; hence the need to proceed with caution. "Second, Congress must recognise that it is beyond resuscitation in nearly half of India – so that it steps aside for more promising regional parties in many states, and agrees alliances with them. If it fails to do that, it could damage the prospects of the broader opposition." Read AlsoWith Gujjar &amp; Meena support, Pilot an ideal choice for BJPWith his efforts to bring about a mutual accommodation between Gujjar and Meena communities so that their political animosities decline to the extent of accepting co-existence, Congress leader Sachin Pilot has given a new dimension to the caste equations in Rajasthan. BJP will not need to worry muchPolitical scientist Imtiaz Ahmed says that the roots of the current Rajasthan crisis -- and similar crises in other states -- go back to the Indira Gandhi years. "Historically, the Congress was a highly decentralised party which allowed new regional leadership to emerge and get integrated into the party structure," he says. It’s due to the compulsions created by the first split within Congress in 1969 during the Indira Gandhi era that a process of centralisation set in and the party's capacity to induct new regional leadership was lost. "Unlike the Nehru era, the party functions today as a centralised apparatus with the so-called Old Guards holding the trump in their hands and restricting the emerging crop of leaders at bay. In both MP and Rajasthan, the political crisis was precipitated by younger leaders who felt their mobility blocked," Ahmad says. He further adds, "This could have been averted to a great extent by a seasoned High Command whose words would have been respected. Certainly we have a High Command but its capacity to curb dissent and deviance has been greatly attenuated." Rasheed Kidwai, visiting fellow, Observer Research Foundation, says that the Sonia Gandhi family has been in-charge of the party since 1998. "Now Rahul and Priyanka also have their own world views as well as favourites. This makes decision-making tardy," he says. Kidwai says that Congress was known as a pragmatic party which was always in tune with the national sentiments. "Now the party seems to have lost its ability to feel the popular pulse," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-now-faces-crisis-of-defining-what-it-stands-for/articleshow/76949833.cms||Avijit Ghosh
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Man killed in road accident in Nashik||Nashik: A man was killed and his brother suffered injuries when a pick-up truck coming from the opposite direction allegedly knocked down the motorcycle they were travelling on near Tarwala Nagar. The incident took place on Saturday night when the brothers were on their way home. The deceased has been identified as Vijay Dhumal (29). while the injured, who is his younger brother and riding pillion, has been identified as Sanjay (25). According to police, the pick-up truck heading towards Amrutdham from Tarwala Nagar was allegedly trying to overtake another vehicle when it rammed into the motorcycle. “One of the two brothers was seriously injured while the other was thrown away,” said an officer from Panchavati police station. Vijay succumbed to the injuries on his head, while Sanjay received some bruises and is admitted to a hospital. The truck driver has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-killed-in-road-accident-in-nashik/articleshow/76946118.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||All’s not well at RUHS Hospital||JAIPUR: All is not well at RUHS Hospital where two patients allegedly committed suicide in the past one week. RUHS is the only government hospital, except Mahila Chikitsalaya, which is providing Covid-19 treatment to patients in the city. On June 1, Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital was declared Covid-free and all coronavirus patients were shifted to RUHS Hospital. Since then, increasing number of Covid-19 patients have been admitted to the hospital for treatment. “It is a routine that complaints kept pouring in at chief medical health officer’s office on mismanagement and lack of care. Patients complain that they have not been provided medicines, even diabetes medicines in the wards, which is a cause of concern,” a health department official said. However, a lot of Covid-19 patients requested the health department to shift them to private hospitals expecting better care. “Each day, we get three to four such requests. In the past few days, we have issued permission to more than 25 patients to be shifted to other private hospitals. These patients complained of lack of facilities, which is why we had to shift them to other hospitals,” said the official. The official said they inspected the hospital two days ago. “The hospital officials told us that they have three psychiatrics at RUHS hospital and one from SMS hospital deployed for counselling of Covid-19 patients,” the official said. Social activists are demanding that all Covid dedicated hospitals and quarantine centres must be regularly monitored and daily feedback should be sought from patients regarding the facility and services provided. “The mental health counselling order issued by the state government on May 18 will be strictly implemented across the state and its scope will be expanded to also cover all Covid-19 dedicated hospitals and care centres along with the quarantine centres. Individual counselling and mental healthcare should be provided to every quarantined individual and Covid patient regularly through virtual means such as telemedicine or telephonic conversations, and if necessary through personal meetings,” said Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA), an organisation of social activists. JSA has already written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to investigate into the matter and to improve care of the patients in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alls-not-well-at-ruhs-hospital/articleshow/76948879.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||With 98.8%, Virendra Kabra aims to become an engineer||Jaipur: City-based Mahaveer Public School student Virendra Kabra scored 98.8% in CBSE class XII science exam the results of which was announced on Monday. “I was regular with my studies since the beginning and did not take any break. If students work on a plan to complete the syllabus on time from the beginning, it will be easier dueing exams. Every day, I invested six hours for my exams,” Virendra said. Virendra, who wants to become an engineer, will be sitting for the JEE entrance exam this year. “I am already studying for JEE entrance exams,” he said. Inspired by his sister who was the state topper in 2017, Virendra took her guidance while studying. “I had some fear for board exams. But with proper guidance of teachers and family members, I managed to achieve this,” he added. For students who are disheartened with the results, Virendra suggested not to focus too much on one exam and be prepared for the future. “Students will get other opportunities and there are thousands of fields. Students need to find their passion and follow it. Do not take any extreme step in pressure. Life it too precious,” said Virendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-98-8-virendra-kabra-aims-to-become-an-engineer/articleshow/76948893.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Varanasi||Lucknow: KGMU sends plasma for BHU patient||LUCKNOW: After using plasma therapy to treat critical Covid-19 patients, King George’s Medical University made its first outstation plasma delivery by transporting a unit for a patient undergoing treatment at Sir Sunderlal hospital in BHU, Varanasi. “This was the first time that we sent plasma to another city. It was done on Sunday evening. All medication and treatment options had been tried by doctors treating the patient at BHU’s hospital and plasma therapy was the last remedy for them. The patient is in intubated state,” said head of transfusion medicine department, Prof Tulika Chandra. Since April, KGMU carried out transfusion of plasma donated by cured patients in seven patients under ICMR’s clinical trials. While details of results of plasma therapy in these patients cannot be divulged due to ICMR’s confidentiality clause, an eighth patient transfused with plasma at KGMU is said to be showing positive results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kgmu-sends-plasma-for-bhu-patient/articleshow/76953348.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Thanks to red tape, bodies left for days in hospital morgues||BENGALURU: Bodies of Covid-19 fatalities are piling up in hospital mortuaries thanks to a government rule which states a body can be interred or cremated only after the health inspector of the ward where the patient resided signs off on the release form. Doctors at mortuaries say this is causing a delay of at least 24 hours since relatives rarely know the name of their ward, leave alone contact details of the health inspector. Some hospitals even end up calling the police to sort out the mess. “Contacting the BBMP health inspector concerned and getting him or her to sign our registry is now an additional task for hospitals,” said Dr Varghese PS of St John’s Hospital. As on Monday, the hospital’s mortuary had two cases waiting for the BBMP health inspector. “No address proof document carries the ward name or number and often the deceased’s address proof document and his or her actual residence have no connection.” Recently, a woman patient died at St John’s hospital. Her husband’s driving licence, which was given as address proof, said they lived in Mahadevapura. In reality, however, the patient was from Anekal. “We get cases from across the city and it takes time to connect to the right officers,” Dr Varghese said. Dr C Nagaraja, director, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, said the rule is causing “all sorts” of delays: “We have had cases where we had to wait for 2-3 days to release the body,” he said. Dr R Ravindra, who runs Suguna Hospital, in Rajajinagar, said it’s unclear what purpose the rule serves since all data required for Covid-19 surveillance is uploaded on websites of Karnataka Private Medical Establishment and Public Health Information and Epidemiological Cell of BBMP. Moreover, he said, BBMP inspectors have told hospitals not to ring them before 9am, which means in some cases they have to wait till the next morning to even bring a death to the notice of BBMP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thanks-to-red-tape-bodies-piling-up-at-bengaluru-hospital-morgues/articleshow/76947469.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Consistency is key, say Poorvi and Prachi who scored 98.4%||Jaipur: Poorvi Jain from India International School and Prachi Harish Piryani from Neerja Modi School scored 98.4% in the class XII board results announced on Monday. Both of them are from commerce stream. While talking about their success, Poorvi said consistency without distraction helped her. “I am not on any social media platform except WhatsApp. I studied with planning to complete my syllabus within a timeframe. However, work hard and smart. Between preparation, breaks are important to freshen up,” said Poorvi. Prachi described that she revised whatever was taught in school regularly and completed the syllabus on time. “I did not take any tuitions but due to my consistency I was able to complete my syllabus before exams. Whatever teachers taught in school I followed that. It gave me time to revise,” said Prachi. She suggested students who are taking up commerce to invest at least three hours every day for accounts subject and solve previous year question paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/consistency-is-key-say-poorvi-and-prachi-who-scored-98-4/articleshow/76948902.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: KGMU sends plasma for BHU patient||LUCKNOW: After using plasma therapy to treat critical Covid-19 patients, King George’s Medical University made its first outstation plasma delivery by transporting a unit for a patient undergoing treatment at Sir Sunderlal hospital in BHU, Varanasi. “This was the first time that we sent plasma to another city. It was done on Sunday evening. All medication and treatment options had been tried by doctors treating the patient at BHU’s hospital and plasma therapy was the last remedy for them. The patient is in intubated state,” said head of transfusion medicine department, Prof Tulika Chandra. Since April, KGMU carried out transfusion of plasma donated by cured patients in seven patients under ICMR’s clinical trials. While details of results of plasma therapy in these patients cannot be divulged due to ICMR’s confidentiality clause, an eighth patient transfused with plasma at KGMU is said to be showing positive results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-sends-plasma-for-bhu-patient/articleshow/76948895.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Gangwar firing spurs panic in Alambagh||LUCKNOW: Two miscreants fired at the SUV of railway contractor and former zila panchayat member Surendra Kalia targeting him near a hospital in Alambagh on Monday evening, but injured his driver-cum-private security guard. ACP, Alambagh, Lal Pratap Singh said, “The incident took place near a hospital and the injured man identified as Roopram was rushed to KGMU Trauma centre and his condition is stable.” Kalia had come to the hospital to see his friend who is a contractor in railways. On reaching the gate, Roopram opened the door of SUV for Kalia when the miscreants arrived and fired at the SUV. The SUV had bulletproof window screen and hence Kalia was saved. “Roopram was hit in his leg and waist. Luckily no one else suffered injuries,” said police. The gunshots triggered panic amid amid people at hospital gate and commuters leading to a stampede like situation. Joint commissioner of police, crime, Nilabja Chaudhury said that Roopram sustained bullet injury but is out of danger. Kalia, in his complaint, accused former mafia don-turned politician Dhananjay Singh for the attack. “I visited the hospital to see a railways contractor Zubair at around 7.28pm. When I came out of the hospital and was to sit in the SUV, four-five men opened firing with automatic assault weapons on me and my men,” said Kalia. He alleged that Singh had threatened him and told him not to take railways contracts. Kalia is also a history-sheeter criminal from Hardoi and was booked under NSA in the past. Sources in police crime branch said Kalia was an associate of mafia don-turned politician Abhay Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gangwar-firing-spurs-panic-in-alambagh/articleshow/76948917.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bhopal||KVs in Bhopal improve score, 28 schools bag a perfect 100%||BHOPAL: Students of the Kendriya Vidyalayas of Bhopal region gave an outstanding performance in Class 12. The Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan of Bhopal secured 98.76% result in the 2019-20 academic year. Out of 3074 students enrolled in 51 Kendriya Vidhalayas, 3036 passed the exam this year. This year 28 KVs had 100% result, leading to an improvement in the overall result by 1.7% from last year. Deputy commissioner, KVS, Shomit Shrivastava extended his greetings to all the students and wished them the best for their future. Rachna Rajesh Verma and Shailendra Keer of KV No. 1 secured 96.6% in Humanities bagging the first place among the four KVs of the city while Ankur Singh of KV Bairagarh secured 96% marks becoming the second city topper, and second topper of Humanities stream. “I didn’t need any tuitions for any subject. If I got stuck, my elder sister used to help me with it. Instead of devoting 8-10 hours every day, I used to make weekly calenders for topics I needed to revise which helped me have around 4 revisions after the pre-boards so I was not under pressure. I am now preparing for CLAT as I want to be a lawyer.” Verma said. Overjoyed at his achievement, Keer said, “I wish to crack UPSC and go into civil services now.” Simran Kaur of KV No. 3 secured highest marks in Commerce stream with 95.8 % marks while Poonam Raikwar of KV No. 2 and Bhoomi Patel of KV No. 3 stood second in the commerce stream with a close 95.6%. Vani Sharma of KV Bairagarh and Anish Kumar Pal of KV No.1 bagged the first position in Science stream with 94. 8% marks. Nootan Disha Choudhari of KV No. 3 stood second in science stream, securing 94%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kv-schools-improve-score-class-12-result/articleshow/76948303.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||4 cops die in 72 hours as state toll in force touches 81||Mumbai/Navi Mumbai/Palghar: Four more police personnel from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Palghar succumbed to Covid-19, taking the state police death toll to 81 in 72 hours. Valiv constable Jitendra Bhalerao (38) and Navi Mumbai head constable Avinash Dadekar (47) died on Monday, while traffic ASI Suresh Jadhav (55) died on Sunday and special branch-1 ASI Anil Ranpise (57) from Mumbai died on July 10, taking Mumbai Police’s toll to 48. Constable Kiran Salunke (40) had died in Palghar on June 9. A Murbad resident, Bhalerao was admitted to a private hospital in Nalasopara and was on ventilator for two days. Around 30 personnel are under treatment in Palghar district and 130 have recovered. Coastal security branch of Navi Mumbai constable Dadekar died while undergoing treatment at Fortis Hospital on Monday. He was admitted on June 18 after he was breathless. Navi Mumbai police chief Sanjay Kumar tweeted that till July 8, 183 officers and men were positive, out of who 131 recovered and 52 are under treatment. Besides, 101 family members are recovering. Ranpise, undergoing treatment at Life Line Hospital (Malad), was on special leave from April. An officer said it was not known how Ranpise contracted Covid-19. “Ranpise had a heart problem. Last month, he complained breathlessness, cold and cough but did not have fever. He was admitted to hospital on July 3 and his report showed positive on July 7. He was on ventilator,” said the officer. Ranpise’s elder daughter married in January and he is also survived by his wife and a college-going son. Reports of two from Mumbai’s anti-narcotics cell (ANC), constable Mangesh Kamble (47) and Worli traffic police head constable Shailesh Naik (50), who died on June 29, showed positive on July 10 and July 2 respectively. Kamble, from BDD chawl (Worli), was getting ready for work when he fainted and collapsed on June 29. He died an hour after admission to KEM Hospital. Naik, on leave since May, was admitted to Hiranandani and later shifted to Kohinoor. After discharge, Naik was home quarantined, when his condition deteriorated and was rushed to Kohinoor, where he died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-cops-die-in-72-hours-as-state-toll-in-force-touches-81/articleshow/76948317.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Pass percentage of Ajmer region up from last year||Ajmer: The pass percentage of the CBSE class XII board exam in Ajmer region this year is 87.60, slightly higher than last year’s 86.40 per cent. Girls again outshined the boys. Ajmer region of CBSE consists of Rajasthan, Gujarat and UT of Dadar and Nagar Haveli. While girls registered a pass percentage of 90.80, for boys it was 85.60 per cent. Out of 85,770 students who appeared from Ajmer, 51,388 were boys and 34,382 girls. In all, 75,132 students passed out of which 43,908 were boys and 31,224 girls. Ajmer region was ranked 11th out of the 16 regions in the country. Trivandrum topped the list with 97.67 per cent. Last year, 1,876 schools participated in the exams from CBSE Ajmer region in comparision to 1,062 this year. Last year there were 728 examination centres in the region in comparision to 421. The reason for this is Bhopal has been made a separate region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pass-percentage-of-ajmer-region-up-from-last-year/articleshow/76948910.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab cabinet likely to discuss schedule of polls to 129 urban local bodies on Wednesday||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet in its meeting scheduled for Wednesday is likely to deliberate about the schedule of elections to 129 urban local bodies (ULBs), including nine municipal corporations in the state. Out of these urban local bodies, 126 are left with hardly two months to complete the six-month period after the end of their five-year term in March and April. As Abohar, Batala and Kapurthala were upgraded to municipal corporations in March last year and are yet to get elected bodies, their elections would also be held soon. Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra told TOI, “I will take up this issue in the next cabinet meeting as we have to hold the elections anyhow before the six-month period ends in September-October.” He said that there was no constitutional provision to further delay the polls, even due to Covid-19 pandemic. As the previous polls for these bodies were held in two phases in 2015, the term of some of these urban local bodies had come to an end in March and of a few in April. As per the Punjab Municipal Act, the state government has to hold the elections within six months period after their five-year term ends and till then it can appoint the IAS or PCS officers as administrators for the functioning of these bodies. Mohindra reasoned that there was delay in holding these elections because the government had to provide 50% reservation to the women in urban local bodies like the state has already implemented this reservation in the panchayats and zila parishad elections. “Therefore, to implement this 50% reservation for women, there would be changes in municipal wards. There are more complexities in the poll procedure in cities which is not a case in villages,” he added. The state government would now have to complete all the election procedures speedily, he added. There are a total of 167 urban local bodies in Punjab, including 13 municipal corporations. After coming to power, the Congress government had conducted elections to the three municipal corporations – Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala – along with 29 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in December 2017. Elections to the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation were held in February 2018. The Congress had swept all the four municipal corporations in these polls. Before the Congress goes to the 2022 assembly polls, these urban local bodies elections are crucial for it since all the six municipal corporations awaiting polls — Bathinda, Mohali, Moga, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot — have mayors holding allegiance either to SAD or BJP. The SAD-BJP alliance was in power in Punjab during the 2015 municipal bodies’ polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cabinet-likely-to-discuss-schedule-of-polls-to-129-ulbs-tomorrow/articleshow/76953402.cms||Sanjeev Verma
July 14, 2020||Goa||Investigate quality of road work: Cong||Panaji: Congress on Monday demanded an investigation into the quality of work undertaken by M Venkata Rao Infra Pvt Ltd (MVR) in Goa after a portion of a newly-constructed national highway was washed away near Amere, Pernem due to heavy rains. Party officials expressed shock at the incident and demanded that the contractor should be blacklisted till investigation into all the works carried out by the firm are complete. “Exactly a year ago villagers of Uguem, Tamboxem and Porascadem had complained of the collapse of a retaining wall near railway bridge at Amere and today’s collapse clearly signals that neither this corrupt state government nor an equally vicious Central government took the locals’ warning seriously,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. Incidentally, MVR was also responsible for refurbishing the Fatorda football stadium and the national highway expansion work at Khandepar which resulted in a landslide and a burst water pipeline. “It is time to launch a judicial enquiry to expose this illegal and ill-begotten son-in-law of BJP and its string of corruption and favouritism,” Chodankar said. Congress general secretary for Goa Amarnath Panjikar said authorities should also investigate tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar’s ties with MVR. Congress claimed BJP was getting kickbacks from the contractor to ignore sub-standard work. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/investigate-quality-of-road-work-cong/articleshow/76948955.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC to step up actions against errant paan shops||Ahmedabad: In just five hours, teams of the civic body sealed 376 shops — the majority of them were paan shops — where customers were spotted spitting or where social distancing rules were not being observed. Although a Rs 10,000 fine for paan shops where customers were found spitting was introduced on Monday, no shops were fined. “We will begin a full-fledged drive against paan shops on Tuesday. Today we just had to warn them,” said a senior AMC official. The AMC targeted areas where the most violations were being noticed. Most of these areas were in the western part of the city. In the Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi, Vasna and Vadaj areas, 71 paan shops, were sealed. In the North West Zone, which includes Gota, Ghatlodia and Thaltej, 65 such shops were sealed. On how the AMC plans to catch offenders, an AMC official said, “We first take a video of someone spitting outside a paan shop or moving around without a mask and then approach them. A policeman also accompanies us. As the Epidemic Diseases Act is in force, we can even lodge a criminal complaint if there is dispute over paying the fine.” The official added that at some shops the owners pleaded that since their establishments are small, social distancing is not possible. “In such cases, we have advised them to ensure the mask rule is strictly followed,” the official added. At a meeting of zonal deputy municipal commissioners, an idea to include socially useful punishments such as planting trees and or sweeping a designated area for two hours were also proposed. An official said that 200-odd CCTV cameras are being monitored at the civic body’s data centre for violation. “We are gathering CCTV footages to fine such paan shops later,” says the senior AMC official. “If paan stains are fresh or we have video evidence, only then will we impose the Rs 10,000 fine,” said an AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-step-up-actions-against-errant-paan-shops/articleshow/76948313.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Hotels to deliver food, drinks to your doorstep in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) is launching its own startup to home-deliver food and drinks. The development comes after reports of delivery persons with existing aggregators increasingly contracting Covid-19 surfaced. The service is called ‘vineOdine’, through which customers can order food and beverages, which will be handled by staffers of the the respective restaurants. The state excise department on Monday allowed vineOdine to home-deliver liquor. “This is a Kolkata-based food and alcohol delivery startup by restaurateurs. More than 200 premium eateries and all the five star hotels, that are HRAEI members, will be on the app in about 10 days. The idea is to provide contamination-free delivery service,” HRAEI president Pranav Singh told TOI. Not only will the new service be safer, it will be cheaper as well. “Unlike the other aggregators who charge around 20% to 30% more, vineOdine will charge around 6% of the food cost and GST,” Singh said. Singh explained, “Since HRAEI is only an association and can’t have any profitmaking activity, the startup is a separate entity set up by our members only to ensure that people get safe, hygienic and value-for-money stuff.” Restaurants like Mocambo, Mainland China, Peter Cat, Flurys, 6 Ballygunge Place, BarBQ, etc will be on the platform. Nithin Kothari, owner of Mocambo, said, “The direct A2B (restaurant-to-customer) connect not only removes the third party who may not adhere to safety norms, it also protects the autonomy of the restaurant owners.” Since the aggregators are catering to several eateries, their delivery persons are exposed to a higher risk of contamination. “Our staffers will be thoroughly checked and a contactless and sanitized delivery will be ensured,” Kothari said. Rajiv Kothari, owner of BarBQ, said, “The restaurant can choose its own delivery radius and charge a distance fee, if needed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hotels-to-deliver-food-drinks-to-your-doorstep/articleshow/76948310.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Diabetics prone to more severe Covid-19’||Ahmedabad: An earlier analysis of Covid deaths in Gujarat had revealed that about 82% had one or more co-morbidities. The most prevalent was hypertension (40.6%), followed by diabetes (30.4%). A combination of the two was also found to be present in several patients.Are diabetics more prone to Covid-19? Experts answered in the negative in a research article titled ‘Diabetes and Covid-19’ in the latest issue of Journal of Diabetology. The article, having Dr Ranjit Unnikrishnan as corresponding author, has eight co-authors from Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Belgaum, Bengaluru and Mumbai along with Dr Banshi Saboo from Ahmedabad.“People with diabetes are not more prone to Covid-19 than the general population. However, if they get Covid-19, they are at increased risk of developing more severe or advanced stages of the disease. Hence, glycemic control is of primary importance. Any infection is likely to increase the blood sugar levels and uncontrolled diabetes can further lead to worsening of the infection,” the article states.Dr Saboo said uncontrolled diabetes can lead to an immune-compromised condition in patients. “While the focus is on increasing immunity, we also suggest preventing co-morbidity during this period by embracing a more active lifestyle,” he said.Medicines to watchexperts said that some medicines which should be avoided – of course after consulting treating doctors – are thiazolidinediones (TZDs) and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 Ras) whereas there is no evidence for or against DPP4 inhibitors. SGLT2 inhibitors should be discontinued whereas sulphonylureas and insulin should be administered based on the blood glucose levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diabetics-prone-to-more-severe-covid-19/articleshow/76948342.cms||Parth Shastri
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Work hard & smart for good results, says Yana||Jaipur: Yana Gupta, student of Jayshree Periwal High School, Jaipur, scored 99.2% in Class XII CBSE board results announced on Monday. Yana is from humanities stream. “I studied consistently and worked hard. My time table was fixed which is why I did not have to put too much effort at the last moment. I completed difficult subjects first and solved last five years’ question papers to get an idea about the pattern. It helped me a lot,” said Yana. Yana was one of the top scorers in class X board exam with 98% in 2018. Though she scored very good in the Class x board exams, she decided to take up humanities instead of science. “I want to be a lawyer and will be appearing for CLAT exam this year. Lot of people suggested me to take up science due to my high percentage in class X board but I decided to take up humanities. My parents supported me in this,” said Yana. Daughter of a forest officer and housemaker, Yana suggestion to students is to work hard. “If students work smartly, there will be time to prepare for college entrance exams as well. Don’t get nervous and do not worry about the results. This is just an exam and easy to score,” said Yana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/work-hard-smart-for-good-results-says-yana/articleshow/76948926.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Trudging through life’s trials, dauntless kids score high in boards||Kolkata: Ritobroto Chanda is fighting a personal battle. He is unable to write by himself and needed help to appear for his CBSE senior secondary examinations. On Monday, when the results were out, the South Point School student learnt he secured an 88.4% score even after appearing for his pre-boards and the board examinations with a writer.Chanda had injured himself when he was in Class IX while playing football. The teenager wasn’t aware of the extent of his internal injuries and dismissed the initial pain and went about his daily life. But before long, his hand started to swell and he began to lose the ability to write. In Class IX, he said, he had to take his final school examinations with the help of a writer.Chanda was soon diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis (DVT) — a serious condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in a vein deep inside the body. He had to be hospitalized immediately. He was treated in AIIMS, Delhi, and started to improve slowly. Undeterred he appeared for his examinations with a writer. “I want to study architecture,” he said.Ritobroto isn’t alone. The CBSE results on Monday revealed several other examples of grit and determination such as Madhurima Chowdhury’s, who scored 93.2%. Just before her pre-board examinations, Madhurima’s father — a railway employee — was diagnosed with severe neurological disorder. He couldn’t walk or eat and suffered serious memory lapses. He had to be treated in Chennai and then in Bengaluru. An MBA aspirant, Madhurima, said, “My school, my family and friends, stood by me all along. I am very grateful to them.” “We motivated her and gave her the confidence. I am really happy at her success,” Vijaylakshmi Kumar, principal of Asian School International, where she studied, said.For Sampriti Naskar, who scored 95.3%, it was a different struggle. Her father couldn’t pay her school fees. “We told the school about this while seeking admission in Class XI. The school authorities told me that if I scored more than 85% in the first assessment in Class XI they would waive my fees. The school not only waived my fees but also provided me books, dress and free tuitions,” said Naskar, who wants to be a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trudging-through-lifes-trials-dauntless-kids-score-high-in-boards/articleshow/76948315.cms||Saibal Gupta
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||‘Streamlined’ humanities trumps commerce and science this year||Kolkata: Amid the lockdown and other hurdles during the CBSE Class-XII examination, Kolkata schools have fared better than in the previous year. Interestingly, students in humanities and commerce streams have outshined those in science, who are believed to have better scoring opportunities.“We are really happy with our performance. Not all of our students cleared the board exams, but we have an average of 91.1%, which is better than that of the previous year,” director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy Meena Kak said. “Most of our students appeared for all the exams. So the average marking system doesn’t work for us.”Krishna Damani, spokesperson for South Point High School, though, was not happy with the average marking system. However, Damani said that their school had outshined the previous year’s percentage score. “All the 544 students who appeared for the exam this year have passed and we have an average of 86.5%, which is better than previous year's 83.4%,” he said.However, Damani said had there been no average marking system, the school’s performance would have been much better. “For the high-scoring students, average marking is not important. It makes a difference for the average-scoring students,” he added.A quick look into the individual results revealed that humanities trumped the other two streams this year. Suhana Wasim from Shri Shikshayatan School scored 98%, Debarati Pal from South Point scored 99% and Annesha Guha from DPS Joka secured 98.2%. They all topped the school.Commerce stream was not much behind with Kinjal Ajmera of DPS Ruby Park scoring 98.8%, which was the highest in the school. Averi Sahoo from Shri Shikshayatan School scored a high of 97.2%.Delving into the reason, principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy, Anjan Saha said, “Earlier students came to humanities under compulsion. But now things have changed. The syllabus has been streamlined and there are better opportunities. So, bright students are coming to study humanities and are getting good marks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/streamlined-humanities-trumps-commerce-and-science-this-year/articleshow/76948306.cms||Saibal Gupta
July 14, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab cabinet likely to discuss schedule of polls to 129 urban local bodies on Wednesday||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet in its meeting scheduled for Wednesday is likely to deliberate about the schedule of elections to 129 urban local bodies (ULBs), including nine municipal corporations in the state. Out of these urban local bodies, 126 are left with hardly two months to complete the six-month period after the end of their five-year term in March and April. As Abohar, Batala and Kapurthala were upgraded to municipal corporations in March last year and are yet to get elected bodies, their elections would also be held soon. Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra told TOI, “I will take up this issue in the next cabinet meeting as we have to hold the elections anyhow before the six-month period ends in September-October.” He said that there was no constitutional provision to further delay the polls, even due to Covid-19 pandemic. As the previous polls for these bodies were held in two phases in 2015, the term of some of these urban local bodies had come to an end in March and of a few in April. As per the Punjab Municipal Act, the state government has to hold the elections within six months period after their five-year term ends and till then it can appoint the IAS or PCS officers as administrators for the functioning of these bodies. Mohindra reasoned that there was delay in holding these elections because the government had to provide 50% reservation to the women in urban local bodies like the state has already implemented this reservation in the panchayats and zila parishad elections. “Therefore, to implement this 50% reservation for women, there would be changes in municipal wards. There are more complexities in the poll procedure in cities which is not a case in villages,” he added. The state government would now have to complete all the election procedures speedily, he added. There are a total of 167 urban local bodies in Punjab, including 13 municipal corporations. After coming to power, the Congress government had conducted elections to the three municipal corporations – Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala – along with 29 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in December 2017. Elections to the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation were held in February 2018. The Congress had swept all the four municipal corporations in these polls. Before the Congress goes to the 2022 assembly polls, these urban local bodies elections are crucial for it since all the six municipal corporations awaiting polls — Bathinda, Mohali, Moga, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot — have mayors holding allegiance either to SAD or BJP. The SAD-BJP alliance was in power in Punjab during the 2015 municipal bodies’ polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/cabinet-likely-to-discuss-schedule-of-polls-to-129-ulbs-tomorrow/articleshow/76953403.cms||Sanjeev Verma
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet likely to discuss schedule of polls to 129 urban local bodies on Wednesday||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet in its meeting scheduled for Wednesday is likely to deliberate about the schedule of elections to 129 urban local bodies (ULBs), including nine municipal corporations in the state. Out of these urban local bodies, 126 are left with hardly two months to complete the six-month period after the end of their five-year term in March and April. As Abohar, Batala and Kapurthala were upgraded to municipal corporations in March last year and are yet to get elected bodies, their elections would also be held soon. Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra told TOI, “I will take up this issue in the next cabinet meeting as we have to hold the elections anyhow before the six-month period ends in September-October.” He said that there was no constitutional provision to further delay the polls, even due to Covid-19 pandemic. As the previous polls for these bodies were held in two phases in 2015, the term of some of these urban local bodies had come to an end in March and of a few in April. As per the Punjab Municipal Act, the state government has to hold the elections within six months period after their five-year term ends and till then it can appoint the IAS or PCS officers as administrators for the functioning of these bodies. Mohindra reasoned that there was delay in holding these elections because the government had to provide 50% reservation to the women in urban local bodies like the state has already implemented this reservation in the panchayats and zila parishad elections. “Therefore, to implement this 50% reservation for women, there would be changes in municipal wards. There are more complexities in the poll procedure in cities which is not a case in villages,” he added. The state government would now have to complete all the election procedures speedily, he added. There are a total of 167 urban local bodies in Punjab, including 13 municipal corporations. After coming to power, the Congress government had conducted elections to the three municipal corporations – Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala – along with 29 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in December 2017. Elections to the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation were held in February 2018. The Congress had swept all the four municipal corporations in these polls. Before the Congress goes to the 2022 assembly polls, these urban local bodies elections are crucial for it since all the six municipal corporations awaiting polls — Bathinda, Mohali, Moga, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot — have mayors holding allegiance either to SAD or BJP. The SAD-BJP alliance was in power in Punjab during the 2015 municipal bodies’ polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-likely-to-discuss-schedule-of-polls-to-129-ulbs-tomorrow/articleshow/76948294.cms||Sanjeev Verma
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s Nikita scores 489/500 in Raj board commerce exam||Jaipur: Nikita Tinker, student of Rawat Senior Secondary School, Jaipur scored 97.8% in RBSE class XII board commerce results that were announced on Monday. Nikita got 489 out of 500 marks. She scored 100 marks in mathematics, 99 in Business studies, 97 in both English and Accountancy and 96 in Hindi. “I was consistent with my studies. Due to pandemic outbreak, our exams were postponed. There were speculations that exams will be cancelled but I used to revise at least for an hour in lockdown as well. I never took a break or lost touch with my syllabus which paid back,” said Nikita with pride. Aiming to become a chartered accountant, Nikita suggest students to focus on completing syllabus in time so that in the end, there will be time to revise. “Do not leave anything for the end. Students must complete syllabus beforehand. This will give students confidence and they will be mentally strong than other students. Solve previous year question papers and in doubt follow your teachers’ guidance. Previous year question paper will help you getting an idea about the exam pattern,” said Nikita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipurs-nikita-scores-489/500-in-raj-board-commerce-exam/articleshow/76948936.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||At 94.49%, RBSE commerce result improves this year||Ajmer: The result of Class XII commerce stream of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) improved this year compared to last two years with the pass persentage touching 94.49 per cent. In 2018 and 2019, the pass percentage was 91.46. Girls again performed better than boys with their pass percentage touching 96.94 per in comparision to 93.18 per cent among boys. Last year the pass percentage of boys was 89.40, while that of girls was 95.31 per cent. RBSE had earlier declared the results of class XII science. Now, the wait is for class X results. Board chairman DP Jalori released the result and congratulated students who passed. He said looking at the pandemic, it was hard for students to concentrate. Out of 36,068 students who appeared in the exam, 34,079 passed and 1,143 students got compartments. in all, 21,049 students passed in first division, 11,621 in second and 1,315 students in third division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/at-94-49-rbse-commerce-result-improves-this-year/articleshow/76948930.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur cops get transit remand of Vikas Dubey’s aides||LUCKNOW: Kanpur police on Monday got four-day transit remand from a Thane court to bring two aides of slain gangtser Vikas Dubey — Arvind alias Guddan Ramvilas Trivedi (46) and Sushil Kumar alias Sonu Suresh Tiwari (30) — to Uttar Pradesh. The mode of transportation to be used to bring the duo was not known yet. Kanpur police said they had kept the options of air and road travel open. They will first undergo a corona test and then be taken to UP, the court said. The court told UP police to take all Covid measures. They were arrested by ATS Juhu Unit near Kolshet Road in Thane on July 11. Both aides of Dubey had been to jail in the past in criminal cases. Arvind is currently zila panchayat member from Jaganpur seat and his wife Kanchan is gram panchayat member from Kudhwa seat in Shivli. Police said Arvind was a key financial contributor to Dubey’s empire. Police found evidence of Guddan in keeping illegal firearms other than his licensed pistol and rifle. Locals had informed police that Arvind was known as the ‘bodyguard’ of the slain don and his presence could not be ruled out on the day of ambush. Sources said Arvind was involved in manufacturing of illicit liquor too. ADG law and order, Prashant Kumar, told TOI that Arvind and Sushil both will be brought to Kanpur for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanpur-cops-get-transit-remand-of-dons-aides/articleshow/76948932.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Victim recalls Vikas Dubey’s tale of terror||KANPUR: Such was the terror of Vikas Dubey that former chairman of Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli Nagar Panchayat, Lallan Vajpayee, who was a prime target of the gangster, used to spend his nights in a secret scaffolding that he had got constructed on the first floor of his house and pull up the ladder so that no one could reach him. “This continued for months and years. Now, I can sleep on the ground floor of my house where the rest of my family sleeps,” Vajpayee told reporters on Monday. In 2001, Vajpayee, whom the gangster had gone to kill at Shivli police station, but on not finding him had allegedly murdered MoS-ranked politician Santosh Shukla. Vajpayee was the chairperson of Shivli for 22 consecutive years from 1995 to 2017. He was subjected to multiple murderous attempts by the slain gangster. Recounting the horror tale from 2001,Vajpayee said: “He was involved in heinous crimes like murder. He had come to murder me but minister Santosh Shukla died at his hands.” “After Shukla’s murder, there was no looking back, and his name became synonymous with terror in Shivli,” said Vajpayee. When Vikas was a teenager, he used to visit Vajpyee’s theatre situated in the front portion of the house. “Village folks used to throng the place, and Vikas was one of them. “Even then, he often used to quarrel with theatre staff saying that he would watch movies for free,” recalled Vajpayi. He added that with an aim to kill him, Vikas had once hurled bombs at his house killing three of his people on the spot. “Three people were killed while I sustained serious wounds. Since then, I used to take extra precaution from the gangster. None dared to oppose him openly like I did. He was madly behind me,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/victim-recalls-vikass-tale-of-terror/articleshow/76948940.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 14, 2020||Rajkot||Urban forest within Rajkot city to help citizens breathe easy||Rajkot: Citizens will soon have another place to breathe in fresh oxygen!.A barren land sprawling 47 acres near Aji dam will be converted into an ‘urban forest’ with all amenities of recreation. At present, Race Course, Pradhyuman Park Zoo and Ishwariya Lake are the favourite hang-out spots. The idea that was floated a year ago is now ready for execution.The state government had handed over the 47 acres land last year for this project to Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) and sanctioned nearly Rs 18 crore for the purpose. RMC has floated tenders to select a developer and plans to lay the foundation stone for this project next week. The urban forest will have nearly 40,000 trees of different varieties along with other amusement facilities. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said, “This will be a forest within the city and not a mere garden. There will be fewer cement-concrete structures and more green cover. It will be a beautiful recreation centre for people who will get a feel of moving around in a forest.”There are five natural water bodies around this land, which will be deepened and get filled with rain water.City engineer Alapna Mitra said “The urban forest will have 18 blocks which will have a total of 59 different varieties of trees. There will be an entertainment zone and an open-air theatre. We are also planning a dedicated kids' section and labyrinthine maze for them.” RMC also plans a cycling and walking track around the lakes that will be connected with wooden bridges. The trees will be divided in different zones like ayurvedic zone, flowers, decorative plants, artistic trees, nesting trees for birds, fruits and others. KD Hapaliya, director, plants and gardens, RMC, said, “This is stony terrain, but it has a great potential to become an urban forest. We expect migratory birds to visit once the five water bodies are developed.” Over 300 species of migratory birds visit the adjacent Lalpari lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/urban-forest-within-rajkot-city-to-help-citizens-breathe-easy/articleshow/76946184.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 14, 2020||Kochi||Over 95% of CBSE schools in state record 100% pass||Kochi: Most of the CBSE schools in the state have recorded high results in the Class 12 board exams that were conducted amid the pandemic. Apart from the increase in 90%+ club compared to previous year, more than 95% of the 648 CBSE schools in the state have recorded 100% pass. Teachers said the number of full A1s have reduced due to the high marks for all due to special assessment scheme. “As most students scored higher marks than previous years, the percentile score for each subject too got higher, making a high A1 cutoff. For example, this year the A1 cutoffs for Mathematics, Biology and English were 95% compared to the 92% or 93% in previous years. So many students could lose A1 grade in any of the subjects. In our school, the number of students securing full A1 has reduced from 21 to 16 this year. Even those students who scored 96.6% marks could not say that he has full A1,” said an official of Toc-H Public School Vyttilla. Also, many top performing students were not happy with the special-assessment scheme — which awarded the average marks of best three exams written to the cancelled ones — as it has led to decrease in their overall percentage. The exams of subjects such as Computer Science (CS), Informatics Practices (IP), Business Studies, Malayalam, which would have been sure shots for most of the students with marks up to 95%, were cancelled. The marks received through special-assessment scheme is are much lower than what they could have bagged if these exams were conducted. “The Computer Science and Informatics students and teachers are highly disappointed. These two are easily scoring papers but due to cancellation of exams, the average of the best three papers is considered, which is lesser. Usually the students perform much better in Computer Science than Maths, Physics or Chemistry. So their overall percentage will go up. This time it was the reverse effect,” said Suma Paul, principal of Assisi Vidyanikethan, Kakkanad. Many students are worried that the assessment scheme would affect their higher- education plans, especially in engineering streams or graduation in any of the cancelled exam subjects. “Students are worried that this could result in giving an upper hand for students who have already completed all exams in state syllabus in the entrance exam, in which 50% marks is based on Class XII exams. Moreover, these CBSE students will find it difficult to apply for higher courses and exams that have Class XII marks as a criterion,” said a school principal in Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-95-of-cbse-schools-in-state-record-100-pass/articleshow/76947530.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||JNVs top in CBSE from Ajmer region||AJMER: Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas again came out with flying colours in Class XII CBSE exams in Ajmer region with a pass percentage of 99.14. Private schools again failed to perform with a pass percentage of 33.18. The CBSE released the performance chart of different schools in class XII examination in which independent and government schools performed better than private schools in Ajmer region. Last year, JNV’s success rate was 97.39 per cent, but this year it went further up to 99.14 per cent. The result of KVS (Kendriya Vidhalaya Sangathan) remained lower than last year. In 2019, KVS managed a pass percentage of 97.44 per cent, but this time it was 96.99. The performance of government schools improved this year to 91.77 per cent from 80.60 per cent last year. Independent schools recorded a pass percentage of 87.05 in comparision to last year’s 84.36. The result of private schools deteriorated futher to 33.18 per cent from last year’s 34.13 per cent. In all, 153 special students appeared in the class XII exam out from Ajmer region out of which 133 passed. There were 18 blind students, autism (5), special learning disability (77 ), deaf (5), hearing (1), cerebral palsy (9) and 84 who were cured of leprosy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jnvs-top-in-cbse-from-ajmer-region/articleshow/76948939.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ajmer||JNVs top in CBSE from Ajmer region||AJMER: Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas again came out with flying colours in Class XII CBSE exams in Ajmer region with a pass percentage of 99.14. Private schools again failed to perform with a pass percentage of 33.18. The CBSE released the performance chart of different schools in class XII examination in which independent and government schools performed better than private schools in Ajmer region. Last year, JNV’s success rate was 97.39 per cent, but this year it went further up to 99.14 per cent. The result of KVS (Kendriya Vidhalaya Sangathan) remained lower than last year. In 2019, KVS managed a pass percentage of 97.44 per cent, but this time it was 96.99. The performance of government schools improved this year to 91.77 per cent from 80.60 per cent last year. Independent schools recorded a pass percentage of 87.05 in comparision to last year’s 84.36. The result of private schools deteriorated futher to 33.18 per cent from last year’s 34.13 per cent. In all, 153 special students appeared in the class XII exam out from Ajmer region out of which 133 passed. There were 18 blind students, autism (5), special learning disability (77 ), deaf (5), hearing (1), cerebral palsy (9) and 84 who were cured of leprosy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jnvs-top-in-cbse-from-ajmer-region/articleshow/76955700.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shah reviews work in his constituency||Gandhinagar: Union home minister and member of Parliament from Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, Amit Shah, held a review meeting of development works in his constituency through video conference on Monday. Shah directed officials of Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad to complete the rapid Covid testing of persons living in areas that fall under the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency. He also directed authorities to ensure follow-up of those persons who are quarantined at home and ensure their well-being. Shah said that the requirements of all societies, which are designated micro-containment zones, should be provided for. Shah directed officials to ensure that the health status of all Covid-19 patients be checked twice a day and asked officials to hospitalize all patients who have a body temperature higher than 100F or an oxygen level below 94. He told authorities to ensure that the Covid-19 death rate in his constituency comes down below 0.75%. Shah stressed on proper use of the MPLAD funds and quick completion of work to avoid waterlogging and other monsoon-related civic issues. The Union home minister asked officials to ensure 100% Narmada water supply to newly added areas of Bopal-Ghuma in the Ahmedabad municipal corporation within the next seven days. He also asked officials to prepare a development action plan before March 2021 by door-to-door survey in the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shah-reviews-work-in-his-constituency/articleshow/76948346.cms||Kapil Dave
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Six cases of attack on govt employees||Nashik: City police have registered six cases of attack on government servants, including five policemen, during the lockdown that was imposed across the state from March 24. According to police, they have been on Covid-19 duty, enforcing prohibitory orders to stop people from roaming around they city without any valid reason to curb the spread of Covid-19 and this is when the personnel were attacked. “Two cases each have been registered at Gangapur and Ambad police stations while one case has been registered at Upanagar police station,” a police officer said. “The sixth case of attack on government servants, a doctor and nurse, has been registered with the Bhadrakali police station under section 353 of the Indian Penal Code. A total of nine people have been arrested by police,” he added. The police have also taken action against those spreading rumours on social media platforms about the spread of Covid-19. As many as nine cases have been registered at various police stations. The Sarkarwada, Bhadrakali and Panchavati police stations have registered two cases each while Indira Nagar, Mumbai Naka and Nashik Road police stations have registered one case each. “The cases include two FIRs registered by the district collector in whose name fake messages about the Covid-19 were forwarded by the people,” the police officer said. The police have taken action against 8,740 people for not wearing masks and 8,926 people for violating Covid-19 norms like not following physical distancing, spitting in public places, etc||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/six-cases-of-attack-on-govt-employees/articleshow/76928598.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 14, 2020||Goa||‘Want reports for violating rights of Melauli locals’||Panaji: The Goa Human Rights Commission (GHRC) has called for reports from the chief secretary, director of Women and Child Development (DW&CD), superintendent of police (SP) north Goa and PI of Valpoi police station over the alleged violation of human rights of Melauli locals who were protesting against their land being allotted for a permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) project. The commission has taken suo motu cognisance of news reports and called for detailed replies in the matter to reach GHRC by July 31. GHRC took cognisance of the police detaining villagers and preventing them from briefing the media last week about their concerns over their fields being taken over for the IIT project. The villagers were detained for violating section 144 but videos showed speakers addressing the press conference with face masks and maintaining proper social distancing. The notice to the DW&CD is in the light of transferring a person with disabilities from Murmune-Sattari to Quepem, a distance of more than 60km, because her husband allegedly is known to be active in opposing the project. The woman works as an anganwadi worker in the DW&CD block office Sattari and has been transferred to the block office Quepem with effect from July 13. Dasharath Mandrekar, president of the Valpoi block Congress committee, had alleged earlier that villagers employed in government departments were being punished for opposing the project by being transferred to far off places. He had highlighted the case of Lata Gaonkar, questioning how a handicapped person was supposed to travel daily to Quepem. Last week, the villagers were detained by police in the presence of reporters when they tried to hold a press conference under the banner of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan at the Jalmi Sateri devasthan in Melauli.  Gawda Kunbi Velip Dhangar (GAKUVED) federation on Monday in a letter to the chief minister, minister for tribal affairs and chairperson of Goa state commission for SC/ST referred to a circular which states that persons with disabilities must be preferably posted near their native place or a place of their choice to ensure equal opportunities and full participation in all development activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/want-reports-for-violating-rights-of-melauli-locals/articleshow/76948990.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: ‘Car used to dispose of Babu Sheikh Nishar’s body seized’||VADODARA: The car that was allegedly used by the cops for disposing body of custodial death victim Babu Sheikh Nishar has been seized by the Fatehgunj police. Investigators said that the car owned by one of the police constables has been sent for forensic tests. All the six cops accused of causing death of Babu Sheikh Nishar when he was in their custody are yet to be nabbed. “During investigations, we learnt that one of the accused cops, Pankaj Mavjibhai, who is lok rakshak dal constable, had asked Fatehgunj head constable Maheshbhai to hand over his car keys on the day they had brought Sheikh to the police station. Mahesh gave his car keys to Pankaj in the evening,” said ACP Bakul Chaudhary, who is investigating the case. “Pankaj returned the car to Mahesh the next day. We are hoping to find some clues from the car,” Chaudhary told TOI. When asked if the car’s movements can be checked through CCTV footages, Chaudhary said that images of the CCTVs installed in the city are stored for only one month. Apart from Pankaj, five other cops including police inspector Dharmendrasinh Gohil, PSI Dasrath Rabari and LRD jawans Yogendrasinh Jeelansinh, Rajesh Savjibhai and Hitesh Shambhubhai, have been booked for custodial death of Sheikh. The cops have been accused of picking up Sheikh who was in the city in December 2019 and torchering him in Fathegunj police station. While there are footages of Sheikh entering Fatehgunj police station, there is no evidence of him leaving. PSI Rabari had claimed that Sheikh had left the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/car-used-to-dispose-of-body-seized/articleshow/76946198.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Guest workers keen to return to TN||Chennai: Guest workers, who had left Tamil Nadu for their home states amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing hassles in the early phases of lockdown, are now looking to come back. While some batches of workers have returned on their own, several others have sent feelers to agents or directly to companies, which employed them earlier, to bring them back. Though just a trickle as of now, the reverse migration of labour has started. “Hundreds of workers are ready to return. They are waiting for train services to resume,” said Ram Lal, a labour contractor who supplies workers to Tamil Nadu’s construction industry, which depends 90% on migrants. “Around 1.5 lakh workers had gone back from the district. Now, about 5,000 of them have returned in the last 10 days by arranging buses on their own,” said Namakkal Poultry Farmers’ Association president N Elango. A group of foundries came together to get back 100 workers from Odisha through buses, but the process is dragging due to government formalities. Some Credai members had planned to bring back a large batch of workers from the north, but lockdowns there are hampering the process.  “When we were shut, those states were open. Now we are open, but states like UP and West Bengal are shutting down,” said Credai Chennai president Padam Dugar. “I have sanctioned 500 air tickets for those keen to return. We need trained manpower. We tried the locals, but they are neither flexible nor disciplined, thereby affecting productivity. Without migrant workers we cannot run our operations,” said Polyhose Group managing director Shabbir Ahmed. The state government seems to have its hands full and is in no hurry to intervene. “We understand the problems of the industries. With growing Covid positive numbers in districts, the health workers are already stressed and we cannot put them under more pressure to undertake tests and to get quarantine facilities ready,” said a senior state government official, seeking anonymity. “Companies may have to wait for at least a month or so,” the official added. Industries think otherwise. “Today, we are getting orders and it is a good time to make up for the lost opportunities over the past few months. The government should engage in a conversation with us to find a via media solution,” said The Institute of Indian Foundrymen president Sanjay Shroff. Shroff suggested that the state government opt for a public private partnership (PPP) approach to find out whether the private sector is also willing to partake in the collaboration effort. “If the government remains in isolation, it is not going to help. Let the industries take the responsibility and the government play the role of a facilitator,” Shroff said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/guest-workers-keen-to-return-to-tn/articleshow/76940911.cms||D Govardan
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Bundi performs best in Class XII Commerce exam||Ajmer: Bundi district performed the best Cn class XII Commerce exam of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education with 99.30% result. Baran performed worst with 86.96% result. The board also released the performance of districts in Class XII commerce result in which students of Bundi performed well and Hanumangarh remained second with 98.37%. The second worse performance remained of Banswara with 89.85%. The performance of Jaipur district remained 93.21% while Ajmer district performed better with 95.09%. From Jaisalmer district, only 23 girls appeared in this exam, 33 from Karauli and 34 girls from Dholpur district. Highest number of 3,479 girls appeared from Jaipur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bundi-performs-best-in-class-xii-commerce-exam/articleshow/76948946.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Highest marks in shorthand exam was just 50||Ajmer: Students of Class XII Commerce of RBSE performed worse in Hindi short hand as only 94.82% of students managed to pass, while better in beauty and wellness, retail, AG, security, applied homemade furniture and electric and electron subjects 100% students passed in these subjects. There are subjects like Hindi, English, Economics, Maths, Accountancy and Business Studies in which highest marks remained 100. In Hindi and English short hand and typing the highest marks remained 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/highest-marks-in-shorthand-exam-was-just-50/articleshow/76948958.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Lucknow||Kalyan: Implicated in Babri demolition case, ensured tight security in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW: Former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh told the special CBI court on Monday that he had been implicated in the Babri demolition case due to political vendetta. Appearing before the court, Singh said that he and his government had made a three-layer tight security arrangement for safety and security of the disputed Babri structure in Ayodhya in 1992, when it was demolished, allegdly by kar sevaks. “I had time and again directed administrative officials to take every measure according to the situation for the safety of the disputed structure,” Kalyan said. “However, the then Congress-led Central government implicated me in the case due to political vendetta,” said Kalyan. He stressed that he was innocent and hence he would plead his defence evidence at the appropriate stage before the special court . Kalyan was deposing before Special Judge SK Yadav under Section 313 of CrPC in Babri demolition case. The court had called him in order to enable him to plead his innocence, if he so wanted. The court asked him 1,050 questions to which he categorically replied. “I am implicated on the basis of fabricated evidence at the behest of Congress government due to political reasons,” Kalyan added repeatedly in his statement. When the judge asked him as to why the trial was conducted against him and why the prosecution witnesses deposed against him, Kalyan replied that he was unnecessarily forced to face trial and the witnesses deposed against him due to political reasons. As Kalyan completed his last deposition, he put his signature on his statement which was recorded on dictation of the judge to his typist in presence of CBI counsel Lalit Singh, P Chakravarti and RK Yadav. Kalyan appeared before the judge along with his lawyers, including Vimal Kumar Srivastava, KK Mishra, Abhisekh Ranjan, Manish Kumar Tripathi and Vijay Rajpoot. Meanwhile, the special court directed the CBI to furnish on July 17 the details of whereabout of another accused Om Prakash Pandey who renounced the world and became a seer 25 years ago. The court could not record the statement of another accused Santosh Dubey due to paucity of time on Monday. It directed him to appear before it on July 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kalyan-implicated-in-babri-demolition-case-ensured-tight-security-in-ayodhya/articleshow/76948952.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Girls shine in CBSE Class XII exams||AHMEDABAD: The Central Board of Secondary Education declared the results of its Class XII exams on Monday. The day turned into one of stress and anxiety as students were unable to check their results for about two hours due to server problems. The board did not release a merit list this year. As usually happens, girls outperformed boys. Most schools in the city had 100% of their students passing, with several students scoring above 90% and many scoring full marks in various subjects. Students of DPS Bopal put up a stupendous performance. With 97%, Utkarsh Jindal, Nuha Contractor, and Swostibibha topped the Science stream there. As many as 47 students scored full marks in various subjects. With 96.4%, Rushendra Sidibomma topped at DPS Gandhinagar. Of the 73 students in Science stream at Maharaja Agrasen Vidyalaya, 30 scored 90% or more. Shlokaa Soni was the school topper with 96.6 %, followed by Aditi Vasa with 96.4 % and Sonali Maheshwari with 96%. All 60 students who took the exam at St Kabir School passed with flying colours. Khushi Patel with 96% emerged as the school topper, Pratyush Agarwal was second with 94% and Het Modi was third with 93.6%. Udgam School For Children also saw all its students pass. Niyati Patel was the school topper in the science stream with 97.2%. She was followed by Mrudani Hada (95.6%) and Kunj Patel (94.4 %). At Nirman School, Rohan Mody topped with 95.8 % and was followed by Priyanshi Shah (94.4%). Preksha Anand topped Divine Child International School, Adalaj Branch with 93.6 %, while at the Mehsana branch, Aryan Patel topped with 96.4%. Twenty five students took the exam in Group A and 24 in Group B at Prakash School. Aryaman Patel topped the Group A with 96% while Mitansha Dighe stood first in Group B with 95.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girls-outdo-boys-in-cbse-class-xii-exams/articleshow/76948377.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vadodara||Covid cases spike in west zone||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed the deaths of three more persons due to Covid-19, taking the toll due to the disease to 60. The west zone of the city has now emerged as an area of concern with a large number of cases being reported from there every year. The VMC declared on July 2 that Covid-19 deaths will now include only those persons who died due to the viral infection being the primary cause of death. Since then the number of deaths had remained at 57. This does not include death due to co-morbid conditions being the primary cause. The city and district saw 74 new cases being detected from 531 samples, taking the total number of cases to 3,143. Of the 75, 18 cases surfaced from the west zone that has some of the posh residential and commercial areas. On Sunday, 21 new cases were reported from this zone. The new cases were reported from Subhanpura, Gorwa, Gotri, Diwalipura, Old Padra Road, Akota, Tandalja and Alkapuri areas. Among the four zones of the city, the area has seen the highest number of cases for two consecutive days. Earlier, more often than not, this zone had the lowest number of cases in the city. On Monday, 17 cases were reported from the east zone, 10 from north zone and nine from the south zone. Nineteen cases were reported from areas of the district outside VMC limits. These include cases from Padra, Dumad, Dashrath, Sayajipura, Shinor and Dabhoi. One person from Bharuch also tested positive in Vadodara. Meanwhile, 62 patients were discharged from hospitals and home isolation in the city, leaving 788 under treatment. Those under treatment include 37 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 146 on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining 605 patients is reported to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-cases-spike-in-west-zone/articleshow/76946226.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Gyms feel the weight of Covid||Chennai: For the past eight years, Sudeshna Chattterjee’s day used to start with an intense workout session at the gym under her personal trainer. In case she missed out in the morning, the IT professional in her mid-40s made it a point to find time for a training session while returning from work in the evening. But in a post-Covid universe, Sudeshna, like many others for whom gymming was a way of life, the routine has changed. Gyms across Tamil Nadu are waiting for the state government’s nod to reopen sometime in August, but their clients are not yet sure whether they will go back right away."I have been working on my own for the past few months and I will not go back to the gym unless the comfort level is back and I am assured in my mind that I won’t contract the virus while working out," says Sudeshna.It is the retrieval of the trust factor of their clients that is going to be the biggest challenge for the gym owners as they hope to get back to business. "We know we are up against it, but we will do everything possible to ensure that the work-out space is safe," says N Venket, CEO of the Chennai wing of Golds Gym. From maintaining every social distancing norm to cleaning the equipment to not switching on the airconditioner, Venket promises adherence to strict safety protocols. "We are looking at more of one-on-one sessions between clients and trainers so that the floor of the gym is never crowded. If we are not allowed to switch on ACs, we will make sure that there are big fans in place so that the clients don’t feel claustrophobic in a closed environment," says Venket, who will be introducing services for mental wellness, roping in counsellors who can help clients through the Covid void.The next six months are going to be a huge challenge for the fitness industry, feels Ajit Shetty, owner of Score. "We understand that going back to the gym is not prime on the agenda of people now. In the past few months, they have learned to live without it or work around it. We have to tide through this phase, be innovative in our approach, and then once there is a vaccine in place, it will be boom time once again," says Shetty.While Shetty says he is not planning to make training cheaper, Venket will be offering discount packages. "We have to think of our trainers. A big chunk of their salaries are dependent on the number of clients they bring to the gym, so we have to come up with lucrative packages," says Venket.With no clients, many trainers in the city have lost their livelihoods. Amjad Ali, a freelance trainer who had five clients paying him `15,000 each per month before the lockdown, has none at the moment. "It’s my savings and some help from my old clients that is keeping me afloat. But I don’t know for how long I can sustain. I have read that the Union government is planning to resume sporting activities from August. I hope, training, too will be a part of it and we will have something to look forward to," says Amjad.While the fitness industry continues to wait, it’s the retail business of fitness home equipment that is having a good run. Ramesh Raja, managing director of Acme Fitness Equipment, feels that when gyms open they will have to work with almost 50% less footfall than before as the demand for fitness equipment at homes has been increasing. "Already there’s been a big demand and often the supplies haven’t been enough to cater to it. In the near future, it’s going to go up as people choose to work out at home," Raja said, summing up the current health of the fitness industry in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gyms-feel-the-weight-of-covid/articleshow/76948364.cms||Dwaipayan Datta
July 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Trivandrum region tops CBSE Class XII results||KOCHI: Trivandrum region, comprising schools in Kerala and Lakshadweep, recorded the highest pass percentage (97.67%) in Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class XII examinations whose results were published on Monday. Bengaluru and Chennai regions followed Trivandrum with 97.05 and 96.17 pass percentages respectively. The pass percentage of Trivandrum region in 2019 was 98.2%. This year, the national pass percentage is 88.78%. Though the results were announced without any prior notice, there were reports of delay in accessing it due to heavy traffic in board’s website. Like CISCE, CBSE too has not published the merit list of schools and students as the results were consolidated using special assessment scheme in the wake of cancellation of many exams due to the pandemic. Of the 35,368 students across 649 schools who appeared for the exam from 214 centres in the region, 34,545 of them have passed. Of the 35,368 students, 17,401were boys and 17,967 were girls. Girls performed better than boys, scoring 98.42% pass as against 96.9% pass of the latter. In the disabled category too, Trivandrum region topped with 97.77% pass. Of the 314 disabled students who appeared for the exam, 304 have passed. Of the 304 students, seven have scored more than 90% marks, which is second highest after Delhi East region, which has 13 disabled students scoring above 90%. In terms of states and Union territories, Lakshadweep recorded 100% pass to top the list as all the nine students, two boys and seven girls, who wrote the exam passed. Kerala came second as 34,536 out of the 35,359 students passed, recording 97.67%. Of the 34,536 passed students, 16,860 were boys and 17,676 were girls, recording 96.9% and 98.42%, respectively. Meanwhile, the number of students who were placed in compartment increased from 512 in 2019 to 670 in 2020. CBSE schools run by government in Trivandrum region topped the list nationwide with 98.41% pass. In the case of independent CBSE schools, Trivandrum region topped with 97.56%. Trivandrum region recorded zero cases of malpractices during the exam compared to three in 2019. Pune and Delhi West too did not report any case of malpractice. Panchkula region topped with 13 cases of malpractice. CBSE will conduct optional examinations for the subjects whose examinations scheduled from July 1 to July 15 were cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic. The optionals will be conducted as soon as conditions are conducive as assessed and decided by the central government. Candidates whose results have been declared based on the assessment scheme will be allowed to appear in these optional examinations to improve their performance, if they wish so. Marks obtained by a candidate in these optional examinations will be treated as final for those who had opted to take these examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/trivandrum-region-tops-cbse-class-xii-results/articleshow/76947583.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Forest wing adopts pot plantation plan||JAIPUR: The forest department has adopted an ancient, clay pot plantation technique to increase the survival rate of plants in the desert state. The move was initiated after receiving desirable results last year at the Jhalana forest Reserve. A forest staff member said, “Last year, of the 2,000 trees, around 300 were planted using pot technique. Trees planted using pot technique have shown tremendous results and grown double their size.” In this technique, an earthen or clay plot is buried along with the plants. These unglazed, porous clay pots are filled with water to provide controlled moisture and water to plants. The water seeps out through the pot wall at a rate that is influenced by the plant’s water use. “We buried pot with a capacity of 15 litres of water. Generally, the water given to the plant is evaporated or dries within a few hours. The pot buried near the roots provide moisture and water to the plant for at least five days,” added the staff member This technique is used by the forest department mainly to grow fruit trees. “The success rate of this method is 90% and it has very high efficiency, even better than drip irrigation,” claimed an official. The official further claimed there are constant efforts to improve green cover in the state. As plantation in Rajasthan is difficult and survival remains a challenge, this method is very effective in saline soil and desert conditions. “It has proved useful for land restoration in very arid environments. This is an adaptation of an ancient method which originated in Africa. It can save 50-70 % of water without depriving the tree,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-wing-adopts-pot-plantation-plan/articleshow/76948962.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Firms building truck bodies stripped bare||Chennai: It’s a double blow to truck body builders in Tiruchengode and Namakkal regions, first due to lockdown and consequent economic stoppage and second due to the tech shift to BS6 vehicles which requires sophisticated vehicle bodies, tough to be made in small workshops and sheds. The consequential impact: not a single order for body building in more than 100 days, sending the region into panic mode. With the commercial vehicle industry migrating to BS6 rules in April, the earlier practice of truck companies making cowls and chassis and the unorganized cabin builders making truck bodies appears to be on its last legs. The Namakkal-Tiruchengode-Erode region has about 500 units into building truck and bus bodies. The workshops employ 10,000 people directly, a lakh more benefit indirectly by selling accessories and through painting and tinkering work. The cowl industry in the state, comprising nearly 5,000 players, most of them in the unorganized sector, is too big to be allowed to die. Business has always been slow but steady for the sector. But it has never been hit so hard, say a cross-section of owners. Hitherto, the sector gets around 2,500 units a month to build cabin, body, oil and cement tankers per month. The units charged Rs 3.5 lakh to Rs 15 lakh to build on the chassis of different types of vehicles, and the workmen earned between Rs 35,000 to Rs 50,000 as wages every vehicle. “I have not faced such a difficult phase of life since I started working here 17 years ago,” said 47 year-old Krishnan. He is one among the 60 labourers engaged in one of the biggest units in Namakkal, which has a capacity to build cabin, body, oil and cement tanks for 50 to 60 vehicles a month. Amid this crisis, the BS VI norms led to the price hike of the commercial vehicles by 15% to 18%. “It hit hard on truck body building units like us. Adding to the woes was the lockdown.” V Dilip Kumar, who owns a small unit with a capacity to build the body/cabin for four vehicles cabin and body a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/firms-building-truck-bodies-stripped-bare/articleshow/76940914.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Aurangabad||MSRTC clerk, aide held for ex-driver’s murder||Aurangabad: The Kranti Chowk police on Monday arrested a clerk with the MSRTC and his accomplice for the brutal murder of a retired driver who had gone missing from the city earlier this month on July 9.Police said the clerk, Ateequddin Qazi, had siphoned off over Rs 8 lakh from the provident fund (PF) and gratuity of the ex-MSRTC driver, Mujeeb Ahmed Khan (59). He had returned half the amount to the victim and killed him when he started demanding the remaining money. The other suspect, Afroz Jaleel Khan, allegedly helped Qazi in executing the murder, said police, adding that the duo have confessed to the crime during questioning after a missing complaint was lodged on July 10.What nailed the suspects was the fact that the retired driver had informed his wife that the clerk was taking him in a car to return him the cash. Police recovered Khan’s torso from a well on the Solapur-Dhule highway and head from a deserted room in front of Deven City on the Beed bypass.Khan, a resident of Shahanagar of Beed bypass area of Aurangabad city, had retired on December 31, 2019. On getting the service book, he found that Rs 4.18 lakh had been withdrawn as non-refundable PF in the year 2016.According to police, Khan then started making rounds of MSRTC divisional controller’s office asking the clerk to get his gratuity amount released and also to return the money he had fraudulently taken. The clerk allegedly obtained his signatures on the pretext of getting the gratuity processed and withdrew Rs 4 lakh from that. Soon after learning about it, Khan threatened to lodge a police complaint against him. The clerk then returned Rs 4 lakh to the victim.On July 9, Khan again approached the clerk , who called him to the MSRTC office while promising to return the balance amount. Police inspector Amol Deokar said, “The CCTV cameras caught Khan entering the MSRTC divisional controller’s office, but he was never seen stepping out. He may have been taken away by the suspect from another gate that does not have a CCTV camera.”The police probe revealed that the clerk took him in a car to his Afroz’s house, where Khan was killed and his body dismembered. The duo will be produced in court on Tuesday for custody to find out more details and make the case fool-proof, added police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msrtc-clerk-aide-held-for-ex-drivers-murder/articleshow/76946219.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Passenger demand to drop by 50% in India: IATA||Mumbai: India is likely to witness an almost 50% drop in passenger demand this year as compared to last due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the latest forecast released by global airlines trade body, International Air Transport Association. The Asia-Pacific airline industry will account for more than a third of global losses, making it the worst-hit in the world, it added. In India, the 49% drop in passenger demand could result in a decrease of 93 million passengers (origin-destination volumes 2020 vs 2019), a drop of USD 11,600 million in revenues (2020 vs 2019) and potentially hit over 3 million jobs in aviation and its dependent sectors, IATA said. Passenger demand is measured in ‘revenue passenger kilometers’, a metric that multiplies the number of fare-paying passengers with the total distance they travel. “Airlines in the Asia-Pacific region will be the hardest hit by the Covid-19 crisis, with losses expected to be $29 billion for 2020. This is more than a third of the $84.3 billion industry losses globally,” said the IATA forecast released on Monday. The Asia-Pacific region was the first region to feel the brunt of the pandemic. “The region’s airlines will see passenger demand collapse 53.8% this year, while capacity, measured in available seat kilometers (ASK), will be reduced by 39.2%,” it said. ASK is a product of number of seats available and total kilometres flown. Conrad Clifford, IATA regional VP for Asia Pacific, said, “2020 is the worst year in aviation history and airlines are in survival mode. The carriers in Asia-Pacific will experience the largest losses at $29 billion. That’s a loss of $30.09 per passenger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/passenger-demand-to-drop-by-50-in-india-iata/articleshow/76948988.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Village guards to help cops in border areas||Jaisalmer: To strengthen security in rural areas along the border with Pakistan, village guards will be deployed. The process of recruitment started in Barmer district from Thursday. Earlier, SSB jawans used to help police in strengthening internal security and controlling crime in rural areas, but village guards will now be deployed in each village to help police. Though the numbers of such guards have not been finalised, one or more people can be included from each village or panchayat. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said the process of application started from Thursday. Retired Indian army jawans, people who served in paramilitary forces including SSB and home guards will be given priority. Apart from them, people who have done social services will be given priority. The applicant should have passed class VIII and age should be 40-50 years and should not been an active member of any political party. He said after guards are deployed, police will get lot of help in night patrolling and controlling crime. After selection, village guards will be trained by police. The SP said there should be no criminal cases against the guards and should have undergone any punishment. “The person has to be reputed and of good behavior who has good knowledge about the village. Application can be submitted till July 16,” he added. The SP said the tenure of the guard will be for two years and will be not be appointed again and someone new candidate will be given chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/village-guards-to-help-cops-in-border-areas/articleshow/76948976.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Govt schools take up remote learning plans to bridge gap||Madurai: As school education is gradually shifting to digital and online platforms amid the Covid-19 pandemic, government and aided primary and middle schools, which cater to some of the more economically backward communities, too are trying their best to join the bandwagon by helping students learn from home. With video lectures being introduced via Kalvi Tholaikatchi TV channel for all classes, school teachers hope students don’t get laidback on learning even as schools remain closed.“In any disaster, including a pandemic, children are most affected. Introducing Kalvi Tholaikatchi is a good start and best we can do as of now. However, there needs to be a schedule planned for students, especially for primary and middle school students. Instead of hard lessons from the start, programmes should be light, with songs, games and stories to keep them engaged and ease them into studies,” said Thennavan, headmaster, Kondapethan Government Middle School. He said that students will miss interaction with teachers, but programs could be made interesting and innovative to make students invest in them. Further, most government primary and middle school teachers and headmasters are also in touch with students over phone via WhatsApp or normal calls regularly and try to keep students engaged productively by even organising fun activities. All schools will shortly distribute textbooks so that students can learn from home.“Most of our students’ parents who are from Sellur and Narimedu areas are daily wage workers. We started slowly by March. When we realised that not all of the students had smart phones, our teachers formed groups for various classes and took step to communicate with those with regular mobile phones via SMS in Tamil. We also started creating videos of lessons by our teachers and uploaded them on our websites. We had full support from parents and teachers, which was heartening,” said R Arun, correspondent, Jothi Schools. Further, teachers are also in touch with students over phone via WhatsApp or normal calls, SMS for providing and checking homework. One of the teachers at Jothi Primary School, S Ramani added that students would be given simple assignments to complete them on all weekdays which would be checked and given feedback. “This was to give the feeling of school routine to students. For me too it was a new and challenging experience as I did not have much knowledge of technology or teaching students this way before,” she said.However, ‘digital divide’ remains a challenge for both government and aided schools. “From being financially poor to being in a remote area without access to proper internet connection, there is evident inequality in online learning. Out of the 260 students in our school, only 65 students have access to a smart phones and proper internet. Even if we are sharing video lessons, around 70% of students are unable to make use of it. As of now, as a measure, I’m asking my teachers to call up at least five students every day and engage with them,” said K Saravanan, headmaster, Dr T Thirugnanam Primary School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-schools-take-up-remote-learning-plans-to-bridge-gap/articleshow/76948992.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 14, 2020||Lucknow||All markets in Uttar Pradesh to open only from Monday-Friday||LUCKNOW: All markets in Uttar Pradesh will function from Monday to Friday, irrespective of their weekly closure days. As part of the government’s initiative to restrict social activity over weekends, it has directed all markets, shops, malls, restaurants to remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. To compensate for the closure, markets have been told to operate from 9am to 9pm over the week. “If a market’s weekly holiday was on any day during the week, it will be shifted to the weekend,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. Adding that chief minister Yogi Adityanath was pleased with the response to the first weekend of restrictions, implemented on July 11 and 12, Awasthi said the CM had ordered extensive sanitization and cleanliness in all districts on Saturdays and Sundays, especially markets since they would be shut during the weekend. Industrial units and other commercial activity will continue during the restrictions. Places of religious worship will also remain open, the CM has said. Meanwhile, as the number of Covid-19 cases in the state touched 38,130 with 1,664 cases added in 24 hours till Monday morning, the CM gave directions to carry out special surveillance in Jhansi, Kanpur, Varanasi, Ballia, Azamgarh, Deoria and Gorakhpur districts. He has also asked for more test samples to be collected in Ballia, Jhansi, Ghaziabad and Varanasi. Till Monday afternoon, Jhansi had recorded 601 Covid positive cases with 36 added in the past 24 hours; Kanpur had 1,815 cases with 83 in the past day; Varanasi had 924 with 67 added in the past day; Ballia had 426 cases with 29 added on Monday; Azamgarh’s tally was 364 with 11 added in the past 24 hours. Deoria’s total went up to 445 with the addition of 69 cases in the past 24 hours; Gorakhpur had 715 cases with 47 added in the past 24 hours, while Ghaziabad’s total was 3,276 cases with 120 added on Monday. “The CM has said that in districts where the number of positive cases is high, the health department should start using mobile testing vans to be able to pick up more samples,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/all-markets-in-up-to-open-only-from-monday-friday/articleshow/76948972.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||381 complaints received by SEC on panchayat polls||Edited - 265 Jaipur: Around 381 complaints have been received at the state election commission (SEC) from the districts after the panchayati raj elections in the state. The complaints include wrong information given in the affidavit by the candidates, names not there on the electoral roll, names featuring in more than one booth, not disclosing details of having more than two children, proxy voting, error in counting of votes etc. Of the total, 229 have been disposed and reports on 152 are yet to be received from the district collectors, said an official. The highest number of such cases was received from Bharatpur, at 30. It was followed by Karauli, at 22; 21 each in Barmer and Dausa, 20 each in Nagaur and Jaipur, 18 in Hanumangarh, 17 in Jodhpur, 16 in Chittorgarh and and 15 in Bikaner. “In some cases, where the names were not available on the voters’ list, we asked the collectors to look into the matter and resolve it. In the rest, where court’s intervention is required, we have asked the complainants (candidates who have lost the elections) to move the court. Most complaints were related to not disclosing the details of the third child,” said the official. “In some of the complaints, they also demanded that the election of a particular sarpanch in a gram panchayat be declared null and void alleging malpractice. However, once the election gets over, the election commission can’t take any decision to annul any election. The complainant has to challenge it in the court. Most of these cases don’t fall under the jurisdiction of the SEC,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/381-complaints-received-by-sec-on-panchayat-polls/articleshow/76948966.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks monetary aid to Palani temple barbers||Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Madras high court seeking to provide monetary assistance to licensed barbers of the Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple at Palani in Dindigul district since their livelihood is affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. In his petition, N Periyasamy stated that he was a licensed barber engaged in tonsuring the heads of the devotees visiting the temple. There are nearly 310 licensed barbers working under the temple devasthanam. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the government had ordered the closure of all religious places. The authorities had distributed Rs 1,000 monetary assistance for two months and the same has been stopped. Since their livelihood is affected, they submitted a representation to the authorities seeking monetary assistance of Rs 600 per day. As there was no response, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. When the case was taken up for hearing on Monday, the special government pleader submitted that the payment of monetary assistance involves the policy decision of the government and sought time to get instructions in this regard. Taking cognizance of the submission, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam ordered notice to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-monetary-aid-to-palani-temple-barbers/articleshow/76949004.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||GIB killed in eagle attack||Jaisalmer: An eagle attacked a Great Indian Bustard (GIB) on Monday at Ramdeora area in Jaisalmer and killed it. The GIB, an endangered species, was sitting on eggs in the closure when this incident took place. The forest department team succeeded in taking away the eggs. In this breeding season, the forest department has sighted four chicks. DNP deputy forest conservator Kapil Chandrawal confirming this incident said that these days a large number of GIBs are there in Ramdeora closure. The eagle first attacked GIB on Sunday where the two fought fought for some time, the forest department team reached the spot and shooed away the eagle and probably the injured GIB too flew away. The department took away the egg and brought it to the breeding centre. On Monday, once again the same eagle attacked the injured GIB. After the team reached there the eagle flew away but the GIB could not be saved. A wildlife enthusiast Radheyshaym Pemani said that he is shocked by this incident and it is very surprising too as possibly for the first time such incident has taken place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gib-killed-in-eagle-attack/articleshow/76948980.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Plea against dining facility at hotels disposed of||Madurai: The Madras high has disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL), which sought to quash the clause in a government order (GO) permitting dining facility at restaurants with 50% seating capacity. S Ramakrishnan, who owns a hotel at Vedasandur in Dindigul district, stated that the GO on May 31 also mentioned that air conditioning facilities shall not be used at the restaurants. Following this relaxation, several people started visiting the hotels and social distancing norms were not followed. Since there was no response to the representation submitted by him, Ramakrishnan moved the high court. When the case was taken up for hearing on Monday, the state government informed that revenue and police are involved in taking action against violators. Taking cognizance of the submission, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam disposed of the petition and directed the Dindigul district collector to submit a status report on August 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-dining-facility-at-hotels-disposed-of/articleshow/76949025.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Panel to investigate irregularities in medicine purchase||Jaipur: Registrar, cooperatives, Muktanand Agrawal on Monday constituted a two-member committee to investigate the alleged irregularities amounting to Rs 7.36 crore in purchase of medicines and issuing non-availability certificate (NACs) to the pensioners by Hanumangarh Cooperative Consumer Wholesale Store Limited.The committee will submit the report in seven days. He informed the probe team will investigate the alleged irregularities committed by the store in purchase of medicines and recovering the reimbursement amount provided to the pensioners for buying medicines on their own.Additional registrar (senior scale) Vidyadhar Godara and assistant registrar Shirish B Chande have been appointed as members of the committee. It has been instructed that the investigation team seek assistance from the investigating officers posted at the deputy registrar’s office in Hanumangarh, if required.The NACs are provided to the pensioners to buy medicines from other medical shops if medicines are not available at the shops run by the cooperatives.District collector Antar Singh Nehra on Monday directed the officials of the municipal corporations and JDA to monitor work related to cleaning of the drains and work done to fill the pits on the city roads in order to prevent accidents during the monsoon season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-to-investigate-irregularities-in-medicine-purchase/articleshow/76948986.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bhopal||Fever clinics help detect coronavirus in Bhopal, keep spread in check||BHOPAL: Within a month of their inception, 56 fever clinics in the state capital have dented the spread of pandemic and early diagnosis of Covid-19. One of the reasons perhaps that 200 more people tested positive in the first two week of July, compared to last month. “Seasonal ailments, which were considered mild and often ignored, are scaring people. They are apprehensive that any symptom linked to Covid-19 could be that,” said a senior AIIMS Bhopal official. “Some infections like viral fever and other ailments peak during this time of the year. A dry spell after the rainfall has made the climate more conducive for the spread of infection,” said GMC pulmonologist, Dr Parag Sharma. Even as the relationships between the infections, weather and human behaviour has changed due to Covid-19, the number of people turning up at tertiary care hospitals in the OPD is far less compared to previous trends. OPD trends from government hospitals indicate, patient turning up at the OPD include those with hypertension, diabetes, liver diseases, heart diseases, asthma, chronic renal disease, COPD, compromised conditions, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular diseases. About 40 per cent of these patients were identified with seasonal fever and other weather-related ailments. “Normal cold or cough is a huge trigger for anxiety during this pandemic season. Not only does it impact the patient, but also the family members and others around,” said Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr AK Shrivastava. Doctors are warning those who turn up late at these clinics. “We have identified many patients who delay and try home remedies or self-medication. Consultation with a qualified doctor in person or via government authorised telemedicine numbers is critical in dealing with Covid-19,” he added. Experts indicate that human immune system shows changes with the seasons, becoming more resistant or more susceptible to different infections based on overall health condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fever-clinics-help-detect-virus-in-city-keep-spread-in-check/articleshow/76948422.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: CBI seeks custody of five accused in Sathankulam case||MADURAI: The CBI on Monday filed an application before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court seeking custody of five accused, who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. The CBI officials, who took over investigation in the Sathankulam case had filed the application seeking custody of inspector Sridhar, sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh, Balakrishnan, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj. All the five, who are presently lodged in the Madurai Central Prison would be produced before the CJM as the application is be taken up for hearing on Tuesday. It maybe recalled that the Madurai bench of the Madras high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the Sathankulam custodial death case. During the previous hearing, the court had directed the investigating agency to take immediate steps to file applications to take the arrested people under police custody within 15 days of the remand period, before the jurisdictional magistrate. Meanwhile, on Monday, the bail application filed by one inspector Sridhar before the Tuticorin principal district judge (PDJ) was withdrawn after the counsel appearing for the petitioner sent a memo through e-mail stating that he has not pressed the petition. When the bail application filed by sub-inspector Balakrishnan was taken up for hearing, the CB-CID counsel stated that they have handed over the investigation to the CBI. The public prosecutor for CBI, S Vijayan, who appeared through WhatsApp stated that the entire records has been transferred to the CJM in Madurai district and hence the Tuticorin court does not have the jurisdiction to entertain the bail application. Taking into account the submissions, the principal district judge N Logeswaran directed the CBI counsel to file a written objection with regard to the jurisdiction of this court. Since the counsel appearing for CBI had requested the court to adjourn the case for filing written objections, the judge adjourned it to Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbi-seeks-custody-of-five-accused-in-sathankulam-case/articleshow/76949037.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Udaipur||7-year-old raped by father inside tempo in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: A 7-year-old girl was raped by her father inside a tempo at Surphala Kaya village under Goverdhan Vilas police station area of Udaipur on Sunday night. The 36-year-old, who is a tempo driver and resides in Nai village, was arrested on Monday, police said. Following a complaint from the child's mother, police swung into action and nabbed the accused from his hideout within 4 hours. The medical examination has been held and the child has been admitted to a hospital. Police have registered a case under the POCSO Act. “We received a complaint from the rape survivor's mother who said her husband, a habitual drinker, used to assault her after drinking. The woman left her husband's home and went to her parents house in Surphala few days ago. The accused went to meet her around 9 pm on Sunday where they had a fight. He took away their daughter and left her back past midnight at the woman's brother’s shop,” Prem Dhande, DSP (Girwa) said. The child was in a pitiable condition with blood stains on her clothes. She told her mother that her father took her in the tempo and abused her. “We recorded statement of the survivor's mother, her relatives who were present inside the home when the accused left the child. The potency test has been conducted and the tempo which was used has been seized,” Dhande said. The accused would be produced before the court on Tuesday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/7-year-old-raped-by-father-inside-tempo-in-udaipur/articleshow/76950888.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Screening camp for abandoned helps identify fever cases||Madurai: A Madurai-based NGO has taken up a Covid-19 and fever screening programme for the homeless and abandoned elderly people on the city roads, following a report published in TOI on July 10, highlighting their vulnerability to the infection. During the screening five were found with high temperature and shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH).Volunteers from Idhayam trust undertook the programme during the weekend. As none of the abandoned were wearing masks, they were provided with the same and asked to use it all the time.G R Sivakumar of Idhayam Trust said that there are an estimated 200 people living on roadsides of which about 170 have been covered till Monday. Social activists and humanitarians ensure that they get a variety of freshly prepared food on time regularly. One of the volunteers said that mostly of the abandoned were found in Thamukkam road, Goripalayam, Puthupalam Bridge, Koodal Alagar Perumal Temple, railway station, Periyar and Thiruparankundram Road. They come together during the nights at the railway station and underneath the Puthupalam bridge to sleep.On regular days, they would survive by getting alms, but their collection has come down as public movement is lesser due to lockdown. Sivakumar said that most of the elderly people do not want to get admitted in a home as their movement will be curtailed and they will have to spend the money they had earned through alms. “Some of them are addicted to alcohol, hence they prefer to stay in the platforms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/screening-camp-for-abandoned-helps-identify-fever-cases/articleshow/76949053.cms||V Devanathan
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||7-year-old raped by father inside tempo in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: A 7-year-old girl was raped by her father inside a tempo at Surphala Kaya village under Goverdhan Vilas police station area of Udaipur on Sunday night. The 36-year-old, who is a tempo driver and resides in Nai village, was arrested on Monday, police said. Following a complaint from the child's mother, police swung into action and nabbed the accused from his hideout within 4 hours. The medical examination has been held and the child has been admitted to a hospital. Police have registered a case under the POCSO Act. “We received a complaint from the rape survivor's mother who said her husband, a habitual drinker, used to assault her after drinking. The woman left her husband's home and went to her parents house in Surphala few days ago. The accused went to meet her around 9 pm on Sunday where they had a fight. He took away their daughter and left her back past midnight at the woman's brother’s shop,” Prem Dhande, DSP (Girwa) said. The child was in a pitiable condition with blood stains on her clothes. She told her mother that her father took her in the tempo and abused her. “We recorded statement of the survivor's mother, her relatives who were present inside the home when the accused left the child. The potency test has been conducted and the tempo which was used has been seized,” Dhande said. The accused would be produced before the court on Tuesday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-year-old-raped-by-father-inside-tempo-in-udaipur/articleshow/76949015.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 claims 3 more lives, all from Vasco, Goa tally now 17||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll shot up to 17 on Monday after three persons, all with co-morbid conditions, succumbed to the disease. It was the third consecutive day Goa recorded two or more deaths — eight persons have died since Saturday. Also, the state recorded 130 new infections, taking its active count past the 1,000 mark for the first time. Monday’s first death was that of a 47-year-old woman from Mangor Hill, the state’s first containment zone. A cancer patient, she was taken to the ESI-Covid hospital in a critical state last week, and died at 6.45am. Then, at around 11.30am, a 60-year-old man from Vasco died of the infection. His condition had been unstable for a week, and was in ICU since last Monday. The day’s third victim of the virus was brought dead to sub-district hospital, Chicalim. The 58-year-old Vasco man’s swab sample revealed that he had contracted the virus. Director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa said that Goa’s fatality rate stood at 0.61%, and that except in 2-3 cases, all persons who died of the infection had one or more co-morbid conditions. “A majority of the cases had conditions like uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension, two had malignancy, and three were on dialysis,” he said. He also said that the two cancer patients who died were referred by a corporate hospital in a serious condition. Meanwhile, of the 130 new infections recorded on Monday, 54 were from a single pharma unit, Tulip Diagnostics. A total of 80 of its 400 employees have tested positive so far. “Test reports of 67 employees are awaited,” said health secretary Nila Mohanan. The unit was shut last week on the orders of the collector after some of its employees tested positive. A few employees of other pharma units, too, have tested positive since. Mohanan said that the high positivity rate at Tulip Diagnostics unit is a cause of concern, and she asked all industrial units, especially pharma ones, to take necessary precautions. The health department suspects the source of infection at Tulip Diagnostics is linked to Mangor Hill. “Some of its employees are from Mangor Hill,” said state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar. Dr Edwin Gomes, nodal officer at the ESI-Covid hospital, also tested positive on Monday, and was shifted to Margao residency, a Covid care centre. Dr Sunanda Amonkar of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital replaced him at the Covid hospital. Cuncolim also saw ten new cases on Monday, taking its total to 28. With the rise in cases, D’Sa reiterated that people must take care. He also pointed out that the state’s recovery rate was 59.6%, and that over 6% of the population has undergone Covid tests. The positivity rate is around 2.8%. Nine buses of Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) will be used for transporting asymptomatic Covid patients to care centres. Betodkar also said that the buses would be stationed at various locations across the state. This is in addition to the six ambulances used to transport Covid patients. Since the number of cases began rising rapidly, the six ambulances have not been enough. Deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida, who is also medical superintendent, Hospicio hospital, Margao, said that the ESI-Covid hospital has 80 ventilators. She added that an intensive treatment unit (ITU) has been started, and that the hospital has 200 oxygen beds and two dialysis units. The occupancy at the hospital is 50%, with 110 patients, she said. “All supportive facilities are in place,” she said. “The hospital was compelled to get meals and breakfast from outside after four kitchen staffers tested positive. The hospital kitchen has become functional again today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-claims-3-more-lives-all-from-vasco-state-tally-now-17/articleshow/76949081.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rojgar Abhiyaan: Raj tops in building community toilets||JAIPUR: Under Garib Kalyan Rojgaar Abhiyaan, of the total target to build 50,378 community sanitary complexes (CSCs), construction of 803 has been completed in six states so far. Rajasthan’s progress in building CSCs has been highest among the states, at 389, since the launch of the campaign on June 15. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh (215) and Bihar (102). Two districts of Rajasthan feature among the top three districts in the country. While Baramula (Jammu and Kashmir) topped the chart completing construction of 64 toilets, Bhilwara (2nd) and Sirohi (3rd) (Rajasthan) have completed 43 and 41 toilets, respectively. Rajasthan is among six states (116 districts) in the country where the campaign has been launched. In the state, the Rojgar Abhiyaan is being carried out in 22 districts. “While CSCs will be built in every gram panchayat in the state, the target has been increased in the 22 districts of the state under the campaign. With the launch of the abhiyaan, an element of competition among the districts has been introduced,” said P C Kishan, special secretary, rural development department. “I am monitoring the progress of the work daily by talking to the district officials. The target has to be achieved by the end of September. The districts that are not doing well are being reprimanded for slow progress of work,” he added. “The complexes are built near the market places, schools, bus-stands and other over-crowded places.” About 13.34 lakh migrant workers have been identified by the sub-divisional magistrate’s (SDM) offices in these 22 districts including - Pali, Udaipur, Jalore, Nagaur, Sirohi, Dungarpur, Sikar, Rajsamand, Barmer, Chittorgarh, Alwar, Karauli, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Bhilwara, Bharatpur, Banswara, Ajmer, Hanumangarh, Churu, Jhunjhunu and Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rojgar-abhiyaan-raj-tops-in-building-community-toilets/articleshow/76948994.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||ED attaches properties worth Rs 204cr of city-based firm||Ahmedabad: The state zonal office of Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached 25-plus assets worth Rs 204.27 crore of a firm having its headquarters in Ahmedabad. The Ardor Group of Companies is already facing a CBI inquiry.Sources said that the attachment is in connection with a money laundering probe and alleged bank fraud case. The attachment of properties in Ahmedabad and Surat was carried out under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The firm and its directors are being probed for allegedly cheating a consortium of banks, led by Bank of India, for over Rs 480 crore.‘The properties attached include a commercial office on SG Road, a residential plot in Satellite, five housing plots in Ambli, 17 plots in Gokul Dham scheme, four shops in Bodakdev and offices in Ellisbridge and Ashram Road. A non-agricultural land is attached in Surat also,’ mentioned a statement from ED, adding that the properties are considered to be proceeds of the alleged crime.The central agency booked Ardor Group of Companies and its directors under the PMLA after studying six CBI FIRs filed against them. The CBI FIRs said the directors ‘in connivance with unknown bank officials have cheated and caused wrongful loss to the consortium of banks (led by Bank of India) amounting to Rs 488 crore.’The ED said Bharat Shah, Fenil Shah and Geetaben Shah were the directors of Ardor International Ltd, Ardor Global Pvt Ltd and Chem Edge International Pvt Ltd and they ‘indulged in circular routing of funds received out of credit limit sanctioned by the consortium of banks to inflate the financials of the companies for increasing the credit facilities.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ed-attaches-properties-worth-rs-204cr-of-city-based-firm/articleshow/76949048.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||BJP seeks probe into honeytrap audio clip||Nagpur: After an audio clip of conversation between two people purportedly conspiring to honeytrap two senior politicians to shield a senior health official, under scanner for alleged corruption, went viral, ruling BJP corporators and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha workers on Monday lodged a police complaint demanding action against the culprits. In a complaint filed at Tehsil police station, BJP corporators Vidya Kanhere and Sarla Nayak from prabhag 18 (also represented by senior corporator Dayashankar Tiwari) demanded high-level inquiry to expose those involved in the bid to honeytrap the senior corporator. According to the corporators, Tiwari had exposed the wrongdoings of a corrupt NMC health official. So the doctor had allegedly hatched a conspiracy to honeytrap Tiwari and mayor Sandip Joshi. TOI has already forwarded the 8.47-minute audio clip to city police chief BK Upadhyay and superintendent of police, state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Rashmi Nandedkar. Crime branch police have started the investigation in the episode. BJP workers also staged a demonstration at Gandhi Putla Square on Central Avenue in support of Tiwari. BJYM workers, led by its president Shivani Dani, too staged a demonstration demanding action against the conspirators in conversation in the alleged audio clip. She demanded an independent inquiry into the audio clip conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-seeks-probe-into-honeytrap-audio-clip/articleshow/76948398.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mining case hearing likely on Thursday||PANAJI: The crucial hearing in Goa’s mining case, which will decide the fate of mining resumption in the state, is likely to come up in the Supreme Court on Thursday. Speaking to TOI, advocate general Devidas Pangam said, “The mining case is listed for hearing in the apex court on July 16.” Last hearing was scheduled on April 21, but due to Covid-19 pandemic, the matter could not come up. Two mining companies have approached the apex court for extension of mining leases till 2037. The mining companies had filed special leave petition (SLP) after the high court of Bombay at Goa had dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese era, the appellants were granted mining concessions, which were converted into mining leases under the abolition act. SLP stated the abolition act should be made application from 1987 instead 1961. Mining in Goa came to an halt on March 15, 2018, following the Supreme Court decision to quash second renewal of 88 mining leases. State government before apex court had said that the mining companies had made representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to section 8 A of the mines and minerals development act, they are entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037 but it will abide by the decision of the court. State government had said that it is their contention that their mining concession, which were granted by the erstwhile Portuguese regime, were converted into mining leases under the MMDR act with effect from the year 1987 and consequently 50 years mining leases as contemplated under section 8 A would be extended upto the year 2037. Recently, the apex court had allowed to export iron ore extracted before March 15, 2018, and government has allowed to transport the ore till July 31. Senior officer said that during August 2015 to March 2018, mining companies had extracted the ore but have not paid royalty. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that currently, there is 1.45 MT ore on which royalty has been paid and there is 7.7 MT ore on which royalty has not been paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-case-hearing-likely-on-thu/articleshow/76949128.cms||Murari Shetye
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Bed strength in govt MCHs to be increased to 1,000||Trichy: The number of beds at government medical college hospitals will be increased to 1,000 on a war-footing for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, said state health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar in Trichy on Monday. “As per instructions from the chief minister, as many as 75,000 beds have already been set up at the government medical college and headquarters hospitals in the state. The bed strength at the medical college hospitals will be increased to 1,000 in a week,” Vijayabaskar told reporters after inspecting the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. Appreciating the doctors, nurses and health workers, the health minister said that MGMGH, which was now equipped with 600 beds, will have 1,000 for treating Covid-19 patients. While the state performed 16.54 lakh RT-PCR tests, he said that MGMGH has conducted 45,000 tests so far. On the availability of medicines, he said that MGMGH has stocked up enough life-saving drugs. The health minister attributed the ‘decline’ in number of deaths to the integrated treatment of modern scientific medicine with ayurvedha, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy (Ayush). He also said that aggressive testing, early diagnosing, clinical management and psychological counselling have helped in bringing down the mortality rate. Vijayabaskar also lauded Ayush practitioners for their contribution to the treatment of Covid-19 by visiting the isolation wards and providing kabasura kudineer and teaching yoga exercises. “We are encouraging Ayush mode of treatment,” he said. He also appealed to break the stigma towards Covid-19 patients. “Covid-19 patients are not enemies, but the virus is the enemy. We should accept the patients and encourage the doctors and health workers,” he said asking for cooperation from the public to fight the virus effectively. The health minister said the lockdown gave a good result in containing the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bed-strength-in-govt-mchs-to-be-increased-to-1000/articleshow/76949057.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||Backed BJP in 2014 to keep Sena away from it: Pawar||MUMBAI: Targeting BJP in the wake of trouble in the Congress government in Rajasthan, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said ‘Operation Lotus’ was aimed at destabilising non-BJP governments by misusing power. However, he said ‘Operation Lotus’ would not work against the Uddhav Thackeray government in Maharashtra. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government would complete its five-year term and “if all goes well Sena, NCP and Congress will contest the next polls together,” Pawar said in the third and final instalment of his interview to Saamna, the Sena mouthpiece. In June, opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis had claimed Pawar was part of discussions to form a BJP-NCP government in November 2019. Pawar refuted the claim and said NCP had clearly rejected the BJP’s offer to form the government in Maharashtra in November 2019. Pawar also said he had declared support from outside to BJP in 2014 to form the government as part of his political strategy to keep Sena at a distance from BJP. “I admit we had taken conscious steps to widen the gap between BJP and Shiv Sena,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/backed-bjp-in-2014-to-keep-sena-away-from-it-pawar/articleshow/76949884.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Identifying right contacts helps reduce number in Dindigul||Madurai: With just one Covid-19 positive case on Monday, Dindigul district recorded the second lowest number of cases in the entire state after Ariyalur, which did not see any cases. Dindigul was recording more cases a day compared to Madurai when there was a surge in those who returned from Delhi and Koyambedu. The district also saw an incline in numbers due to returnees from Maharashtra and Karnataka.However, over the last one week the district has recorded just 66 cases, with an average of less than 10 cases a day from July 7 to 13, which is the lowest among all the 10 southern districts. Dindigul collector M Vijaya Lakshmi said they could maintain lesser figures by identifying the right contacts of those who had already tested positive. This, despite having a testing capacity of just 250 samples a day.The district has 22 manned check-posts to check the routes connecting neighbouring districts. “This made infiltration almost fool-proof. We also blocked smaller arterial routes by digging the roads with earthmovers,” she said. The number of cases came down in recent days as zonal travel without e-passes to Madurai was stopped.“Focus was more on connectivity to Madurai. Two of our taluks – Natham and Nilakottai – are adjoining Madurai. We had more cases from these areas and we tracked their contacts. There were lesser cases in other taluks,” she said.However, the district has a backlog of 1,500 samples that is expected to be cleared in the next two to three days, with help from laboratories in Coimbatore and Karur districts, when the cases could go up before it comes down again. The district has a manual RNA extractor and an automatic extractor is expected this week to double their testing capacity to 500 samples a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/identifying-right-contacts-helps-reduce-number-in-dindigul/articleshow/76949069.cms||M K Ananth
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Boy electrocuted while trying to retrieve kite||Trichy: An 11-year-old boy was electrocuted to death after his leg came in contact with an electric wire while trying to retrieve a kite in Palakkarai on Sunday evening. It was the second time in a month that a child died in an accident while flying kites in the city. The deceased was identified as K Velmurugan, 11 of Keezha Padayatchi Street in Palakkarai in the city. He was a Class V student at a private school in Irudhayapuram. The Palakkarai police has taken up the investigation. Sub-inspector Anbu Selvi said that Velmurugan and three of his friends were flying kites near their homes. The kite string snapped and the boy’s kite flew away landing and landed a flew blocks away. The boy, who climbed on the electric motor room on the terrace of a house to retrieve his kite, slipped and stepped on an electric wire connected to the electric motor and he got electrocuted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-electrocuted-while-trying-to-retrieve-kite/articleshow/76949067.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bhopal||Old guard v/s new guns: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan strikes balance||BHOPAL: Eleven days after the expansion of the cabinet, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has finally succeeded in allocating portfolios striking a balance between the BJP old guards and the new entrants. There is no doubt that Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia managed to get the lion’s share by being able to get 14 of his loyalists inducted in the ministry. Chouhan managed to hold on to plum portfolios like home, finance, commercial tax and excise, public works, urban development, farmer welfare and agriculture, mineral resources and cooperatives and allocate them to his trusted aides. While doing so, he also accommodated Scindia loyalists with important departments like health, water resources, transport, revenue, women and child welfare and even industry. After the exercise both the camps have expressed satisfaction. Some Scindia loyalists also managed to get their old portfolios which they were holding during the previous Congress regime. Imarti Devi retained women and child welfare and Govind Singh Rajput got revenue and transport. Other important portfolios like health and rural development also remained with team Scindia. During the entire exercise, Narottam Mishra has emerged a strong number 2 leader relegating the former leader of opposition Gopal Bhargava to the third position in the official list. Narottam also bagged maximum portfolios with home, jail, law and parliamentary affairs in his kitty. But, still he had to part with health portfolio that he was holding till now. During the portfolio allocation, Chouhan also justified and honoured three senior leaders Bisahu Lal Singh, Aidal Singh Kansana and Hardeep Singh Dang by allocating significant portfolios to them. Chouhan entrusted the charge of PHED to Kansana that he held charge in Digvijaya Singh cabinet in the past. BJP is ready to rope in Kansana as the four-term MLA from Sumawali assembly seat in Morena district belongs to OBC Gurjar community having sway in Gwalior-Chambal region. Chouhan also displayed his political acumen by allocating the responsibility of finance, commercial tax and excise departments to senior minister Jagdish Devda. Chouhan also decided to keep the public relations department with himself. There is no minister of state for this portfolio. Earlier, the then-chief minister Digvijaya Singh had kept the charge of the department with him but, for a very short stint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/old-guard-v/s-new-guns-cm-strikes-balance/articleshow/76948460.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||UDH likely to relax norms for MLA flats near assembly||Jaipur: The urban development and housing (UDH) department may soon provide relaxations to construct an eight-storey building in the periphery of the legislative assembly to accommodate 160 MLAs. After receiving in-principal approval in a recent meeting, the matter has forwarded to UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal. The Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) has proposed to construct the building for MLAs. Considering the project as a special case, the 28-metre building has been proposed against the 15-metre rule mentioned in the building bylaws. An official at UDH said, “The design has received in-principle approval and a meeting was called to discuss on the proposal. Any decision will now be taken on the UDH minister’s call,” sources said, adding amendment in bylaws is required as for the assembly’s structural dominance in the 100-metre periphery. At present, RHB has proposed to construct the apartment till the base height of the dome. This proposal needs a clearance from the government. After the work was awarded to RHB, design of the apartments has been prepared. Each flat will measure 3,200 square-feet and comprise four bedrooms, one drawing room, a kitchen and a one room for domestic help. As per the previous design, the JDA had proposed 176 flats. However, the idea did not go well with the committee which is overseeing the project as the open area was less. Now, 16 flats have been reduced in the project to develop a central lawn measuring 36,000 square-metre. In the project, the RHB has earmarked parking for 1,200 vehicles and a 12-room guest house. RHB has been appointed as the nodal agency for constructing MLA apartments.An official said the revenue earned after selling the land at Lal Kothi and Jalupura will be utilised to construct the apartments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-likely-to-relax-norms-for-mla-flats-near-assembly/articleshow/76949045.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Widespread rains bring mercury down||Jaipur: Widespread rainfall activity was witnessed across the state on Monday when majority of the places in the state witnessed mild to moderate showers. With the revival of south west monsoon, majority of the places witnessed a dip of almost 4°C in the maximum and minimum temperatures across the state. People in Jaipur witnessed mild showers in the evening that guided mercury to take a dip. Weather was mainly pleasant in the evening due to the mild to moderate showers. A rainfall of 9.2 mm was received in Jaipur till the evening. Jaipur Met office said that mild to moderate showers will continue in the Pink City for the coming days too. Due to the moderate showers a maximum temperature of 34.8°C was recorded in the city. Majority of the places in the state witnessed maximum temperature below 40°C except Bikaner where a maximum temperature of 41°C was recorded. A rainfall varying from 10 mm to 70 mm was received at many places in the state. Some places also witnessed mild dust storm in the afternoon. South west monsoon is in its second spell as it was revived on Sunday. “The climatic conditions suggested that heavy rainfall is likely at a few places in the eastern and northern Rajasthan from Wednesday onwards,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur Met office. A rainfall of 72mm was received in Rawatsar (Hanumangarh) which was followed by Neem Ka Thana (Sikar) where a rainfall of 63mm was recorded. Likewise, many places in Banswara, Udaipur, Churu, Bikaner, Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar witnessed a rainfall varying from 10 mm to 50 mm. In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that some places in the state are likely to get heavy rainfall while mild to moderate showers will continue at many places in the state in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/widespread-rains-bring-mercury-down/articleshow/76949032.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Lasalgaon APMC to restart auctions of onions today||NASHIK: The Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, which had closed on July 7 after an onion trader tested positive for Covid-19, will restart auctions from Monday. The wholesale market had first suspended onion auction for three days (up to July 9), but had later extended the closure up to July 12. “We will start onion auctions from Monday morning. We have sanitized the premises,” said the APMC officials. The procurement of onions by National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED), which had been affected due to the closure of the Lasalgaon market, will also restart on Monday. The average wholesale onion price has stabilized at Rs 750 per quintal at Lasalgaon. But with Nafed increasing procurement, the average wholesale onion price is expected to increase by Rs 200 in the next two-three days, said the officials. There will be no fresh kharif harvest till October-end. The summer onions, which are harvested in March and April, are stored by farmers with a hope of getting better prices. These onions cater to the market until the arrival of the fresh harvest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lasalgaon-apmc-to-restart-auctions-of-onions-today/articleshow/76928696.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 59 fresh cases||Kolhapur: The district reported 59 fresh Covid-19 patients on Monday, including eight from Satara town, taking the total number of cases to 1,754. A 67-year-old Covid patient from Punawadi village in Jawli tehsil died on Monday, taking the death toll to 65 in Satara district. As many as 27 patients were discharged on Monday. There are 652 active cases. Satara tehsil recorded 18 fresh cases which include patients mainly from Satara town and Jihe village. Apart from this 12 people tested Covid positive from Punwadi village on a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-59-fresh-cases/articleshow/76946383.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Soon, banks may offer loans for studying from home||CHENNAI: State owned banks are working on new loan products to fund online education for students. Under the contours of the preliminary discussions that have begun, banks could tweak existing higher education loans for online classes being held by colleges and universities and also for those courses done through private educational platforms sitting at home. While an internal discussion has begun and one with other stakeholders is underway, clarity is expected only after educational institutions formulate new fee structures for the courses which are now set to be held online. Some private banks have tie-ups with online portals. M Aruna, deputy general manager of Indian Bank, said the institution was thinking about how to allow applications if students apply for courses that are virtual in nature. Aruna said, “With a lot of talk around shifting to digital, we have to frame education loan policies for the same.” Bankers aver that fees for online classes run now due to campus closures should be lower than on-site fees, even as they await clarity on the structure. S Kanimozhi, deputy general manager of Canara Bank, said the fee structure for regular classes would be higher compared to online courses since it could include practical classes, exam fees, etc. “So, we are yet to know how the fee structure would change (i.e) will be reduced. The information on change in fee structure has to be produced by the accredited colleges,” she said. Canara Bank is analysing the usefulness of online courses from a job market angle. “We have to see if those courses will truly be beneficial for the students,” she said. IIT-Madras has introduced BSc Programming and Data Science, a full-time online course, and has begun discussions with the State Bank of India. “We have engaged in informal discussion with the SBI which has its branch on our campus. Once the admission begins, we will provide the course structure to the lender. We have received a positive response from the bank so far” said Prof Andrew Thangaraj, Coordinator, NPTEL-IIT Madras. Some online institutes have also tied up with private institutions. Upgrad co-founder and managing director Mayan Kumar said that they had a tie up with Kotak Mahindra Bank for PG Diploma programmes in data science and machine learning. “They [Kotak Mahindra Bank] were offering educational loans, since ours is an academic programme. Our learners have also taken loans from nationalised banks for diploma and degree programmes which we provide in partnership with universities, for data and digital marketing and MBA courses,” he said. Hari Krishnan Nair, co-founder of Great Learning, said that the paid online courses had seen a 50% increase in enrolments since March this year. “The fee of these online courses is in the range of ₹2lakh-₹3 lakh. With growing demand for these paid online courses, we have partnered with ICICI Bank to finance our students in May. We are also in talks with Bank of Baroda and Union Bank,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/soon-banks-may-offer-loans-for-studying-from-home/articleshow/76948468.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Visually impaired teen gets 95.8%||Visually impaired Varun Manoj Kumar, a student of Delhi Public School, Nerul, scored 95.8% in his Class XII commerce stream and now wants to switch to information technology as he enjoys computer science. Kumar had got 84% in Class X. “Being good in computer science, I will pursue BSc in IT. My quest will be to get into St Xavier’s College, which has been my dream for years,” said Kumar, with a smile. Kumar, who has optic atrophy and 40% vision, credits his parents, teachers and classmates for helping him throughout. — B B Nayak||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/visually-impaired-teen-gets-95-8/articleshow/76948480.cms||B B Nayak
July 14, 2020||Jaipur||Delhi-Ajmer rail route to be electrified by October||JAIPUR: The outburst of Covid-19 has not only affected the passengers’ load at various trains, it has also delayed the Delhi-Ajmer electrification work via Jaipur. Since June the civil and electric work has been started and the authorities are hoping to get the work completed by October 2020. The completion will bring down the travel town to at least 30 minutes and would also help the railways to save fuel. Authorities of North Western Railways (NWR) on Monday said civil and electric work was almost complete except a patch of 22 km between Bassi and Jaipur in the month of March. After completion, travel time between Jaipur and Delhi will be curtailed at least by 45 minutes. Though the project has already missed its previous deadlines, the outbreak of Covid-19 too has played spoilsport. “The work is in progress, we have a patch of only 22 km left where laying of electric poles, cabling and other work is now going on at a fast pace. Work between Delhi and Bassi is complete. Now work in progress in the Bassi-Jaipur-Kanakpura-Ajmer section,” said a senior officer of NWR. Asked about the progress of work, Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR, said, “The work was affected due to the Covid-19 outbreak. With a limited manpower and labour work is in progress. Hopefully this would be completed by October 2020.” The work is now visible at the electric poles, cabling and traction is now visible on the tracks passing through Gandhi Nagar, Tonk Phatak, Ajmer Road and other parts of Jaipur. Delhi-Jaipur electrification is a part of Delhi-Jaipur-Ajmer-Ahmedabad project undertaken by the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE). “Jaipur to Delhi rail route will be electrified first. This will be followed by Jaipur-Ajmer and then Ajmer-Ahmedabad,” a senior officer said. “This will also bring punctuality as trains like Pooja Express, Ashram Express, Bhuj-Bareilly, Jaipur-Delhi double decker which used to face crossings between Bandikui-Dhigawara will get through with the double line. This will of course cut down the travel time of the passengers,” said a senior officer involved in the traffic of the NWR Once the electrification work is over, the trains can attain a speed above 110 kms/hour on the route and will bring down the travel time from existing 4 hours 30 minutes to 4 hours 15 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/delhi-ajmer-rail-route-to-be-electrified-by-oct/articleshow/76949055.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ajmer||Delhi-Ajmer rail route to be electrified by October||JAIPUR: The outburst of Covid-19 has not only affected the passengers’ load at various trains, it has also delayed the Delhi-Ajmer electrification work via Jaipur. Since June the civil and electric work has been started and the authorities are hoping to get the work completed by October 2020. The completion will bring down the travel town to at least 30 minutes and would also help the railways to save fuel. Authorities of North Western Railways (NWR) on Monday said civil and electric work was almost complete except a patch of 22 km between Bassi and Jaipur in the month of March. After completion, travel time between Jaipur and Delhi will be curtailed at least by 45 minutes. Though the project has already missed its previous deadlines, the outbreak of Covid-19 too has played spoilsport. “The work is in progress, we have a patch of only 22 km left where laying of electric poles, cabling and other work is now going on at a fast pace. Work between Delhi and Bassi is complete. Now work in progress in the Bassi-Jaipur-Kanakpura-Ajmer section,” said a senior officer of NWR. Asked about the progress of work, Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR, said, “The work was affected due to the Covid-19 outbreak. With a limited manpower and labour work is in progress. Hopefully this would be completed by October 2020.” The work is now visible at the electric poles, cabling and traction is now visible on the tracks passing through Gandhi Nagar, Tonk Phatak, Ajmer Road and other parts of Jaipur. Delhi-Jaipur electrification is a part of Delhi-Jaipur-Ajmer-Ahmedabad project undertaken by the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE). “Jaipur to Delhi rail route will be electrified first. This will be followed by Jaipur-Ajmer and then Ajmer-Ahmedabad,” a senior officer said. “This will also bring punctuality as trains like Pooja Express, Ashram Express, Bhuj-Bareilly, Jaipur-Delhi double decker which used to face crossings between Bandikui-Dhigawara will get through with the double line. This will of course cut down the travel time of the passengers,” said a senior officer involved in the traffic of the NWR Once the electrification work is over, the trains can attain a speed above 110 kms/hour on the route and will bring down the travel time from existing 4 hours 30 minutes to 4 hours 15 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/delhi-ajmer-rail-route-to-be-electrified-by-oct/articleshow/76954775.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bhopal||In first cabinet meet, CM revokes order on indirect mayoral polls||BHOPAL: In the first cabinet meeting after distribution of portfolios to ministers, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government decided to revoke the former Kamal Nath government’s decision of indirect election of mayors and urban civic body chairpersons. “The Nath government had made a move to usurp the rights of the people by introducing the indirect election of mayors through corporators,” home minister Narottam Mishra said after the cabinet meeting. Mishra said the council of ministers decided to scrap the changes brought by the erstwhile Congress government and return to the direct election of mayors and chairpersons of civic bodies including town councils, municipalities and panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-revokes-order-on-indirect-mayoral-polls-in-cabinet-meet/articleshow/76948479.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Seafarer Sanjay Prashar helps repatriate 58 Indian fishermen stranded in Iran||Madurai: Fifty-eight Indian fishermen (40 from Tamil Nadu and 18 from Kerala) working in Iran are stranded after 680 fellow fishermen were repatriated in INS Jalashwa in the last week of June. While the fellow fishermen reached Tuticorin on July 1, completed the mandatory quarantine and returned home, these left out fishermen faced a lot of hardships as their exit visa was stamped and their ex-employers were not ready to take them back.After a lot of struggles, they have managed to reach Assaluyeh and stayed in three rooms. They were unable to arrange for Rs 25,000 needed for a flight to India as they had not been to work for more than four months and their families were clueless about arranging the money as the men in Iran were the sole bread winners. L Praveen, general secretary, Maritime People Welfare Association, Chennai, came across their plight.Knowing that Captain Sanjay Prashar from Himachal Pradesh, chairman of International Maritime Federation (IMF), helped many seafarers return home, Praveen reached out to him on Twitter on July 1. The latter readily agreed to help the fishermen and sponsored their travel costs. He also travelled from Himachal Pradesh to Delhi to meet cabinet minister (for Jal Shakti) Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on the issue on July 6.“I handed over the list of 58 fishermen and sought his intervention of the government to expedite the clearance of the documents. On the minister’s order the government machinery cleared the papers, get the e-passes and logistics required. On July 10, we paid the charge for the chartered flight from Tehran to Delhi. The fishermen will fly from Tehran on Tuesday night and reach Delhi in the early hours of Wednesday,” he said.Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor congratulated Sanjay Prashar on twitter for his noble effort and thanked him for covering tickets of the fishermen stranded in Iran. “Sanjay Prashar has come out of the way to help our men, bore the tickets and also worked on the repatriation process,” says activist Charles Johnson who is coordinating the repatriation of 700 odd Indian fishermen from Iran since February.The fishermen started from Assaluyeh to Tehran on road in two buses on Monday evening and are expected to cover around 1,300km on road before they catch the flight to Delhi at 10.45pm on Tuesday. Mohamed Abuthahir, Chennai branch manager of Sanjay Prashar’s company, and Ujjawal B Choudhary, director of IMF, are coordinating the repatriation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/seafarer-sanjay-prashar-helps-repatriate-58-indian-fishermen-stranded-in-iran/articleshow/76949095.cms||M K Ananth
July 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Murder accused gives police the slip at Pandharpur Covid hospital in Solapur||Kolhapur: A murder accused escaped from the Pandharpur Covid hospital in Solapur district on Sunday, a day after he was taken there from jail as he had complained of chest pain and had coronavirus symptoms. Police have formed five teams to search, Shivaji Nathaji Bhosale (55), a resident of Tisangi village, who is under trial for allegedly murdering wife and was lodged in a sub-jail in Pandharpur. “Doctors attending to Bhosale found Covid-19 symptoms and asked the jail authorities to take him to a covid care centre. He was accordingly admitted to the Pandharpur covid hospital on Saturday,” said police. On Sunday, Bhosale left the ward on the pretext of going to the washroom and escaped through a window, said police. He was disturbed since he developing Covid symptoms. According to police, Bhosale was arrested in June 15, 2016 for allegedly murdering his wife, Kamala, with sharp weapons, following a complaint by his son. Newly-wed couple among 8 booked Eight people, including a newly-wed couple, were booked by police for violation of lockdown rules during the marriage ceremony in Shankar Nagar, near Malshiras, in Solapur district on Sunday. Police said more than 100 people had gathered for the wedding. The police action followed a complaint by N V More, a talathi. Officials said that the six others who have been booked include the priest who solemnised the marriage, a caterer, photographer and a decorator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/murder-accused-gives-police-the-slip-at-pandharpur-covid-hospital-in-solapur/articleshow/76946419.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown in Dharwad from tomorrow; Raichur and Sindhanur towns to shut down||Hubballi: Against the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases in several districts of North Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday conferred with the respective deputy commissioners via video conference so as to get a clear picture of the situation prevailing on the ground in their respective districts. This primary objective of the meeting was to arrive at a decision on whether or not a complete lockdown was to be enforced in districts that are witnessing a rising Covid arc. In the aftermath of the meeting, it was decided that lockdown would be enforced in the whole of Dharwad district between July 15 and July 24, while two towns in Raichur were to be shut down from July 15 and July 22. Other districts in the region will decide on a lockdown after reviewing the situation more closely. Dharwad district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar said that the lockdown would come into force from 9am on Wednesday. The minister said that the lockdown in the district would be enforced as stringently as it had been in the month of April. Meanwhile, Raichur deputy commissioner Venkatesh Kumar said that, while the lockdown would be complete in Raichur and Sindhanur towns, commercial activities would be restricted in other areas of the district. “Commercial activities will be allowed only between 8am and 2pm in other taluks and towns,” he said. Belagavi DC MG Hiremath, on the other hand, informed the CM that imposing the lockdown in the border district was not necessary given the stringent measures adopted to arrest the spread of the pandemic in the district. Yediyurappa asked the DC to confer with the elected representatives and decide on the best course of action. However, elected members including MLAs of Gokak and Athani have decided on a voluntary lockdown in their respective segments, while the border with Maharashtra remains sealed. The officials of Haveri and Ballari made it clear that the two districts would not opt for a lockdown, while Gadag DC M Sundresh Babu said that a decision was yet to be taken in this regard. Meanwhile, officials of Bagalkot, Davanagere, Vijayapura informed the CM that they would take a call after deliberating on the subject with the respective elected representatives. Sources in the Kalaburagi district administration said that, if the lockdown were imposed from Tuesday evening, it would be restricted to the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-in-dharwad-from-tomorrow-raichur-and-sindhanur-towns-to-shut-down/articleshow/76947620.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cave-in at Manekbaug||Ahmedabad: A large cave-in was reported from Manekbaug area on Monday. This was the second major cave-in reported in the city in two days. On Sunday too, a cave-in was reported near Danilimda BRTS. AMC officials said the cave-in near Manekbaug was on the main crossroads and had affected traffic. It happened after a significant leakage in the drainage line. Civic body officials said repair work has begun, but it would take at least four days to complete the work. The cave-in reported on Sunday from Danilimda BRTS crossroads was also caused by leakage in drainage lines officials said. They said rainfall caused such leakages in monsoon. The AMC control room said that the city has so far received some 30 complaints of cave-ins and road depressions from various parts of the city. An official said that of these 30 complaints, 15 complaints were of road surfaces giving way in the wake of AMC work. An officer said cave-ins were reported even after the first shower this season. The city had already reported four cave-ins before the monsoon set in. In early June small patches had begun to cave in on some of the main roads in Sola. Work related to the laying of storm water drains was under way on the stretch. Pre-monsoon cave-ins had been reported from Jaymangal BRT stand, near the Nirmal Apartments gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cave-in-at-manekbaug/articleshow/76949119.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Man impersonating UP speaker arrested||Bareilly: The crime branch of Shahjahanpur police on Monday arrested a man for allegedly impersonating UP legislative assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit while making a phone call to Shahjahanpur superintendent of police S Anand, and seeking favours from the top cop. Anand said he received a call on his closed user group number on Friday, in which a person claiming to be the speaker, asked him to meet someone the caller would recommend and take a look into the latter’s concerns. On suspecting that the caller was not Dikshit — he apparently sounded too young — Anand put the phone number on surveillance. After initial probe, Gaurav Mishra was arrested from Powayan area of the district on Monday. Anand further said Mishra, impersonating Dikshit, had earlier called other officials too, and that police was looking into the matter. An FIR was ordered against Mishra, who was in police custody at the time this report was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-impersonating-up-speaker-arrested/articleshow/76945303.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 14, 2020||Hubballi||People struggle to get a Covid test at KIMS||Hubballi: The government has appealed to the public to approach the nearest hospital to undergo Covid-19 test in case they are exhibiting symptoms or have a travel history. However, many people visiting the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, the designated Covid hospital for Dharwad district, are finding it exceedingly difficult to take the test, while many have had to return home without undergoing one. “I took my 17-year-old son to KIMS after he complained of having lost his sense of smell. But the staff there refused to test him for Covid, stating that he had no symptoms. They did not budge despite my repeatedly telling them about my son’s condition. After I had argued with the staff for more than 30 minutes, a senior doctor intervened, and collected a swab sample,” a Hubballi-based businessman told TOI. What was worse, the father was shocked when the test results confirmed that his son was indeed infected. “Had I not insisted on a medical examination and returned home, my son’s condition would have probably worsened. Action needs to be initiated against personnel refusing to test those voluntarily submitting themselves for an examination,” he added. In yet another case of the staff’s reluctance to subject people coming forward for medical examination. As many as five members of a family from Navalgund who went to KIMS after a relative tested positive for the novel coronavirus were turned back by the staff at the hospital. “All of us are primary contacts of the infected patients, but the staff told us that we had no symptoms and refused to test us. We argued for hours, and finally, the intervention of a senior doctor compelled the personnel to conduct the test,” said one of the five people who had come to KIMS. Concerned over reports of people being denied Covid tests, public have called on the district administration to initiate action against those responsible at KIMS. KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani said, in accordance with the newly issued guidelines, they were subjecting all those exhibiting symptoms to a Covid test. “We advise people voluntarily approaching us out of fear to first quarantine themselves, and should they develop symptoms during that period, approach the hospital for a test,” he added. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said, “Those approaching the hospital voluntarily and showing symptoms must be tested for Covid. We will verify the allegations against KIMS. We have made arrangements to test suspected patients at 20 places across Dharwad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/people-struggle-to-get-a-covid-test-at-kims/articleshow/76946625.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 14, 2020||Mysuru||Villagers charge ‘Pond Man’ with making false claims||Mandya: Villagers in Dasanadoddi of Malavalli taluk in Mandya district have complained to the district administration against Kamegowda, the ‘Pond Man’ whose nature-conservation efforts shot to national fame after PM Narendra Modi mentioned him in ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme recently. The villagers’ grouse is that Kamegowda is falsely claiming that he has built 16 ponds, and troubling them in accessing a grazing field. In the complaint, signed by 70 villagers and submitted to Mandya DC M V Venkatesh on Monday, it is alleged that Kamegowda is falsely claiming nature-made ponds as his work. “Only he wants to access the field having ponds, and not others. The ponds, which Kamegowda claimed to have built, are all natural — and not man-made. Moreover, no person can build those (number) of ponds single-handedly,” they said. The villagers also charged Kamegowda with illegally extracting sand from ponds. “He has caught the attention of the authtories after being mentioned in Mann Ki Baat. Emboldened by all this, he is behaving like the sole owner of the entire grazing land. He is also threatening us with framing us in false cases,” the complaint stated. The villagers have urged the DC to conduct a spot inspection to check the veracity of Kamegowda’s claims, and also take back the honours bestowed on him if they are proved false.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/villagers-charge-pond-man-with-making-false-claims/articleshow/76948174.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kochi||Non-bailable warrant issued against Franco||Kottayam: A Kottayam court issued non-bailable warrant against Bishop Franco Mulakkal in nun rape case on Monday for continuously failing to appear before it despite strict orders from judge. The court has also forfeited the bail bond of the accused and issued notice to the sureties for show cause. It was additional district court 1 judge G Gopakumar who took strict action against the accused who was continuously failing to appear before the court. When the case was taken up on July 1, the counsel of bishop Mulakkal had informed the court that he could not appear before the court as his residence in Jalandhar was located in a containment zone. However, special prosecutor Jithesh Babu on Monday informed the court that the accused is trying to delay the trial unnecessarily and Civil Line area in Jalandhar where the residence of bishop is located is not in the containment zone. The court approved this and took the strict action. The case was adjourned to August 13. The lawyer representing the bishop informed the court that he had booked air tickets and had visited his lawyer before coming to Kerala. However, the lawyer was tested positive for Covid-19 and the bishop happened to be in his primary contact. The lawyer said the swab of Mulakkal was collected and he was asked to go on quarantine for 14 days; however, the court rejected this argument. The survivor in the case had filed a complaint with Kottayam police chief on June 27, 2018, about the alleged sexual abuse that she faced from the bishop during 2014 to 2016. The next day, June 28, the statement of the survivor was recorded. The chargesheet in the nun rape case was filed on April 9, 2019. Bishop Mulakkal, who faces charges of wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation in the case, can get life imprisonment or imprisonment of not less than 10 years if proved guilty. The court while dismissing the discharge petition filed by the bishop on March 16 this year had added IPC Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) to the chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/non-bailable-warrant-issued-against-franco/articleshow/76947644.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Corpn increases mobile sample lifting units||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation has increased the number of mobile sample lifting units from three to 11 in order to increase the number of testing being done in the city.Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan, who inspected the functioning of mobile sample lifting units on Monday, insisted officials to take samples immediately, whenever fever cases are reported. He also inspected the functioning of the door-to-door screening at Mahal Pandhadi 1st Street, Navarathinapuram in Kamarajar Salai and Anthoniyar Kovil Street in Old Kuyavarpalayam Road. Fever camps are functioning at 155 places including eight by ayush and ESI doctors. Apart from temperature, blood pressure and oxygen level in blood are being checked, officials said. Officials said that number of positive cases is increasing due to increase in tests. Unlike earlier, people are testing even if there is one symptom. Once tested positive, all required guidance is provided by the corporation including psychological counselling and medical consultation, in case of home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-increases-mobile-sample-lifting-units/articleshow/76949110.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Alarming increase in number of cases in southern districts||Madurai: The number of Covid-19 positive cases has been rising at an alarming rate in southern Tamil Nadu with six of the 10 districts been recording an average of 100 or more cases each day from July 7 to 13. The 464 cases reported in Madurai on Monday is the highest single day tally. The district administrations said they have a huge backlog accumulated over many days as they collected samples beyond their testing capacity.Madurai recorded an average of 318 new cases a day during this period. Other districts with an average of more than 100 cases a day are Virudhunagar (160), Tuticorin (158), Kanyakumari (122), Tirunelveli (110) and Theni (105). Though Virudhunagar district recorded only 25 fresh cases on Monday, it is said to be the result of delayed data entry. Therefore, the number of positive cases is expected to shoot up in Tuesday’s bulletin. The district is awaiting results for a backlog of 3,000 cases, after which it hopes to bring down the daily cases to around 50-60.On June 19, Tirunelveli topped the southern districts before Madurai over took it with a spike in cases. Tirunelveli has since managed to bring down the number of positive cases. The district has recorded a total of 1,875 cases. This includes 368 imported cases, which is only next to Kallakurichi (385) with the most number of imported cases in the state.“We are expecting the numbers to remain the same for some time. The number of cases among people coming from outside the district has reduced. Now, more local cases are reported, particularly in commercial areas. On an average 1,000 samples are tested a day. We are mapping hotspots by tracking influenza-like illness(ILI) cases and fever cases and thereby mobilise fever camps,” Tirunelveli collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said.Tuticorin saw as many as 196 and 195 cases a day on July 9 and 10 and on an average has been reporting 158 cases a day. “On Monday, 122 samples tested positive and it will come down further in the coming days. Now, the positive rate is around 10% for 1,200 samples a day. This was primarily due to aggressive testing of ILI cases. Random testing is carried out along with contact tracing, in areas where two or more ILI cases are reported, ,” collector Sandeep Nanduri said. Nanduri added that random testing led to identifying clusters such as Therespuram and Vilathikulam where more than 60 and 40 people tested positive in a day.In Theni, cases climbed up from 75 recorded last Tuesday to 134 on Monday. Kanyakumari, which reported limited number of cases till a few weeks ago, recorded 185 cases on Monday, its highest single-day tally so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alarming-increase-in-number-of-cases-in-southern-districts/articleshow/76949118.cms||M K Ananth
July 14, 2020||Nashik||272 new cases, 8 deaths and 239 recoveries in district in 24 hours||Nashik: The district has reported 272 fresh Covid-19 patients, including 166 from Nashik city, during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 9,691. On Monday, the district recorded eight deaths due to the infection. Of them, five were from Nashik city. The death toll in the district rose to 398, including 210 deaths in the city. As many as, 239 patients were discharged in the district on Monday, including 199 patients from Nashik city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/272-new-cases-8-deaths-and-239-recoveries-in-district-in-24-hours/articleshow/77072774.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Mysuru||Girl falls into uncovered sump, dies||Mysuru: In a heart-wrenching incident, a two-and-a-half-year-old girl had to pay with her life for the negligence of a property owner in HD Kote. The victim, Chaya, died after falling into a sump that was left uncovered at an under-construction house on Monday morning. HD Kote police have booked a case against Shivalingegowda, the owner of the property. Police said that Chaya had been playing in the neighbourhood of her house when the accident occurred. Shivalingegowda was having a building constructed near Chaya’s house. Police estimate that the girl fell into the sum around 7.30am on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/girl-falls-into-uncovered-sump-dies/articleshow/76948292.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two escape from overturned van, killed by bus||Ahmedabad: Two men died on the Ahmedabad-Vadodara expressway when they were hit by a GSRTC (Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation) bus on Sunday evening. They had just got out of their pickup van, which had overturned, but were immediately hit by the bus. The deceased were identified as Rameshsinh Solanki, 32, a resident of Dekawada village in Viramgam, and Mukesh Prajapati, 22, a resident of Mehsana. According to an FIR filed with Mahemdavad police, Solanki and Prajapati were going towards Vadodara when their vehicle overturned near Mahemdavad. Solanki’s brother Bharatsinh stated in the FIR that he got a call from his friend, Ameen Prajapati, who was on the expressway when he saw the accident. On inquiring further, Ameen learned that those involved were Solanki and Prajapati. Ameeen called up Rameshsinh and informed that his brother and another man were struck by a GSRTC bus. In their preliminary inquiry, police discovered that the pickup van had overturned and then two men came out of it. As they emerged, a speeding bus of GSRTC hit them. They were taken to a hospital in Mahemdavad where they were declared brought dead. Mahemdavad police registered a case of negligent driving causing death against the ST driver who fled the spot after the accident. The accident caused traffic congestion on the expressway, which took around an hour to return to normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-escape-from-overturned-van-killed-by-bus/articleshow/76949129.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Business||Hyd startup Incnut raises $4 million from RPSG Ventures||Hyderabad: Personalised beauty and wellness startup Incnut Digital has raised around $4 million (approx Rs 30 crore) from RPSG Ventures, an early stage consumer centric venture capital fund backed by the Kolkata-based RP-Sanjiv Goenka group, via a Series A round of funding. The funding will be utilised by the data-driven Hyderabad startup, which offers SkinKraft and Vedix customised beauty brands, to augment its R&D capacities and AI driven technology to further cater to the evolving needs of millennial consumers. The startup will also use the funds to diversify into other segments like immunity and nutritional supplements, Incnut CEO Chaitanya Nallan said. “We were planning to enter into nutritional supplements a couple of years down the line but Covid-19 accelerated this,” Nallan said. “Since the last few years we have seen an increased interest in customised skincare using AI and ML. With RPSG Venture’s operational experience and expertise in the consumer domain, we will be able to strengthen our positioning and expand more rapidly across India,” he said. Pointing out that personalized beauty care provides a unique way of engaging with customers, Abhishek Goenka, head, RPSG Ventures, said, “SkinKraft & Vedix have been successful in building, scaling and sustaining a content to commerce community and have leveraged that in connecting the dots between brand building and performance. We, at RPSG Ventures, see an incredible potential in the data driven skincare industry and are delighted to support the company in developing the technology as they start to scale the business.” Incnut was started by Nallan, Sangram Simha and Veerendra Shivhare together in 2011 and the startup secured a seed round of Rs 50 lakh from Venture East in 2013, which was later purchased by Japanese conglomerate Istyle in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hyd-startup-incnut-raises-4-million-from-rpsg-ventures/articleshow/76948517.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vadodara||Shubham was eyeing role in TV reality show, says police||Vadodara: YouTuber Shubham Mishra, who was arrested by the city police for abusing a stand-up comedian was eyeing a role in a reality show hosted by Bollywood star Salman Khan. Mishra told the police that he was an avid social media user and posted his videos regularly on his Instagram and YouTube account. “He said that he is very popular among youngsters and we learnt that he was expecting to get into a reality show as a participant. Mishra has over three lakh followers online,” said Bharat Rathod, ACP (cybercrime). The 26-year-old was booked by the cybercrime cell on Sunday night after his video abusing stand-up comedian Agrima Joshua went viral over three days ago. Though this is the first offence registered against him, Mishra has posted several such abusive videos on his YouTube account in the past. One of his recent videos too was full of expletives for Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey who was later killed in a police encounter. Mishra is seen abusing Dubey and challenging him to enter Gujarat. Having failed in HSC, Mishra started his YouTube channel two years ago. He is an ardent fan of another YouTuber popular by the name of Hindustani Bhau who too is known for his videos full of expletives. Mishra had posted a video full of expletives with Hindustani Bhau 10 months ago wherein they both are seen abusing Pakistani YouTubers. “One of his videos in connection with comedian Kunal Kamra had also gone viral but no offence was registered against him that time,” Rathod told TOI. Mishra had on Saturday posted a video on his Instagram account wherein he is seen sitting in a car and hurling abuses at stand-up comedian Agrima Joshua who had made some funny remarks on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s statue to be constructed in Maharashtra. The video went viral with even the National Commission for Women taking note of it. The city police swung into action against Mishra after the NCW asked Gujarat DGP to act against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/shubham-was-eyeing-role-in-tv-reality-show-says-police/articleshow/76946478.cms||Tushar Tere
July 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai CBSE schools achieve good results in Class XII||Madurai: CBSE schools across Madurai district performed well in the Class XII board exams, the results for which were declared on Monday. This year, as some of the exams were cancelled due to Covid-19, there were no rankings based on score.At Kendriya Vidyalaya CBSE School, Narimedu, the highest score recorded was 495/500 by a student from the humanities stream. Another student from the science stream scored 490/500, the second highest score. “Overall, we had 98.7% results. Though our overall percentage had reduced, we had high scores by students, as many had scored around 490 marks. It was however surprising that we did not have even one student score centum in any of the subjects,” said P Selvaraj, principal of the school. The situation was the same in other schools as well with mixed results this year. “The top score in our school was 486/500. As many as 187 students scored more than 400 marks. Nine students scored centums in biology but there were no centums in other subjects. We expected some students to score centum in computer science but unfortunately the exam was cancelled,” said Subha M, principal, Mahatma Montessori CBSE School.However, principals still noted that most students were happy with the marks awarded for subjects of cancelled exams.“It was a good result overall. All 135 students in our school scored above 65%. The top scores in science and commerce streams were 485/500 while two students scored centum in English. In all other main subjects, the highest marks were only 99,” said Aruna M Visvessvar, senior principal and correspondent of Adhyapana School. In Queen Mira School, which had 39 Class XII students, the top score was 477/500 and the average score was 85%. “Compared to last year, we saw 2% increase in the performance of students,” said Sujatha Guptan, director of academics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-cbse-schools-achieve-good-results-in-class-xii/articleshow/76949134.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||No power generated at 1,050 MW TTPS for eight hours||Tuticorin: There was zero production at the 1,050 MW Tuticorin Thermal Power Station (TTPS) for more than eight hours on Monday after the 210 MW Unit II tripped at 3.04am. Among the five units at the station, only unit II had been working in the last few days. All the five units of the thermal power station have a uniform capacity of 210 MW each. Two units (I and III) were on a standby mode due to a drop in demand due to the lockdown. After unit II tripped, unit III started generating power and was synchronised with the grid at 11.12am. The chief engineer (CE) of the station told TOI that power generation was stopped in units I and III on Friday and Sunday respectively due to a drop in demand and an increase in the power generation from renewable energy sources such as wind energy. Stating that unit II will be fixed in two days, he said power generation would not be affected till then as unit I is ready and on a standby mode. Unit IV was shut on July 6 for annual overhauling. It is expected to be completed by this weekend and ready for generation. Unit V has been down for seven months after a part in the turbine was damaged in December. “The spare should come from Punjab. The process got delayed due to Covid-19. Once the spare is ready, it will take about a week for the transportation. Once it reaches the unit, it will be fixed in 15 to 20 days,” the CE added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-power-generated-at-1050-mw-ttps-for-eight-hours/articleshow/76949124.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||Class IX-XII syllabus may be cut by 30%, Goa board to decide today||PANAJI: Students studying from Class IX to XII may see as much as 30% of their syllabus trimmed, as a proposal to this effect was discussed by officials of the Goa board of secondary and higher secondary education (GBSHSE) during a marathon meeting via video conferencing on Monday. Its academic council is set to meet on Tuesday and take the call on truncating the syllabus. Any decision to trim the syllabus will only be applicable for the academic year 2020-21. Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant confirmed that the board of studies is working in this direction to cut down the syllabus for higher classes. However, there is no decision yet on the exact portions to be dropped from the syllabus. Further meetings with the board of studies are scheduled for discussions in this direction. “The Goa board has placed a proposal to reduce 30% of the syllabus for Classes IX to XII,” said a source. “The board of studies discussed the proposal, and is exploring whether they can truncate the syllabus due to the ongoing pandemic. The final decision to work out the modalities will be taken at the next meeting of the board of studies, which will be convened soon.” As Covid-19 cases in Goa rise, it is yet to become clear what the course for reopening of schools will be. The exact number of days of the academic year too is yet to be made known. Based on this, it will be decided how much of the syllabus needs to be trimmed. The syllabus from Class I to VIII comes under the purview of the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), and any decision on trunaction of syllabus for these lower classes will have to come from this body. After the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) took a decision to cut down the syllabus due to the ongoing pandemic and subsequent delay in reopening of schools, Goa Board is among the first few state boards to also take up such a move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-board-may-take-call-to-trim-syllabus-today/articleshow/76949147.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake Tinder profile of woman created||Ahmedabad: A 28-year-old woman from Isanpur who works for the education department was subjected to a horrific ordeal after an unknown person created a fake profile of her on Tinder and published her name and number. In an FIR at Isanpur police station, the woman stated that she received lewd messages and when she asked the senders where they got her number from, they said that her profile was on the Tinder dating application. Isanpur police lodged a complaint against an unknown person under the IT Act are identifying the device from which the Tinder profile was made. According to the FIR, the spate of messages and calls began at 10.49am on July 8 when she was at work. “The first caller identified himself as Joshil Panchal and said he got her number from Tinder. She told him she is not using the application and doesn’t have any account on it and ended the call,” said a police official. “A few minutes later, she got a WhatsApp message saying ‘Hi, Ritesh here, good morning from Tinder’. She told the sender that somebody was harassing her and asked him to provide her the details so she could lodge a police complaint. At 11.14am, another WhatsApp message hit her phone. At her request, the caller sent her a screenshot of the profile, which had her name, number and picture,” a police official said. Police officials said the woman received several disconcerting calls in the space of two hours. “She approached us and lodged a complaint against an unknown person for faking her profile and subjecting her to mental harassment,” said a senior Isanpur police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-tinder-profile-of-woman-created/articleshow/76949139.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Madurai||‘Madurai averaging about 300 cases per day’||Madurai: Covid-19 cases in Madurai have reached a record-high single day spike of 464 and four deaths on Monday, taking the overall total cases in the district to 6,539. There are 3,803 active cases while the death toll stands at 120. However, district health officials asserted that the trend in Madurai district has been more or less steady with an average of around 300 fresh cases per day since a rapid spike began by the end of June. Officials said that it was likely that numbers will remain constant for some time longer. Speaking to TOI, special monitoring officer for Covid-19 for Madurai, Dr B Chandramohan said the sudden spike was because samples sent to other districts for processing returned only on Monday. “Around 800 samples were sent to other districts for processing. Hence, this spike shouldn’t be seen as a single day increase. We have done more than 4,000 tests on Monday alone,” he said. With Madurai Medical College equipped with a capacity to test only around 2,500 samples per day, around 1,500 are sent to labs in other districts, including Coimbatore. The official further said that the situation in Madurai was stable as of now. “There has been no exponential rise so far. The focus now is on stabilising the trend by making use of complete lockdown for targeted testing,” said Chandramohan. Two days ago, after a gradual rise in active cases for days, the number started coming down with more people getting discharged every day. Till Monday, as many as 1,175 asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients were under monitored home isolation. “Active cases will come down if the situation remains stable since about 85-90% cases are asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic. Only around 10% cases are moderate cases while 2% are severe cases,” said Chandramohan. He also denied allegations of shortage of beds in hospitals and asserted that as of Monday, 1,150 beds were vacant in government facilities, while 818 were vacant in Covid-19 care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-averaging-about-300-cases-per-day/articleshow/76949141.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 60 private hospitals enrolled to treat Covid-19 cases yet to admit patients||CHENNAI: The private healthcare sector, particularly those in tier II and III cities, continue to be reluctant in joining the battle against Covid-19 in the state. Out of the 208 hospitals listed in the dashboard, 60 don’t have a single patient. TOI called up 10 of those hospitals without Covid patients located in Kallakurichi, Namakkal, Dindigul and Thanjavur, who either refused to admit patients or were non-committal. The hospitals cited lack of facilities such as isolation ward, separate entrance, lack of adequate doctors and staff. Some even said they didn’t have testing kits. “We refer Covid positives to the government hospitals as we do not have facilities for isolation ward,” said a representative from Sri Sanjeevi Hospital in Kallakurichi. Annai Medical Centre in Kallakurichi refused to give details of the vacant beds and did not commit on admitting a patient. “Let the patient come to the hospital. Our doctors would decide where they can be sent,” he said. A representative of Aravinth Hospital in Namakkal initially said they could refer the patient to another facility but later said they were ready to admit Covid patients. Diocese of Thanjavur Our Lady of Health Hospital, which has all the 59 beds available, said they are not in a position to admit Covid patients. “We don’t have a physician. We have informed about the situation to government health authorities,” said a representative of the hospital. Shifa Hospital in Dindigul said they would start admitting patients from next week, while St Joseph’s hospital in the same district said they would start admitting from Tuesday. “We have just got all the necessary arrangements for Covid ward ready,” said a hospital spokesperson. Several Covid patients from these districts are continuing to flock to places like Coimbatore where large corporate private hospitals admit them. PSG hospital in Coimbatore has taken in more than 150 patients from Kallakurichi. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that based on a TOI report, they have begun removing hospitals from the list that didn’t admit patients. “The exercise is not complete. It is a continuous process. We have asked all hospitals to treat Covid patients. No hospital can refuse a patient,” he said. President of the TN chapter of Indian Medical Association Dr C N Raja said private hospitals are cooperating with the government, but these hospitals have issues that need to be addressed. “Bigger hospitals are admitting Covid patients. It’s the smaller ones that are reluctant because of additional expenditure, manpower shortage and fear of losing other patients,” he said. A hospital in Dindigul said four of their staff left after their facility was enlisted for Covid treatment and more maintenance staff are reluctant to come. In semi–urban areas, regular patients stop visiting Covid hospitals cutting down the revenue. On the other hand, maintenance cost shoots up because of PPE, disinfecting the premises and altering the buildings to create isolation wards. “Staff also seek higher remuneration to work in Covid care since there is threat of getting infected. The government should pass a GO based on its earlier announcement of providing solatium to infected health workers,” Raja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/60-private-hospitals-enrolled-to-treatcovid-19-cases-yet-to-admit-patients/articleshow/76948506.cms||Komal Gautham
July 14, 2020||Vadodara||MSU’s instrumentation facility gets Rs10 crore grant||Vadodara: The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) has sanctioned Rs 10 crore grant to M S University’s Faculty of Science for Dr Vikram Sarabhai Institute of Cell and Molecular Biology, the university’s high-end central instrumentation facility.DBT which had earlier helped the university set up the facility and start the five-year integrated MSc programme in cell and molecular biology in 2012, has sanctioned this extension grant.“We have received the highest category grant from DBT under the builder programme, which is an extension of inter-disciplinary lifescience research and education,” said professor Sarita Gupta, coordinator of the project.“This grant will not only help in upgradation and maintenance of minor and major instruments, but it will also provide employability to junior research and post-doctoral fellows,” she said.Apart from Gupta, ten other investigators will be conducting research with the help of this grant. “DBT had earlier sanctioned Rs 13 crore in 2010 for setting up the facility. A major portion of the Rs 10 crore grant sanctioned now is non-recurring (it will go towards upgradation of old, minor and major instruments),” she said.“With the new grants, we can invite visiting scientists to provide better training to our students,” said Gupta, adding that the instrumentation facility is not only used to MSU but also by industries in and around Vadodara.Since 2012, when the five year integrated programme in cell and molecular biology was started, students enrolled in the programme have got opportunity to finish their dissertations at reputed national and international institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-instrumentation-facility-gets-rs10-crore-grant/articleshow/76946502.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Bhuse vows full support to NMC in fight against Covid||Nashik: State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, who hails from Malegaon outer constituency, on Monday assured the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to provide all help in its fight against Covid-19.The minister held a meeting with municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game along with other civic officials to review the pandemic scenario in the city. “The state government has approved Rs 5.75 crore for the NMC of which Rs 1.75 crore has been given to the civic body. The remaining Rs 4 core has been sent to the district collectorate,” Bhuse said.He also directed the civic chief to create adequate number of the beds for treating patients and recruit required medical staff through walk-in interviews at the earliest.The minister also asked the civic health officials to increas surveillance across the city for identifying suspected patients. “The civic body should alo take the local public representatives into confidence while conducting the survey,” Bhuse said.The minister also visited the new Bytco hospital and interacted with some of the Covid-19 patients. Leader of opposition in the NMC and Sena leader Ajay Boraste was also present with the minister.“We are increasing the number of ventilator beds from present 50 to 150, while oxygen beds are being increased from present 100 to 300 beds in the city,” an NMC health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhuse-vows-full-support-to-nmc-in-fight-against-covid/articleshow/77072816.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt. sticks to KEAM schedule, ignores calls to postpone exam||Thiruvananthapuram: A high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the state capital on Monday decided to go ahead with Kerala entrance examination for admission to professional degree courses (KEAM) which was scheduled on July 16. The chief minister said the government has no reason to further change the exam date. There were demands from several quarters for the revising the schedule, considering the rising number of Covid cases and tighter restrictions on the movement of people. The state entrance test was initially scheduled for May, but was later postponed to July 16 on account of Covid-19-related health emergencies. “There was a meeting with officials and secretary concerned on Monday morning. It’s was informed in the meeting that all arrangements are in place and the examination can be conducted smoothly without any change in schedule. Special arrangements would be made for students under observation. Separate rooms would be arranged for such candidates at exam centres. There would be no restrictions on them for reaching the exam centres,” the CM said. However, there will be a change in the exam venue in New Delhi. Instead of Kerala Education Society, SMS Marg, near Mandi House Metro Station, the exam will be conducted at J C Bose University of Science and Technology, YMA Sector 6, Mathura Road, Faridabad, said state commissioner for entrance examinations. Meanwhile, BJP state unit demanded the state government to postpone the examination, considering the ordeal in store for around one lakh students and their parents. Since public transport vehicles are off the roads, all candidates will have to depend on private vehicles to reach the examination venue. “Why the government is in an unnecessary hurry while highly competitive exams like JEE Mains and advanced are only held in September,” BJP state general secretary P Sudheer said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-sticks-to-keam-schedule-ignores-calls-to-postpone-exam/articleshow/76947676.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vadodara||Three booked for selling stolen cars in Vadodara using fake documents||Vadodara: The prevention of crime branch (PCB) of city police busted a gang of three persons that used to steal cars from Delhi and sell them off in Vadodara and neighbouring areas based on forged documents.The gang came under the radar after one of its members living in Akota used to get cars from outside and sell them quickly. “We seized the eight cars which the accused Tarun Nathani had sold to different people. When we contacted the original owners based on the engine and chassis number, we learnt that all cars were stolen from Delhi,” said sub-inspector R C Kanamiya of PCB. He added that the buyers of these cars in Vadodara and surrounding region were fooled by Nathani as he had used forged documents to sell these cars to them.Vadodara police then also informed Delhi crime-branch about it following which some cops came to Vadodara to check the cars. “Offences of vehicle theft were already registered there and when police officials of Delhi were in Vadodara, they got information about Nathani, they picked him up and took him to Delhi,” Kanamiya said.Investigations revealed that Nathani used to get cars from an Ahmedabad man named Guddu Ansari and another accused identified as Shakil. Shakil used to steal the cars and hand them over to Ansari, who would then prepare fake documents of the vehicle.The trio has been booked for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-booked-for-selling-stolen-cars-in-vadodara-using-fake-documents/articleshow/76946556.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Gold stands the test of time here||Amid the Covid chaos, the yellow metal crossed a historic high of Rs50,000 per 10g, but will that affect India’s obsession for gold jewellery? Not if lessons from antiquity are any indication rather it is like a legacy that has been handed down over a millennia. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/gold-stands-the-test-of-time-in-india/articleshow/76960735.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gold-stands-the-test-of-time-here/articleshow/76948522.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Only 5 patients in Shahuwadi in 2 weeks||Kolhapur: Shahuwadi tehsil, once considered a Covid-19 hotspot, has managed to turn the corner with only five new patients recorded in the past two weeks. According to official statistics, of the 191 positive patients in the tehsil, only nine are currently under treatment. Shahuwadi has also recorded just one Covid-related death. Officials attribute the earlier rise in the number of patients here to large-scale reverse migration from Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad in April and May. Chandgad and Gadhinglaj are the two other tehsils in Kolhapur district that have crossed the three-digit mark in Covid-19 patients. While Chandgad had 153 patients till Sunday night, Gadhinglaj identified 127. The tehsils have recorded one and five deaths, respectively. Ajara tehsil has 95 patients. Gaganbawda has recorded the lowest number of patients (7), followed by Hatkanangle (25) and Shirol (24). Among the urban areas, Ichalkaranji detected 127 patients, followed by Kolhapur city, which had 104 positive patients until Sunday night. Nine urban areas in the district, including Kolhapur city, have identified 249. Ichalkaranji has seen the highest number of deaths with 9 patients succumbing to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/only-5-patients-in-shahuwadi-in-2-weeks/articleshow/76946512.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bareilly||Two friends drown while crossing river in Bareilly||Bareilly: Two friends - both teenagers - were drowned while trying to cross the Nakatiya river in Bhojipura area of Bareilly district on Monday. Both belonged to farmers' families and were with their other friends who later pulled them out of the river. The two teenagers were then taken to a hospital where both were declared dead. The water level usually remains low in Nakatiya river. However, on Monday, additional water was released into the river from a nearby feeder canal. The deceased, identified as Dinesh Kumar, 18, and Ram Mohan, 14, were the residents of Bhola Manpur village. Ram was a student of Class IX while Dinesh was pursuing graduation from a private college. On Monday morning, Dinesh along with Ram, Kesar, Amar, Hitesh and Kapil were going to collect fodder for their cattle and they had to cross the river. Other friends refused to cross the river as the water level was higher than usual but Dinesh and Ram still went ahead. When they reached the middle of the river, they started drowning and screamed for help. The other teenagers immediately took the help of local farmers and rescued both the friends but they couldn't survive. Dinesh was the only son among three children of Sompal and Durgawati while Ram was the youngest amongst three brothers. His father Mangalsen had passed away eight years ago and he was raised by his elder brothers Jagmohan and Brijmohan. His mother Sarla Devi fainted after coming to know about his son’s death. Bhojipura SHO Manoj Kumar and his team rushed to the village and inspected the site. “Two teenagers died due to drowning and the bodies were taken by police. No FIR has been lodged in the case as there was no foul play,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-friends-drown-while-crossing-river-in-bareilly/articleshow/76945383.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 14, 2020||Kolhapur||No Kolhapur lockdown now, warning of one in Sangli district||KOLHAPUR: Within hours of district guardian minister Satej Patil announcing that there would not be a lockdown in Kolhapur district; two senior leaders said the decision would be reconsidered during a meeting with state health minister. After the lockdown was imposed in Pune, the demand for a similar measure has been growing. Though a meeting planned to discuss this demand didn’t take place, Patil spoke to district authorities, health experts and various stakeholders before announcing the decision. “There will not be lockdown in the district. I have, however, asked officials to do all that is needed to stop the spread of infection. The state government will back all their efforts,” Patil said. However, senior minister and NCP leader Hasan Mushrif and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti have sought lockdown in the district. “Satej and I are going to meet health minister Rajesh Tope to discuss possibilities of lockdown. There is need for lockdown to ensure slowing rate of covid cases,” Mushrif said. Ichalkaranji mayor Alka Swami said the textile town was in lockdown, but restrictions would be eased from Tuesday. She held a video conference with all members of the local civic body. All members are in home quarantine after one of them tested positive. They said even after imposing 100% lockdown, the cases are surging and textile mill workers are losing their workdays and wages. Sangli district guardian minister and NCP leader Jayant Patil warned a tough lockdown decision would have to be taken if people do not follow social distancing and wear masks. “We will be left with no option but to announce a lockdown if the situation continuese,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-kolhapur-lockdown-now-warning-of-one-in-sangli-dist/articleshow/76946551.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Will approach Bollywood to make a film on renowned Uttarakhand explorer Nain Singh Rawat, says tourism minister Satpal Maharaj||Dehradun: Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Monday said that he will try to have a Bollywood movie made on renowned 19th century explorer Pandit Nain Singh Rawat. “I will approach Bollywood to make a film on Nain Singhji,” the minister said while handing over a cheque of Rs 76,000 to Rawat’s descendants. Rawat was the first explorer to give a detailed report about Tibet, Buddhism, the Dalai Lama and the Brahmaputra during the 19th century. In five major expeditions between 1863 and 1875, Rawat explored many parts of Central Asia and even had a mountain range named after him near Ladakh, since no one had ever recorded its existence before. For his work, Rawat was given the Royal Geographical Society’s Patron’s medal in 1877. However, he was largely forgotten after his death. Even though the government issued a postal stamp in his memory several years ago and in 2017, Google paid a tribute to him through a doodle, his descendants have been living in penury in Pithoragarh area of Uttarakhand. “He used to walk with both legs tied with rope so that his steps remain of constant length. This kind of enthusiasm and dedication is rare. But it is so unfortunate that his descendants are living in tough conditions,” said Maharaj. The minister added, “Not just monetary help, we will also request the government to give Kamla Rawat, the only earning member in the family, a permanent job so that she can give a better life to her two sons.” Kamla is currently working on contract basis at Survey Of India, where Nain Singh was also employed during colonial times. The job was offered to her earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-approach-bollywood-to-make-a-film-on-renowned-uttarakhand-explorer-nain-singh-rawat-says-tourism-minister-satpal-maharaj/articleshow/76946539.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 14, 2020||Trichy||South Tamil Nadu crosses 20,000 count, toll 251; Central region count at 5,013||MADURAI/TRICHY: With as many as 1,160 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths on Monday, the overall figures in south Tamil Nadu have climbed to 20,543 cases and 251 deaths. Madurai district reported its highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 464 cases and four deaths on Monday. Meanwhile, with 262 cases, the central region of the state crossed the 5,000-mark on Monday. The death toll of the region also touched 47. The tally of the Covid-19 cases has climbed to 5,013 cases in the eight central districts on Monday. The number of cases has jumped from 4,000 to 5,000 in just five days. The state medical bulletin showed nine Covid-19 deaths -- five patients of Trichy, three patients of Thanjavur and one patient from Karur -- on Monday. The 464 cases in Madurai, includes 151 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 258 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 17 frontline workers, 11 pregnant women, one accused, and 24 others set to undergo medical procedures. The overall district tally has climbed to 6,539 cases, including 3,803 active cases and 120 deaths. The four deaths in Madurai recorded on Monday included two deaths at private hospitals and two deaths at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Three patients, two men and a woman, who had no co-morbid conditions and were aged below 55 years, died of Covid-19. A 72-year-old man with diabetes died of Covid-19 at GRH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-crosses-20k-count-toll-251-central-region-count-at-5013/articleshow/76949157.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nashik||CBSE Class XII results: Many breach 90%-mark||Nashik/Aurangabad: The CBSE Class XII results that came out on Monday reflected good performance by students across Nashik and Aurangabad, with many scoring more than 90% marks. In Nashik city, Army Public School (APS) in Devlali and Delhi Public School both achieved 100% results. APS-Devlali officials said the majority of students scored more than 90%. In the science stream, Umang Yadav has topped by scoring 97.6%. In commerce, Andreah Mathews is the topper with 94.6%, while Vaishnavi Kushwaha is the topper in the humanities stream with 94%. In DPS, Radhika Biswal topped in the science stream with 95.80% score. In the commerce stream, Kirtikosh Pareek bagged the top spot with 94.20% and Maryann George topped the humanities stream with 93.20%. In the Nashik Cambridge School, Gautam Bonthu emerged the topper in the science stream after scoring 93.40%. Neerav Hemani topped the commerce stream with 94.60%. According to the school, 10 students (eight in science and two in commerce streams) secured over 80% marks. At Kishore Suryawanshi International School, Simran Pinjari toped with 91%. In Aurangabad city too, several students scored exceptionally well. At the Nath Vally School, 44 students had appeared for the examination. Of them, 19 have secured 90% and more, while another 15 scored above 80%, a release said. Rudransh Sharma (98%), Radhika Panat (97.4%), Shravani Indurkar (97.2%), Gargi Palaskar (97%) and Tejas Pande (96.4%) are among the top scorers in the commerce stream at the school. Ishaan Mahajan, with 92.4%, topped the science stream. School principal Ranjit Dass has congratulated all successful students and teaching staff for registering the good performance. All students can check their Class XII results on the official website of the Board: cbse.nic.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbse-class-xii-results-many-breach-90-mark/articleshow/76946561.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Disabled complain of unclean, inaccessible toilets in care centres||Chennai: Differently abled people affected with Covid-19 who were accommodated at a government-run care centre in Broadway alleged that toilets at the facility remained unclean and inaccessible. A 42-year-old disabled man from Jeeva Nagar who tested positive on July 4 at a corporation’s fever camp arrived at Government Stanley Hospital two days later. After accessing his scan and X-ray results, he was shifted to the Covid care centre in Bharathi Women’s College in Broadway along with 10 others. By the time they reached, rooms on the ground floor were full and the disabled man had to use rooms on the first floor. Without a lift or ramp, he had a tough time climbing the steep steps to his bed. Then came the next shocker for him. There were no western-style closets in his block and he had to move a long way to use such closets in the adjacent block. “None of them were cleaned and they were stinking. Some were even broken. I didn’t understand how the government was expecting us to use them,” he told TOI. Bathrooms in the women’s block were even worse. The pathway to the makeshift bathrooms was filled with muck and patients had no other option but to walk over them. Poor sanitary conditions here would lead to several other health problems, said another woman patient at the care centre. When questioned, corporation officials said toilets were cleaned soon after some patients brought it to their attention and it was maintained properly since then. S Namburajan, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Caregivers (TANTARDAC) similar conditions prevailed even at Stanley hospital and others in rural areas could be much worse. “The government should come up with a comprehensive centre exclusively to treat differently abled people at least in the city. Only then, their basic needs like accessible toilets can be taken care,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/disabled-complain-of-unclean-inaccessible-toilets-in-care-centres/articleshow/76948523.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Rain ready: PWD speeds up repair work on reservoir in Tiruvannamalai||Chennai: This monsoon, the Shenbagathoppu reservoir in Tiruvannamalai district may be able to store water to its maximum capacity of of 287 million cubic feet and boost agricultural activities in 7,500 acres of land downstream in four taluks in Tiruvannamalai and Vellore districts.Tamil Nadu’s public works department (PWD), is speeding up installation of defunct shutters in the reservoir before the northeast monsoon sets in. The work on the reservoir across Kamandala Naga Nadhi, has been taken up at a cost of Rs16.37 crore and has been continuing since the first week of May despite the lockdown. It takes four days for a group of 16 labourers to erect a single shutter. Now, the workers are busy installing the shutter operating platform and motors. “We are planning a trial run of the shutters in mid-August to check its effectiveness,” said a senior PWD official.Once the work is complete, it would be a makeover for the two-decade-old reservoir that feeds 48 tanks. “It can store 1.7 times (487mcft) of the total water storage capacity in a year. It will also enable us to supply water for irrigation to raise two crops a year,” said the official.Hitherto, the water was stored upto 50% of the total capacity (42ft as against 62 ft) as the shutters were defunct. It left the farmers high and dry. The construction of the reservoir was taken up in 2001 and stopped abruptly in 2006 citing poor quality of work. It dashed the hopes of farmers in 30 villages downstream. After several protests and campaigns by the farmers attached to Shenbagathoppu Reservoir Users and Protectors Welfare Association, the government sanctioned the fund to restore the shutters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rain-ready-pwd-speeds-up-repair-work-on-reservoir-in-tiruvannamalai/articleshow/76948536.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Heavy rain very likely today, tomorrow, says IMD||PANAJI: The India meteorological department (IMD) has issued an orange alert this week with expected rainfall set to exceed 11.5cm in 24 hours. The department has said that on July 14 and 15 a few places are likely to receive heavy rainfall and isolated places very heavy rainfall. Wind speed of 25-35kmph has been forecast. The IMD has attributed the heavy rainfall to the strengthening of the westerly winds. After July 15, the intensity of rainfall over Goa is likely to reduce. However, heavy rainfall will occur at a few places till July 17, July 17, the IMD bulletin stated. A fishermen and port warning has been issued for up to 75km from the Goa-Maharashtra coast as squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph is likely to prevail on July 14 and 15. So, fishermen are advised not to venture out into sea. The IMD has stated that Panaji and surrounding areas are very likely to receive a few spells of heavy rainfall till July 15. On Monday, the state received moderate to heavy showers at most places with Quepem recording the highest amount of rainfall with 9cm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rain-very-likely-today-tomorrow-imd/articleshow/76949162.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu to sell renewable energy to western states||Chennai: The Raigarh-Pugalur 800kV ultra-high-voltage direct current (UHVDC) transmission line will now take renewable power from Tamil Nadu instead of bringing thermal power into the state. As per the original policy, nearly 4,000MW (total capacity of line is 6,000MW) of power from pit thermal units in Raigarh was to be brought through this line to Pugalur and from there 1,000MW was to be transferred to Kerala.But recently the Centre decided to use the line to transmit 3,000MW of wind and solar power from Tamil Nadu to the western states to help them fulfil their renewable power obligations (RPO). A Tangedco official said the decision was taken as TN was power surplus. It is a win-win situation for both Tamil Nadu and the western states. While TN can encash its renewable power generation capacity, the western states can comply with their RPO.Since the project was announced, there have been protests against installation of the line through agricultural fields, especially in western districts. To explain the danger posed by the project, protesters had demonstrated bulbs glowing on their own when brought close to existing transmission towers.According to the Central Transmission Utility (CTU), Tangedco can use the high voltage line to send renewable power but will have to pay to the utility for using the line. “Tangedco has agreed to pay for using the line. The agreement also states that TN can use the line to bring thermal power during summer, when the power demand is high in the state, from the north,” said the official. “Despite protests, many farmers offered to give land for the project and we managed to complete the project,” said a senior PowerGrid official in charge of southern states.  “It is ascertained by the Central Transmission Utility that the Raigarh-Pugalur HVDC corridor would be used for export of 3,000MW renewable energy to the western region. Since this corridor is going to be used for exporting renewable power from the southern region to rest of the country, it is requested that the corridor may be declared as strategic and of national importance,” said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in a memorandum presented to Union power minister R K Singh last week in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-to-sell-renewable-energy-to-western-states/articleshow/76948529.cms||B Sivakumar
July 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Activists protest by burning power bills across Maharashtra||Kolhapur: Activists and local leaders of several parties on Monday burnt the copies of electricity bills outside government offices across the state, demanding waiver of power bills for consumers with monthly consumption of less than 300 units. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) has issued combined bills for three months of the lockdown period, which irked the consumers as they are not in a position to pay the bills. The state government has given an option to pay the bills in three instalments and waiver of 2% of the bill amount if it is paid in a single instalment.Pratap Hogade, the president of Maharashtra Rajya Veej Grahak Sanghatna, said, “Activists, consumers from over 20 districts participated in the protest outside the government offices. We have a simple demand to waiver off the bills for consumers who were out of work for three months and hence cannot afford to pay the bills. The petitions were submitted to the district collectors for taking it up with the state government.” At Kolhapur, N D Patil, a veteran activist, led the protest outside the district collector’s office. After the protest, district guardian minister Satej Patil met N D Patil and assured the state government will try to provide relief to the consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/activists-protest-by-burning-power-bills-across-maharashtra/articleshow/76946576.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Life convict at Trichy prison tests positive||Trichy: A 49-year-old life convict in the murder case of former AIADMK MLA M K Balan tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The results came a day after he and three others were shifted from the Puzhal prison in Chennai to the Trichy Central Prison on Saturday. Prison officials said the convicts had undergone Covid-19 testing at Puzhal prison on Friday but were shifted to Trichy even before the results were announced. As soon as prison officials received the information on Sunday night, they immediately took him to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH), where he is undergoing treatment. The three others were isolated in a separate block in the prison. All the four were convicted along with several others in the Balan murder case in 2001 in Chennai. Balan had joined the DMK in 2001. The convicts had already spent 17 years in prison. This is the second Covid-19 positive case reported in Trichy Central Prison after another convict shifted from Puzhal prison had tested positive. He has recovered and is on parole. As of Monday, 1,450 prisoners have been lodged in the prison. Prison officials said that kabasura kudineer is being distributed to them thrice a week, for which the departments of Indian medicine and homeopathy provide 5kg powder every week. Homeopathy tablet Arsenic Album 30 and multivitamin tablets are also given to the prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/life-convict-at-trichy-prison-tests-positive/articleshow/76949169.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Flawed data: Dead listed under recovered group in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Can dead Covid-19 patients walk? It’s possible only as per health department figures, which describe a few deceased patients as ‘recovered and discharged’. This is among the multiple gaffes thrown up by tech-savvy Karnataka’s coronavirus data in the past 15 days. A 50-year-old Covid-positive woman (patient no. 13261) with a history of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and diabetes had died in Bengaluru on June 30. Her death was recorded in the government’s health bulletin on July 1. But the July 2 bulletin claimed she had recovered and was discharged in Chikkamagaluru, 250km from Bengaluru. A 48-year-old Covid patient (P-10930) passed away on June 23 in Bengaluru. Eleven days later, he was listed among those having been discharged. These are not isolated instances. Covid data trackers in the state’s tech capital claim bloopers have increased manifold in the recent weeks, especially after Bengaluru started witnessing an uptick in cases from June 27. City-based data tracker and 5ive Solutions CEO Vikram Shetty said: “The government has been doing great work with regard to data transparency, but the recent errors, which are reportedly caused because of clerical issues during manual entry, are a big let down and mar Bengaluru’s tech-city image. At least 200 cases of double discharges have come to light while sorting out and visualising data furnished by the government.” Many other data analytics experts have taken to social media to point to the glitches. “If the error rate is more in government-supplied data, room for suspicion is high. Data gaps show the authorities are not piecing the Covid puzzle correctly,” said an expert, adding that when it comes to list of recovered and discharged patients, the errors are more. In fact, Bengaluru has embarked on a discharge spree after its recovery rate dropped to 12% last week. Referring to a patient’s case (P-10038), Shetty said: “The 95-year-old man was admitted on June 21 and died on June 23. But the health department’s bulletin on June 24 mentioned him as a new Covid positive case with a history of influenza like illness (ILI). What’s more appalling is that the same patient was declared as discharged on July 5, 12 days after his death.” Another major blooper is to do with reporting of Covid fatalities. Deaths that make it to media reports and the public domain the same day are reflected in the official data only 15 days later. The lack of updation also reflects in daily tests and tracking the source of virus transmission in Bengaluru. The city is yet to come up with a real-time centralised database of number of beds available for Covid patients despite it reporting deaths due to lack of beds. Though a section of the city’s tech honhos has volunteered to help the government with data tools, there has been no development so far. A senior health department official admitted to the errors, saying steps are being taken to prevent them. “We are not hiding anything. It’s more a tabulation error triggered while entering inputs,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/flawed-data-dead-listed-under-recovered-group-in-karnataka/articleshow/76947714.cms||Rakesh Prakash
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Online crop loan application proposed||Nashik: Farmers who wish to apply for crop loans can do so without having to step out of their homes by filing the applications online, additional collector Dattaprasad Nade said. The officer was speaking at a meeting of bank officials and the agriculture department. He said banks should come up with provisions to allow farmers to apply for crop loans from their homes instead of making them run from pillar to post. “Only farmers who are applying for loans afresh can apply through kcc.setuonline.com (Kisan credit card) through their mobile phones. They need not visit the banks or government offices,” Nade said. Farmers who already have applied for the loan or have balance in their KCC need not apply again. Nade pointed out that the system is applicable to all private, government and cooperative banks across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/online-crop-loan-application-proposed/articleshow/76946579.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara students pass with flying colours||Vadodara: A majority of schools scored 100% results even as students passed with flying colours as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared the results of Class XII on Monday.All 73 students of Delhi Public School (DPS), Harni passed with flying colours. Navya Parikh topped the school in science with 97.8% while Dhruvil Gandhi topped in commerce stream with 94.4%.Venu Parikh topped humanities with 98.4% at DPS, Vadodara at Kalali. She had earlier stood third in the city in Class 10. “We had 187 students including 107 in science, 56 in commerce and 24 in humanities. While Parikh has topped in humanities, Haikoo Khandor has topped in science with 97.4% and Chugh Simran Ashwini has topped in commerce with 96.4%,” said principal A K Sinha.Navrachana School, Sama, which had a batch of 216 students, too, registered cent per cent results. Vishwa Joshi topped humanities with 98.2%. Noopur Kodithottathil and Jhanvi Sahni topped in science and commerce streams with 97.8% and 96.6% respectively, informed principal Suprabha Menon.At the Navrachana International School (NISV), toppers of all three streams were girls. “While Kashvi Shah and Amolika Kumar topped in science and commerce streams respectively with 96% each, Sanaa Balaji topped humanities with 98%,” said NISV’s principal Theo D’Souza.Principal of Bright Day School CBSE unit (Vasna-Bhayli Road) Bhavik Parekh informed that 69 students in science, 44 in commerce and 23 in humanities cleared their exams.“Kush Shah topped in science with 96.6%. Parthiv Gandhi and Raj Golwala topped in commerce with 96.2% while Tulika Dubey topped in humanities with 98%,” he said.Principal of Bright Day School’s CBSE unit (Harni), Neeta Sharma, informed that all 81 students cleared their exams while Ria Tahiliani topped science with 95.8%.A total of 176 students including 95 in science and 54 in commerce stream had appeared from Urmi School. In science stream, Rakshit Pandey topped the school with 98.2% while in commerce stream, Rana Tanvi topped with 94.6%.Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s V M Public School had 42 students in science and 48 students in commerce stream.“In science stream, Stuti Joshi topped the school with 95.8 %. Harsh Kewalramani and Chesna Sorathiya topped in commerce stream with 92.6%,” the school informed.At Cygnus World School, all students passed with first division. Michelle Salil Abraham scored highest in science with 95.40% while Vandita Malhotra scored highest in commerce stream with 97.2%.At Gujarat Public School, Atladara, Vishal Gosain topped science stream with 96.8% while Sakina Alisagar topped commerce stream with 94.4%.At Green Valley High School, Vedant Shah topped science with 98%.A total of 45 students including 26 from commerce and 19 from science had appeared for the board exams from Vibgyor Group of Schools. Ibrahim Mithiborwala topped in commerce with 95.4 % while Pranshil Patel topped in science with 85%. At Nizampura-based New Era Senior Secondary School Heeaa Khosla topped humanities with 99 %. In science stream, Shrikar Venkatesha scored 96.8% while Darsh Kotastane topped in commerce with 96.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-students-pass-with-flying-colours/articleshow/76946657.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Three deaths, 55 new cases in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The district has reported 55 fresh Covid-19 patients and three deaths due to the infection on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 1,299 and the death toll to 28. Of the total number of cases, 404 are active. Meanwhile, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has decided to video record wedding ceremonies taking place to keep a check on the number of guests invited. On Monday, a team of KMC officials visited a wedding in Rajarampuri and found that there were more guests than permitted. The officials said the wedding hall operator will be booked for allowing more than 50 guests. District collector Daulat Desai has ordered private hospitals to convey details of suspected Covid patients immediately to the local administration. 40 cases in Sangli As many as 40 new Covid cases were reported on Monday in Sangli district , along with 2 deaths. With this, the total number of cases rose to 681 and 21 casualties were reported so far. Both the deceased were from Miraj town. Of the fresh cases, 18 are from Sangli Miraj Kupwad Municipal Corporation limits while the rest are from rural parts. There are 321 active cases. Meanwhile, the Sangli Zilla Parishad will recruit 334 doctors for three months. Since the cases are increasing rapidly in rural parts of the district, the doctors and other medical staff are facing severe strain due to workload. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said there is a need to increase ICU beds at Miraj Civil Hospital to cope with the increase in number of patients with severe conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/three-deaths-55-new-cases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76946586.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Tested in Delhi, man deboards train at Ngp on getting +ve report||Nagpur: A 29-year-old man, who deboarded Bengaluru-bound train (02692) on Sunday at around 10.30am after receiving a call informing him about his Covid positive status, has been found to be asymptomatic and is reported to be stable at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) on Monday.Another passenger, who was aboard 02295 Sanghamitra Express (Bengaluru to Danapur), is yet to be tested for Covid-19, but is under observation at IGGMCH.The 29-year-old had complained of breathlessness and was reported by fellow passengers to the TTE who informed the station duty officer at Nagpur.Central Railway’s assistant commercial manager Vipul Suskar told TOI that the 29-year-old passenger had received a call in moving train about his Covid test result at Delhi. “He got down at Nagpur and informed duty officer. As per standard procedure, he was referred to IGGMCH. By then, the train New Delhi-Bengaluru (02692) had departed, but the coach was sanitized and sealed at Ballarshah. Passengers were accommodated in other coach,” he said.Suskar said the 29-year-old passenger had complained of breathlessness. “He was examined by railway doctor who referred him to IGGMCH,” he said.“Ideally, passengers shouldn’t travel if they have been tested for coronavirus. Railways is taking due care and screening all passengers at the entrance. But it is difficult to know if someone has been tested or is under observation,” he said.Mayo hospital sources said all close contact passengers of the 29-year-old on New Delhi-Bengaluru train should have been quarantined in Nagpur itself. TOI tried to reach the 29-year-old man, but his phone remained switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tested-in-delhi-man-deboards-train-at-ngp-on-getting-ve-report/articleshow/76947707.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 14, 2020||Goa||CBSE Class XII results out, 95% clear it in Goa||PANAJI: Over 95% of those who appeared for the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) Class XII exams, the results of which were declared on Monday, cleared it. Of the 587 students who appeared from Goa, 558 — 255 boys and 303 boys — cleared it. While the girls recorded a pass percentage of almost 97%, 93.5% of the boys who appeared cleared the exam. For the CBSE, Goa falls under the Pune region, under which nearly 22,000 students appeared for the Class XII exam. The region recorded an overall pass percentage of 90.2%, with Goa’s pass percentage higher than the regional pass percentage. From the Navy Children’s School, Chicalim, 85 students appeared for the exam. Principal Anupama Mehra said that science stream student Sunidhi Rana emerged the school topper, with an overall percentage of 96.6%. In the commerce stream, Nandini Vengurlekar topped the school scoring 94.4%, while the humanities stream saw Siddhivi Singh topping the stream with 96.2%. “Since CBSE had to change the marking scheme because of the pandemic and an internal assessment was taken, the pass percentage of Pune region has come down. Hats off to CBSE that they could declare the result even in this pandemic in record time,” said Mehra. Meanwhile, principal of Vidya Vikas Academy, Margao, Joble Bijoy, said the institute is happy to achieve 100% results at the examination. “Sriya Rallabandi topped with 95.8%. Thirty students scored distinction, of which 11 are above 90%. We congratulate our students and teachers for the outstanding results,” said Bijoy. Director of Sunshine School, Old Goa, Deepak Khaitan said that all 29 students from his school, who appeared from the three streams, cleared the exam. “The highest score was 88.7% and the average marks scored were 71%,” said Khaitan. Kendriya Vidyalaya I and II in Vasco, in Ponda and Kendriya Vidyalaya INS Mandovi, Verem, all attained 100% results. “From KV INS Mandovi, 27 students appeared and passed in the science stream and all scored above 75%. The top scorers were Rishon Fernandes with 95.4%, followed by Sharon Rodrigues with 95.4%. In commerce stream, 15 appeared and all cleared the exam with four scoring over 75%. The top scorers were Junaid Bhati with 89.6% and Gowri S with 87.2%,” school principal Ravi Pratap Singh said. Singh, who is also incharge of KV Ponda, said that 16 students appeared in the science stream from the school and cleared the exam. The top scorer was Bhavika Singh with 96.2% Margao’s Kings School also saw all students clear the exam. The top scorers were Aakash Kamat with 97.2% and Anisha Nadkarni with 97%. Principal of the residential Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Canacona, Animesh Pal, said, “All 35 students from the school cleared the exam, we got a 100% result. The average score by students was 81.8%. We offer only the science stream, and Siddharth Katoch topped with 96.2%.” **** gfx Registered Boys - 327 Girls - 263 Total - 590 Appeared Boys - 324 Girls - 263 Total - 587 Passed Boys - 303 Girls - 255 Total - 558 Pass percentage Boys - 93.52% Girls - 96.96% Total - 95.06%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cbse-class-xii-results-out-95-clear-it-in-goa/articleshow/76949178.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Fire official dies due to asphyxiation during rescue mission in Perambalur||Trichy: A 36-year-old fireman attached to the Perambalur town fire service station died of asphyxiation during the efforts to rescue two people trapped in an open well near Perambalur town on Sunday night. According to sources, explosives used to deepen and augment water level of the private well discharged poisonous gas causing the death. While one of the two people trapped in the well also died of asphyxiation, the other man was rescued by the fireman before he fainted.The fireman, who joined service in 2006, was identified as R Rajkumar, from Uthamapalayam in Theni district. Sources said that 65ft-deep well in Selliyampalayam village was deepened on Saturday to augment the water level. The well owner, Murugesan had hired men to drill side bores using explosives.On Sunday evening, two men, R Radhakrishnan and P Baskar, were sent into the well by Murugesan to check the water level. As the duo did not return for a long time, Perambalur fire station was alerted. Since Radhakrishnan and Baskar were battling for life, firemen including Rajkumar, on arriving at the spot, entered the well using a rope without checking the oxygen level. Rajkumar, after being lowered into the well, rescued Baskar, after which he fainted.Other fire personnel then pulled up both the Rajkumar and Radhakrishnan using ropes. While Radhakrishnan succumbed on the spot, Rajkumar lost his life while being taken to Perambalur GH. “We had breathing apparatus but the well owner did not inform us about the usage of explosives in the well,” U Damodaran, district fire officer (in-charge), Perambalur told TOI. Fire service department said that they would have sprayed water or arranged safety measure to evade the poisonous gas impact if the well owner had alerted them about the explosives. Perambalur police are investigating the incident. The mortal remains of Rajkumar were taken to his native in Uthamapalayam on Monday. Rajkumar is survived by his wife and two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fire-official-dies-due-to-asphyxiation-during-rescue-mission-in-perambalur/articleshow/76949176.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Agra||Gang that duped 300 defence services aspirants of nearly Rs 20 cr busted||Agra: An inter-state gang of fraudsters, who duped nearly 300 defence services aspirants of nearly Rs 20 crore by promising to help them clear the examination process, has been busted by the Agra police. The kingpin of the gang, Rakesh Chaudhary, who is the son of a village pradhan in Tajganj area, has been arrested on Monday. According to police, the gang was operating in Agra, Bareilly, Sitapur, Meerut, Farrukhabad, Shahjahanpur and other districts. Earlier, police managed to arrest six members of the gang -- including Satish Jaat of Hathras; Uday Yadav and Surender Thakur of Dholpur; Jitender Singh of Bulandshahr and Sarvind of Shamli. The other gang members -- Sadhu Yadav, Sachin, Rahul Pandey and Suryakant -- are on the run, police said. Agra senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar said, “The gang was operating since 2013 and had duped over 300 defence services aspirants. From each victim, the gang used to charge up to Rs 5.50 lakh by promising to help him/her clear the written, physical and medical examinations for recruitment to the defence services.”“The gang leader, Rakesh Chaudhary, had attempted to clear the exams several times but failed. He even took the help of forged documents to write the exams. Later, he and his accomplices started duping aspirants who wanted to join the defence services. The accused amassed crores of rupees,” said the SSP.Police recovered a new hatchback, iPhone 11 Pro Max and forged documents of candidates. The gang also used to prepare fake domicile and medical certificates to help candidates, said police. In certain cases, the gang would dupe the aspirants by claiming to provide them with leaked papers ahead of the examinations, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/gang-that-duped-300-defence-services-aspirants-of-nearly-rs-20-cr-busted/articleshow/76946591.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala and Tamil Nadu forest officials save baby gaur caught in snare||KOCHI: Timely action by forest officials of Kerala and Tamil Nadu helped save the life of baby gaur which was moving around with a snare trap loop twisted around its neck at Bodi, bordering Theni forest division on Sunday. Forest officials also recovered 12 such metal and nylone rope snares laid at a private farm with Quince Pear trees, which falls under Tamil Nadu forest division and arrested two persons. The one-and-a-half-year-old calf in a distressed state was first spotted by a team of officials led by Munnar wildlife warden R Lakshmi on July 8. “Though we launched a search operation we could not trace it. Later we identified the herd which was crossing over from Tamil Nadu side and found the calf,” said Lakshmi. Though they had found the gaur calf on Saturday, they could not capture it because of bad light. “On Sunday morning we tranquilized the gaur calf with help of veterinary doctors and removed the snare. The calf, which was treated for injuries, was released later in the evening,” said Lakshmi. Forest officials of Pampadum Shola National Park said while they regularly organise combing operations, this is the first time that they came across snares being used. “They were not laid by professional poachers but by staff working in the private estates. They are mostly aimed at small animals. The gaur calf must have got caught in the snare accidentally,” said a forest official. The arrested men were handed over to their Tamil Nadu counterparts. Pampadum Shola, with an area of 12 sq km, is considered the smallest national park in Kerala and is part of Munnar wildlife division. “On Monday we spotted the calf being suckled by the mother and it was a happy moment for all of us,” said Lakshmi. A Supreme Court bench headed by Justice S A Bobde had issued notices to central and state governments, including Kerala, in a plea challenging use of snares to trap and ward off wild animals. The petition, seeking issuance of guidelines for creation of a standard operating procedure (SOP), was filed by advocate Vibek Narayan Sharma in the backdrop of death of a pregnant elephant in Mannarkad forest division. Watch Forest officials rescue baby gaur caught in snare in Tamil Nadu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forest-officials-save-baby-gaur-caught-in-snare/articleshow/76947711.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Infra not inspected before enlistment, say some hospitals||CHENNAI: The state dashboard may have enlisted private hospitals that can treat Covid-19 patients, but these hospitals say they do not have adequate facilities to treat Covid cases. For instance, a hospital in Thanjavur said they just have one physician. Since the lone physician was aged, he was not visiting the facility for fear of contracting the virus. “We have intimated the health authorities. They have assured us that once Covid cases surge in the district and the need for admitting patients in our hospital arises, a physician would be deputed,” said a representative from the hospital. Another doctor said his hospital specializes in orthopaedics, but was enlisted for Covid treatment. These hospitals had submitted a letter of willingness to the state government saying they would admit and treat Covid patients. Health experts said government officials should have inspected these hospitals before bringing them onboard. One hospital in Theni said inspections were not made and that the district authorities told them that they need not admit patients for now. “We were told that when required we may be converted into a Covid hospital,” the representative said. Dr C N Raja, president of the TN chapter of Indian Medical Association, said the process involves setting up a team headed by the joint director health who would visit these hospitals and check if the required facilities such as separate entrance & exit points, isolation wards, required staff, sanitary workers, doctors and other medical facilities such as oxygen-supported bed and ventilators are available. “However, that is not being done. Those hospitals that were in the CM health insurance scheme were asked to compulsorily dedicate 25% of their beds to Covid patients,” he said. According to the Clinical Establishment Act, a dedicated Covid hospital should have separate entrance and exit points. They should have all infection prevention and control practices as listed in the act included proper ventilated rooms. “But how will we treat them when we don’t have a separate entrance and an exit point. Also, our doctors are not willing to treat Covid patients,” said a representative from Sri Sanjeevi hospital in Kallakurichi. Suspected Covid patients and Covid positive patients should also be in separate wings. “Small and medium hospitals have just 30-100 beds. They should either be converted into a dedicated Covid hospitals and other patients should not be treated there. Otherwise, it is difficult for them to manage both,” said Dr Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/infra-not-inspected-before-enlistment-say-some-hospitals/articleshow/76948528.cms||Komal Gautham
July 14, 2020||Nashik||Lasalgaon mkt reopens, 23,000 quintal onions auctioned||Nashik: Onion supply increased at Lasalgaon APMC after it reopened after a week on Monday. The market remained shut after an onion trader tested positive for Covid-19. Officials from APMC said, “Usually, 15,000 quintal of onions are auctioned at APMC. A large number of farmers brought in their produce on Monday with hopes of a better auction. Around 1,350 vehicles with over 23,000 quintal of onions were auctioned in two sessions on Monday.” The average wholesale price of onion was recorded at Rs 760 per quintal on Monday. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 300 and Rs 991 per quintal respectively. Meanwhile, the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) also procured around 800 quintal of onions from Lasalgaon APMC on Monday. So far, Nafed has procured around 35,000 quintal of onions from Lasalgaon. According to APMC officials, the average wholesale price of onions are expected to be in the range from Rs 750 to Rs 900 per quintal for the next four to five days. Meanwhile, Lasalgaon APMC also started auction of pomegranates from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lasalgaon-mkt-reopens-23000-quintal-onions-auctioned/articleshow/76946607.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 14, 2020||Trichy||BDU to accept research only if paper published in journal with UGC nod||Trichy: PhD students of Bharathidasan University (BDU), from August, will be allowed to submit their research work only if they have their papers published in the list of journals approved by the University Grants commission (UGC). It is mandatory for a PhD student to submit at least two research papers in reputed journals before submission of their research work.However, the decision has been criticized by a large section of faculty members and students, who fear that PhD work of many students would be delayed because of this.“The UGC has been frequently changing the approved list of journals in recent years and also discontinuing many journals that were approved at an earlier stage. This is a matter of concern,” said state vice-president of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association (TNGCTA), G Ramesh.How can PhD students be made accountable for discontinuation of a research journal by UGC if the student had published a paper when the journal was in the approved list, he asked.Speaking to TOI, BDU registrar, G Gopinath said they have seen cases where PhD students were found to have published research papers in journals after UGC removed them from the list of approved journals. The registrar further said the university is only asking the students to ensure that the journal is in the approved list of UGC at the time of publishing research papers.The research section of BDU has the latest list of approved journals based on which the decision has been taken. If students believe that the journal was in the approved list when they published their paper, synopsis will be accepted if they furnish supporting documents, said the registrar.M Selvam, president, teachers’ association of Bharathidasan University, said the circular from registrar should have been clear about the students, who have already published papers when the journals were in the approved list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-to-accept-research-only-if-paper-published-in-journal-with-ugc-nod/articleshow/76949181.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 14, 2020||Ranchi||Bihar hosp under lens for releasing Covid-19 suspect||Dumka: The Godda district administration on Monday questioned the role of Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur (Bihar) for discharging a suspected Covid-19 patient with comorbidities without conducting the mandatory tests, ‘which lead to his death in sadar hospital on Saturday night’. Deputy commissioner Kiran Kumari said the deceased was a state government employee who was admitted to JLNMCH a week ago. “The 50-year-old man was suffering from various ailments, including diabetes, pneumonia, hypertension, among others, but JLNMCH discharged him in a critical condition without even testing him for Covid-19,” she added. The man’s condition deteriorated on Saturday after returning to Godda and was later admitted to Mahgama sub-divisional hospital where he tested positive for Covid-19. He was referred to sadar on that night itself and the constant travelling deteriorated his health, Kumari claimed. She said the patient was given all the necessary medical facilities, including respiratory support, but to no avail. “He could have been saved if his Covid test was done on time by JLNMCH as per the established protocol,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bihar-hosp-under-lens-for-releasing-covid-19-suspect/articleshow/76947708.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Rising costs leave oxygen makers panting, yet to choke hospitals||Nagpur: Covid outbreak has also left the medical oxygen makers panting due to rising overheads. There is no dearth of the product, but units engaged in making the gas are facing tough times due to rising costs.Apart from hospitals, the gas is also used in industries. As industrial activity was at a low, the demand had come down to negligible levels from March to May. The units, however, were kept operational to meet the hospital demand. The units ran at losses from March to May as catering to the hospitals was not enough to recover the cost of operating the entire set up.Even as the industrial demand has picked up, it is not enough, said sources in the gas making business. There has been a marked increase in the overheads too. The major input cost goes towards electricity bill and fuel. Over the period of time these overheads have gone up by 10% and 25% respectively, hitting the margins. “Finally the margins are being affected and the industry is planning to seek a rate revision from hospitals. It is not that a rate hike will be imposed soon, but the manufacturers have certainly begun negotiations,” said an oxygen maker requesting anonymity.If the manufacturers are looking forward to negotiate a rate hike, hospitals said they were in a comfortable position. Actually, the demand for oxygen has dipped due general reduction in admissions, they said.Dr Anup Marar, director of Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI), said , “Already 80% of the beds have been reserved for non-Covid management in all private hospital but Covid patients too are not many in the private set ups.”Dr Milind Fulpatil, officer in special duty (OSD) for the government’s Superspecialty Hospital (SSH), said a private agency supplied oxygen to them and there was no problem in procurement. The superintendent of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), Dr Sagar Pandey, also confirmed there was no shortage of oxygen.There are a handful oxygen makers in the city. Those engaged in providing oxygen cylinders buy it in liquid form from a larger unit.A source in one of the units said, “We have already implemented a minor increase in price for some hospitals but there is scope of further increase. If the hospitals don’t agree, we may have to pass the burden on industries.”The rate of oxygen is fixed by the government. It comes to Rs 18 per cubic metre of gas. This is the upper ceiling or the MRP. “So far, the rates have been within the upper limit. The manufacturers are now asking for a hike, of course within permissible limits,” said a source in a cylinder supplying company. The rates are different for each hospital depending on the location as the transportation expenses are recovered too, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rising-costs-leave-oxygen-makers-panting-yet-to-choke-hospitals/articleshow/76947716.cms||Shishir Arya
July 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Almatti discharge brings down Krishna water level||Kolhapur: The Almatti dam on the Krishna river in Karnataka, has started water discharge at the rate of 46,130 cusec. Almatti — fed by heavy and consistent rainfall as well as discharge from upstream dams — currently has 75.49% stocks. To avoid backwater pressure, which causes the Krishna river (and its tributaries) to swell in the Sangli district, the discharge has been increased, revealed a Sangli irrigation department report. Due to Almatti discharge, the Krishna water level at Irwin Bridge in Sangli has come down from 10ft on Saturday to 8.3ft. Koyna and Radhanagari are also discharging water at 2,167 cusec and 1,450 cusec, respectively. Though the overall rainfall in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts has reduced, there have been showers in the catchment areas. Koyna in Satara district is 40% full while Radhanagari in Kolhapur district has 50% stocks. Panchaganga river water level declined from 23ft on Saturday to 17.7ft on Sunday. However, eight barrages are still submerged. A senior official of the irrigation department’s Kolhapur division said: “We are in touch with the north Karnataka irrigation department. On our request, Almatti the discharge has started. By August 15, we will ensure that the dams are not filled beyond 50% to avoid flooding. To achieve this target, frequent discharges will be done.” Only Gangapur & Darna gain in Nashik district Meanwhile, in Nashik district, uneven rainfall has reduced the water flowing into most of the 23 major and medium dams to a trickle. The Gangapur and Darna dam complexes are the exceptions thanks to rain in Trimbakeshwar and Igatpuri talukas. Water levels in most other dams remain unchanged in the first fortnight of July. The rainfall in Igatpuri added 1,883 mcft of water to the Darna dam complex increasing storage by 34%. The dam complex, which provides drinking water to parts of Nashik, Ahmednagar and Aurangabad districts, currently has 7,488 mcft of water. Similarly, the water level at the Gangpur dam complex, which supplies water to Nashik city, rose by 19%. According to the water resources department, heavy showers are still awaited in Nashik city. “The stats show there was 136% rainfall by the end of June 2020. However, most of the rainfall was in the first few days of June when Cyclone Nisarg had struck the region. Thereafter, the district has not had heavy rain,” officers said. “Two days after Mumbai gets heavy rainfall, the Nashik region also gets rain. We are waiting for the rains in Mumbai,” the officer said.  — Inputs from Abhilash Botekar in Nashik||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/almatti-discharge-brings-down-krishna-water-level/articleshow/76946603.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Agra||14 more test +ve for Covid in Agra||Agra: At least 14 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Monday, taking the district tally to 1,411. These included two patients suffering from coronary artery disease, three suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, three patients of severe acute respiratory infection and a kidney patient. Moreover, seven Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Out of the 1,411 cases reported in the district, 81.8% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 168 active Covid-19 cases now in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,154 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door checks of the people in hotspot areas, and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/14-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-agra/articleshow/76946609.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Agra||85% students pass CBSE Class XII exams in Agra||Agra: Of the 12,640 students of 87 schools who had appeared for the CBSE Class XII Board exams in Agra district, more than 85% qualified. The results were declared on Monday. A majority of the students who secured above 95% marks were girls. Topping the district was Aditi Gupta of Delhi Public School who secured 99.6% marks. "Staying focused on studies is key to my success," said Aditi, who aspires to join the IAS cadre. Divyansh of Symboyzia School secured 99% marks. Terming the results "unexpected", he aims to become a chartered accountant one day. Both Astha Gupta of Sumit Rahul Memorial School and Sandeep Singh of All Saints School secured 98.6% marks each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/85-students-pass-cbse-class-xii-exams-in-agra/articleshow/76946649.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||NGT removes stay on Rayalaseema lift irrigation project||AMARAVATI: In a relief to the state government, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday removed the stay on the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme and gave the green signal for calling tenders for it. The NGT, however, directed the Centre to explain whether the project requires environmental clearances and the case has been posted to August 11. This comes in the wake of the irrigation department contending that the proposed lift irrigation scheme is not new and it will not draw any additional quota of water from the Srisailam project. It has only made a few changes to the old design, it argued. Moreover, the water resources department has readied a detailed blueprint to take up the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme without violating the tribunal’s awards and water sharing agreements with neighbouring Telangana. The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme is set to be a game-changer for the region as it aims to provide assured water to the entire 19 lakh acres in the four districts. So far, the partially-completed irrigation schemes could occasionally help irrigate about eight lakh acres while the remaining 11 lakh acres were left parched. The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme, when completed, will draw three TMC of water per day (up to 8tmc) from Sangameswaram and pump it into the Srisailam right main canal (SRMC). While most of the schemes of Telangana such as Kalwakurthy LIS, Palamuru – Rangareddy LIS and Srisailam Left Power generation station are drawing water even when the level at Srisailam reservoir is at 800 ft and below to a total of 28,000 cusecs per day which is about 2.5 TMC of water per day, AP is drawing only 795 cusecs of water from Mutchumarri LIS that is not even 0.1 TMC per day at the same level. Although Srisailam received rainwater in six spells in 2019-20, nearly 600 TMC of water went unutilised into the sea due to poor infrastructure to store even 120 TMC o water in the Rayalaseema region. As per the agreement between AP and Telangana, the share of Rayalaseema in Krishna water is 144tmc from the total AP’s quota of 512 tmc. Telangana got 299 tmc. Keeping in view of the perennial drought situation in Rayalaseema, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the irrigation department to ramp up the existing infrastructure and draw water up to eight TMC per day. Hence, the designs have been readied to improve the discharge capacities of the canals and tap maximum water during the peak flood season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ngt-removes-stay-on-rayalaseema-li-project/articleshow/76954224.cms||Samdani MN
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||NGT removes stay on Rayalaseema lift irrigation project||AMARAVATI: In a relief to the state government, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday removed the stay on the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme and gave the green signal for calling tenders for it. The NGT, however, directed the Centre to explain whether the project requires environmental clearances and the case has been posted to August 11. This comes in the wake of the irrigation department contending that the proposed lift irrigation scheme is not new and it will not draw any additional quota of water from the Srisailam project. It has only made a few changes to the old design, it argued. Moreover, the water resources department has readied a detailed blueprint to take up the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme without violating the tribunal’s awards and water sharing agreements with neighbouring Telangana. The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme is set to be a game-changer for the region as it aims to provide assured water to the entire 19 lakh acres in the four districts. So far, the partially-completed irrigation schemes could occasionally help irrigate about eight lakh acres while the remaining 11 lakh acres were left parched. The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme, when completed, will draw three TMC of water per day (up to 8tmc) from Sangameswaram and pump it into the Srisailam right main canal (SRMC). While most of the schemes of Telangana such as Kalwakurthy LIS, Palamuru – Rangareddy LIS and Srisailam Left Power generation station are drawing water even when the level at Srisailam reservoir is at 800 ft and below to a total of 28,000 cusecs per day which is about 2.5 TMC of water per day, AP is drawing only 795 cusecs of water from Mutchumarri LIS that is not even 0.1 TMC per day at the same level. Although Srisailam received rainwater in six spells in 2019-20, nearly 600 TMC of water went unutilised into the sea due to poor infrastructure to store even 120 TMC o water in the Rayalaseema region. As per the agreement between AP and Telangana, the share of Rayalaseema in Krishna water is 144tmc from the total AP’s quota of 512 tmc. Telangana got 299 tmc. Keeping in view of the perennial drought situation in Rayalaseema, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the irrigation department to ramp up the existing infrastructure and draw water up to eight TMC per day. Hence, the designs have been readied to improve the discharge capacities of the canals and tap maximum water during the peak flood season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ngt-removes-stay-on-rayalaseema-li-project/articleshow/76946618.cms||Samdani MN
July 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Now, private hospitals must reserve 20% ICU beds for Covid patients||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the state government has decided “to make it mandatory for private hospitals to reserve 20% of beds in their ICUs exclusively for Covid management”. Sawant chaired a meeting with health minister Vishwajit Rane, chief secretary Parimal Rai and health secretary Nila Mohanan to review and strengthen the state’s Covid management. Speaking on the increase in number of Covid deaths, the chief minister said that those who succumbed to the virus had comorbidities. “Of the total deaths, about four to five were suffering from cancer, eight to 10 were in the 80 to 85 age group, and one died due to liver failure. We have to understand that the deaths are increasing due to comorbid conditions,” Sawant said. Meanwhile, reacting to Dr Edwin Gomes, who headed the ESI-Covid hospital, testing positive, Sawant said, “Dr Gomes has helped hundreds of patients win the battle against coronavirus, and I am confident he will emerge victorious in his battle too. I wish him a speedy recovery.” Governor Satya Pal Malik too wrote to Gomes. “I wish you speedy recovery and I am sure that you would come out of it very soon,” he said. In a letter to Dr Gomes, governor Satya Pal Malik said that he was aware that Dr Gomes has been at the forefront in leading Goa’s battle against Covid-19. “You worked relentlessly and tirelessly for three months for the corona patients with a sense of unattached duty knowing very well that there is an inherent risk in dealing with the contagion. I wish you speedy recovery and I am sure that you would come out of it very soon,” Malik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-pvt-hospitals-must-reserve-20-icu-beds-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76949193.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||NGT removes stay on Rayalaseema lift irrigation project||AMARAVATI: In a relief to the state government, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday removed the stay on the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme and gave the green signal for calling tenders for it. The NGT, however, directed the Centre to explain whether the project requires environmental clearances and the case has been posted to August 11. This comes in the wake of the irrigation department contending that the proposed lift irrigation scheme is not new and it will not draw any additional quota of water from the Srisailam project. It has only made a few changes to the old design, it argued. Moreover, the water resources department has readied a detailed blueprint to take up the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme without violating the tribunal’s awards and water sharing agreements with neighbouring Telangana. The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme is set to be a game-changer for the region as it aims to provide assured water to the entire 19 lakh acres in the four districts. So far, the partially-completed irrigation schemes could occasionally help irrigate about eight lakh acres while the remaining 11 lakh acres were left parched. The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme, when completed, will draw three TMC of water per day (up to 8tmc) from Sangameswaram and pump it into the Srisailam right main canal (SRMC). While most of the schemes of Telangana such as Kalwakurthy LIS, Palamuru – Rangareddy LIS and Srisailam Left Power generation station are drawing water even when the level at Srisailam reservoir is at 800 ft and below to a total of 28,000 cusecs per day which is about 2.5 TMC of water per day, AP is drawing only 795 cusecs of water from Mutchumarri LIS that is not even 0.1 TMC per day at the same level. Although Srisailam received rainwater in six spells in 2019-20, nearly 600 TMC of water went unutilised into the sea due to poor infrastructure to store even 120 TMC o water in the Rayalaseema region. As per the agreement between AP and Telangana, the share of Rayalaseema in Krishna water is 144tmc from the total AP’s quota of 512 tmc. Telangana got 299 tmc. Keeping in view of the perennial drought situation in Rayalaseema, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the irrigation department to ramp up the existing infrastructure and draw water up to eight TMC per day. Hence, the designs have been readied to improve the discharge capacities of the canals and tap maximum water during the peak flood season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-removes-stay-on-rayalaseema-li-project/articleshow/76954228.cms||Samdani MN
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Govt fails to pay ‘open category’ MBBS fees, students move HC||Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of three medical students, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Monday restrained a private medical college from forcibly recovering the MBBS fees. Though it’s an interim order, it could benefit other 103 open category students in Maharashtra who had taken admissions into private medical colleges after the government promised to pay their fees by issuing a resolution (GR) on September 20 last year.All the petitioners had taken admissions in the Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College (PDMC) in Amravati in 2019-20 session, after they failed to find a seat into any of the Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) due to implementation of SEBC (Maratha) and EWS (open category) reservations.After realizing that about 106 students, including the petitioners, had lost the opportunity to get a seat in GMCHs despite scoring meritorious marks in NEET, the government advised them to take admissions in private colleges on same fees charged by GMCHs while it will pay the remaining charges.Petitioners, Tanisha Verma from city along with Sanket and Anagha Deshmukh from Akola, through counsel Ashwin Deshpande contended that due to implementation of Maratha and EWS reservation, the open category seats were reduced below 50% and they lost the chance to get a seat despite scoring merit marks. Subsequently, they were forced to take admission into private college by paying a whopping fee of Rs8 lakh for first year.The then BJP government came out with a September GR of paying their fees to the respective colleges, excluding that paid in GMCHs, but till date not a single penny was paid.In May, the PDMC asked students to pay their regular fees and hostel charges after which they wrote to the respondents, including the government, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) director and also the college on June 10. But no communication came from the government or DMER, while the college insisted them to pay full charges irrespective of the GR. While issuing notices to the respondents, also included Department of Medical Education and Drugs secretary and PDMC dean, a division bench comprising justices Manish Pitale and Anil Kilor directed them to respond by August 10.“Specific reliance is placed on GR, whereby one time measure appears to have been taken up by the government to give relief to students admitted to private medical colleges last year. As per GR’s provisions, prima facie, it appears that the students were required to deposit fees as were to be charged by GMCHs and the balance amount was to be paid by the state to the colleges,” the bench said, adding that no coercive steps be taken by college for recovering fees from the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-fails-to-pay-open-category-mbbs-fees-students-move-hc/articleshow/76947721.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Turn system for water release in Cauvery, farmers resent move||Thanjavur: As the water level in Mettur reservoir is fast declining, the public works department (PWD) has decided to adopt a turn system of releasing water from the Kallanai for kuruvai cultivation. Meanwhile, farmers in the delta districts have strongly opposed the decision to enforce the turn system of water supply from the Cauvery, the Vennaru and GA Canal and the Kollidam rivers from the Kallanai (Grand Anaicut). The system comes into effect from July 13. As of now, 13,000 cusecs of water have been released into the Cauvery from Mettur reservoir, while it has been decided to release 9,600 cusecs from the Kallanai into the Cauvery, the Vennaru, GA Canal and the Kollidam rivers as per the system, officials said. The system started at 6pm on July 13, and water will continue to flow till 6pm on July 19, as per schedule. The turn would continue for the Cauvery from 6pm on July 19 for the next six days. Water was released from Mettur on June 12 for kuruvai cultivation and the sluices of Kallanai were raised on June 16. On June 12, the water level was 101.73ft. Since 13,000 cusecs of water have been released from Mettur dam, the water level has been fast declining. This has forced the PWD to adopt the turn system. It also planned to supply water for both kuruvai and samba, officials said. Farmers opposed the move and threatened to stage protests. They demanded to release adequate quantum of water in all the rivers for the entire Kuravai season. “Water was released in the rivers on June 16. It is unfair to enforce turn system even when water released from Kallanai has yet to reach the tail-end areas. Even ‘A’ channels are yet to open in many places. PWD authorities should have consulted the farmers first. The turn system would adversely affect cultivation,” secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said. He also urged the PWD officials to withdraw the system. It is unfair to execute the system within a month of releasing water, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/turn-system-for-water-release-in-cauvery-farmers-resent-move/articleshow/76949191.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana secretariat demolition: HC seeks copy of cabinet’s decision||HYDERABAD: Surprised at the revelation that the state cabinet had unanimously resolved — on June 30 — to demolish the old secretariat complex, the Telangana high court on Monday sought a copy of the cabinet resolution to be placed before it in a sealed cover by July 15. The court on July 10 had stayed the demolition work till Monday. In an affidavit, chief secretary Somesh Kumar also informed a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that the decision to raze the building was taken by the cabinet on June 30 itself and that they also took the requisite permission from the local authorities before proceeding to dismantle the blocks. Advocate general BS Prasad placed before the judges the affidavit on behalf of the CS. While posting the case to July 15 in a petition filed by professor PL Vishweshwar Rao and Dr C Sudhakar, the judges said the stay on demolition would continue. The judges wondered as to why newspapers and TV channels had not covered the cabinet’s decision to go ahead with the demolition of the secretariat. “We were told that the state cabinet has not yet taken a final decision in the matter. It was only briefed about the need to completely raze the structure by the cabinet sub-committee and the technical experts committee,” they said. Also, the cabinet is yet to take a final call on the issue. “But, you (CS) are now saying that the cabinet took a decision to demolish the complex. That decision has not been published in media,” the judges said. Petitioners’ counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar urged the court to not allow the state government to raise any structure in the existing area because the Supreme Court and the high court had prohibited raising any structures in the buffer zone of Hussainsagar lake. To this, the AG countered, “That question won’t arise now,” reminding the court that the current issue was only about demolition of existing structure and disposal of concrete waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sectt-demolition-hc-seeks-copy-of-cabinets-decision/articleshow/76947734.cms||Sagarkumar Mutha
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Police foil Oppn’s ‘Chalo Gun Park’ stir||Hyderabad: Police on Monday foiled opposition parties’ bid to stage a protest at Gun Park opposite the assembly against demolition of secretariat buildings in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic. Leaders from Congress, Communist Party of India, TDP and Telangana Jana Samithi among other parties reached Gun Park, but were immediately taken into preventive custody and later set free. AICC secretary S A Sampath Kumar, TJS president Kodandaram, TDP state chief L Ramana among others were taken into custody, stating that they did not have permission to assemble and protest at Gun Park. Sampath Kumar condemned police action and said the fact that opposition leaders were not even allowed to register their protest at a venue like Martyrs’ Memorial reflects the dictatorial rule of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. “Instead of taking measures to control Covid-19 spread, KCR is spending public money on demolition of secretariat, which could have been used as isolation centre for Covid-19 patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-foil-oppns-chalo-gun-park-stir/articleshow/76947743.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Private fever clinics complain of swab samples piling up||Bengaluru: While the government plans to ramp up Covid-19 tests, swab samples are piling up at several private fever clinics and their managements are complaining that no one from the government comes to pick them up. “We were told a van would come every evening to pick up samples. But, many clinics have been waiting in vain for over a week after collecting samples,” said Dr R Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association. The scene is so bad that the fever clinic set up by Ravindra’s Suguna Hospital has stopped collecting swab samples as there’s no point in keeping them in cold storage for days on end and calls to the pick-up staff go unanswered. The government asked private hospitals to set up fever clinics where patients who may have Covid-19 are screened and swab samples collected. As per the agreement, the government would pick up samples and take them to laboratories daily and clinics would get Rs 350 for each sample. There are 68 fever clinics in the city, of which 15 are run by private hospitals. Till late last week, samples were not being collected from these clinics. “We collected 62 samples one day and 60 samples the next day last week. When nobody from the government turned up, we took them to Bowring Hospital and pleaded with authorities to test them,” said an official of RMV Hospital which runs a fever clinic in Jayamahal. Health department officials said the government would send vehicles to fever clinics on call and it’s for clinics to call either BBMP or the health department after collecting samples. “There were some hiccups in the beginning but they’ve been sorted out. The swabs are collected when clinics call,” said Dr Prabhu, deputy director, Urban National Health Mission. Shalini Rajneesh, additional chief secretary and nodal officer for Covid-19 tests, said there was no backlog. Experts said the government has not taken into account samples in private clinics as they were not reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/private-fever-clinics-complain-of-swab-samples-piling-up/articleshow/76947753.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Corona catches city’s top gangster, sharpshooter inside Central Jail||Nagpur: A high-profile don of the city and another dreaded sharpshooter were among the 219 who tested positive in Nagpur Central Jail. The prison authorities, who have provided medical treatment, are in a fix because these gangsters are considered too risky to be left in hospitals with minimum security around them.According to a reliable source, the city’s topmost don tested positive last week. Though mildly symptomatic initially, it’s learnt that he is now showing signs of improvement. The don, said to be politically well connected, was jailed after being slapped with more than a dozen cases related to cheating, threatening, extortion and sexual abuse. The flurry of cases against the don culminated in him getting booked under the Maharashtra control of organized crime Act (MCOCA). In a dramatic development, his bungalow was also razed, an action unprecedented in the city. Another high-profile prisoner, who tested positive, is a notorious sharpshooter. Earlier, he had fled from a jail in Madhya Pradesh. In 2015, this sharpshooter’s five aides had fled from Nagpur Central Jail, leading to the suspension of the then superintendent of police. The sharpshooter, who has several offences against him, is also learnt to have opened fire at the police. It’s learnt that he could ride a bike at top speed and fire with one hand at the same time. He had even attempted to flee from the custody of the city police. A jail source said that these two and several other prisoners are too risky for the authorities to shift. “Either they can flee or they can be attacked by their rivals,” he said. Meanwhile, DIG (prison) Swati Sathe took charge on Monday. An experienced hand, Sathe is considered a no-nonsense officer. Also on Monday, 25 prisoners were sent to the government medical college and hospital for a check-up. Around nine prisoners were admitted to Mayo Hospital while 61 are recuperating at the new covid care centre (CCC) on the premises of home guards. Out of 57, more than 40 jail staffers have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-catches-citys-top-gangster-sharpshooter-inside-central-jail/articleshow/76947745.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 14, 2020||Amaravati||NGT removes stay on Rayalaseema lift irrigation project||AMARAVATI: In a relief to the state government, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday removed the stay on the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme and gave the green signal for calling tenders for it. The NGT, however, directed the Centre to explain whether the project requires environmental clearances and the case has been posted to August 11. This comes in the wake of the irrigation department contending that the proposed lift irrigation scheme is not new and it will not draw any additional quota of water from the Srisailam project. It has only made a few changes to the old design, it argued. Moreover, the water resources department has readied a detailed blueprint to take up the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme without violating the tribunal’s awards and water sharing agreements with neighbouring Telangana. The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme is set to be a game-changer for the region as it aims to provide assured water to the entire 19 lakh acres in the four districts. So far, the partially-completed irrigation schemes could occasionally help irrigate about eight lakh acres while the remaining 11 lakh acres were left parched. The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme, when completed, will draw three TMC of water per day (up to 8tmc) from Sangameswaram and pump it into the Srisailam right main canal (SRMC). While most of the schemes of Telangana such as Kalwakurthy LIS, Palamuru – Rangareddy LIS and Srisailam Left Power generation station are drawing water even when the level at Srisailam reservoir is at 800 ft and below to a total of 28,000 cusecs per day which is about 2.5 TMC of water per day, AP is drawing only 795 cusecs of water from Mutchumarri LIS that is not even 0.1 TMC per day at the same level. Although Srisailam received rainwater in six spells in 2019-20, nearly 600 TMC of water went unutilised into the sea due to poor infrastructure to store even 120 TMC o water in the Rayalaseema region. As per the agreement between AP and Telangana, the share of Rayalaseema in Krishna water is 144tmc from the total AP’s quota of 512 tmc. Telangana got 299 tmc. Keeping in view of the perennial drought situation in Rayalaseema, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the irrigation department to ramp up the existing infrastructure and draw water up to eight TMC per day. Hence, the designs have been readied to improve the discharge capacities of the canals and tap maximum water during the peak flood season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ngt-removes-stay-on-rayalaseema-li-project/articleshow/76954226.cms||Samdani MN
July 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: 5,000 saplings planted in proposed Neelakurinji valley||By-Sandeep Thomas IDUKKI: The forest department, planted Neelakurinji (strobilanthes kunthiana) saplings to develop a natural Neelakurinji valley in the country, ‘in a first-of-its-kind initiative ’. On a trial basis, 5,000 saplings were planted in two hectares of the proposed Neelakurinji sanctuary in Vattavada near Munnar. According to Pampampadumshola range officer M K Shameer, the project was implemented without any special fund from the government. “In 2018, we collected seeds during Neelakkuriji season and developed saplings from them. Forest watchers who were deployed for the protection of the flowers in the Eravikulam National park during the season had collected the seeds.,” he said. “Two years back, Kurijimettu, the place where the saplings have been planted, was totally gutted in a massive forest fire. We hope the area would turn into Neelakkurinji valley in a year,” said the official. “We will try to spread it to more areas using root cutting hormone therapy. This method is used to produce more saplings. If the project succeeds, we are planning to convert the entire area into Neelakuriji hills,” added the official. Professor Jomy Augustine of botany department, Pala St Thomas College, said, “It is a first such attempt in the state aiming at the protection of endemic species of small plants. I hope it would become a big success. The proposed Kurinji area was once a natural plantation of Neelakurinji. But later, eucalyptus grew in the hills and Kurinji plants were destroyed.” “A kurinji plant needs 12 rainy seasons and summer seasons to bloom. Forest officials arranged a seed bed after collecting the seeds from the flowers. The newly-planted saplings would bloom in the year of 2030,” said Augustine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/5000-saplings-planted-in-proposed-neelakurinji-valley-tentative/articleshow/76947751.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Special nodal officers appointed for Trichy Corporation zones||Trichy: The Trichy district administration has appointed special nodal officers for all four zones in the corporation after the active Covid-19 cases doubled in just five days. The four officers from the deputy director of health services and district AIDS control offices, who were appointed by collector S Sivarasu, will inspect the ongoing preventive measures undertaken by the corporation health department and suggest best practices in contact tracing and fever surveillance measures on a daily basis.So far, sanitary officers were tracking the contact history of positive cases. The appointment of special officers will streamline the strategy being pursued to contain the Covid-19 spread. Corporation officials said the officers will have a say in establishing fresh containment zones and monitor them every day. “The appointment of nodal officers will ease the burden on the corporation’s health officers to an extent,” a senior corporation official said. The officers will report the quarantining measures to the district administration and investigate the suspected Covid-19 deaths.As on July 12, the city has reported 833 positive cases, of which, 328 are active. The active cases that were around 157 as on July 8, has doubled in less than a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/special-nodal-officers-appointed-for-trichy-corporation-zones/articleshow/76949190.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat urges government to scrap Char Dham Devasthanam Act||DEHRADUN: Former chief minister Harish Rawat on Monday urged the state government to immediately scrap the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, 2019 that allows MPs, MLAs and state representatives to manage 51 temples in the state, including Char Dham shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri. “The government should ensure that Char Dham Yatra remains a tradition and not turn it into just a source of revenue. There are other ways revenue can be earned during the yatra which take priests and opposition parties into confidence.” Priests at Char Dham shrines have opposed the Act, alleging that it amounted to a “government takeover” of Char Dham temple management. The former CM also said the Act had led to dissent not just among the priests but also within the BJP. “The BJP leaders have started quarrelling among themselves. It appears this was not a unanimous decision,” said Rawat. Senior BJP leader Subramanian Swamy had also opposed the Act in Nainital high court earlier this year. A recent statement by former BJP state chief and current Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt recommended putting the Act on hold. But BJP state vice-president and media in charge Devendra Bhasin said there was no dissent in the BJP regarding the Act. "The party is supporting the state government's decision."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-ukhand-cm-harish-rawat-urges-govt-to-scrap-char-dham-devasthanam-act/articleshow/76946675.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 14, 2020||Agra||UP govt plans community-based sero-surveillance in Agra district||Agra: To assess the extent of the spread of Covid-19 in Agra and to be able to control it, the state government has planned to conduct sero-surveillance in Agra district. According to the doctors, the objectives of this study are to estimate the level of community transmission, if any. During a review meeting with the district administration and the health department officials at circuit house on Monday, additional chief secretary of the UP government Amit Mohan Prasad raised questions on the decline in number of Covid-19 patients in Agra district. To get an absolute estimate of how common Covid-19 is (or the incidence of infection), the senior official directed to conduct community-based sero-surveillance. Sero-surveillance provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered crucial for measuring population immunity due to past infection or vaccination. It is an important component of disease surveillance.District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Serology tests will be conducted in Agra district for surveillance of Covid-19 in Agra district. It looks for antibodies in blood. If antibodies are found, that means there has been an earlier infection.”Principal of SN Medical College Dr Sanjay Kala said, “When antibodies are found, it may mean that a person was infected with Covid-19 and their body’s immune system responded to the virus at some point in the past. People develop antibodies when their body’s immune system responds to an infection. These antibodies can be found in the blood of people previously infected with the disease whether or not they had signs or symptoms of illness.”Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “Sero-surveillance will provide a clear estimate of the spread of Covid-19 in Agra district. Till Monday, there were 1,411 Covid-19 positive patients in Agra district. Of these, 1154 people were cured and discharged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-govt-plans-community-based-sero-surveillance-in-agra-district/articleshow/76946663.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Demand for church at secretariat||Hyderabad: Amid the ongoing row over demolition of two mosques and a temple in the old secretariat premises and chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao’s announcement to rebuild them, the Federation of Telugu Churches (FTC) has requested the state government to also construct a church in the new complex. Recently, the chief minister had apologised for the damage to the temple and mosques during the demolition of the secretariat buildings and promised to build a temple and mosque at the proposed complex. FTC executive secretary Fr. Anthoniraj Thumma said, “Telangana government has been maintaining secular values with the celebration of every festival. It is also helping us with the allotment of land for Christian burial grounds in GHMC areas. Even in the old secretariat, church services were held. A sizeable number of Christians and people of other faiths participate in the prayer meetings. There is a long-pending request with the government for allotment of land in the secretariat premises for a church.” He added that the gesture to construct a church will go a long way in proving the secular credentials of the TRS government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demand-for-church-at-secretariat/articleshow/76947752.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Despite complete lockdown, people throw caution to the wind on Sundays||Trichy: Despite the complete lockdown announced on Sundays in July across the state to contain the spread of Covid-19, people in Trichy city threw caution to the wind by taking to the streets and opening commercial establishments. On July 12, the city wore a deserted look as the state went in for a complete lockdown for the second consecutive Sunday. Yet, the city police registered 28 cases of violations in the city. The violations included opening of grocery shops, petty shops, eateries, roaming the city without any valid reason. There were several incidents of people wandering in the streets without wearing masks. A few meat stall were also open. The state government had already declared that there won’t be any relaxation on all the Sundays in July across the state. In line with the government order, the collector had already said that exception has been given to milk supply, hospitals, pharmacies, ambulances and hearse vehicle. The situation was almost same on July 5, the first Sunday of July. Police said that they registered around 25 cases on that day. While police continue patrolling on main areas, grocery shops in the streets in some of the areas remained open on Sundays. Commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan said on Monday that people should realize that the steps being taken by the government was to protect the people. “The lockdown is not to make life miserable for people. The cooperation of the people is must for bringing down the incidences of the viral infection,” he told ToI. He also insisted on presuming every contact as a Covid-19 positive person and maintaining social distancing, wearing face masks and washing hands frequently to safeguard everyone. The commissioner also said that police were creating awareness in the city by playing recorded voice through the public address system (PAS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/despite-complete-lockdown-people-throw-caution-to-the-wind-on-sundays/articleshow/76949194.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||With alms, he paints hope to keep son alive||Nagpur: Abdul Ansari sits in a corner in a lane in Mominpura, unmindful of the unhygienic surroundings. In his arms is a boy who looks like he’s in his pre-teens. As he lies still, his wrung limbs are stiff, resembling wood. Accepting alms from passers-by, Ansari says the boy is his 20-year old son Shakeel, his only child who suffers from a congenital disease which he is unaware of. With his grey beard, Ansari appears to be past his fifties. Ansari, who comes from Tirola village, around 3km from Bhandara, used to make weekly trips to Nagpur to seek alms to support his family and meet Shakeel’s expenses. After enough money was collected, he would take his son to a doctor in Dhantoli. He has no hopes of Shakeel getting cured. Yet, he takes him to the doctor every time his health worsens. Back in Bhandara, he works as a wall painter. The lockdown had put the brakes on his trips to Nagpur for two-and-a-half months. Even Mominpura was declared a containment zone. During this period, his son developed a swelling in the abdomen. “Finally, a neighbour took pity and dropped us to Nagpur in his car. Shakeel could not pass stools which resulted in the swelling. The medicines, however, have helped,” said Ansari. The lockdown period was tough. “I have to spend at least Rs300 on Shakeel every day,” says Ansari. In two days, Ansari collected around Rs400, enough to buy medicines for Shakeel and pay the doctor on his next visit. After getting a Nagpur drop, Ansari will have to wait for resumption of public transport. “I have no other means of going back. There are no trains or buses to Bhandara. I’ll wait till it (public transport) starts again,” he says. At present, travel within the state, by trains or ST buses, is not allowed. “I realized that something was wrong with Shakeel when he was two years old. I took him everywhere —Mayo Hospital, GMC — but he could not be cured. Some people even advised me to abandon him, but I did not. I’ll take care of him till he lives,” he says. A local youth, who was sitting at his door step, said, “We used to regularly find him at the corner, but he wasn’t there during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-alms-he-paints-hope-to-keep-son-alive/articleshow/76938772.cms||Shishir Arya
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Pen-down strike in NMC after Datke ‘abuses’ senior official||Nagpur: The officials and employees of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) resorted to a pen-down strike after former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke allegedly used abusive language against assistant director of town planning Pramod Gawande.Barring essential services of water supply, health, and fire and emergency services department, all NMC officials and employees observed the pen-down strike. Work at its headquarters and all 10 zonal offices remained affected.Reacting to the incident, 15 officials, who were on deputation on various posts, wrote to the principal secretary of urban development department and expressed reluctance to work in NMC anymore, where an elected representative like Datke issues threatening messages. “We should be relieved soon from NMC and transferred to our respective mother departments,” said the letter.A delegation of officials, including additional municipal commissioners Ram Joshi and Sanjay Nipane, deputy municipal commissioners Mahesh Moroney and S Jaidev, assistant municipal commissioners Harish Raut and Vijay Humne, superintending engineers from water works and public works departments Shweta Banerjee and Manoj Talewar among others met mayor Sandip Joshi and condemned the incident. They also demanded the mayor take action against Datke.They also informed the mayor that henceforth no civic official will attend a meeting convened by any elected representative.Surendra Thingne, president of Rashtriya Nagpur Corporation Employees Association, said that on Monday morning Datke had called Gawande and asked him to visit a site in south Nagpur. The latter refused to visit the site citing his busy schedule, and Datke allegedly used abusive language.Gawande met municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and narrated the episode.Speaking to TOI, Datke admitted to have used some untoward words. “But as soon I realized, I tendered an immediate apology,” he said. He further explained that he had just requested Gawande to visit a state government funded road construction site in Narsala, which falls under the prabhag of senior BJP corporator Swati Akhatkar.Akhatkar told TOI that former district guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had sanctioned state government funds for construction of a wide road from Narsala to Besa power substation. Despite the sanctioned 19-metre-wide road, the town planning department had reportedly given building plan sanction to a person, who blocked the road widening project at Narsala area.“I discussed the issue with Gawande and requested him to visit the site as widening of the road was necessary due to increase in vehicular population,” she said. But Gawande was dilly-dallying, she said. On Monday morning too, she requested him but in vain and then she contacted BJP city president Pravin Datke, who started a conference call.He too urged Gawande to visit the site at once. “Though Gawande refused to visit the site, I did not hear any abusive language used by Datke against him,” she claimed.Later, Datke released a video statement and said he had not used any abusive language. He said he would continue to raise his voice for citizens’ issues.Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav said in the past too similar altercations have occurred between elected representatives and officials. “Even the mayor tendered an apology on behalf of Datke. But never has such an agitation taken place,” he said, and claimed municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was the brain behind the strike.Meanwhile, in the evening, Youth Congress activists staged a protest against Datke and extended their support to Gawande. The activists also “purified NMC headquarters” by sprinkling Ganga water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pen-down-strike-in-nmc-after-datke-abuses-senior-official/articleshow/76947763.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 14, 2020||Noida||Girl suicide: School out with note, parents say forged||NOIDA: The girls’ school, which allegedly hid the suicide of a 14-year-old student and cremated her body without informing police, came out with a note in which the girl had purportedly written that no one was responsible for her death. The girl’s parents alleged the note was forged, pointing out that the writing did not match their daughter’s. The family claimed this was the same note the authorities had spoken about when they had visited the school on July 3 but did not show it to them. The Class X student’s parents had earlier found a few notes in her school bag in which she had scribbled how she was “wronged” and was upset with her life because she did not have any friends. “There is no reason for my death — neither the school nor my parents. I don’t have any reason to live and every human being lives for a reason. As it is, I had become a burden on everyone. Mother, I had become a burden on you…. You will get what you want,” read the note that was circulated on Monday. The girl had allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her classroom on July 3. The school authorities allegedly cremated the body in Bhangel without informing police, who got to know about the case only after the girl’s parents appealed to the UP government for justice on Sunday. The student’s mother alleged that the note was an attempt by the school to mislead police. “When we reached the school on July 3, we were told that our daughter had left a suicide note in which she had blamed me for the extreme step. We pleaded with them to show us the note, but they refused. The writing on the note they released on Monday is not my daughter’s. A 14-year-old girl who wants to commit suicide will not write such a clean note,” the mother said.She demanded that the notes written by the girl earlier and the one released on Monday be examined by a handwriting expert. Meanwhile, discrepancies have also emerged in the receipt issued by the Bhangel cremation ground authorities. The receipt says the girl died at home and the cause of death is mentioned as fever. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said, “In the note, the girl has mentioned that nobody is responsible for her death. We have asked her parents to give us whatever they consider evidence.” Singh said the ACP (women’s safety) would visit the girl’s family in Haryana and an FIR would be lodged after a complaint is filed. The chancellor of the school accused the girl’s family of stopping the authorities from informing police. “The girl had a fight with her younger sister (who studies in the same school) and was upset since then,” he added. An NGO has also written to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, asking it to take cognisance of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/girl-suicide-school-out-with-note-parents-say-forged/articleshow/76949473.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Despite complete lockdown, people throw caution to the wind on Sundays||Trichy: Despite the complete lockdown announced on Sundays in July across the state to contain the spread of Covid-19, people in Trichy city threw caution to the wind by taking to the streets and opening commercial establishments. On July 12, the city wore a deserted look as the state went in for a complete lockdown for the second consecutive Sunday. Yet, the city police registered 28 cases of violations in the city. The violations included opening of grocery shops, petty shops, eateries, roaming the city without any valid reason. There were several incidents of people wandering in the streets without wearing masks. A few meat stall were also open. The state government had already declared that there won’t be any relaxation on all the Sundays in July across the state. In line with the government order, the collector had already said that exception has been given to milk supply, hospitals, pharmacies, ambulances and hearse vehicle. The situation was almost same on July 5, the first Sunday of July. Police said that they registered around 25 cases on that day. While police continue patrolling on main areas, grocery shops in the streets in some of the areas remained open on Sundays. Commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan said on Monday that people should realize that the steps being taken by the government was to protect the people. “The lockdown is not to make life miserable for people. The cooperation of the people is must for bringing down the incidences of the viral infection,” he told ToI. He also insisted on presuming every contact as a Covid-19 positive person and maintaining social distancing, wearing face masks and washing hands frequently to safeguard everyone. The commissioner also said that police were creating awareness in the city by playing recorded voice through the public address system (PAS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/despite-complete-lockdown-people-throw-caution-to-the-wind-on-sundays/articleshow/76949192.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Landlord attacked for asking rent||HYDERABAD: A tenant was arrested by Kushaiguda police on Monday for allegedly attempting to murder the house owner for telling him to pay the rent on Saturday. Kushaiguda police said that the tenant, Karthik, an autorickshaw driver, has been staying in the house of Sai Goud at VN Reddy Nagar. Karthik has not been paying rent since several months and owes Sai Rs 12,000, police said. Sai had asked Karthik to vacate the house on Friday, however, he did not vacate the house. “On Saturday, when Sai’s mother went to demand the rent from Karthik, he began abusing her verbally. After she complained to Sai, he got into an argument with Karthik. During this, Karthik brought a sickle and attempted to kill Sai. Sai defended himself, but sustained serious injuries,” Kushaiguda inspector Manmohan said. The accused was sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/landlord-attacked-for-asking-rent/articleshow/76947761.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court denies bail to ex-councillor Tahir Hussain in IB officer murder case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in the murder case of IB officer Ankit Sharma and said there was enough material on record to presume that Hussain was present at the scene of crime and exhorting the rioters of a “particular community”. “As such, he did not use his hands and fists, but rioters as ‘human weapons’, who on his instigation could have killed anybody,” additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav added. Senior advocate K K Manan, who argued for Hussain’s bail, said his client had been in judicial custody since March 16, 2020 for a crime he did not commit. Manan claimed that police could not by way of a video or CCTV footage prove his presence at the crime scene at the relevant time. “There is no evidence of abetment or conspiracy to kill Ankit Sharma on part of the applicant,” he submitted. The lawyer added that Hussain even made calls to police to “save his skin from legal complications” in the future. On the other hand, Sharma’s postmortem report revealed 51 injuries by sharp weapons and blunt force. Investigation in the case was subsequently transferred to Special Investigation Team of Delhi Police’s Crime Branch. Police alleged that stones, bricks, Molotov cocktails and catapults were found lying on the third floor and the rooftop of Hussain’s house. Special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary argued that a “large-scale conspiracy” was hatched at various levels all over Delhi in the aftermath of enactment of Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019. He referred to Jamia violence, Shaheen Bagh protests, where “encroachment in a systematic manner” had led to complete blockade of the main road. “Later, ‘dharna sites’ came up at several locations in northeast Delhi,” he said. According to the prosecution, riots did not take place spontaneously but were a result of a “well-planned and meticulously executed action by the anti-CAA protesters”. The planning, it was argued, took place before the visit of the US President Donald Trump. “As one group of a particular community was aware that the police force will be busy in handling the arrangements for Trump’s visit to Ahmedabad on February 24 and 25, hence, the timing of riots just prior to the visit points to a deep-rooted conspiracy,” the prosecutor submitted. Watch ED conducts raids at Tahir Hussain's house||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-denies-bail-to-ex-councillor-in-ib-officer-murder-case/articleshow/76948577.cms||Aamir Khan
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Teen who stabbed girl 17 times for rebuffing him gets 10-yr rigorous imprisonment||HYDERABAD: A degree student who attempted to kill a minor girl by stabbing her 17 times for rejecting his love proposal at Barkatpura in February 2019 was awarded 10 years rigorous imprisonment by a local court on Monday. The incident had created a sensation when the accused, C Bharat, stalked the girl, who was then 17-years-old and an Intermediate student, and attacked her with a knife while she was on her way to her college. A few locals managed to save the girl’s life by immediately shifting her to a hospital. The accused was booked under Sections 307, 354-D, 341 of IPC, relevant sections of Arms Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The 1st additional metropolitan sessions judge Suneetha Kunchala commenced the trial in June 2019. The accused was awarded the sentence on Monday under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and Arms Act and acquitted on other charges. Additional public prosecutor K Pratap Reddy said a month before the incident, the victim’s family members had approached SHE Teams and lodged a complaint against Bharat for stalking the girl. Bharat was counselled and let off. However, he decided to attack the girl as he bore a grudge against her for rebuffing his proposal. Meanwhile, sources said that the girl’s family have shifted their residence to another area in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teen-who-stabbed-girl-17-times-for-rebuffing-him-gets-10-yr-ri/articleshow/76947772.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||ED too sniffs around Gantawars’ DA case||Nagpur: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is set to begin an investigation into the alleged amassment of wealth and financial transactions of the NMC’s deputy chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar and his wife Dr Sheelu who too is a medical officer.According to a source, Gantawar couple’s anxiety is set to increase as ED is also in mood to dig out source of their income and also the manner in which they had been channelizing their wealth while working in government agency and also owning private hospital.Sources from the State Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) stated ED had collected the FIR filed against the Gantawar couple for possession of Rs 2.52 crore of disproportionate assets. The couple was operating their private hospital in Dhantoli and also had been working for NMC.The offence was registered following an inquiry into a complaint lodged by head constable Ravi Madavi in 2014. After the approval from higher authorities, the offence was registered against the Gantawar couple on July 1 this year. Gantawar also appeared before the ACB officers on Monday for recording his statement. As he sought time, his statement would likely to be recorded next week. ACB officials have once again asked Gantawar to present himself before them in the next few days. SP, ACB, Rashmi Nandedkar said she received a request from the ED to share the FIR. “FIR is a public document and we feel that one government agency sharing information with another is not an issue. ED too is likely to probe into the alleged financial irregularities and transactions,” she said. ACB officers are learnt to have furnished Gantawar a detailed list of the issues and documents that the investigating agency would require him to produce before them. The court is also set to hear plea seeking permanent anticipatory bail of the Gantawar couple on July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ed-too-sniffs-around-gantawars-da-case/articleshow/76947776.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 14, 2020||Chennai||24 die in Chennai, Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 toll crosses 2,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 2,032, with 66 fatalities reported on Monday, including 24 deaths in Chennai. TN logged more than 4,000 fresh cases for the second day, taking active cases to 48,196. Chennai’s numbers fell again to 1,141 of the 4,328 new infections. The city now has 16,601 active cases. However, the tally of its three neighbours continued to rise, recording 908 cases on Monday -- 219 in Chengalpet, 352 in Kancheepuram and 337 in Tiruvallur. The daily cases were at 570 in these three districts on July 6 and went up to 862 on July 12. Madurai reported 464 cases, Kanyakumari 184, Ranipet 126, Theni 134, Tuticorin 122, Tirunelveli 113, Vellore 129 and Villupuram 136. Of the deaths reported Monday, 59 of the patients had comorbidities. At least five of them died within a few minutes or hours of admission Experts called for stricter rules to protect the vulnerable population, especially the elderly and people with co-morbidities, and an in-depth analysis of the deaths. Retired Public Health director Dr K Kolandasamy said deaths can be prevented if the vulnerable population continues to stay indoors and take immunity- boosting measures such as good diet, vitamin supplements and Kabasura Kudineer while also keeping track of body oxygen levels.  “Majority of the deaths are elderly or those with co-morbidity. All safety precautions including washing hands and distancing has to be followed even at home, as infections can come through any object brought inside home,” he said. “People with other complaints also come to the fever camps, which puts them at a risk. It could be avoided by opening all small clinics,” he added.  Dr G Srinivas, head, department of epidemiology, The TN Dr MGR Medical University, said, “The death numbers may be lowest in the country but still is a cause of concern. What we need now, to prevent deaths, is an in-depth study, which I am sure the state is already doing, to understand the profile of patients and know what is causing death other than age and co-morbidity factor.” A total of 3,035 patients were discharged on Monday. It takes the total number of discharged patients to 92,567, which is nearly 65% of the total infected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/24-die-in-chennai-tns-covid-toll-crosses-2000/articleshow/76948563.cms||U Tejonmayam
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Patanjali gets another week to respond to PIL against Coronil claims||NAINITAL: The hearing of a PIL demanding a ban on a drug marketed as a “Covid cure” and, later, as an “immunity booster” by yoga guru Ramdev and his company Patanjali has been listed for next Monday by the Uttarakhand high court. On Monday, counsel appearing for Patanjali told the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe that the defendant needed time to file a response to the allegations made in the PIL. The case was then listed for July 20 by the bench. TOI had reported earlier that the PIL had been filed by a lawyer from Udham Singh Nagar, Mani Kumar, who had challenged the claims made while marketing the drug. Patanjali had initially branded Coronil — a set of three concoctions — as a cure for Covid-19. But the Ayush ministry intervened, barring advertising that made such claims, and the company switched to calling it an “immunity booster.” The high court had earlier served notices on Patanjali and NIMS, Jaipur, which the company had linked its "clinical trials" to. But the institute had later stepped back from association with the drug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/patanjali-gets-another-week-to-respond-to-pil-against-coronil-claims/articleshow/76946702.cms||Prashant Jha
July 14, 2020||Noida||Double suicide: Child’s father traced||NOIDA: The husband of the 21-year-old woman, who was found hanging along with her “childhood lover” in a rented house in Sector 51 on Saturday, has been traced and he will be handed over her eight-month-old daughter, police said. The baby is currently recovering at a hospital in Noida. TOI had reported on Sunday that the couple were found hanging in their rented accommodation and the woman’s eight-month-old daughter was found crying on the floor. “The woman’s husband, a farmer from Bihar’s Siwan district, told us that he gave a missing person’s complaint to Bihar Police on July 6, the day she went missing taking the child along. The duo reached Noida on July 7. The husband told us the duo was having an affair since childhood,” Sector 49 SHO Dharmendra Sharma said. Meanwhile, it has now come to fore that the bodies were apparently at least four days old and the child had been starving all through, resulting in her condition deteriorating and necessitating her treatment in an intensive care unit. Satya Prakash, manager of FXB India-Suraksha, which handles Childline for Noida, said the child will be handed over to the father after the police issues a ‘no-objection’ certificate to the father in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/double-suicide-childs-father-traced/articleshow/76949477.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Tech Mahindra charters flight to bring 210 staffers, kin in US home||HYDERABAD: Barely a week after IT major Infosys chartered a flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru to bring home 206 stranded employees and families, now Tech Mahindra has chartered a special flight to fly home 108 employees and their families stranded in the US due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown and the recent suspension of H-1B as well as L and J visas by the Trump administration. The flight carrying 210 people, which took off from Dallas-Fort Worth on Monday, will be landing in Hyderabad in the wee hours of Tuesday (3.45 am IST on July 14). While 53 out of the 108 TechM techies travelling on the special flight are from Telangana, the rest are from other states and will be travelling to their respective cities from Hyderabad, the company said. Tech Mahindra managing director & CEO CP Gurnani said that ensuring the well-being and safety of the company’s employee, customer and partner ecosystem was critical in the collective fight against the global pandemic. “Bringing our US-based associates and their dependents back home conveys our commitment towards our core values of ensuring employees’ safety first, and reiterates Tech Mahindra’s ability to be adaptable and agile in keeping mission-critical systems on for global clients from anywhere in the world, even during times of crisis,” Gurnani said. The $5.2 billion TechM, which is part of the $19.4billion diversified Mahindra Group, has over 1.25 lakh employees globally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tech-mahindra-charters-flight-to-bring-210-staffers-kin-in-us-home/articleshow/76947769.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Edu Min attacks UGC over insistence on exams||Nagpur: The uncertainty over conducting final year examinations continues following differences between Centre and state governments.State higher education minister Uday Samant had earlier tweeted that the University Grants Commission (UGC) and Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) should learn from Amitabh Bachchan and his family getting Covid-19. He also pointed at virus reaching chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari residence where 16 of his staff members were found positive and the governor went into self-quarantine as a precautionary measure.Later, in evening he reiterated the government’s stand of not being able to conduct the exams due to sudden surge in the coronavirus positive cases. His announcement came after Monday’s meeting of State Disaster Management Authority held under chief minister Uddhav Thackeray where the issue was discussed in detail.The minister had already written two letters to UGC and MHRD, expressing inability to hold exams amid pandemic. “We are not of the view that exams shouldn’t be conducted. However, in view of current situation, it is almost impossible to hold them considering the risk involved,” he said.Earlier, Samant had passed the buck on dropping the exams to vice-chancellors, stating it was their opinion. On Monday, he reiterated that all 13 VCs of traditional universities in state had written to the government that exams weren’t possible in present circumstances. “Even the teaching community is not in favour of holding exams. Therefore, forcing the non-professional students to appear in papers would be a risky affair and a threat to their health. If UGC is issuing guidelines, would it take students’ responsibility,” the minister asked.Citing a case of a Bangalore student, who contracted the virus while appearing in some test, Samant said as many as nine states had categorically declined to conduct exams and discussion would be held with their CMs. “Many schools, colleges, and hostels have now turned into quarantine centres. The students’ books, notes, desktops, and other material are kept there. It is very difficult for the outstation students to return in absence of transportation,” he said.Calling on the universities to declare results of students as per their respective formulae, the minister said once the effect of contagion had reduced and situation improved, those who want to improve grades would be allowed to appear in exams. “The universities are already directed to take written consent from the students interested in getting marklists and degree certificates. For others, timetable should be declared for their percentage improvement exams after consulting with the respective collectors and officials of disaster management authority,” he said.# Samant speaks:* Coronavirus reached secured premises of Raj Bhavan & Amitabh Bachchan’s home* UGC must understand holding exams would be playing with students’ lives* If UGC is issuing guidelines, would it take students’ responsibility?* Nine states declined to conduct exams, discussions to be held with their CMs* Universities to declare results of students as per their respective formulae* They need to take written consent from students for handing over marklists & degrees* After situation improves, grade improvement exams to be held for students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-min-attacks-ugc-over-insistence-on-exams/articleshow/76947800.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Covid-19 tally set to cross 22,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: With 689 fresh cases of Covid-19, the number of people who had tested positive for the virus in Haryana till Monday reached 21,929. For the first time, Ambala district got cases in three figures, 105. Faridabad and Gurgaon, however, continued to report the highest cases — 130 and 106. Also, 654 patients recovered from the virus, taking the number of people who have overcome Covid-19 in the state so far to 16,637. As seven more people succumbed to the virus in the state, the death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 308. Also, 4,984 patients are still under treatment. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state is now 21 days. As many as 70 patients in the state are on oxygen support and 11 are on ventilators. New cases in other districts were: Sonipat (60), Rohtak (63), Bhiwani (24), Rewari (15), Karnal (10), Ambala (105), Jhajjar (18), Palwal (26), Mahindergarh (46), Hisar (24), Panipat (13), Nuh (8), Kurukshetra (9), Sirsa (7), Panchkula (8), Yamunanagar (2), Kaithal (6) and Charkhi Dadri (9). Gurgaon has so far reported 6,966 cases, while Faridabad is at number two with 5,550. Sonipat has gotten 2,049 cases. Rohtak, too, is expected to get more than 1,000 cases as its total has reached 988. Till Monday, a total of 3,81,420 persons in the state had been tested for Covid-19. Of the 22 districts in Haryana, 10 have reported more than 500 cases so far — Bhiwani (669), Rewari (614), Karnal (529), Ambala (612), Jhajjar (504) and Palwal (506).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-tally-set-to-cross-22k/articleshow/76948591.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: BJP workers in Warangal held over protest against TRS||WARANGAL: Several BJP activists in Warangal were arrested on Monday after they started a protest against the attack on Nizamabad MP Aravind’s convoy. Former MLA M Dharma Rao and two other BJP activists sat on the main road and demanded stringent actions be taken against the attackers. Several other activists also assembled at the Martyrs’ memorial in Hanamkonda town. The party workers raised slogans against the ruling TRS government. Rao Padma, the party chief in Warangal, condemned the police action and alleged that the state had directed TRS cadre to attack Aravind. “The TRS workers are attacking the BJP leaders with assurance from the state while the police is keeping mum. Why have they arrested BJP activists,” questioned Padma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-workers-in-warangal-held-over-protest-against-trs/articleshow/76947816.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal cable operators relax blanket ban on Indian news channels||PITHORAGARH: The Nepalese cable and satellite TV operators decided at a meeting on Sunday evening to ease the blanket ban on Indian TV news channels and allow all private Indian news channels, except four, to air. Sources said that the four channels which will continue to remain blocked are Zee News, India TV, Aaj Tak and ABP News. The multi-system operators (MSOs) had blocked all Indian news channels except state-run broadcaster Doordarshan on July 9, alleging that objectionable content about Nepalese Prime minister KP Sharma Oli was being broadcast in some of the channels. However, no official orders were issued regarding the ban. Nepal's information and broadcasting minister Yubaraj Khatiwada had during a press interaction on July 9 had said that Nepal may seek political and legal action against media outlets that were attacking Nepal's sovereignty and dignity. On July 10, chairman of the Press Council of Nepal also wrote to chairman of Press Council of India, complaining about the Indian TV news channels. Meanwhile, sources in Nepal said that there was immense pressure on cable operators to restart Indian channels as many Nepalese tuned into the news channels to know Indian point of view on Nepalese matters, especially related to border disputes. Also, many Nepalese citizens work in Indian cities and their families back home wanted to keep themselves updated about the Covid-19 situation in various Indian cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-cable-operators-relax-blanket-ban-on-indian-news-channels/articleshow/76946730.cms||Prem Punetha
July 14, 2020||Noida||Ex-Navyman arrest: Veterans seek fair probe||NOIDA: A delegation of Veteran Action Group (VAG) comprising ex-defence personnel based in Noida met the police commissioner on Monday and demanded a fair probe into the arrest of an former Navy commander last week. The veterans have also reported the matter to the Union defence ministry. Rahul Bose, the former Navyman who’s also the AOA general secretary of Aditya Celebrity Homes in Sector 76, was arrested by local police in connection with the alleged manhandling of a resident by the society’s guards at his behest. “The commissioner gave a patient hearing and assured us of suitable action after an investigation by a senior police officer,” convernor of VAG Colonel Shashi Vaid (retired) said. On Sunday, the Noida police, however, tweeted a video of the incident stating that “nobody was above the law” in response to a tweet in favour of Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/ex-navyman-arrest-veterans-seek-fair-probe/articleshow/76949481.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Trichy||Farmers protest urging a charter of demands||Trichy: A large number of farmers from Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam sat on a protest in front of the district collectorate in Trichy demanding to stop letting sewage water into irrigation canals. Led by president of the association, P Ayyakannu, the protesters also raised slogans to withdraw the Electricity Amendment Act, stating that the draft would largely affect farming community across the country. They also demanded that farmers who attained 60 years should be given a pension of Rs 5,000. Entire crop loan availed by the farmers across the country should be revoked. They also demanded to clean Uyyakondan canal which is irrigating thousands of acres. The protesters urged the state government to desilt irrigation canals in the district, as the entire stretch has been filled with weeds including hyacinth blocking the water flow. Moreover, they also requested the concerned authorities to stop letting sewage water into water bodies including Cauvery. Ravi from Keela Kalkandarkottai, a farmer, who participated in the protest pulled out a knife from his pocket and inflicted cut injury on his hand pressing the demands. This created a flutter among the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-protest-urging-a-charter-of-demands/articleshow/76949201.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar records first death of a doctor, toll now 151||PATNA: The state recorded 14 Covid-19 deaths on Monday, including the first coronavirus death of a doctor, taking the toll to 151. Dr Ashwani Kumar, a physician practising in Gaya, died at AIIMS-Patna along with two others, said hospital’s nodal in charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar. He was admitted on July 2 and had been on ventilator. With 1,116 new cases on Monday, including 228 in Patna, the total number of registered patients has gone up to 17,421 in Bihar. However, 12,364 people have recovered, taking the number of active cases to 4,291. The state health department, however, has officially reported nine deaths pegging the toll at 134. The doctor’s death has led to anger and resentment within the medical fraternity. The IMA (Bihar) demanded timely testing of all health workers and their treatment at AIIMS-Patna on a priority basis. “We will go on a hunger strike on Sunday, if our demands are not fulfilled. One of our colleagues from Bettiah had to wait in the car with an oxygen cylinder to get a bed at AIIMS-Patna,” IMA (Bihar) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said. Two deaths were also reported from NMCH, including a 65-year-old female from Bhojpour, who was diabetic. “The second deceased, 65, was from Patna and had a medical history of hypertension and diabetes,” said NMCH epidemiologist Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. The health department reported two deaths each from Bhagalpur and Gaya, and one death each from Begusarai, Gopalganj, Kaimur, Munger and Nalanda. Monday’s Covid-19 cases were registered from across 38 districts with maximum 228 cases from Patna. Other districts which reported a large number of cases include Begusarai (79), Bhagalpur (78), Muzaffarpur ( 76), Munger (68), Rohtas (51) and Siwan (50). Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 411 people have recovered in the past 24 hours and in the same time period, 1,116 new cases were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-first-death-of-a-doctor-toll-now-151/articleshow/76947825.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||Clean nullah near your office, HC tells NMC||Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday took suo motu cognizance of nullah flowing in the backyard of civic body’s headquarters in posh Civil Lines area that has not been cleaned in a long time.While appointing Nikhil Padhye as amicus curiae to draft the PIL, a division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Anil Kilor directed the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to clean it in two weeks. The bench took cognizance of a media report that exposed how dirt and slush flows through the nullah, which also passes from behind Central Telegraph Office (CTO) and adjacent to Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC). As it wasn’t cleaned in a long time, foul smell from it makes life difficult for the nearby residents.Due to slush, stray pigs have started roaming in the area in big numbers, adding to people’s woes. Even many roadside garages have cropped up in the entire area illegally and despite repeated complaints to the civic officials by residents, nothing was done to either clean the nullah or remove encroachments. Even though NMC officials claimed to have cleaned all nullahs, this one right near their own office was ignored completely and the rainy season worsens the problems of nearby residents, the report mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/clean-nullah-near-your-office-hc-tells-nmc/articleshow/76947808.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 14, 2020||Meerut||Perfect scorers: Bulandshahr’s Tushar Singh shares top spot with Lucknow girl Divyanshi Jain||MEERUT: Tushar Singh, 18, of Bulandshahr didn’t believe it and refreshed the computer screen several times thinking that the 500 marks mentioned against his name were a clerical glitch. He then switched the computer off and went away. It took a call from his school to convince him that he has indeed scored 100% marks in his CBSE Class XII exams. Tushar shares the top spot with Lucknow girl Divyanshi Jain, who had taken an additional sixth subject and scored 600 out of total 600. CBSE hasn’t released a merit list this time. Till the time of filing this report, only these two students with 100% marks have come forward in UP. Tushar was ecstatic. “At first, I thought that the maximum marks of each subject got printed as my score due to a mistake. So I decided to check it later and went away. It was only when I got a call from my school that I realised that I have got a perfect score,” said Tushar, a resident of Bulandshahr’s Yamunapuram and a student of Delhi Public School. An avid reader and a fan of thriller novels, Tushar says, “My parents and teachers have been instrumental in my success. My teachers supported me all the time and my parents told me that marks were not the end of the world. I studied for six to seven hours daily,” he said. A Humanities student, Tushar said he chose the stream because he had an inclination towards Social Studies. He was the second topper of his school in Class X with 97.2%. “I want to study History (honours) from Delhi University. I have planned to sit for the Civil Services exam,” said Tushar, who got a 100 in each of the five subjects-- English, History, Political Science, Geography and Physical Education. He scored a 500/500. In CBSE board, it is mandatory to take five subjects in Class XII. Taking an additional subject is also allowed. So some students opt for an extra optional subject to improve their score as the percentage is calculated on the basis of best 5 subjects. Tushar’s father Om Prakash Singh is a professor at a government college in Bulandshahr and his mother Kiran Bharti is a lecturer at a government college here. Both of them teach Economics. Tushar’s mother, Kiran Bharti, said, “The entire family is extremely happy with his result because. We have seen him study tirelessly. It is only because of his efforts and hard work that he was able to score such good marks. I hope his dream of becoming an IAS officer turns true.” Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has congratulated all the successful students. “The exam results are the output of your hard work and dedication. May you be successful in your future endeavours,” the CM tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/perfect-scorers-bulandshahrs-tushar-singh-shares-top-spot-with-lucknow-girl-divyanshi-jain/articleshow/76946729.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||No stringent lockdown in rural areas as of now: Collector||Nagpur: Even as social media is abuzz with talk of stringent lockdown like Pune and Aurangabad due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, collector Ravindra Thakare on Monday ruled out the possibility in the district’s rural areas.Stressing that any such move would adversely affect farmers, at a time sowing season has just begun, he said no emergency exists for forcing yet another lockdown now.Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Tukaram Mundhe too clarified that he hadn’t declared any lockdown as yet. “However, those managing establishments, shops and markets, besides common citizens, need to strictly follow the guidelines like maintaining Covid distancing and wearing masks outside homes. Else, stricter lockdown with curfew is imminent,” he told TOI.Justifying his stand, the collector said if the lockdown was imposed, it wouldn’t be for just four to five days, but at least a week or more. “Since the sowing season has just started, farmers need to take care of the crops. They need to sprinkle fertilizers and medicines to save crops from insects, and they need to procure material from shops. If shops are shut at this stage, their work would be severely hampered and the entire farming community would be affected,” he told TOI.Adding that farmers’ hard work would go in vain due to big gap if lockdown was imposed, Thakare said his team had decided to rather enforce the rules stringently in rural areas to contain Covid-19 virus. “We’ve directed block development officers (BDO) and other law enforcing agencies like police to impose a fine of Rs500 on anyone roaming without masks. Also, those failing to maintain social distancing and other etiquette related to contagion, as declared by the government from time to time, would be punished,” he said.Warning that he wouldn’t hesitate to enforce a lockdown if the situation worsens and there is a sudden spike in Covid positive cases, Thakare said currently the number of cases in rural areas was minimal. “As of now, the situation doesn’t warrant a lockdown. Our priority remains the farmers, who shouldn’t face problems. Their entire economy depends on the current season. Their families also suffer if shops and other establishments remain closed. Subsequently, entire rural economy would be affected, as a majority of citizens depend on farming in villages,” he said.After stricter lockdown was imposed in cities like Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Aurangabad and Solapur due to jump in coronavirus cases, social media was full of speculations that Nagpur district too would follow the trend, particularly with Munde at the helm. However, both collector and NMC chief have clarified that they didn’t have any such plans as of now, bringing respite to aggrieved citizens hit hard by previous lockdowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-stringent-lockdown-in-rural-areas-as-of-now-collector/articleshow/76947823.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 14, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Couple found hanging, man could not repay loan, say cops||GHAZIABAD: A couple were found hanging from ceiling fans in their bedroom in Arthala Village, Sahibabad. On Monday morning, their 25 year old daughter named Madhu knocked on the door for breakfast with a newspaper but after several calls, when they didn't open the door, she called the neighbours. The neighbours managed to open the window and saw both were hanging from the ceiling fan. According to police, the deceased were identified as Mangat Pal (50) and his wife Sheela (48). Initial police investigation revealed that Mangat had taken a loan from several friends and he was unable to repay them. The deceased used to live in the two storey house in which Mangat was living at a room on ground floor and tenants were living in other rooms of the floor while Pal's daughter and son's family were living on the first floor. "Initial investigation revealed that Mangat had closed his diary business a few months ago due to heavy loss. Two months ago, he started working as a security guard. He had taken loans from several friends and not been able to pay them back," police said. Keshav (27), deceased's son said that around 8 am, he had gone to his office located in Noida and around 10 am, when his sister Madhu had gone to deliver the newspaper with breakfast, she found the gate was locked from inside. "When no one from them came to open the door, she called the neighbours and tenants for help. Somehow, They opened the gate of the window and found that both bodies were hanging from a ceiling fan and immediately, neighbours have given the information to police," he said. Kesh Mishra, Circle officer told TOI police received information around 10.45 am today and immediately a police team reached the spot. Police recovered the body and sent for the postmortem and reports are awaited. "Police are investigating the case with all possible angles but the case is look like a suicide case. Yet, reason behind the case is not clear yet as police is also checking the phone details that if any one calling him on regular basis and pressuring him for money," he said. The circle officer's full name is Keshav Mishra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/couple-found-hanging-man-could-not-repay-loan-say-cops/articleshow/76952741.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
July 14, 2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Couple found hanging, man could not repay loan, say cops||GHAZIABAD: A couple were found hanging from ceiling fans in their bedroom in Arthala Village, Sahibabad. On Monday morning, their 25 year old daughter named Madhu knocked on the door for breakfast with a newspaper but after several calls, when they didn't open the door, she called the neighbours. The neighbours managed to open the window and saw both were hanging from the ceiling fan. According to police, the deceased were identified as Mangat Pal (50) and his wife Sheela (48). Initial police investigation revealed that Mangat had taken a loan from several friends and he was unable to repay them. The deceased used to live in the two storey house in which Mangat was living at a room on ground floor and tenants were living in other rooms of the floor while Pal's daughter and son's family were living on the first floor. "Initial investigation revealed that Mangat had closed his diary business a few months ago due to heavy loss. Two months ago, he started working as a security guard. He had taken loans from several friends and not been able to pay them back," police said. Keshav (27), deceased's son said that around 8 am, he had gone to his office located in Noida and around 10 am, when his sister Madhu had gone to deliver the newspaper with breakfast, she found the gate was locked from inside. "When no one from them came to open the door, she called the neighbours and tenants for help. Somehow, They opened the gate of the window and found that both bodies were hanging from a ceiling fan and immediately, neighbours have given the information to police," he said. Kesh Mishra, Circle officer told TOI police received information around 10.45 am today and immediately a police team reached the spot. Police recovered the body and sent for the postmortem and reports are awaited. "Police are investigating the case with all possible angles but the case is look like a suicide case. Yet, reason behind the case is not clear yet as police is also checking the phone details that if any one calling him on regular basis and pressuring him for money," he said. The circle officer's full name is Keshav Mishra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/couple-found-hanging-man-could-not-repay-loan-say-cops/articleshow/76949488.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
July 14, 2020||Dehradun||HC reserves judgement in NIT Uttarakhand case||NAINITAL: After hearing the arguments from the counsel representing the students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Uttarakhand as well as the Centre, state government, NIT administration and the villagers of Sumadi – the site where the permanent campus of the Institute is planned to be built – the Uttarakhand high court reserved its judgement on Monday. The bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe had been hearing the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) demanding a permanent campus for the students as well as increased facilities in the temporary building since November 2018. “The court had heard the final arguments in February. Then they continued it in the last week of March. However, as the lockdown was imposed and courts also shut down, the arguments could resume through video conferencing last Monday,” said a counsel appearing in the case. The counsel, who did not wish to be named, added that the court heard the arguments from each side and has now reserved its judgement which is likely to be delivered soon. “Since the arguments are complete, we expect the judgement to come out soon,” the counsel said. Students of the NIT have been demanding a permanent campus ever since the Institute was set up in 2010. The demand gathered momentum in 2018 when an accident led to the death of a student. Several students of the Institute also left for their homes as their demands were not met even after 20 days of strike. There was some positive news for the students earlier this month when the Union human resource development (HRD) minister announced that the Centre had released an amount of over Rs 900 crore for the campus in Sumadi. The court was informed that the HRD ministry has approved the Detailed Project Report and the proposal has been sent for approval to the finance ministry. The money will be released soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-reserves-judgement-in-nit-ukhand-case/articleshow/76946742.cms||Prashant Jha
July 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: More safe houses, satellite units to keep pace with rising Covid-19 numbers||KOLKATA: With the corona numbers rising by leaps and bounds everyday, healthcare providers — both government and private — have realized that ramping up Covid beds won’t be enough in the long run. Consequently, more satellite health facilities and safe homes are being arranged for to house asymptomatic patients. On Monday, while Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) inaugurated the city’s largest safe home, at least four private hospitals came up with satellite facilities. A multi-storeyed building at Anandapur off EM Bypass weas turned into as a safe home with 400 beds spread over two floors of the 12-storeyed building, said a KMC source. The civic body will add 600 more beds in phases over the next few months. While the state health department will depute physicians and para-medical staff to look after the patients, KMC will provide infrastructure support and look after its maintenance. The civic body will also conduct regular sanitization of the building. According to plans, KMC will accommodate asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. According to a KMC official, priority will be given to people from low-income group and those living in slums. “These people do not have enough space at home to stay in isolation. Besides, the civic body will give special emphasis on elderly people who may find it difficult to spend the isolation period at home in absence of caregivers,” said a KMC official. Meanwhile, more private hospitals are setting up satellite facilities to free up hospital beds. “We have started our satellite facility in a hotel in New Town with 19 beds. If need arises, we will look for other properties,” said Prashant Sharma, Charnock Hospital MD. The hospital currently has 57 Covid beds. It will launch homecare services for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients who can be taken care of at home. “We are running out of beds. Our satellite facility will be handling mildly symptomatic patients so that the hospital beds can be conserved for the ones who really need hospital care,” said a source at Calcutta Hearth Clinic, Salt Lake. Out of the 30 Covid beds in this hospital, only three were vacant on Monday. Eleven beds of its 25-bedded satellite facility were occupied on the very first day. While the satellite facility by Kolkata Port Trust’s Centenary Hospital in Alipore started off with 13 patients on Monday, Fortis Hospital, too, will have its facility operational soon. Earlier, three private hospitals had set up with satellite facilities in the city. Doctors visit these facilities on a regular basis while nurses and other healthcare workers are posted round the clock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-safe-houses-satellite-units-to-keep-pace-with-rising-cov-numbers/articleshow/76947831.cms||Saikat Ray
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Record 357 cases in Punjab, count crosses 8,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a day so far on Monday as 357 people were found infected with the virus, taking the state’s tally past the 8,000-mark to 8,178. The state has gotten more than 1,000 cases in the past four days. The death toll also surged past 200 with the virus claiming five lives in the state — three in Jalandhar and two in Amritsar. So far, 204 people have succumbed to the coronavirus. Also, 194 people were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of people who have recovered from the virus in the state to 5,586. A chief judicial magistrate, nine health professionals and five police personnel were among those who tested positive. In 29 cases, the source of infection was outside the state. Patiala recorded the highest number of cases, 88, while Ludhiana got 65 cases. In Jalandhar, 53 cases surfaced, while 26 cases were added to the tally in Mohali. There were 25 new cases in Amritsar, 20 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 11 in Nawanshahr, nine in Bathinda, eight each in Moga and Ferozepur, seven in Muktsar, six in Sangrur, five in Hoshiarpur, four each in Faridkot and Ropar, three each in Fazilka and Kapurthala, two in Barnala, and one in Gurdaspur. A DSP-rank police officer and three cops were among those who tested positive in Moga. Apart from the cops, two TB patients were among the new patients in the district. In Muktsar, a 60-year-old registered medical practitioner was among the people who were found inected. In Barnala, one of the new patients is a police assistant sub inspector (ASI). (Inputs from Bathinda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/record-357-cases-in-pb-count-crosses-8k/articleshow/76948600.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Hyderabad||After attack on its MP, BJP sounds war bugle against TRS||HYDERABAD: Rivalry between the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seem to be heating up in the state after the attack on Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Aravind’s convoy on Sunday in Warangal. The parties that have been at loggerheads since the BJP won four Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 elections have had various clashes in Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Hyderabad. Now, the attack on saffron party’s Aravind has led to protests by the TRS and BJP workers in Warangal and Nizamabad. Earlier, Karimnagar MP and BJP state president Bandi Sanjay was also allegedly manhandled by police during the RTC strike. TRS, which has extended support to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at many instances in the parliament, is now facing attack from the saffron front for the state’s handling of Covid-19. BJP has tried to corner the government on the issue of secretariat and farmers’ plights too. Arvind is on the forefront in the war against TRS, using every opportunity in Nizamabad where KCR’s daughter Kavitha had contested as an MP. Some TRS leaders say they are facing criticism from BJP more than the Congress party, which has more MLAs in the state assembly than the BJP. The BJP is reportedly angry with the ruling party for poaching its leaders, especially elected representatives in various mandals, including corporators of Nizamabad, in view of council elections in which former MP Kavitha is contesting. The MLC elections are expected to be held in a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-attack-on-its-mp-bjp-sounds-war-bugle-against-trs/articleshow/76947837.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 14, 2020||Amaravati||Ensure contract workers are paid on time: Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has instructed officials to ensure that wages to contract workers employed in various departments be paid on time through the green channel. During a review meeting held at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday, the chief minister said all contract workers should get their salaries paid on par with government employees. “There should not be any delay in payment of their wages,” he told the officials. There are more than 50,000 contract employees working in the state and the successive governments have done nothing to ensure that they are paid regularly. Recalling his meeting with the representatives of the contract workers during his padayatra, the chief minister said he had promised them that their wages would be paid every month on a given date. Accordingly, his government had sanctioned minimum pay scale for the contract workers since July 2019, he said. Although this decision will cost the government Rs 1,000 crore, the chief minister said he was committed to give them the benefit as promised. The officials told the chief minister that there has been a hike of 88%-95% in salaries when compared to that of March 31, 2017. The salary for junior lecturers has risen from Rs 19,050 to Rs 37,100 from July 2019 that works out to 95%. Health personnel, health assistant (male) salary was raised from Rs 14,860 to Rs 22,290 which is 88%. The salary of secondary grade teachers (SGT) was increased by 95% taking their salary to Rs 21,230 from Rs 10,900 and the salary of school assistant has gone up by 95%, from Rs 10,900 to Rs 21,230 since July, the officials said. The chief minister asked the officials to prepare a study report on the social and medical security benefits to contract workers and submit it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ensure-contract-workers-are-paid-on-time-cm/articleshow/76954023.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Ensure contract workers are paid on time: Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has instructed officials to ensure that wages to contract workers employed in various departments be paid on time through the green channel. During a review meeting held at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday, the chief minister said all contract workers should get their salaries paid on par with government employees. “There should not be any delay in payment of their wages,” he told the officials. There are more than 50,000 contract employees working in the state and the successive governments have done nothing to ensure that they are paid regularly. Recalling his meeting with the representatives of the contract workers during his padayatra, the chief minister said he had promised them that their wages would be paid every month on a given date. Accordingly, his government had sanctioned minimum pay scale for the contract workers since July 2019, he said. Although this decision will cost the government Rs 1,000 crore, the chief minister said he was committed to give them the benefit as promised. The officials told the chief minister that there has been a hike of 88%-95% in salaries when compared to that of March 31, 2017. The salary for junior lecturers has risen from Rs 19,050 to Rs 37,100 from July 2019 that works out to 95%. Health personnel, health assistant (male) salary was raised from Rs 14,860 to Rs 22,290 which is 88%. The salary of secondary grade teachers (SGT) was increased by 95% taking their salary to Rs 21,230 from Rs 10,900 and the salary of school assistant has gone up by 95%, from Rs 10,900 to Rs 21,230 since July, the officials said. The chief minister asked the officials to prepare a study report on the social and medical security benefits to contract workers and submit it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-contract-workers-are-paid-on-time-cm/articleshow/76946769.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ensure contract workers are paid on time: Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has instructed officials to ensure that wages to contract workers employed in various departments be paid on time through the green channel. During a review meeting held at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday, the chief minister said all contract workers should get their salaries paid on par with government employees. “There should not be any delay in payment of their wages,” he told the officials. There are more than 50,000 contract employees working in the state and the successive governments have done nothing to ensure that they are paid regularly. Recalling his meeting with the representatives of the contract workers during his padayatra, the chief minister said he had promised them that their wages would be paid every month on a given date. Accordingly, his government had sanctioned minimum pay scale for the contract workers since July 2019, he said. Although this decision will cost the government Rs 1,000 crore, the chief minister said he was committed to give them the benefit as promised. The officials told the chief minister that there has been a hike of 88%-95% in salaries when compared to that of March 31, 2017. The salary for junior lecturers has risen from Rs 19,050 to Rs 37,100 from July 2019 that works out to 95%. Health personnel, health assistant (male) salary was raised from Rs 14,860 to Rs 22,290 which is 88%. The salary of secondary grade teachers (SGT) was increased by 95% taking their salary to Rs 21,230 from Rs 10,900 and the salary of school assistant has gone up by 95%, from Rs 10,900 to Rs 21,230 since July, the officials said. The chief minister asked the officials to prepare a study report on the social and medical security benefits to contract workers and submit it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ensure-contract-workers-are-paid-on-time-cm/articleshow/76954021.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Covid sows seeds of value addition in turmeric and ginger farming||VADODARA/ANAND: With herbal products flying off the shelves in Covid-19 times, farmers engaged in organic farming are now making a killing by adding value to their produce. Many farmers, who include IT graduates and businessmen, are seeing their incomes double and triple by launching their own brands of value-added turmeric and ginger crops. IT graduate Devesh Patel, who chose to be son of the soil, literally, recently launched his own brand of capsules, lattes, powder and pickles from organic turmeric and ginger grown on 35 bigha land in Boriyavi in Anand district. He was already supplying organic produce to a large number of retail stores in major markets of Gujarat, metros like Mumbai and even ‘khadi gram udyogs,’ earning Rs 30 lakh to Rs 40 lakh per annum. Now, his income has tripled to Rs 1.5 crore a year from exports to the West now. “Coronavirus pandemic was the natural trigger to make turmeric capsules. Results of turmeric consumed by mixing with water are seen after 45 days while with milk it is seen in a week or so, but the capsule’s effects are seen immediately.” He is now planning to tie up with people in the US to sell these capsules under the third-party packaging. “Through crop rotation, I am growing 15 tonnes of dry turmeric and ginger each per annum which are later dehydrated,” said 38-year-old Devesh, who has shifted focus to nutraceutical products, after the pandemic Around eight to 10 progressive farmers in central Gujarat are now involved in value-addition to their farm produce. Anuj Patel, an engineer having a farm in Sindhrot, is now earning 25% to 30% more with value addition. “I started with pulses and rice and switched to turmeric and ginger now. Initially, whatever was unsold in the market used to be processed, but now since the turmeric and ginger powders as well as processed tur dal give more returns, I have stopped selling raw products,” said Anuj, who works in the production department of a private company. He added that by selling processed farm produce there is no problem of waste and the issue of storage is also resolved. Chintan Shah, a native of Surat whose family is involved in the textiles business, too started chemical and pesticides-free farming in Gambhira of Anand district four years back. “If I go to market to sell the raw products, the middleman will decide the price and even if a farmer pushes, he will not be able to get more than Rs 25 for one kg of raw ginger,” he said. Shah sells turmeric powder for Rs 325 to Rs 350 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-covid-sows-seeds-of-value-addition-in-turmeric-and-ginger-farming/articleshow/76946802.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 14, 2020||Noida||Noida: 4 booked under Gangster Act for carrying out over 20 thefts in a year||GREATER NOIDA: Four alleged thieves have been booked under the Gangster Act for their involvement in over 20 thefts in the past 12 months. The accused have been identified as Mainuddin, Satish, Pramod and an unknown person who is the gang’s leader. All are natives of Hapur. According to a complaint filed by Sujeet Upadhyay, the station officer at Sector Beta 2 police station, the accused have carried out 23 mobile thefts and house break-ins in sectors Beta 2, Alpha 1 and Swarn Nagri in August, September, October and November 2019. "They were arrested in 2019 with a stolen motorcycle and a tool kit which they used in carrying out thefts, however, after getting released, they did not stop, instead carried out more such thefts," he said. The officer said due to the gang’s terror, no one, who can identify them, is ready to become a police witness. "Hence, the police force believes that they should be listed as gangsters and their properties should be seized in order to recover the illegal money they have been making through criminal activities," he said, adding that all four have been booked under sections 16, 17 and 22 of the Gangster Act. Rajesh Kumar Singh, the DCP of zone 3 said, "They are professional thieves and snatchers. Police teams of all stations in the districts have been roped in to arrest them." In the past year, the district police have imposed the Gangster Act on over 800 individuals having a criminal history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/4-booked-under-gangster-act-for-carrying-out-over-20-thefts-in-a-yr/articleshow/76949494.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
July 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Owners of IELTS centres want govt to let them work||BATHINDA: Upset over not being allowed to open shop even after assurances of taking precautions, proprietors of coaching centres for International English Language Testing System (IELTS) and Pearson Tests of English (PTE) and immigration centres protested in Moga on Monday. Claiming that the immigration and English training sector was a Rs 6,000-crore industry in Punjab, which provided direct and indirect employment to thousands of people, they demanded that the centres be allowed to open for students to get coaching. The centres have been closed since March 25. The owners said if buses could run with full capacity and restaurants could be allowed to offer meals, authorities should allow coaching centres to operate. The centre operators said they would hold classes in buses and restaurants as a symbolic protest. There are over 4,000 IELTS and PTE centres in Punjab and nearly 60,000 students are enrolled in these centres. However, not all centres are registered with appropriate authorities. Moga Immigration, Travel and IELTS Association vice-president Devpriya Tyagi said coaching centres had bene closed across the country since the last week of March. “Authorities have not paid heed to our demands, but have allowed buses to operate with full capacity and even let restaurants and liquor vends function. It seems the authorities want us to provide coaching to students in busesm” Tyagi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/owners-of-ielts-centres-want-govt-to-let-them-work/articleshow/76948612.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Chennai||Queer youth find their rights violated at home||CHENNAI: Two months from now, India will celebrate the second anniversary of the Supreme Court judgement decriminalising Section 377 that prohibited consensual sexual conduct between two same-sex adults. For the country’s LGBTQI+ community, it remains a milestone moment in their longstanding fight for fundamental rights. But as several community members have learned in these recent months, if there is one place where this breakthrough has barely mattered, it is at home. Since the country went into lockdown, many of them have been forced indoors with unsupportive or homophobic families. “Days before the lockdown began, I came out to my family unplanned, following an emotional outburst that had erupted over the topic of my marriage,” says 21-year-old Elizabeth*, who identifies as a lesbian. Elizabeth had to come back home to Tiruvannamalai from Coimbatore, where she was studying, after the lockdown came into effect. “The homecoming has turned into a nightmare of sharing space with passive-aggressive parents, who have called me the worst names, openly ridiculed my sex life and play religious discourses that call homosexuality a sin. I’ve never seen this side to them or felt this unsafe in my own house,” she says. For many queer youngsters from orthodox families and small towns, the battle with their own guilt, shame and confusion is compounded by the lack of access to community members and allies during these times, severing all possibilities of a much-needed vent. While this mounting mental and emotional trauma has manifested in tragedies like the suicide of 21-year-old Kasargod student Anjana Hareesh, who was allegedly forced into conversion therapy, there are numerous others that have gone unheard, say mental health professionals. “Most LGBTQI+ youth living in hostile environments have been facing crippling loneliness,” says Magdalene Jeyarathnam, founder and director of East West Centre for Counselling and Training. “For many of them, their relationships with their partners have also been strained because they are under constant supervision at home,” says Magdalene, who has been conducting online therapy sessions. Making things harder, several families are using the lockdown to go on a match-finding spree for their children, signing them on to matrimonial platforms and forcing them to talk to prospective alliances. “In the past, it would take painstaking effort to even say something nice about a pretty girl on TV, just to look innocuous,” says Rehman* a 24-year-old doctor from Andhra Pradesh, who identifies as gay and hasn’t come out to his family. In some cases, the resistance has taken an extreme form, wherein transpeople have been forced to discontinue hormone therapy and young lesbian women have been physically and sexually assaulted by family members, says L Ramakrishnan from the public health NGO SAATHII, which has conducted two mental health panels for vulnerable queer youth just in the past three months. Chintan Girish Modi, a fellow with Chennai-based Prajnya Trust, who works on LGBTQI+ rights, says there is a small but growing number of mental health professionals offering pay-as-you-wish sessions to benefit students and young professionals. “They are aware that the distress experienced by these individuals is deeply influenced by the social structures they are part of,” he says. (*Names changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/queer-youth-find-their-rights-violated-at-home/articleshow/76948601.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
July 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Finish Beed canal work, say activists||Aurangabad: While the state government is celebrating the birth centenary year of former chief minister Shankarrao Chavan, stakeholders have demanded completion of the pending work on over 40-km-long right bank canal system of the Majalgaon dam in Beed district. While the work on the 101-km-long canal has been completed till Gangakhed taluka of Parbhani district, the remaining work till Loha in Nanded district is pending for a long time. Water right activist Abhijit Dhanorkar on Monday said completing the pending work of the right bank canal system of Majalgaon dam would bring under irrigation over 48,000 hectare agricultural land from parts of Marathwada. “Chavan had envisaged this canal system. The work was completed partly and left in between for reasons best known to authorities concerned,” he said. When contacted, the in-charge of Majalgaon dam, BR Shaikh, said, “Technical hurdles, including land acquisition delay, came in the way of completion of the remaining phase of the canal system. The project, if gets push, will boost the irrigation capacity of the region,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/finish-beed-canal-work-say-activists/articleshow/76946344.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 14, 2020||Ranchi||No more beds available for Covid patients at Rims||Ranchi: Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), the only state-run tertiary care hospital in Jharkahnd, has run out of space to accommodate Covid-19 patients even though the number of cases sees a steady rise. The hospital management on Monday held a meeting with the district administration, asking the latter to shift the asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms to other Covid centres. Ranchi DC Mahimpat Ray said they will look into the matter. Talking to TOI on Monday, Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid-19 task force at Rims, said, “Against the 72 beds, we now have about 82 patients and the ICU and NICU units are almost full as well. We don’t have any more space to accommodate the Covid patients and the administration must explore other options.” In its fight against the deadly virus, Rims had constructed a 100-bed facility, of which 72 were for general and rest were ICU, dialysis and NICU units. Asked about the details of the meeting, Dr. Kumar said, “Whatever concerns we had, we conveyed them to the administrative officials. Now they have to understand the urgency of the situation and look for alternative places. Rims is a tertiary care centre and it must only be used to accommodate critical care patients. Those with asymptomatic or very mild symptoms can be admitted elsewhere.” Another official said that many from other districts are being admitted to Rims after testing positive for Covid-19 in private hospitals, leading to the heavy flow of patients. Besides Rims, CCL, Gandhinagar in Kanke and Paras hospital (formerly HEC) in Dhurwa are other two dedicated Covid hospitals with a capacity of 70 and 50 beds respectively. Sources in the district administration said that CCL’s capacity is almost full while Paras hospital has not admitted a single patient yet. “The administration must divert patients to Paras hospital now. We don’t know why all the load is coming to Rims only,” said a doctor on anonymity. Ranchi DC Mahimpat Ray said existing problems will be sorted out soon. “We have been apprised about the problems at Rims and we will sort it out soon. We will accommodate patients at other places, including Paras hospital,” he added. Over a month back, the district administration examined more than six places for setting up Covid care centres for asymptomatic patients but it is yet to build one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-more-beds-available-for-covid-patients-at-rims/articleshow/76947810.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 14, 2020||Ranchi||Body of BDO found on train tracks in Steel City||Jamshedpur: Palojori block development officer Nagendra Tiwari (38) was found dead near the railway tracks in Jugsalai area of Jamshedpur on Sunday night. The BDO reportedly went out with an acquaintance on Sunday evening but did not return till late in the night. After failing to contact him, Nagendra’s family raised an alarm. Finally, after several hours of search, his body was spotted by police. “Prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide,” Jugsalai police station in-charge Nityanand Mahato said. Nagendra’s kin, however, alleged that the BDO was murdered. “It seems that to deceive the police, the murderers dumped the body on the tracks to create an impression that he committed suicide,” Nagendra’s elder brother Birendra Tiwari said. He added that Nagendra was an upright officer and had been the target of corrupt officials since his early days in the service. The family members of Nagendra added that the deceased officer was also on the target of the sand mafia as he opposed illegal sand mining in Palojori. “A local mukhiya of Palojori, who is a strongman with high-profile connections, was threatening Nagendra over the phone for the last few days after he launched a probe into alleged irregularities in several MNREGA projects,” said a family friend on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, BJP has demanded an impartial probe into Nagendra’s death. “Nagendra Tiwari was an honest officer. His family members suspect he has been killed. Hence an impartial probe should be conducted,” district BJP president Gunjan Yadav said. BJP spokesperson Kunal Sarangi even demanded a CBI inquiry. Sarangi said the state government has failed to protect honest officers. Meanwhile, the last rites of Tiwari were performed at Subarnarekha Ghat in the city on Monday. The post-mortem of his body was conducted at MGMMCH here, the report of which is yet to arrive. Nagendra, who hailed from Jamshedpur, was on leave since the past one month and he was staying with his elder brother’s family in the PWD colony of Sakchi. A 2013-batch officer of the JPSC cadre, Nagendra was transferred to Palojori earlier this year. He was unmarried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/body-of-bdo-found-on-train-tracks-in-steel-city/articleshow/76947766.cms||B Sridhar
July 14, 2020||Ranchi||Three dists in Jharkhand make Covid test mandatory for new arrivals||Ranchi: As the number of positive cases inches towards the 4,000 mark in Jharkhand, three districts have made it mandatory for people arriving from other states to undergo Covid-19 tests. West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Arava Rajkamal issued an order on Monday directing persons arriving from other states to undergo mandatory Covid-19 testing at the district’s dedicated community health centres (CHC). “Those flouting the order will be booked and tried under relevant sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act of 2005,” the order read. A similar directive was issued by the Deoghar administration on Sunday evening. Its deputy commissioner Nancy Sahay took to Twitter to announce the order and underscored that the flouters will be booked. “Till the time their reports arrive, all of them have to stay at government quarantine centres,” Sahay added. Ramgarh, which became the first district to issue such an order on July 9, mandated that the persons arriving in the district will have to intimate the health and administrative authorities voluntarily for Covid-19 sampling at the dedicated centres located in Ramgarh sadar hospital and CHCs at Mandu, Gola and Patratu block headquarters. As on Monday morning, West Singhbhum has 93 cases while Deoghar has 65 cases. Ramgarh has reported 171 cases so far. The decision from respective district administrations eclipses the June 1 directive of that state disaster management department which said individuals coming from outside Jharkhand will have to stay in 14-day home quarantine and get sampled for Covid-19 tests if they are symptomatic. The earlier order has not been revised so far. Besides mandatory Covid-19 tests for inbound people, the East Singhbhum administration threatened to initiate action against government officials who are shuttling between Chaibasa (district headquarters) and Jamshedpur, Ranchi and other towns during weekends to spend time with their families stating that such movements risk transmission of the virus. In Chatra, the district authorities directed health and administrative officers to get shopkeepers and vegetable vendors tested for Covid-19. “Till the time their reports arrive, all shops shall remain closed except those selling essentials,” a statement issued by the authorities said. The Chatra administration has announced a weeklong lockdown and said it will not allow any interstate travel through its borders unless the traveller produces e-passes issued by the Jharkhand government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/three-dists-in-jharkhand-make-covid-test-mandatory-for-new-arrivals/articleshow/76947858.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 14, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi students shine in CBSE Class XII exam||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO/DHANBAD: Ranchi students clinched the top spots in the state in science and arts streams while a boy from Jamshedpur scored the highest in commerce in the AISSE (Class XII) CBSE examinations, the results of which were announced on Monday. Ansh Makkar of DPS Ranchi emerged as the state topper in the science stream with 99.2% marks while Riya Srivastava of Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamali, scored 98.4% in arts. Hardik Agarwal of DAV Public School, Bishtupur in Jamshedpur, became the state topper in commerce with 98.4% marks. Ansh scored 97 in English, 99 in chemistry and cent percent in mathematics, computer and graphics. Ansh said his school environment and the support of teachers and parents were helpful in his achievement. “I studied regularly from Class XI. My strategy was to revise the subjects well and avoid pressure during the examination,” an elated Ansh said. Notably, 12 students from DPS Ranchi secured 98% and above marks. School principal Ram Singh said over 88% of his students got 90% and above. “Even though we sent our first batch of 43 students to sit for the examination in humanities, 36 of them scored 90% and above,” he said. In the arts stream, JVM Shyamali once again retained the top place. With a score of 98.4% marks, Riya topped the stream in the state. “I always remained attentive to the teachers during my class,” she said. Out of 772 state students who appeared for the All India Senior Secondary Examination (AISSE), 320 scored above 90%. There were 468 students in the science stream, 120 in commerce and 184 in the arts stream. Commerce topper from Jamshedpur Hardik said he studied regularly but was not concerned about his rank. His batchmates in science and arts also performed well. His colleague, Prerna, from the same school scored 98% marks in arts to become the district topper while Mayank Kumar Panda got 97.2% in science. In Bokaro, 333 students of DPS secured above 90%. Adyasha Mishra got 98.8% to become the district topper in science while Mimansha of Pentecostal Academy and Nitesh Kumar Mahto of Chinmaya Vidyalaya jointly became district toppers in arts by securing 98% marks. Ritu Kumari of Holy Cross School got 98.2% in the commerce stream and emerged as the district topper. In Dhanbad, Shambhavi Singh of Sri Sri Sri Suryadeo Singh Gurkulam and hailing from well-known the Singh family of Dhanbad bagged 98% marks in arts to become the district topper. Md Masoom Ali of DAV CFRI and Anu Kumari of Rajkamal DAV secured 97.6% each to top the district in science and commerce stream respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/city-students-shine-in-cbse-class-xii-exam/articleshow/76947922.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ranchi||Weeklong lockdown in Chatra from Jul 15||Chatra: Chatra district will impose a one-week lockdown from Wednesday amid a surge in cases of coronavirus in the district, the administration said on Monday. As per a bulletin issued by the state government on Monday morning, the district has recorded 118 Covid-19 cases, of which 66 are active and 52 have recovered. With 18 patients diagnosed on Sunday, the district also recorded its biggest one-day spike in cases, the bulletin said. On Monday, Chatra deputy commissioner Jitendra Kumar Singh chaired a meeting with officer bearers of Chatra Chamber of Commerce, and said more precautionary measures are needed to contain the spread of the new virus. They welcomed the decision and said it was a must with the spike in corona cases. Members of the business outfit, led by its president Jitendra Kumar Jain and secretary Sanjay Agarwal, also said concrete steps, including a strict lockdown, are the need of the hour. They demanded certain relaxations for essential services during the week-long lockdown. Singh said, “We have decided to go for a one-week lockdown from Wednesday to identify new Covid patients on a war-footing and provide them treatment. The administration has identified 500 small and big businesspersons and greengrocers whose swab samples will be sent for Covid tests during the week. Till the arrival of the reports, all of them will keep their business establishments shut. Essential services will be exempt from this lockdown.” Singh also urged traders dealing in essential commodities to follow social-distancing protocols and to encourage people to wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/weeklong-lockdown-in-chatra-from-jul-15/articleshow/76947741.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ranchi||203 new infections, 2 more deaths in state||Ranchi/Sindri: Jharkhand recorded 203 new Covid-19 infections (including 14 late on Sunday night) and two more casualties in 24 hours, taking the state’s total tally of coronavirus casualties to 33 and the caseload to 3,963, a bulletin issued by the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) cell said. The two deaths were reported from Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) Dhanbad late on Sunday night, taking the day’s casualty count to nine. With 189 new cases detected from 20 districts on Monday, the state recorded its biggest single-day spike since the outbreak started on March 31. Ranchi (40 cases), Hazaribag (39) and Deoghar and Pakur (20 each) recorded the highest one-day figures. Among others, Ramgarh recorded 20 cases, Giridih and Koderma six cases each, East Singhbhum and Garhwa five each, West Singhbhum and Simdega three each while Chatra, Godda, Jamtara and Sahibganj reported two cases each. Among the 40 new cases in Ranchi, one is a shooter arrested by the police on Sunday and 10 are cops, sources said. The shooter was presented before the media with four of his accomplices by Ranchi SSP Surendra Kumar Jha after their arrests. The gang is accused of plotting a murder in the state capital. In Deoghar, at least five infected persons are from the family of a priest. One of the bodyguards of Dhanbad MP P N Singh also tested positive of Covid-19. The man had returned from West Bengal and submitted his samples on Sunday. Jharkhand, which is facing infrastructure shortages and crunch of dedicated Covid 19 beds, now has 1,579 active cases. Also, 43 patients were discharged on Monday taking the total number of recoveries to 2,351.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/203-new-infections-2-more-deaths-in-state/articleshow/76947852.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 14, 2020||India||Health min seeks over Rs 6 lakh cr under Finance Commission award from 21-22 to 25-26||NEW DELHI: The health ministry has revised its fund requirement to Rs 6.04 lakh crore from Rs 4.99 lakh crore for the period of the award of the 15th Finance Commission – from 2021-22 to 2025-26. The 15th Finance Commission on Monday held a meeting with Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on the issue of revising the state-specific proposals of the ministry in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, exploring the possibility of back loading in the light of fiscal strain and suggestions of the high-level group on health under the Commission. In a detailed presentation to the Commission, the health ministry highlighted the National Health Policy (NHP) 2017 targets which include increase in public health expenditure to 2.5% of GDP, in a progressive manner, by 2025. It also underlined primary health expenditure to be 2/3rd of the total health expenditure and increase in state sector health spending to more than 8% of their budget by 2020. The ministry pointed out that the pandemic has established the importance of the need to strengthen the public health sector, surveillance and public health management, preventive and promotive health care with special focus on urban health. The ministry also highlighted the need to increase the allocation of health ministry on year- to-year basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/health-min-seeks-over-rs-6-lakh-cr-under-finance-commission-award-from-21-22-to-25-26/articleshow/76949939.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Orange alert for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar: Brace for heavy rains tomorrow||MUMBAI: Heavy downpour continued to pound Mumbai and adjoining suburbs on Tuesday, leading to waterlogging in several areas. The waterlogging was reported at Hindmata Dadar, King Circle, Dockyard, Sion and other low-lying areas following the incessant rainfall. #MumbaiRain | Heavy rain pounds Dadar #Dadar #waterlogging https://t.co/4rroTHNDiu— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1594728189000Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts of Maharashtra today and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places in the districts tomorrow, said India Meteorological Department, Mumbai. Mumbai: Waterlogging at Five Gardens following heavy rainfall#MumbaiRain https://t.co/RLxB7NKTTu— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1594727853000The week began with heavy rain in many places in Mumbai and its adjoining areas, and the showers are expected to continue through the week. The IMD has issued an orange alert for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Wednesday, forecasting heavy to very heavy rain at some places. The intensity of rains is likely to increase on Tuesday itself. For Raigad and Ratnagiri, a red alert has been issued for July 15. Waterlogging on #APMCRoad at #Vashi due to heavy rain in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday.#NaviMumbaiRain #waterlogging https://t.co/wZuzonN8i4— TOI Navi Mumbai (@TOINaviMumbai) 1594728034000In the 24 hours up to 8.30am on Monday, the IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded 69.6mm of rain, categorised as ‘heavy’, while the Colaba observatory logged 22.4mm, which falls in the ‘moderate’ category. Heavier rain in Thane and suburbs than south MumbaiOn Monday, parts of Mumbai’s suburbs and areas like Thane reported heavy rain as compared to south Mumbai. Weather bureau officials said the rain activity may ease in the city only by the weekend, with light to moderate rainfall forecast from Friday. Significant rain is needed as lakes supplying water to the city have only 3.39 lakh million litres, or 23.43% of water stock, which is almost 50% less compared to last year when the lakes had 6.52 lakh million litres, or 45.10% , of water stock by this time. K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said, “As per the IMD model guidance, there is a possibility of heavy to very heavy rain in parts of Konkan, including Mumbai and around, beginning July 14-15. Therefore, we are expecting increased intensity in rainfall from Tuesday.” The average rainfall reported in the 12-hour period from 8.30am-8.30pm on Monday by the Colaba and Santacruz observatories was 4mm and 26.8 mm respectively. Between 7am and 7pm on Monday, Kasarvadavli (Thane) recorded 51.5mm of rain, while areas like Airoli in Navi Mumbai reported 47 mm. In Mumbai’s western suburbs, Marol in Andheri logged 40mm, while Mulund reported 46mm. So far, the total rainfall reported since the beginning of the season by the Colaba and Santacruz observatories has been 1,063mm and 1,103mm respectively, which is above normal in both cases. Besides, in the first 13 days of July, Santacruz observatory recorded 84% of required rainfall for the entire month. The required rainfall for the month is 840.7mm and so far the Santacruz observatory has reported 708 mm of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/orange-alert-for-mumbai-thane-and-palghar-brace-for-heavy-rains-tomorrow/articleshow/76950049.cms||Richa Pinto
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain continues to pound Mumbai, suburbs; several areas waterlogged||MUMBAI: Heavy downpour continued to pound Mumbai and adjoining suburbs on Tuesday, leading to waterlogging in several areas. The waterlogging was reported at Hindmata Dadar, King Circle, Dockyard, Sion and other low-lying areas following the incessant rainfall. #MumbaiRain | Heavy rain pounds Dadar #Dadar #waterlogging https://t.co/4rroTHNDiu— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1594728189000Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts of Maharashtra today and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places in the districts tomorrow, said India Meteorological Department, Mumbai. Mumbai: Waterlogging at Five Gardens following heavy rainfall#MumbaiRain https://t.co/RLxB7NKTTu— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1594727853000The week began with heavy rain in many places in Mumbai and its adjoining areas, and the showers are expected to continue through the week. The IMD has issued an orange alert for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Wednesday, forecasting heavy to very heavy rain at some places. The intensity of rains is likely to increase on Tuesday itself. For Raigad and Ratnagiri, a red alert has been issued for July 15. Waterlogging on #APMCRoad at #Vashi due to heavy rain in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday.#NaviMumbaiRain #waterlogging https://t.co/wZuzonN8i4— TOI Navi Mumbai (@TOINaviMumbai) 1594728034000In the 24 hours up to 8.30am on Monday, the IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded 69.6mm of rain, categorised as ‘heavy’, while the Colaba observatory logged 22.4mm, which falls in the ‘moderate’ category. Heavier rain in Thane and suburbs than south MumbaiOn Monday, parts of Mumbai’s suburbs and areas like Thane reported heavy rain as compared to south Mumbai. Weather bureau officials said the rain activity may ease in the city only by the weekend, with light to moderate rainfall forecast from Friday. Significant rain is needed as lakes supplying water to the city have only 3.39 lakh million litres, or 23.43% of water stock, which is almost 50% less compared to last year when the lakes had 6.52 lakh million litres, or 45.10% , of water stock by this time. K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said, “As per the IMD model guidance, there is a possibility of heavy to very heavy rain in parts of Konkan, including Mumbai and around, beginning July 14-15. Therefore, we are expecting increased intensity in rainfall from Tuesday.” The average rainfall reported in the 12-hour period from 8.30am-8.30pm on Monday by the Colaba and Santacruz observatories was 4mm and 26.8 mm respectively. Between 7am and 7pm on Monday, Kasarvadavli (Thane) recorded 51.5mm of rain, while areas like Airoli in Navi Mumbai reported 47 mm. In Mumbai’s western suburbs, Marol in Andheri logged 40mm, while Mulund reported 46mm. So far, the total rainfall reported since the beginning of the season by the Colaba and Santacruz observatories has been 1,063mm and 1,103mm respectively, which is above normal in both cases. Besides, in the first 13 days of July, Santacruz observatory recorded 84% of required rainfall for the entire month. The required rainfall for the month is 840.7mm and so far the Santacruz observatory has reported 708 mm of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/heavy-rain-continues-to-pound-mumbai-suburbs-several-areas-waterlogged/articleshow/76949956.cms||Richa Pinto
July 14, 2020||Thane||Orange alert for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar: Brace for heavy rains tomorrow||MUMBAI: Heavy downpour continued to pound Mumbai and adjoining suburbs on Tuesday, leading to waterlogging in several areas. The waterlogging was reported at Hindmata Dadar, King Circle, Dockyard, Sion and other low-lying areas following the incessant rainfall. #MumbaiRain | Heavy rain pounds Dadar #Dadar #waterlogging https://t.co/4rroTHNDiu— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1594728189000Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts of Maharashtra today and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places in the districts tomorrow, said India Meteorological Department, Mumbai. Mumbai: Waterlogging at Five Gardens following heavy rainfall#MumbaiRain https://t.co/RLxB7NKTTu— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1594727853000The week began with heavy rain in many places in Mumbai and its adjoining areas, and the showers are expected to continue through the week. The IMD has issued an orange alert for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Wednesday, forecasting heavy to very heavy rain at some places. The intensity of rains is likely to increase on Tuesday itself. For Raigad and Ratnagiri, a red alert has been issued for July 15. Waterlogging on #APMCRoad at #Vashi due to heavy rain in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday.#NaviMumbaiRain #waterlogging https://t.co/wZuzonN8i4— TOI Navi Mumbai (@TOINaviMumbai) 1594728034000In the 24 hours up to 8.30am on Monday, the IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded 69.6mm of rain, categorised as ‘heavy’, while the Colaba observatory logged 22.4mm, which falls in the ‘moderate’ category. Heavier rain in Thane and suburbs than south MumbaiOn Monday, parts of Mumbai’s suburbs and areas like Thane reported heavy rain as compared to south Mumbai. Weather bureau officials said the rain activity may ease in the city only by the weekend, with light to moderate rainfall forecast from Friday. Significant rain is needed as lakes supplying water to the city have only 3.39 lakh million litres, or 23.43% of water stock, which is almost 50% less compared to last year when the lakes had 6.52 lakh million litres, or 45.10% , of water stock by this time. K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said, “As per the IMD model guidance, there is a possibility of heavy to very heavy rain in parts of Konkan, including Mumbai and around, beginning July 14-15. Therefore, we are expecting increased intensity in rainfall from Tuesday.” The average rainfall reported in the 12-hour period from 8.30am-8.30pm on Monday by the Colaba and Santacruz observatories was 4mm and 26.8 mm respectively. Between 7am and 7pm on Monday, Kasarvadavli (Thane) recorded 51.5mm of rain, while areas like Airoli in Navi Mumbai reported 47 mm. In Mumbai’s western suburbs, Marol in Andheri logged 40mm, while Mulund reported 46mm. So far, the total rainfall reported since the beginning of the season by the Colaba and Santacruz observatories has been 1,063mm and 1,103mm respectively, which is above normal in both cases. Besides, in the first 13 days of July, Santacruz observatory recorded 84% of required rainfall for the entire month. The required rainfall for the month is 840.7mm and so far the Santacruz observatory has reported 708 mm of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/orange-alert-for-mumbai-thane-and-palghar-brace-for-heavy-rains-tomorrow/articleshow/76950048.cms||Richa Pinto
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||G’chiroli tribals guard bridge construction till it’s completed||Nagpur: Around 50 tribals, on rotation basis from eight adjoining villages, guarded the Kistapur bridge construction site at night to facilitate the ongoing work in the Maoist bastion of south Gadchiroli’s Aheri taluka.Despite Maoists torching two tractors and stalling work on April 7 this year, the tribal population came forward to help finish the construction of the bridge in two-and a-half months’ time. The bridge, built at a cost of Rs4.8 crores, will help 26 villages on the Jimulgatta and Dechlipetha road to remain connected in the monsoon. Apart from the development work, the tribals in 22 villages in and around Kistapur also passed a resolution in their gram sabha to invoke ‘Gaonbandi’ for Maoists by which they will not allow the rebels to enter their hamlets and influence them. In return, the government would sanction additional funds for the development of their villages. There used to be deaths due to unavailability of medical assistance during the monsoon in the villages beyond the Kistapur nullah which flows with strong currents during the rains. After the bridge was ready, SP Shailesh Balkawade rushed to congratulate the villagers by travelling 170km from his Gadchiroli office. “It required supreme confidence and conviction to defy the Maoist threat, to oppose them and get development work done at a place which they had targeted earlier,” said the SP.Working on a mantra of ‘Owning up resources and assets’, Balkawade said a new change has been ushered in the approach of the police in the Maoist-affected district where tribals are being mentally prepared to come forward to support development work and get involved by making it difficult for the rebels. “After the arson at Kistapur by the Maoists, meetings were taken at the Jimulgatta and Dechlipetha police posts and also at the office of the sub-divisional police officer. I had offered assistance to the tribals provided they assured me not to allow Maoists to perpetrate arsoning here and also that they would come forward,” he said.Balkawade said that he also supported the enthusiasm of the villagers by providing a second layer of security at the construction site by introducing short range and long range patrolling in the region to flush out Maoists. “With the support of the tribals, we are also working towards assisting infrastructure building elsewhere too. We ensured that the Jimulgatta-Dechlipetha road too would constructed and the one between Repanpalli and Damrancha in the Maoist strongholds,” he said.“The Gyrapatti-Katejhari and Katejhari-Murumgaon roads too would be completed if we get a 10-day dry patch in the monsoon,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gchiroli-tribals-guard-bridge-construction-till-its-completed/articleshow/76948498.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory overwhelmed with Covid-19 swab samples||GUNTUR: Authorities of the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) in Guntur Medical College (GMC) have requested the medical and health department to streamline the collection of swab samples across the district. The professors managing the lab brought the difficulties faced at the lab to the notice of district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr J Yasmin and GMC principal Dr S Babulal. They said that samples should be drawn according to the testing capacities of the lab. They said that the lab is receiving over 5,000 to 6,000 samples per day while the capacity to screen per day is only 2,000 samples. “Although the collection of samples from all the suspected primary and secondary contacts of the positive tested cases is mandatory, unscientific way of collection is resulting in goof-ups in screening of the samples,” said a senior professor at VRDL. DMHO Dr J Yasmin said that they would take appropriate action to resolve the issue as per the instructions of the district collector. The lab authorities also urged the district administration to ready plans to screen samples through different modes including using TrueNat and rapid antigen kits to lessen the burden. Sources said that the collection of massive number of samples is leading to a delay in finalising the results. In some of the cases, it is taking more than 10 days to screen the samples. Sources said that the testing the samples so many days after the collection might generate false reports. “It is taking a lot of time even to segregate and ready the documents of the samples before screening,” said an assistant professor at the GMC lab. The VRDL has sent 400 samples back to GGH after finding lapses in swab collection. As per the procedure, the doctors have to enter the details of the person from whom the sample is drawn into a mobile app and allocate an ID number before sending it to the lab. Sources said that doctors in GGH were not following the procedure prescribed by the department. Meanwhile, the AP NGOs leaders met district collector Samuel Anand Kumar and requested him to allow at least 50 percent staff to work from home keeping in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. They explained that many employees were tested in the district prompting the others to work under pressure and fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vrdl-overwhelmed-with-swab-samples/articleshow/76947438.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Strict lockdown in Chittoor from today||Tirupati: The Chittoor district administration has decided to enforce a strict lockdown in all containment zones from Tuesday. District collector Dr N Bharat Gupta made the announcement on Monday. Shops and offices will be shut in all areas that have reported more than 20 cases. In other areas, shops will remain open only till 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/strict-lockdown-in-chittoor-from-today/articleshow/76947450.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag district collectorate reports first positive case||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam district collectorate reported its first Covid-19 case on Monday. One of the attendants of a joint collector, a 30-year-old man, has tested positive. The joint collector however has tested negative, but has chosen to refrain from going to the office as a precautionary measure. Sources say that the attendant was with the joint collector throughout; including on Sunday when the joint collector accompanied state tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao for a visit to quarantine centres in the city. Many people visit the collectorate every day including locals and politicians. The incident has worried employees of the collectorate. Medical authorities are now busy identifying the primary and secondary contacts of the attendant. Some tests have already been conducted and the attendant’s house and nearby areas have been sanitised. The joint collector informed TOI that he is going to work from home for some time. Government employees are often exposed to places where there are Covid-19 patients. Departments such as medical, police and endowments have already reported cases. Medical workers make for nearly 40 cases among those in government departments, followed by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-district-collectorate-reports-first-positive-case/articleshow/76947471.cms||Siva G
July 14, 2020||Mumbai||Threat to comedian: Mumbai cyber bully deleted accounts, planned to flee||MUMBAI: Nalasopara resident Imtiyaz Shaikh alias Umesh Dada (28), a spice seller, had posted a video on his YouTube channel in which he issued rape threats against standup comedian Agrima Joshua and also circulated the threats on his Instagram account under his username ‘Umesh Dada’, said the police. Shaikh, whose name was Umesh Jadhav before he converted to Islam 10 years ago, also asked his followers to share and post similar threats. The offence attracts an imprisonment for seven years. Shaikh created the video after Shubham Mishra, his friend, posted the threat videos on July 11, a police officer said. After learning of Mishra’s arrest on Sunday, Shaikh deleted his social media accounts and had planned to flee. Shaikh was tracked through the internet protocol (IP) address and arrested by the cyber police on Monday. “We are retrieving all the videos uploaded on the channel that will be used as evidence in the case,” the officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber-Mumbai) Rashmi Karandikar said they have registered a suo motu case against Shaikh and he will be produced before the court on Tuesday. Meanwhile, home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday reiterated that legal action would be initiated against Joshua. He added that all those who have used offensive language against the stand-up comedian on social media will also face action. “A list of such accounts is being prepared and action will be initiated against them,” Deshmukh said. On Saturday, Joshua had tweeted an apology and pulled down the video of her act after Deshmukh asked the police to initiate legal action against her for the remarks against the Maratha king.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/threat-to-comedian-mumbai-cyber-bully-deleted-accounts-planned-to-flee/articleshow/76950074.cms||V Narayan
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Flu or Covid? Hundreds gather to get tested daily||VIJAYAWADA: Seasonal and viral fevers amid the Covid-19 pandemic have become a major concern for health officials and the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC). Hundreds of patients with fever and flu-like symptoms are queuing up at ESI Hospital as private hospitals are denying treatment for fear that the symptoms might be that of Covid-19. People suffering from fever are being directed to get themselves tested for Covid-19 before treatment begins. Earlier, patients were suffering because it took at least three days to get the Covid-19 test results. But since health authorities have started performing rapid tests, patients who test positive are being sent to isolation wards while others are being given the report so that they can seek treatment at private or other government hospitals. This is being done as Covid-19 cases are rising across the city with over 600 active cases as of Monday. Dr Srinivas, a city-based doctor said, “Viral fever patients experience the same symptoms like sore throat, dry cough and headache as do patients of Covid-19. We cannot treat patients on the basis of their symptoms alone as that increases risk of infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flu-or-covid-hundreds-gather-to-get-tested-daily/articleshow/76947489.cms||Venu Lanka
July 14, 2020||Nagpur||All Covid positive at home, parents send infant to Jabalpur||Nagpur: Covid-19 continues to throw up new challenges before administration, doctors and patients. A couple from a posh locality under Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Mangalwari zone have to endure the pain of separation with their 10-month-old only son after they and three other relatives tested positive for coronavirus. Left with no choice and only a few hours to take a call, the couple acted swiftly and decided to pack off the infant to his paternal grandparents home in Jabalpur, 276km from here, late Saturday night. The infant was driven by his 40-year-old dad’s friend and wife. At the same time, the man’s elder brother and wife started from Jabalpur to take custody of their 10-month-old nephew midway at Seoni in Madhya Pradesh. The family’s agony started when the infant’s 30-year-old mother complained of loss of smell and taste. As a precautionary measure, she got tested for Covid-19 at a private lab the same day. When her swab result tested positive the next day, the couple immediately shifted the infant to his maternal grandparents’ home in Central Nagpur. On July 10, the 30-year-old positive woman’s husband, a businessman, her mother, brother and the infant’s throat swabs were collected for testing. The woman isolated herself at home requesting the NMC team to wait for the results of four others. On July 11, the husband, his mother-in-law and brother-in-law too tested positive while the infant tested negative. The NMC team informed the family to make arrangement for the infant or submit an undertaking owning the responsibility of their son’s health. Worried, the couple decided to shift the infant to Jabalpur as they had no other relative in city. “My brother and his wife have isolated themselves in the upper floor with our son at their home in Jabalpur as per norms. Though the separation has come as a shock, it was a matter of his safety. No one is happy but we have no choice,” said the businessman, a native of Jabalpur. Zonal medical officer Dr Ateequr Raheman Khan said the family has no travel history. “We are yet to get a clue about their infection source. They are first case from their colony to test positive for Covid-19,” he said. In April, the son and daughter-in-law of city’s first Covid victim from Satranjipura were forced to keep their six-month-old daughter in GMCH Covid ward. The baby girl remained negative despite living with all positive patients for over 25 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-covid-positive-at-home-parents-send-infant-to-jabalpur/articleshow/76948509.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Doctors warn of Covid’s impact on brain||VISAKHAPATNAM: While we already know that Covid-19 can wreak havoc on the respiratory system, neurologists in the city now point out that the viral infection also exhibits several neurological manifestations in patients and can spread to the brain and cause damage. The most common neurological symptoms of Covid-19 are: loss of smell and taste, headaches and dizziness, all related to the peripheral nervous system. Some of the manifestations in the central nervous system include ischemic stroke, intra-cerebral haemorrhage, CNS vasculitis, non-specific encephalopathy and neuropsychiatric symptoms. Speaking to TOI, Dr G Butchi Raju, head of the department of neurology at King George Hospital (KGH)-Andhra Medical College (AMC), said “Anosmia (loss of smell) and ageusia (loss of taste) is found in 30% to 40 % of Covid-19 patients and these symptoms may last even when other symptoms like fever and cough gets cured.” “Another risk, is that of brain stroke when the CNS is affected, also weakness of limbs and hypoxia. The virus can also cause injury to the myelin sheath around the nerves. Nerve disorder and neuropsychiatric impact cannot be ruled out but it requires long term study to observe the effect on patients,” Dr Raju said. Explaining the link between Covid-19 and the brain, Dr Sumedha Maturu, consultant neurologist at Medicover Hospitals said, “Covid 19 can spread to the brain by three pathways: directly spread from the nasal cavity via the olfactory nerve, hematogenous spread via blood supply of lungs and retrograde neural spread via vagal nerve ending supplying the lungs. It can damage the brain through direct injury when the virus enters the brain by binding to specific ACE2 receptors.” As per current medical literature, around 36 % of hospitalised patients exhibited neurological manifestations during the course of illness. It is also documented that the more severe the respiratory disease, the more frequent and more complex are the neurological manifestations, Dr Sumedha Maturu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/docs-warn-of-covids-impact-on-brain/articleshow/76947493.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown may return to VZM town||Visakhapatnam: The Vizianagaram district administration has decided to reimpose lockdown in Vizianagaram town following the surge in Covid-19 positive cases. District collector M Hari Jawaharlal on Monday appealed to residents to be prepared for another lockdown as a decision to this effect will be taken in a couple of days. During the phone-in programme on Sunday, a majority of the residents in the Fort Town also expressed the need to reimpose strict lockdown to contain the spread of the virus, Hari Jawaharlal added. However, following this development, a few traders have appealed that shops, hotels, tiffin centers and other commercial establishments be allowed to stay open from 7 am to 2 pm. Currently, commercial establishments have been operating from 7 am to 12 noon in several towns, including Parvathipuram, Saluru and Bobbili. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-may-return-to-vzm-town/articleshow/76947508.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag district to get 15 Covid care centres||VISAKHAPATNAM: District collector V Vinay Chand on Monday instructed officials to identify suitable places to set up Covid care centres in each assembly constituency by Tuesday evening. The state government has instructed districts to set up Covid care centres in each assembly constituency — 15 in Visakhapatnam — and revenue division officers will monitor these centres. Vinay Chand conducted a review meeting and asked revenue divisional officers to submit the identified places’ details. The Covid care centres are part of the decentralisation of the treatment procedure, he said. A special officer would be appointed for the constituency-wise centre, which will be equipped with around 300 beds and other required equipment, Trunat machines and rapid antigen kits. These centres will have facilities for all kinds of tests, including blood tests, ECG and X-Ray. Even community health centres and primary health centres will have testing facilities, besides an ambulance. Medical staff will be available round-the-clock. The collector ordered officials to arrange isolation beds in area hospitals and community health centres. “Critical patients should be shifted to hospitals where oxygen and ventilator facilities are available. Around 200 to 300 beds at quarantine centres should be prepared at the mandal level where the tehsildar will be in charge,” the collector instructed. Revenue division officers will monitor the Covid care centre in each assembly constituency. The centres will be equipped with 300 beds and testing equipment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-district-to-get-15-covid-care-centres/articleshow/76947535.cms||Siva G
July 14, 2020||India||India needs additional spending of 6.2% of GDP to meet development goals: Report||NEW DELHI: A joint study by government think tank NITI Aayog and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has estimated that India needs to increase its sustainable development goals (SDG) spending by an additional 6.2% of its gross domestic product. Presenting the second voluntary national review (VNR) at the UN’s high level political forum, the NITI Aayog report said the ambitious goals and targets set under the SDG framework must be supported with adequate financial resources. It also said the ways and means for this additional financing needs to be identified and it is crucial to make sure that the budget allocations align with SDG priorities. The four crucial areas of action identified by the report are – improvement of the statistical system; monitoring at the local level; capacity building of all stakeholders; and SDG financing. “What gets measured gets done – this cannot be truer in the case of SDGs. The realisation of the 2030 Agenda calls for state-of-the-art reporting and monitoring tools to measure progress under the framework and enable course-correction. Twentieth century approach and solutions cannot effectively address twenty-first century challenges. As SDGs is a time-bound framework, periodic monitoring of progress, covering all aspects of the nationally adopted SDG framework is critical. This calls for a major upgrade of the statistical systems, both at the national and subnational levels,” the report said. The VNRs presented by member states at the UN forum are a critical component of the review of progress and implementation of the 2030 agenda and the SDGs. The reviews are voluntary and state-led and are aimed at facilitating the sharing of experiences, including successes, challenges and lessons learned, according to a government statement. NITI Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar expressed his solidarity with all the countries which were grappling with challenges brought about by the pandemic, while highlighting the key features of India’s response to the pandemic under the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. “We should obliterate all divisions and distinctions amongst us and come together to try and convert the prevailing situation into an opportunity for accelerating our progress towards achieving the SDG targets”, sad Kumar. He also highlighted the progress India has achieved in reducing multidimensional poverty, providing food safety, ensuring education for all, universalising access to electricity, clean cooking fuel and sanitation, while also operationalising the world’s largest health insurance programme by covering 500 million citizens. Apart from presenting a review of progress on the 17 SDGs, the report discusses at length the policy and enabling environment, India’s approach to localising SDGs, and strengthening means of implementation. “We are deeply committed to building on existing efforts and undertake newer initiatives to accelerate progress on the SDG targets for long term transformation. In this endeavour, peer learning and knowledge sharing will play a key role -which we are actively fostering among states and Union Territories”, said Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-needs-additional-spending-of-6-2-of-gdp-to-meet-development-goals-report/articleshow/76950121.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Amaravati||CBSE class 12: 92% students from Andhra Pradesh pass||VISAKHAPATNAM: Students of Andhra Pradesh have made their mark in the CBSE class 12 exam results. Of the 6,987 CBSE students in the state, 6,387 have passed, registering a pass percentage of 92.03%. A total of 93.89% girls and 90.77% boys have passed the exam. Vani Krishna Bala, a student of a corporate college in Visakhapatnam, has scored 492 out of 500, a whopping 98.4%. Speaking to TOI, Vani said that she wishes to pursue computer engineering in future. Talking about how her college dealt with the lockdown, she said, “Our school switched over to online classes for IIT preparation.” According to data aggregated from various educational institutions of the state, Sibabrata Nag and Labeeb Ahsan each secured 483 marks (96.6%), followed by Diline Sanyano Wiza 482 marks (96.4%), Kashish Kalash 481 marks (96.2%) and Deepak Kumar Paira 480 marks (96%). The CBSE marked students in an alternative method this time. In the alternative method, students who have completed all their examinations were scored based on their performance in those exams. Those students who have taken the exams for more than three subjects, the average of the marks in the best three were awarded for the subjects whose exams could not be taken. For students who have appeared for only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two subjects were awarded for those subjects whose exams could not be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cbse-class-12-92-students-from-ap-pass/articleshow/76954322.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CBSE class 12: 92% students from Andhra Pradesh pass||VISAKHAPATNAM: Students of Andhra Pradesh have made their mark in the CBSE class 12 exam results. Of the 6,987 CBSE students in the state, 6,387 have passed, registering a pass percentage of 92.03%. A total of 93.89% girls and 90.77% boys have passed the exam. Vani Krishna Bala, a student of a corporate college in Visakhapatnam, has scored 492 out of 500, a whopping 98.4%. Speaking to TOI, Vani said that she wishes to pursue computer engineering in future. Talking about how her college dealt with the lockdown, she said, “Our school switched over to online classes for IIT preparation.” According to data aggregated from various educational institutions of the state, Sibabrata Nag and Labeeb Ahsan each secured 483 marks (96.6%), followed by Diline Sanyano Wiza 482 marks (96.4%), Kashish Kalash 481 marks (96.2%) and Deepak Kumar Paira 480 marks (96%). The CBSE marked students in an alternative method this time. In the alternative method, students who have completed all their examinations were scored based on their performance in those exams. Those students who have taken the exams for more than three subjects, the average of the marks in the best three were awarded for the subjects whose exams could not be taken. For students who have appeared for only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two subjects were awarded for those subjects whose exams could not be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cbse-class-12-92-students-from-ap-pass/articleshow/76947551.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 14, 2020||Vijayawada||CBSE class 12: 92% students from Andhra Pradesh pass||VISAKHAPATNAM: Students of Andhra Pradesh have made their mark in the CBSE class 12 exam results. Of the 6,987 CBSE students in the state, 6,387 have passed, registering a pass percentage of 92.03%. A total of 93.89% girls and 90.77% boys have passed the exam. Vani Krishna Bala, a student of a corporate college in Visakhapatnam, has scored 492 out of 500, a whopping 98.4%. Speaking to TOI, Vani said that she wishes to pursue computer engineering in future. Talking about how her college dealt with the lockdown, she said, “Our school switched over to online classes for IIT preparation.” According to data aggregated from various educational institutions of the state, Sibabrata Nag and Labeeb Ahsan each secured 483 marks (96.6%), followed by Diline Sanyano Wiza 482 marks (96.4%), Kashish Kalash 481 marks (96.2%) and Deepak Kumar Paira 480 marks (96%). The CBSE marked students in an alternative method this time. In the alternative method, students who have completed all their examinations were scored based on their performance in those exams. Those students who have taken the exams for more than three subjects, the average of the marks in the best three were awarded for the subjects whose exams could not be taken. For students who have appeared for only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two subjects were awarded for those subjects whose exams could not be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cbse-class-12-92-students-from-ap-pass/articleshow/76954323.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Regional vigilance squad raids four mines, kicks up a storm||VISAKHAPATNAM: The regional vigilance squad of the mines and geology department, led by assistant director R Pratap Reddy, on Monday raided four black metal quarries of VRR Associates, a mining company owned by Vengamamba Srinivas Babu, at Krishnapuram area in Visakhapatnam and found several violations. Later, speaking to media, Pratap Reddy said that some of the violations included rig blasting, which is dangerous given that stones from the explosion can fall on nearby the residences, illegal mining (excavation and transportation of more metal than shown in records) and irregulaties in billing. He claimed that the company has caused a revenue loss of over Rs 100 crore to the government. “We will impose penalty for the violations and illegal mining in a couple of days,” he added. Only a few days ago Pratap Reddy and his team had raided the quarries of VRR Associates at Seethanagaram area in Anakapalle mandal and found violations there as well. Pratap Reddy had said that the company had violated safety norms and indulged in excess excavation causing loss to the government. He had imposed a fine of Rs 33 crore on VRR Associates. However, the owner of VVR Associates Srinivas Babu has alleged that Pratap Reddy was targetting him because he refused to pay a bribe of Rs 3 crore. Srinivas Babu claimed that after assuming office, Pratap Reddy suggested that the miners pay him Rs 3 crore bribe. Reddy’s proposal was allegedly taken up at a meeting of association of mining firms where its district, president JV Narasimha Rao criticised Reddy for demanding such a large bribe at a time when the mining industry was in a crisis due to Covid-19. “When we failed to pay the amount, Reddy immediately raided the quarries of Srinivas and Narasimha Rao without issuing any prior notices. Reddy slapped a fine of Rs 7 crore on Narasimha Rao and Rs 33 crore on me,” he alleged. Dismissing the allegations, Pratap Reddy said that he would resign if anyone proved that he was corrupt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/regional-vigilance-squad-raids-four-mines-kicks-up-a-storm/articleshow/76947589.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Delhi||1,246 fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi, lowest in the last 35 days||NEW DELHI: The capital on Monday recorded 1,246 novel coronavirus cases, the authorities said, the lowest in the past 35 days. In another positive trend, the first 12 days of July have largely reported more recovery cases daily than the fresh ones, according to the data shared by the Delhi health department. The city’s recovery rate is now over 80% compared to the national average of around 63%. It was also for the third consecutive day that figures of fresh cases remained below 2,000. On June 11, the number of new cases was 1,781, which dropped to 1,573 and 1,246 in the next two days. The total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 1,13,740, a health bulletin of Delhi government stated. According to the health bulletin, 93,312 people have recovered from the infection, while the active cases stand at 19,017. With 40 fresh fatalities, Delhi’s death toll has reached 3,411. From July 1-13, the city recorded 26,380 cases, while 32,984 people recovered. Barring July 1 and July 6, all days of this month recorded more recoveries than fresh cases. However, only 12,171 tests — 3,860 RT-PCR and 8,311 rapid antigen tests — were conducted on Monday, the lowest in the past 13 days. On other days, the daily tests have been in the range of 19,000 to 24,000. A majority of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in the hospitals were lying vacant on Monday. A data released on Delhi Corona app showed that of the 15,359 beds, only 4229, 28%, were occupied. Of the 9,217 beds in the dedicated Covid care centres, 7,069 are vacant. The recoveries from July 1-13, too, have seen a sharp rise — six days saw recoveries in the range of 2,000, three days in the range of 3,000 while July 9 saw over 4,000 recoveries. Meanwhile, 84 nurses working in the Covid-19 ward of Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital protested against its management, alleging their contracts were terminated for “demanding basic facilities”. The hospital authorities, however, said the non-renewal of the contracts “is not linked to their demands”. The nurses, who protested on the hospital premises, have also written to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal seeking intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1246-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-lowest-in-the-last-35-days/articleshow/76950203.cms||---
July 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Police rescue 2-year-old kidnapped over Rs 3,500 debt||AHMEDDABAD: Narol police, in a two-hour operation on Sunday, rescued a two-year-old girl who had been kidnapped over a debt of Rs 3,500.  Assistant commissioner of police, K division, Milap Patel, said the money had been routed to a third person through her father, Durgesh Singh, a resident of Shahwadi in Narol. “We have detained the accused, Safaddin Rai of Rakhial, who is from Darhiya Shivhar in Bihar. He was sent for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test,” said Patel. Inspector S A Gohil of Narol police station said that at 1.40pm on Sunday they got a message about a girl being kidnapped by an unknown man who had lured her away with chocolate. “A team under PSI S A Fuldhara and me began working on locating her,” added Gohil. Patel said that soon after the abduction, the father started receiving calls to return the Rs 3,500 or his child would be killed. “We began tracing the calls. The accused called him four times from different locations,” he said. Patel added that they made the father ask the kidnapper to come to a rickshaw stand on the Rakhial-Chamanpura bridge with the girl. PSI S A Fuldhara said, “From 3.30pm a team kept watch at the spot. At the the specified time, the accused arrived with the girl. We caught him and rescued the girl.” Gohil said they the accused was booked under Sections 363, 364 (a), 506(1) and 507 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-rescue-2-year-old-kidnapped-over-rs-3500-debt/articleshow/76949155.cms||---
July 14, 2020||India||Boxing team’s doctor tests positive for Covid-19||NEW DELHI: In the first Covid-19 case in the Indian sports since the resumption of sports activities post lockdown, the senior boxing team’s doctor, Amol Patil, who’s a part of the national camp for elite boxers, on Monday tested positive at the NIS Patiala campus. Patil’s test report returned positive late in the evening, after which he was shifted to a dedicated state-run care facility outside the campus. The test reports of other men and women boxers, who had been waiting for their results for over a week, also came along with that of Patil, but all of them have tested negative. But men’s boxers, including Amit Panghal and Ashish Kumar, will be rested again on Tuesday as they were at the same quarantine facility where the doctor was staying. The Olympic core probables were quarantining at the STC boys’ hostel at the polo ground outside the campus. Patil and other coaching staff members were staying on a separate floor of the same hostel. After the doctor’s positive report, Indian men’s team chief coach, CA Kuttappa, women’s team head coach, Mohammed Ali Qamar, and assistant coach, Kheemanand Beniwal, will be retested for covid-19 on Tuesday, as they all were in contact with Patil. The doctor, who had been with the boxing team to the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games and last year’s World Championships, is learnt to be carrying mild symptoms. However, the positive test result has put a question mark on the conduct of the camp, scheduled from August 1, and it’s been learnt that the camp could be called off. The development has come as a setback for the SAI, which has taken up the mantle of restarting the camps in Olympic disciplines following the derecognition of 57 national sports federations (NSFs) by the Delhi High Court. Meanwhile, as the SAI launches its investigation into the alleged breach of quarantine protocols by boxers Vikas Krishan, Satish Kumar and Neeraj Goyat at the NIS campus, it’s been learnt that they managed to get Covid-19 test reports within a span of 24 hours whereas other boxers had to waited for around 8 to 9 days (till Monday evening) for their reports to arrive, raising suspicion about the testing process itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/boxing-teams-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76950247.cms||Sabi Hussain
July 14, 2020||Thane||Thane: CR apprentice walking along tracks hit by local train, dies||THANE: An apprentice from Central Railway’s signalling and telecommunication department of died after being hit by a local train between Thane and Mulund on Monday. A native of Kozhikode in Kerala, J S Satya Nandan (26), was on his first day of training in Thane. The railway police said the mishap took place around 10am near Kopri bridge when he was on his way to the office located near the station. It was unclear why he was walking along the tracks, but the police said he was probably trying to take a short cut. A senior railway official said Nandan was initially in Kalyan after which he was assigned to the Thane office. He lived with friends in Kalyan. “He was new to the area and probably not aware of traffic movement at the spot and got accidentally hit,” said a railway police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-cr-apprentice-walking-along-tracks-hit-by-local-train-dies/articleshow/76950297.cms||Manoj Badgeri
