July 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal extends total lockdown in containment zones till July 19||KOLKATA: The West Bengal government on Tuesday extended till July 19 the total lockdown in containment zones to stem the spike in Covid-19 cases. The lockdown which began on July 9 was initially imposed for seven days. According to a notification issued by the home department, the rigorous containment in these areas would be extended from July 15 to July 19. These zones are located in and around Kolkata, besides Jalpaiguri, Malda, Cooch Behar, Raiganj and Siliguri, it said. "All the norms that have been in force since 5pm on July 9 will continue. Residents of the containment zones are prohibited from attending government and private offices," a senior official said. Local authorities will try to arrange for home delivery of essentials, he added. Meanwhile, the number of containment zones in the state rose to 606, with North 24 Parganas district having the maximum at 95. Howrah has 85 containment zones, Uttar Dinajpur has 61, Nadia 42, South 24 Parganas 55 and Kolkata 28, the government stated on its 'Egiye Bangla' website. West Bengal has so far reported 32,838 Covid-19 cases, while 980 people have died. A total of 19,931 people have recovered from the disease in the state. Watch West Bengal govt extends total lockdown in containment zones till July 19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-extends-total-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-july-19/articleshow/76968004.cms||---
July 15, 2020||India||In this Telangana village, tribal children get their first lesson||Nestled within the forests of Mulugu district — about 200km km from Hyderabad — the tiny hamlet of Neelam Thogu was brought to its knees when the pandemic struck. The Gutti Koya tribals of this nondescript settlement lost their jobs and, with limited resources, were left struggling to plate up one square meal for their families. Then, 26-year-old Osmania University student Esram Santhosh turned up. The cyber law student, who had returned to his home in Narlapur in Mulugu district after his hostel shut down, landed at the hamlet with essential supplies. Amid the relief work, Esram realised there was another crisis looming large over the 150-people-strong community — complete lack of access to education. He found that the children of the hamlet hadn’t seen the inside of a school ever in their lives. Thus, begun the journey. He set up a one-hut school, Bheem Children Happiness Centre, that today has 35 to 40 students learning basic English, Mathematics and Telugu – all this for the first time. Until now, children spent most of their time playing in the forest. “School in the hamlet gives us hope that our children will not lead the same life as we do,” said Parmesh M, a mason. Before the lockdown, most members of the settlement were engaged in masonry. Now, they collect fruits and wild berries to sell in the market and take up forest work to earn anything between Rs 300 and Rs 400 a day. Read AlsoIndore hotspot where women doctors were attacked heals itselfThe first attack on doctors helping Covid patients in India took place in Taatpati Bakhalin in Indore. Today, the area is Covid-free, and visiting doctors are showered with petals. There has not been a single Coronavirus case here in two months. It’s the elders of the locality who took the lead, and“I am happy my children are getting educated and not whiling away their time. Their future, suddenly, doesn’t look too bleak,” said Paddam Sandhya, another member of the hamlet. Making this dream come true for the tribals hasn’t been an easy task for Esram. Every day, for the last 30 days, he has been travelling 15km — 10km on bike and 5km on foot — to reach this hamlet, which has no pucca road connectivity with the rest of the district. Read AlsoDown with Covid, he ensured UP Police helpline stayed upTwenty-one members of the Uttar Pradesh police’s 112 emergency helpline's technical team in Lucknow and Ghaziabad tested Covid-19 positive between June 20-23. The service had to be shut down. Then Brajesh Gupta, database administrator, who had also tested positive rose to the occasion and worked“It’s a struggle, but seeing the children beaming on learning a new lesson makes it all worth it,” said Esram. Esram, along with his friends, organised books and stationery and got chocolates, biscuits and eggs for the children. He now wants to construct a pucca school in the hamlet and send them to Telangana government’s residential tribal welfare schools so that they can pursue higher studies. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch In this Telangana village, tribal children get their first lesson||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-this-telangana-village-tribal-children-get-their-first-lesson/articleshow/76963197.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 15, 2020||India||Cong general secy Avinash Pande dissolves RPCC executive, departments, cells||JAIPUR: Congress national general secretary and Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande on Tuesday dissolved the party's state executive and all departments and cells of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (RPCC). The development comes after Congress cracked down on Sachin Pilot, stripping the dissident leader of the posts of Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and the party's state unit president, and sacking two loyalists from the state Cabinet. The Congress has appointed Govind Singh Dotasara as the new president of the party's Rajasthan unit. With the appointment of the new president of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress, new state executive and departments and cells will be formed, Pande said in a statement. He said that no Congressman will communicate with the media without the permission of the newly appointed state Congress president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-general-secy-avinash-pande-dissolves-rpcc-executive-departments-cells/articleshow/76968664.cms||---
July 15, 2020||India||SC for retired judge-headed panel to probe killing of Dubey, associates in encounter||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday proposed to set up a committee headed by a retired apex court judge to inquire into encounter killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and his four associates within seven days of the ambush killing of eight Uttar Pradesh policemen at Bikru village on July 3. "We are against a court monitored investigation into the encounter killings. But, we would like to do something similar to what we had done in the Telangana encounter killing case. All of you tell us what will be the composition of a good committee which can inquire into the incidents (encounter killings of Dubey and his associates by UP police), said a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R S Reddy and A S Bopanna. On December 12 last year, the SC had appointed a committee headed by retired SC Judge V S Sirpurkar anc comprising former Bombay HC judge Rekha Baldota and former CBI Director D R Karthikeyan to inquire into the alleged fake encounter killing of four men accused of gangrape and murder o a veterinarian. The committee was asked to submit its report to the SC in six months, a time period which has already passed. Entertaining two PILs by advocates - Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Anoop Prakash Srivastava, the CJI-led bench explained its reluctance in ordering a court-monitored probe saying this would inhibit the SC from hearing appeals against the findings of the committee later. When the bench was seeking names from parties for inclusion as members of the inquiry committee, solicitor general Tushar Mehta appeared for the UP government and said he wanted to put on record the steps taken so far by the state to carry out a detailed probe into the incidents as permissible under the law. "The UP government has done as much possible under the law and I want to put everything on record. If after perusing the UP government's status report, the court felt to pass any other order, we will carry that out in letter and spirit," Mehta said. The SC gave SG time till Thursday to file the status report on the inquiry mechanism set in motion by the state government and posted the two PILs for hearing on Monday. The UP government on Sunday had set up a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhosreaddy to probe Dubey's nexus with politicians, bureaucrats and police which allegedly helped him run his extortion and crime empire. On Monday, the Yogi Adityanath government appointed retired HC Judge Shashi Kant Agarwal headed one-member inquiry Commission under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, to investigate into the July 10 encounter in which Dubey was killed. The commission will also probe all aspects of the ambush in which eight policemen were killed in Bikru village on July 3. The commission will submit its report to the government within two months. To be based in Kanpur, the Agarwal panel will also porbe all the encounters which took place between the police and members of Vikas Dubey gang between July 3 and July 10. Four members of his gang have been killed in these encounters. It would also look into the relationship of Dubey and his associates with police personnel and those serving in other departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-for-retired-judge-headed-panel-to-probe-killing-of-dubey-associates-in-encounter/articleshow/76969002.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 15, 2020||India||22 Indian states meet WHO norm of testing: Health min||NEW DELHI: Around 22 states in India are conducting at least 140 Covid-19 tests per day per million population, meeting the World Health Organisation (WHO) criteria of “comprehensive” testing, the health ministry said on Tuesday while directing other states to ramp up testing to match the standard. At present, India is conducting around 201 tests per day per million population. Among the states with high disease burden, Delhi’s testing rate is the highest at 978 tests per day per million population, whereas Tamil Nadu is doing 563. Maharashtra is conducting 198 tests per day per million population. Gujarat and West Bengal were among the states with testing rate below the 140 mark. “We have told states that WHO guidelines emphasise the need for comprehensive testing of suspected cases. It also defines comprehensive in the same document. They say if you are testing 140 people per day per 10 lakh people, that is comprehensive,” Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty in the health ministry said, elaborating on the debate whether India is doing adequate testing or not. Emphasising that testing will ensure early detection and treatment to reduce mortality due to the viral infection, other states have been asked to scale up testing for effective containment of the pandemic. “Some states are doing testing at that rate but not all are. That is why our advice to states is to pull up testing to WHO prescribed levels,” Bhushan added. At present, there are 1,206 labs across the country equipped to conduct Covid-19 tests. On Monday, India conducted 2,86,247 tests, taking the total tests done in the country so far to 1,20,92,503. Bhushan said the trend of the infection is different in every state and therefore, states have been asked to be prepared with upgraded heath infrastructure to ensure critical cases are handled efficiently. The course of the pandemic in India should be viewed in the context of the population of the country rather than the absolute numbers. By that metric, both cases and deaths per million remain among the lowest in the world, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/22-indian-states-meet-who-norm-of-testing-health-min/articleshow/76969056.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 15, 2020||India||Hospitalisation cost shouldn’t be deterrent to healthcare: SC||NEW DELHI: Supreme Court on Tuesday said exorbitant cost of Covid treatment must not dissuade patients from going to private hospitals during a pandemic and asked petitioners and representatives of private hospital associations to meet health ministry officials to resolve the issue of hospitalisation cost. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R S Reddy and A S Bopanna directed the parties to meet health ministry officials, which solicitor general Tushar Mehta said would be held on July 16. It asked the health ministry to resolve the issue in two weeks. The SG said given the importance of the matter, a decision would be taken within a week. The SC said appropriate directions would be issued on the basis of the decision to states. “We completely agree that the cost of medical treatment should not act as a deterrent against access to medical care, particularly in the present time, and no one should be turned away from hospitals because the cost of treatment is too high,” the bench said. Responding to a petition filed by advocate Sachin Jain seeking a cap on cost of Covid treatment in private hospitals which he alleged were fleecing patients, Mehta said the Union government, in consultation with states, had put in place a cost fixation regime which varied from state to state depending on the cost of healthcare. Hospital associations, represented by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, said a “one size fits all” formula would not be successful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hospitalisation-cost-shouldnt-be-deterrent-to-healthcare-sc/articleshow/76969129.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 15, 2020||Business||Walmart to pump $1.2 bn in Flipkart for e-comm battle||BENGALURU: US-based retail giant Walmart is leading a fresh infusion of $1.2 billion in Flipkart, two years after it acquired 77% stake for $16 billion, as the battle for the online retail market gets ready for the entry of Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries. The investment — which will be done in two tranches this financial year — values the company at $24.9 billion, over 13% premium from $22 billion at the time of the acquisition in 2018. Walmart’s shareholding will go “little over 80%” with this round of infusion. The companies said in a statement that “group of existing shareholders” also participated in the round, though it did not specify names. The remaining major shareholders include China’s Tencent and New York-based Tiger Global, both of which own 5%, besides Microsoft and co-founder Binny Bansal. The capital will be used for the online retail business of Singapore-registered Flipkart — which also includes fashion portal Myntra — where the company has been locked in market share battle with US-based Amazon. The group’s payments unit PhonePe has been looking to raise capital separately and spin-off its business to unlock further value. TOI had reported last year that PhonePe is in talks with existing backers like Tencent to raise $1 billion and has been seeking a valuation of at least $8 billion. “Flipkart continues to leverage its culture of innovation to accelerate growth and enable millions of customers, sellers, merchants and small businesses to prosper and be a part of India’s digital transformation,” said Judith McKenna, President and CEO of Walmart International, in a statement. Walmart’s buyout of Flipkart has been one of the largest M&A deal in India’s corporate history, but the company also faced setbacks due to changes in FDI norms for e-commerce in early 2019 which led to the company restructuring the operations. It has also seen exit of Group CEO Binny Bansal after allegations of improper conduct, while Kalyan Krishnamurthy runs the e-commerce business and Sameer Nigam runs PhonePe reporting directly to Flipkart board. Satish Meena, the senior forecast analyst at market research firm Forrester, said the competition among Walmart, Amazon India and Reliance’s Jio Mart will get more aggressive that will play out in the next 12-18 months as the pandemic pushes online commerce growth. In terms of areas where Walmart’s new capital will be allocated, Meena said, there are three primary segments--grocery and food retail, digitising small sellers and businesses and experiments around video and social-commerce. “They are looking at aggressive expansion in grocery, which wasn’t in focus earlier but that has changed after Covid-19. Their food retail license was not approved but they are rectifying it and you can expect significant investment to go there,” he added. Flipkart said that it has surpassed 1.5 billion visits per month and reported 45% growth in monthly active customers and 30% growth in transactions per customer for FY20. It has 150 million products across more than 80 categories. TOI recently reported that both Flipkart and Amazon India have seen their shipments increase to 120-140% of pre-Covid-19 pandemic levels as consumers increasingly prefer online sales rather than venture out to physical stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/walmart-to-pump-1-2-bn-in-flipkart-for-e-comm-battle/articleshow/76969135.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Raipur||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel makes 15 ‘ambitious’ MLAs parliamentary secretaries||RAIPUR: With Congress battling a rebellion in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday appointed 15 Congress legislators, including three women, as Parliamentary secretaries in a bid to appease ambitious leaders. Thirteen of them are first-timers in the assembly. Under chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Congress has overwhelming majority with 69 of the 90 seats in the House. With so many legislators, there were many more claimants to posts in the government. On Tuesday, CM Baghel administered oath to 15 new parliamentary secretaries at a function at his residence in the presence of AICC general secretary P L Punia. Rajasthan political crisis: Live updatesBaghel tried to strike a balance by giving representation to many districts that do not have a minister. Four parliamentary secretaries are from North Chhattisgarh, one from Bastar and 10 from the plains. Read AlsoCongress ejects Pilot as dy CM, PCC chief amid Raj turbulenceThe bitter feud between Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and his challenger Sachin Pilot reached the point of no return with Congress on Tuesday sacking the latter as deputy CM and state party chief, accusing him of working at the instance of BJP to topple the state government.BJP national vice-president Raman Singh took a dig at the Baghel government, saying: “Eighteen months after coming to power, Congress seems to be concerned about its legislators, following the developments in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.” He pointed out that Congress, while in opposition, had moved court to declare appointment of parliamentary secretaries illegal and unconstitutional. In 2018, Congress leader Mohammad Akbar, who is now a minister in the Baghel cabinet, had moved court, challenging the constitutionality of appointing parliamentary secretaries. A social worker had filed a similar petition. The high court dismissed the petitions but directed that that parliamentary secretaries cannot discharge the functions and responsibilities of ministers. The matter moved to Supreme Court May 2018, where it is pending. Read AlsoOutpouring of support for Sachin Pilot, colleagues regret his exitSachin Pilot’s sacking as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state Congress chief and impending exit from the party brought out an outpouring of support and regret from party colleagues who called him a talented leader and wished things had not come to such a pass though some questioned his||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/bhupesh-baghel-makes-15-ambitious-mlas-parl-secretaries/articleshow/76969171.cms||---
July 15, 2020||World||US rescinds order denying visas for foreign students||NEW YORK: The United States government rescinded its controversial decision to revoke foreign student visas whose courses move online due to coronavirus, a federal judge said Tuesday. The universities of Harvard and MIT, with the support of a number of other institutions, had taken legal action against the move that US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) announced on July 6. "The government has agreed to rescind" the decision as well as any implementation of the directive, Judge Allison Burroughs said in a brief hearing. Harvard and MIT earlier this month had asked the court to block the order announced by ICE that students must leave the country if their classes are only online, or transfer to a school offering in-person tuition. The measure was seen as a move by President Donald Trump administration to put pressure on educational institutions that are adopting a cautious approach to reopening amid the global COVID-19 pandemic. The universities say in their lawsuit that the order would harm students "immensely," both personally and financially. There were more than one million international students in the US for the 2018-19 academic year, according to the Institute of International Education (IIE).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-rescinds-order-denying-visas-for-foreign-students/articleshow/76969217.cms||---
July 15, 2020||India||Outpouring of support for Sachin Pilot, colleagues regret his exit||NEW DELHI: Sachin Pilot’s sacking as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state Congress chief and impending exit from the party brought out an outpouring of support and regret from party colleagues who called him a talented leader and wished things had not come to such a pass though some questioned his “over-ambitiousness”. The show of support particularly came from younger leaders who were ministerial colleagues in the UPA government. Sources indicated that interventions were made in a desperate effort to avoid what appeared to be the inevitable divorce between Pilot and Congress, but they did not succeed. While details were not available, it appeared that calls were made to Pilot and the Congress leadership to arrive at a compromise, but the former was unrelenting in his rebellion. The sense of regret is all the more significant as it seems to reinforce the view that younger leaders do not have space and revives speculation that the party is chary of anyone gaining prominence in comparison to Rahul Gandhi. Rajasthan political crisis: Live updatesFormer Mumbai MP Priya Dutt said, “Another friend leaves the party. Both Sachin and Jyotiraditya (Scindia) were colleagues and good friends. Unfortunately, our party has lost two stalwart young leaders with great potential. I don't believe being ambitious is wrong. They have worked hard through the most difficult times.” Read AlsoRajasthan crisis may give BJP more ammo to target Cong ‘dynasty’The removal of Sachin Pilot as deputy CM of Rajsthan and state Congress chief on Tuesday after his rebellion against the Gehlot government is likely to bolster BJP’s claim that the opposition party is only defined by the Gandhi-Nehru family which doesn’t want any other party member to grow andFormer minister of state Jitin Prasada tweeted, “Sachin Pilot is not just a colleague but my friend. No one can take away the fact that all these years, he has worked with dedication for the party. Sincerely hope the situation can still be salvaged. Sad it has come to this.” Though he is not in the same "club", former minister Shashi Tharoor tweeted, "I am sad to see Sachin Pilot leave Congress. I consider him one of our best and brightest, and wish it had not come to this." However, he added that Pilot should have joined the effort to make the party a better "instrument for his and our dreams”. Even here, there seemed to a suggestion that there was a need for reform in the manner of Congress's functioning. Read AlsoCongress ejects Pilot as dy CM, PCC chief amid Raj turbulenceThe bitter feud between Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and his challenger Sachin Pilot reached the point of no return with Congress on Tuesday sacking the latter as deputy CM and state party chief, accusing him of working at the instance of BJP to topple the state government.The sympathetic comments captured the widespread regret in the party at Pilot’s dismissal owing to his rebellion against Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot. While some said Pilot had to be retained and things should not have been allowed to spiral, a leader said, “Rahul Gandhi invested a great deal of energy and political capital in him and his exit will bring that to naught.” However, another group of leaders said Pilot erred in his haste and did the unpardonable error of coordinating with BJP to bring down his own government. Veteran Congressman and former Union minister Salman Khurshid said, “Sad to see events unfold in Rajasthan. Sad particularly because the son of my dearest late friend, Rajesh Pilot, is at the vortex. We have challenges ahead that make personal ambitions and expectations insignificant. Let us rededicate our vision and energy.” Margaret Alva was blunt in her tweet, “A star should be patient and prepare for the long haul. Else, it will end up as a shooting star and burn out.” In the evening, Pilot tweeted thanks to those “who have come out in my support today”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/outpouring-of-support-for-pilot-colleagues-regret-his-exit/articleshow/76969234.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||ED set to quiz Gehlot’s son over Mauritius funds||NEW DELHI: Ashok Gehlot may have prevailed in the current round of his battle with Sachin Pilot but his son Vaibhav has a crucial test awaiting him, with Enforcement Directorate set to question him in connection with a Rs 96 crore investment from Mauritius in the Jaipur hotel where Congress MLAs loyal to Gehlot had been corralled. Sources in the anti-money laundering agency claimed that the investment looked like a case of “round-tripping” and they had been scanning the records of the Registrar of Companies related to the 245-room luxurious property situated on the outskirts of Jaipur. A senior officer said RK Sharma, who is running the hotel, is a business partner of Vaibhav. Sources claimed a preliminary probe by the agency into the shareholding pattern of the hotel and Vaibhav’s partnership deals with Sharma showed that shares, originally allotted for Rs 10 each, were soon allotted to an “investor” from Mauritius for around Rs 40,000 a share. Sources said Vaibhav had business links with Sharma since the days the former launched a car rental business. The ED has summoned Sharma and others directly dealing with the hotel property, and is set to question Vaibhav. In the last two days, the I-T department had launched search operations against some Congress members and associates of Gehlot in New Delhi, Kota, Jaipur and Mumbai, leading to Congress charging the BJP-led Centre of unleashing vendetta politics. The department claimed it had seized several incriminating documents and digital records that indicated huge trading of bullion in cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-set-to-quiz-gehlots-son-over-mauritius-funds/articleshow/76969288.cms||---
July 15, 2020||India||Farmer’s son gets 100% scholarship to Cornell||LUCKNOW: Scoring 98.2% in CBSE Class XII exams is just another feather in the cap of this son of a marginal farmer from UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri as he already secured a berth in New York’s Cornell University — one of the eight Ivy League Universities in the US — with a 100% scholarship. Anurag Tiwari now is waiting for his online classes at Cornell to start from September 1. Most US universities are currently holding virtual classes due to the health emergency caused in the country by the Covid-19 pandemic. To appreciate his feat, one must consider that till four years ago, Anurag’s village didn’t even have electricity. A humanities student, Anurag scored a perfect 100 in economics and history, 99 in political science and 97 in English. He scored lowest in mathematics (95). Anurag will study economics and mathematics at Cornell. “My decision to study humanities was questioned by many who felt it was not suitable for boys,” he told TOI. Son of farmer Kamlapati Tewari and home maker Sangeeta Tewari, Anurag till class V attended a primary school in his village, Sarasan, 60km from Lakhimpur town. It was in class VI that he made the cut by qualifying the entrance test for admissions to VidyaGyan, a rural leadership academy located in Sitapur, which handpicks economically underprivileged meritorious students from rural UP. “The call letter in 2013 changed my life. Motivation to dream big came from my hard working parents. Support came from my three elder sisters who wanted me to get world class education which they couldn’t,” said Anurag. Anurag started preparing for SAT when he was in Class XI — he scored 1370 marks out of 1600. Anurag applied to Cornell as an ‘Early Decision Applicant’ and got the call in December last year. “Throughout the process, my school teachers helped me write the draft essays, preparing the projects. My essays were edited by senior counsellors in Delhi who even helped me choose the colleges,” he said. “When I reached my village after class XII, everyone looked at me with high regards. People who didn’t know me earlier came to my house just to talk to me. It gives me happiness,” said Anurag, who finds an inspiration in ace cricketer MS Dhoni. “I thought of making my son successful, but today he has made me a successful father. He taught me so much in all these years,” Kamlapati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-son-gets-100-scholarship-to-cornell/articleshow/76969313.cms||Isha Jain
July 15, 2020||India||India pushes for PLA pullback at Pangong, Depsang in tough talks||NEW DELHI: India and China discussed troop disengagement in the Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie sector as well as a further pullback of Chinese soldiers in the Pangong Tso and Hot Springs areas during talks between rival corps commanders in eastern Ladakh on Tuesday. There was no official word on the outcome of the fourth rounds of talks between 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin, which kicked off at 11.30 am and continued till late in the night on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo border personnel meeting point. Defence sources, however, acknowledged that phase-II of the de-escalation process would be much tougher to finalise since the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is hotly disputed between the two sides in the Depsang Plains and Pangong Tso areas. India-China LAC standoff live updatesThe LAC is relatively less contested in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, where bulk of the rival troops have mutually pulled back by 1-2.5 km each to create temporary no-patrolling zones under Phase-I of the de-escalation plan decided in the last meeting between the corps commanders on June 30. Sources said during the meeting on Tuesday, India pressed for restoration of status quo as it existed before People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers intruded into eastern Ladakh at multiple locations in a well-planned operation in early-May. India also asked for a time-bound roadmap for de-induction of the around 30,000 troops each amassed by the two sides, along with artillery guns, tanks and other heavy weaponry, in the ‘depth areas’ along the 1,597-km frontier in eastern Ladakh. “The two armies should eventually move their additional forces back to their permanent locations,” said a source. In the interim, India wants PLA troops to pull back eastwards by 8 km to their posts and bases beyond ‘Finger-8’ (mountainous spur), where the LAC runs north to south, on the north bank of Pangong Tso. As reported by TOI earlier, Chinese soldiers have pulled back from the ‘base’ of ‘Finger-4’ eastwards towards ‘Finger-5’ but are yet to fully vacate the ridgeline that dominates the area. Indian soldiers, in turn, have pulled back westwards towards their Dhan Singh Thapa post between ‘Finger-2’ and ‘Finger-3’ in consonance with the plan to disengage from the face-off site at ‘Finger-4’. Lt-Gen Singh also raised the blocking of Indian soldiers to their ‘Patrolling Points 10, 11, 12 and 13’ in the Depsang Plains area, a strategically-located tabletop plateau to the north of Galwan, by PLA troops after they intruded deep into what India considers its territory. “It was reiterated that the usual norm should be restored about not blocking each other’s patrols there,” said the source. Watch LAC row: India pushes for PLA pullback at Pangong, Depsang in tough talks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-pushes-for-pla-pullback-at-pangong-depsang-in-tough-talks/articleshow/76969330.cms||---
July 15, 2020||India||Sanjay Jha defends Pilot, gets suspended||Congress on Tuesday suspended Sanjay Jha from the party for indiscipline, a move that appeared triggered by his defence of Sachin Pilot. In wake of Rajasthan developments, he appeared on television channels criticising Congress. After Pilot was removed as deputy CM and as state president, Jha tweeted, “For five years, Sachin Pilot gave his blood, tears, toil and sweat for Congress between 2013-18. Congress came back from a wretched 21 seats to 100. We just gave him a performance bonus. We are so meritocratic. We are so transparent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sanjay-jha-defends-pilot-gets-suspended/articleshow/76969383.cms||---
July 15, 2020||India||Govt issues guidelines for number of sessions, duration of online classes for school students||NEW DELHI: Releasing the “Pragyata” guidelines for online classes, the Union HRD ministry recommended a cap on daily sessions and their durations for different levels of school students. The guidelines recommended that the duration for online classes for pre-primary students should not be for more than 30 minutes, for classes I to VIII, two online sessions of up to 45 minutes each are suggested and for classes IX to XII, four sessions of 30-45 minutes durations have been recommended. The ministry framed the guidelines following concerns being raised by parents on schools conducting online classes like regular schools thereby increasing children’s exposure to digital screens manifold since the closure of schools from March 16, 2020 after the Covid-19 outbreak. They were released by the ministry of human resource development on Tuesday to help schools remodel their ways of teaching. The guidelines highlighted that “it is important to have presentations which are easily readable, slides must follow certain rules like not more than five bullet points, maximise use of infographics, graphs, charts, avoid tables as much as possible”. Stating that Covid-19 pandemic has led to secure disruptions in normal life, including closure of schools impacting over 240 million children of the country, it said that schools will have to introduce a suitable method of delivering quality education through a healthy mix of schooling at home and school as extended school closures may cause loss of learning. The guidelines have been developed from the perspective of learners, with a focus on online, blended, digital education for students who are presently at home due to the lockdown. The guidelines also made specific recommendations based on the accessibility of digital resources across households – right from those with access to 4G connections with laptop, smartphone and TV to those with no digital device. Noting that in a country like India characterised by multifarious diversity, switching over to digital modes of education needs various states, UTs and national-level organisations to join hands for a change that will sustain post-Covid-19 also. The guidelines include eight steps of online or digital learning – plan, review, arrange, guide, talk, assign, track and appreciate. These steps guide the planning and implementation of digital education step by step with examples. Need of assessment, concerns while planning online and digital education like duration, screen time, inclusiveness, balanced online and offline activities, level-wise modalities of intervention, including resource curation, level-wise delivery; physical, mental health and well-being during digital education, cyber safety and ethical practices, including precautions and measures for maintaining cyber safety and collaboration, and convergence with various initiatives are among the various issues addressed by guidelines for administrators, school heads, teachers, parents and students. "These guidelines for school heads and teachers describe the need assessment, planning and steps to implement digital education while ensuring cyber safety and privacy measures. It also outlines the support to be provided to students with special needs. Main emphasis is on balanced online and offline activities keeping the screen time as an essential parameter in accordance with the level of students,” said a senior HRD ministry official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-issues-guidelines-for-number-of-sessions-duration-of-online-classes-for-school-students/articleshow/76969424.cms||---
July 15, 2020||World||US Rejects Beijing’s Claims In South China Sea||In a tough response to China’s growing aggression in the Indo-Pacific region, the Trump administration on Tuesday bluntly stated that Beijing’s “predatory world view has no place in the 21st century”, while rejecting its claims to offshore resources in the South China Sea and its depredations beyond it. “The world will not allow Beijing to treat the South China Sea as its maritime empire. We stand with the international community in defence of freedom of the seas and respect for sovereignty and reject any push to impose “might makes right” in the South China Sea or the wider region,” US secretary of state Mike Pompeo said in a statement. “The US champions a free and open Indo-Pacific. Today we are strengthening US policy in a vital, contentious part of that region — the South China Sea. We are making clear: Beijing’s claims to offshore resources across most of the South China Sea are completely unlawful, as is its campaign of bullying to control them," Pompeo added, maintaining that Washington shares “deep and abiding interests with our many allies and partners who have long endorsed a rules-based international order.” A top US diplomat for East Asia also warned that Washington could respond with sanctions against Chinese officials and enterprises involved in coercion in the South China Sea. “Nothing is off the table ... This is a language the Chinese understand — demonstrative and tangible action,” David Stilwell, the assistant secretary of state for East Asia, told a Washington thinktank when asked if sanctions were a possible US response to Chinese actions. In Beijing, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi condemned the US for sowing discord between China and Asean nations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-rejects-beijings-claims-in-south-china-sea/articleshow/76969446.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
July 15, 2020||India||Priyanka, Puri cross swords over house||NEW DELHI: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and housing minister Hardeep Singh Puri engaged in a Twitter war on Tuesday over a report which claimed that a request was made to the PM to let her stay on in the Lodhi Estate bungalow. Priyanka tweeted the report as “fake news” and said she had not made any such request to the government. She added that as per the eviction letter from the ministry, she would vacate the 35, Lodhi Estate accommodation by August 1. If someone called you Mr Puri, I thank them for their concern, and thank you for your consideration as well but it… https://t.co/gZ68apFWeQ— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1594712144000The assertion, however, invited a strong rebuttal from Puri. “Facts speak for themselves. A powerful Congress leader with much clout in the party called me on July 4 at 12.05pm to request that 35, Lodhi Estate be allotted to another Congress MP so that Priyanka Vadra can stay on,” Puri tweeted. Priyanka did not dispute the minister’s contention about some Congress bigwig seeking a favour for her but emphasised that she had personally never sought an extension of the August 1 deadline. “If someone called you Mr Puri, I thank them for their concern, and thank you for your consideration as well but it still does not change the facts: I have made no such request, and I am making no such request. I will be vacating the house by the 1st of August as required in the eviction letter,” she said. Puri , however, refused to let go of the matter and again took to Twitter to emphasise that the Congress leader in question was very close to the Gandhis and could not have acted independently of the family. “The leader, who called me and many others, is at the very top of the Congress hierarchy… the same political advisor who speaks and acts on your family’s behalf. It was when he requested that we decided to give two-month extension. Would only request you to first sort out these issues within your party before venting in public. Streak of entitlement and playing victim don’t go well together,” he said. Priyanka was served an eviction notice after her SPG protection was withdrawn. “If the government wanted to act in a hurry, the eviction notice would’ve been served within days of her losing SPG cover. The rule is same for all,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/priyanka-puri-cross-swords-over-house/articleshow/76969465.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||Flood threat eases as rivers show receding trend in Bihar||PATNA/BAGAHA/MOTIHARI/MADHUBANI/ARARIA/SITAMARHI: Thanks to reduction in intensity of rainfall over the last 48 hours, the flood situation in low-lying areas of north Bihar districts improved on Tuesday. The water level in rivers showed receding trend at several places and water discharge from barrages also decreased. The water discharge from Valmikinagar barrage in West Champaran came down from 3.49 lakh cusecs on Monday night to 2.51 lakh cusecs on Tuesday evening. The water level in Bagmati came below danger level at one place in Sitamarhi district, but continued to remain above danger mark at four other sites in the district. Lalbakeya river, which was flowing above danger level from the last three days, also showed receding trend in East Champaran district on Tuesday. East Champaran DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok said flood situation improved in the district as the floodwaters of Bagmati, Lalbakeya, Burhi Gandak and its tributaries which had entered few areas in 10 blocks, were receding fast. The water level in Burhi Gandak also decreased. District agriculture officer, East Champaran, Chandradeo Prasad, however, said the floodwaters entered some agriculture fields and partially damaged paddy crops in around 30,000 acres of land in 10 blocks. In neighbouring West Champaran, floodwaters entered a gap of incomplete Paniyahawa-Tamakuhi rail line on Tuesday and overtopped Shripatinagar-Bhisahiya road under Piparasi block. Banarasi Yadav, mukhiya of Sisahi panchayat, said standing crops got damaged in several villages, including Birta tola, Tanri Tola and Muza tola. “Country boats are the only sources of movement for people,” said Shrinagar mukhiya Lalita Devi. In Madhubani, officials of disaster management department said flood situation was by and large normal on Tuesday. At least 36 boats have been pressed into service in low-lying areas of the district. Also, approach road to the bridge near Pipraun in Harlakhi block of the district, which connects with Nepal at Jatahi, was washed away by the swelling floodwaters in Jamuni river on Monday, snapping road communication with Nepal. Road communication in many parts of the district has been disrupted. Nirmali- Kunauli, Narhi Chowk-Mahthaur Goth, NH-57-Navtoli, NH-57-Bhutaha and roads in Laukhi block have been rendered non-communicable. In Madhwapur block, Uttara-Pihwara road stands disconnected with SH-75. In Araria district, swollen Parman river has caused havoc in low-lying villages, including Ramai and Ghoraghat in Forbesganj block, while Bakra and Kankai rivers have affected many villages in Jokihat block. Many recently constructed roads have also been washed away by the floodwaters in Sikti block and release excess water from smaller tributaries of Kosi has entered many villages in Kursakanta. Araria DM Prashant Kumar CH said round-the-clock vigil is being maintained by the district administration as far flood situation is concerned. In Sitamahi district, 38 panchayats of six blocks, including Sonbarsa, Belsand, Parihar, Sursand, Bathanaha and Bajpatti are flood-affected. Four community kitchens are functional in Sursand and Parihar blocks. Some school buildings have been earmarked as shelter homes. With floodwaters overtopping the roads, the road communication between Sitamarhi- Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar and Sitamarhi-Sheohar has been snapped, causing a lot of hardships to people. DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma said the district administration was fully geared up to face tackle floods. “Strict vigil is being kept on Bagmati river embankments,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flood-threat-eases-as-rivers-show-receding-trend/articleshow/76966985.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal’s Shirley Abraham to be a judge at Oscars||BHOPAL: Shirley Abraham, of Bhopal, a noted documentary filmmaker will be one of the three Indian panelists at the Oscars this year. Currently residing in Mumbai, she spoke to TOI about the future of documentary filmmaking in India. "This is a great opportunity for me and I used to dream of being at the Oscars, but it would happen so soon in my career was something I had not imagined. It is a big responsibility as we will have to watch a number of movies and decide which ones are deserving of the award," she said on being a judge at The Academy Awards. Speaking about her journey, Shirley said she wanted to be a journalist but after her post-graduation, she realised that her calling was filmmaking. "I was a very studious child and a topper in school. Watching movies was not something that was encouraged in my family, but I loved watching films so would sneak under the bed ," she laughed as she recalled her childhood in Bhopal and school days in St Joseph Convent School. After her post-graduation, she chose documentary filmmaking because it was relatively unexplored . "Documentary filmmaking is very exciting as well as difficult because there is an uncertainty as you cannot predict what is happening. The story unravels as you watch and there could be something totally unexpected at the end," she said. Talking about this genre in India, she said, "Many people tend to think that fiction movies are entertaining while documentaries are mostly educational in nature. This prevents documentaries reaching out to a mass audience like big-banner films ." Abraham further said that lack of funding for documentaries is another factor that prevents them from reaching a larger audience. "There is a lack of support to documentaries from big production houses as they want to make films that are safe and will go down with the audience at large. Lack of funds is a big factor hindering the growth of documentaries .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopals-shirley-to-be-a-judge-at-oscars/articleshow/76968654.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||IIT-Patna employee, his two daughters test Covid positive||PATNA: A non-teaching employee of the Indian Institute of Technology-Patna (IIT-P) and two of his family members, who live on the campus, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. A medical team is now identifying all the people the family had come in contact with. According to sources, the man had been feeling unwell for the last two days after which he and his family were shifted to the isolation ward of IIT-P’s health centre on Sunday. Their swab samples were collected on Monday and sent to the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Three of them tested positive on Tuesday morning. IIT-P professor Meghna told this newspaper that the employee, who tested positive, had mild symptoms like cough while his two daughters were asymptomatic. “The institute is yet to decide whether the employee and his daughters will be sent to the flu ward of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences for treatment or not. We are in touch with the new director, Pramod Kumar Jain, and have had several rounds of meetings for ensuring the safety of our staff and students, who live on the campus. Although the teachers’ quarters and hostels are far from those of the non-teaching staff, everyone will remain in quarantine for the next 14 days and the campus will be sanitized,” Meghna said and added that all the people, who had come in contact with the family, would be tested. Meanwhile, most IIT-P students had left for their hometowns in March. Only some PhD and BTech students, who hail from other states and were unable to reach home, are staying in the hostels. Since the institute is shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the movement of people on the campus is limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iit-patna-employee-his-two-daughters-test-covid-positive/articleshow/76967472.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 15, 2020||Goa||In absence of state directives, old age homes fend for themselves||PANAJI: As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to spread across Goa, several old age homes across the state have restricted entry to inmates’ relatives, and staff have been asked to take maximum precautions. Some said that in the absence of any specific directions from the government, they’ve had to take their own steps to combat the pandemic. Sneha Mandir, a home that has 82 senior citizens, has asked its staff not to report to work if they or any of their family members fall sick. “We send such employees on paid leave,” said secretary Rajendra Talak. “One of our staffers from Assonora is unwell, and we’ve asked her to take a week off.” He said that they stopped entry to outsiders and relatives in March itself, when the pandemic first began rearing its head. The extra precautions they’re taking are necessary since 55 of their inmates are bed-ridden. There are around 20 privately-run old-age homes in the state, in addition to half a dozen run by the state government through the Provedoria institute that houses destitute senior citizens. Most don’t have the option of sending their inmates home, as most of them have no family, or have been abandoned. At the Missionaries of Charity home in Carambolim, the gates have been closed for outsiders and visitors since the first cases were detected in the village. “The sarpanch informed us about the cases, and we’ve closed our gates,” said Sister Rose. Another old-age home in South Goa, run by a husband and wife, has completely barricaded itself, and its staffers all live within the premises. They’ve also been asked to wear masks all the time and follow strict social distancing norms. “We purchase grocery items and other requirements and keep them outside, where they’re picked up by staff inside,” said the man running the home. “This way, we reduce any contact with our inmates.” Meanwhile at Sneha Mandir, the management has arranged for all staffers to be picked up and dropped home, in order to help them avoid public transport. Talak said that while the home has received no directives from the government, health workers from a nearby health centre do occasionally visit. Also, if an inmate’s relative wishes to visit, it is permitted and arranged only if really needed, and with all safety precautions in place. The inmate and relative do not come in contact with each other, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-absence-of-state-directives-old-age-homes-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/76968661.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sooraj confesses to killing Uthra||KOLLAM: Sooraj, husband of Uthra of Eram, Anchal, and the first accused in her murder, on Tuesday in front of media, confessed to committing the crime. When forest officials brought Sooraj to his house at Parakode near Adoor as part of evidence gathering, he made the confession before mediapersons. However, when he asked what prompted him to commit the crime, he said that there was no special reason for murdering his wife. Recently, Anchal forest range officer B R Jayan claimed the custody of Sooraj for the second time from Mavelikkara sub-jail where he and co-accused snake charmer Suresh were remanded. He had already confessed to forest officials on June 23 that he had committed the crime as he wanted to get rid of Uthra as she was not the wife he dreamt of. A six-member team from various departments had also conducted inspection at Uthra’s house in Anchal and Sooraj’s house in Adoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sooraj-confesses-to-killing-uthra/articleshow/76967938.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||Hyundai Motor India to start third shift soon||Chennai: Riding on demand for its Creta which has 45,000 plus bookings and hatchback best-sellers like i20, Hyundai Motor India is targeting domestic July sales that are 90% of the 39,000 units it sold in July 2019. The company, which is currently running two shifts, is also planning to go in for third shift by month end said a senior executive. The third shift will begin provided there are no more lockdown disruptions in Chennai and Kanchipuram areas. At the launch of the new Tucson SUV on Tuesday, Tarun Garg, director sales and marketing said, “July is our first month of full production after the lockdown and we are planning to start a third shift but we are worried about the second wave of lockdowns and will have to see how it impacts industry.” In June, Hyundai’s wholesales hit 74% of June 2019 sales and the “traction for SUVs and hatchback cars” have helped the company ramp up quickly. Riding on the Creta, the company’s SUV volumes have gone up sharply. “The SUV share in our total sales have gone up from 34% last year to 50% now,” said Garg. “Customers are preferring personal mobility so entry hatches like Nios and Santro are also doing well. And it is been difficult to match the demand for the i20,” he added. “A lot of the demand is coming from tier-2 and 3 cities in states like Punjab, MP, UP and from cities like Chandigarh,” said Garg. What has also helped is the digital platform which is now contributing 25% of total sales of the company, up from 10%-12% last year, he added. As for supply chain disruptions, “with less traffic, trucks are reaching faster and we have almost no dependence on Chinese imports,” he added. Hyundai Motor India launched the new Tuscon at a price range of Rs 22.3 lakh to Rs 27.03 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hyundai-motor-india-to-start-third-shift-soon/articleshow/76967657.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||63 Moons moves HC for CBI probe into plaint against former FM, babus||Swati.Deshpande@timesgroup.com Mumbai: In a fresh petition, 63 Moons Technologies approached the Bombay high court to seek an expeditious timebound investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). It has requested the probe into its February 2019 complaint seeking registration of a first information report (FIR) under the Prevention of Corruption Act against not just former Union finance minister P Chidambaram but also retired bureaucrats Ramesh Abhishek and K P Krishnan. The complaint is pending approval before the chief vigilance officer, department of economic affairs, and finance ministry for “an unduly long time”, said the petition. Abhishek retired from the post of secretary, department of industrial policy and promotion, commerce ministry. Krishnan retired as secretary from the skill development and entrepreneurship ministry. The petition contends that the “business of National Spot Exchange Ltd was brought to a standstill overnight” by a “course of action” adopted by the Forward Markets Commission (FMC) guided by these two bureaucrats. The petition filed on July 4 came up for a hearing on July 10 and has been adjourned to July 17 at the request of state prosecutor Aruna Pai. The HC granted liberty to company’s counsel Aabad Ponda to serve a copy of the petition to the counsel for the central government. The company points to an August 7, 2019 order of the Bombay HC, which had disposed of its petition for directions to the CBI to register an FIR for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code against the trio after recording what CBI had to say. The HC order had recorded CBI counsel H S Venegaokar’s statement, on instructions of the CBI officer, that the complaint of 63 Moons was received and the agency had undertaken its “verification”. Venegaokar had said, “Once the (verification) exercise is completed, enquiry into allegations in the complaint would be made and appropriate decision would be taken and communicated…expeditiously.” The petition said on March 2, 2020, the company received a letter from the deputy superintendent of police, CBI, that its complaint was forwarded to the CVC, economic affairs department for expert examination by the ministry with a request that, if a prima facie case is made out, due approval be given under section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Section 17A, introduced in 2018, bars investigation, without prior approval, into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under the Prevention of Corruption Act, when the offence relates to recommendations made or decisions taken by him or her as part of official duty. The section provides for up to four months for such approval to be taken. The petition thus seeks a time-bound action from the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/63-moons-moves-hc-for-cbi-probe-into-plaint-against-former-fm-babus/articleshow/76968035.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||13,000 ‘Swasthyadoots’ to check your vitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a unique initiative, the New Delhi district administration has trained nearly 13,000 ‘Swasthyadoots’, who will form the front line of healthcare initiatives in the district. The volunteers have been trained to monitor vitals, such as oxygen levels using oximeters, respiratory rate, blood pressure, etc, of asymptomatic or mild-symptomatic Covid-19 patients in their neighbourhood. “Swasthyadoot is an innovative concept of training local residents about health monitoring of Covid-19 cases under the supervision of trained doctors. It is based on the philosophy of ‘for the people and by the people’,” said Tanvi Garg, district magistrate (New Delhi). As part of the initiative, Garg said, the local community is trained to manage asymptomatic and mild-symptomatic Covid-19 cases in their locality with the help of residents and under supervision of doctors. “We are providing basic training about vital monitoring with pulse oximeter, thermal scanner and digital BP apparatus. The volunteers are also trained in maintaining keeping, tele-consultation with doctors and psychological counselling of Covid-19 patients,” the DM said, adding that the training is being provided with the help of Delhi Medical Council. Anyone between the age of 18 and 60 can become a Swasthyadoot, provided they are literate and don’t have any co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/13000-swasthyadoots-to-check-your-vitals/articleshow/76968658.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 15, 2020||Patna||Shut Patna Medical College and Hospital virology lab for seven days: IMA||PATNA: With several health workers deployed at the virology lab of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) testing positive for coronavirus, the IMA wing of the hospital on Tuesday demanded creation of an additional lab with the same manpower and complete sanitisation of the existing lab. At least 17 health workers deployed at the virology lab of PMCH have so far tested positive for Covid-19 and several others are under home quarantine. Though the lab was closed for two days on July 4 and 5 and sanitized, people working there still tested positive for the virus. The IMA said the existing lab should be closed at least for seven days for proper sanitisation. IMA (PMCH) secretary Dr Sachchidanad Kumar, also former state president of IMA, wrote to the health department principal secretary on Tuesday, requesting him to create an additional lab. “If the department wants, the lab can be set up in just two days. This is the need of the hour to protect the health workers,” Dr Kumar added. He said even ICMR’s guidelines say that after sanitisation, such labs should not be used for seven days. ‘Create testing facility in sub-divisional hospitals’: State health minister Mangal Pandey on Tuesday asked officials of his department to ensure Covid-19 testing facility in all the sub-divisional hospitals. He also asked the officials to procure rapid antigen kits in sufficient numbers. Pandey issued these instructions at a review meeting on Covid-19. He said Covid-19 testing facility at sub-divisional hospitals would help people residing in rural areas to get their tests done locally. “The state government is trying its best to provide medical facilities to people. Also, Covid-19 testing has increased in the state and 10,000 tests are now done in a day,” Pandey said. He also asked people to take all precautions and maintain social distancing. Pandey said a monitoring team has been formed which will look after all the facilities at the isolation centres. State Health Society had on Monday formed this team, distributing work to different officials who will look after logistics, manpower, health facilities and hygiene at isolation centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shut-pmch-virology-lab-for-seven-days-ima/articleshow/76967597.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 15, 2020||Goa||Quepem police stn shifted to WRD godown in Amona||Quepem: The Quepem police station has been temporarily moved to the godown of the water resources department (WRD) at Amona as the colonial era jail premises it had been occupying till recently is set to be demolished. Work on constructing new premises for the police station will begin soon and is estimated to cost Rs 7 crore. The temporary premises at Coleamoddi, Amona, which is at a distance of two kilometres from Quepem town, was inaugurated by deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar on Saturday in the presence of South Goa superintendent of police (SP) Pankaj Kumar Singh and Quepem deputy superintendent of police (DySP) Kiran Poduval. Kavalekar said that the foundation stone for the new police station will be laid within a month when the chief minister is free to attend the function. The work order for the project has been issued to a private agency, Shivam Infratech. The new building is expected to be completed within a year, Kavalekar said. “It will be a modern police station and will house the offices of the DySP, PI, police barracks for IRB, a library, canteen, rest rooms for personnel, traffic cell, fire station and officer recreation centre,” Kavalekar said. The minister said that as per the order the date of commencement of work is February 2020 with March 2021 as the date of completion. “However, due to the lockdown and delay in shifting of the police station, the contractor could not start the construction work, and for that he will be granted additional time to complete the work,” Kavalekar said. Quepem PI Santosh Dessai requested the Dy CM to complete the new police station building on fast track since the station’s present location is at an isolated place and will likely cause the public inconvenience to access in an emergency. The PWD had spent around Rs 23 lakh to renovate the two godowns. One godown will serve as an office for the entire police staff, including one cabin for the PI with small partitions. The other godown serves as barracks with separate toilets facilities for male and female personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-police-stn-shifted-to-wrd-godown-in-amona/articleshow/76968663.cms||Johnny M
July 15, 2020||Patna||Covid cases on the rise in West Champaran||BETTIAH: Covid-19 pandemic has spread its tentacles in the West Champaran district as 499 persons tested positive for the virus. Those who have tested positive in the past few days include an MLA, bankers, frontline health workers and cops. District magistrate Kundan Kumar, however, said that there was no need to be alarmed. “We have gradually moved from partial to total lockdown after carrying out an awareness drive on social distancing norms and wearing of masks. Complete lockdown has become necessary to break the virus chain,” the DM told this newspaper on Tuesday. The West Champaran district administration announced a lockdown late on Sunday evening after 78 fresh cases were detected and the Covid figure rose to 499 in the district. On Tuesday, the figure rose to 499, out of which 328 have been discharged. With a population of about 30 lakh, testing in West Champaran is abysmally low. So far, 8,560 samples have been tested while reports of another 1,176 samples are awaited. What has raised concern is the spread of covid cases both among the populace and public servants. An MLA is among a string of public figures including frontline health workers, police personnel and bankers who have tested covid positive. An engineer from a PSU engaged to check EVMs in West Champaran too was reportedly tested positive. “ He was immediately isolated after screening,” the DM said. Incidentally, election preparations are in full swing and shall remain among exempted essential services during this complete lockdown.  Reports indicate that Covid positive cases are spreading in different localities of Bettiah. Reports from Lauriya said that 15 people from among a 200 strong crowd of mourners that had recently attended the funeral of a Covid infected deceased have tested positive so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-cases-on-the-rise-in-west-champaran/articleshow/76967103.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 15, 2020||Business||Auto, health talent demand up in June||Mumbai: The TimesJobs RecruiteX, a monthly talent demand index, witnessed 4% growth in talent demand in June, at 89 points, as compared to 85 points in May this year. However, the demand in high-volume sectors including IT, BFSI and retail recorded a steep fall. The year-on-year analysis showed that the talent demand index for June 2020 remains unchanged at 89 when compared to the same month in the previous year. RecruiteX is a recruitment index, which is an analysis identifying the hiring activity and trends at India Inc. On a month-on-month basis, the growth in demand index is contributed by automobiles (17%), healthcare (16%) and BPO (14%) — sectors which have re-hauled their business post ‘Unlock 1.0’. On a quarter-on-quarter basis, the analysis reveals demand for talent in IT and retail sectors. Both these sectors witnessed double-digit growth. Talent demand index stood at 370 points in June quarter 2020 over 338 points in March quarter this year, a 9% growth. The retail sector witnessed a 30% growth in the June quarter this year in comparison with the March quarter. The year-on-year analysis, on the other hand, shows no growth, or loss from June 2019 to June 2020. The consumer durables sector showed a growth of about 30% in year-on-year talent demand analysis, followed by healthcare. The BPO sector saw the steepest fall of (-34%) in talent demand in the yearly comparison. Commenting on the findings of RecruiteX June 2020, Sanjay Goyal, business head, TimesJobs and TechGig, said, “The findings of RecruiteX June 2020 are a silver lining in the present scenario. The rise in BPO, healthcare and automobile’s talent demand hints that companies are striving hard to get back to normalcy after the Unlock 1.0. Not just the month-on-month analysis, but even the quarter-on-quarter comparison (AMJ’20 v/s JFM’20) has shown growth, with a double-digit hike in the IT and retail sectors”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-health-talent-demand-up-in-june/articleshow/76968201.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||People avoid visiting hospitals in Patna||PATNA: With Covid-19 cases increasing alarmingly in the city and elsewhere in the country, people who do not need immediate medical attention avoid visiting hospitals. For instance, Abhishek Kumar (name changed), a resident of Exhibition Road and a prostate cancer patient, was advised by his doctor to seek medical attention at least twice a month. He, however, avoids visiting the hospital out of fear. “The last time I visited a Mumbai hospital for chemotherapy was before the enforcement of lockdown 1.0 in the country. At a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise, I can’t risk my life by visiting the hospital,” he said. Shalini (59), a resident of Kurji, whose daughter is a brain tumour patient, said, “The tumour was detected in early January. Her condition is better now. We are taking medical advice from the doctors over phone and through online mode. As the tumour is in its early stage, it can be cured with medication. Hospitals are not safe these days,” she said. Those with mild fever, cough and cold are also avoiding hospitals. Binod Kumar, a civil engineer and resident of Boring Canal Road, said he has been suffering from high fever for the last 14 days. “I quarantined myself on the second floor of my house while the rest of the family shifted to the ground floor. I strictly follow the home quarantine norms and I’m feeling much better now. I did not go for test as I am a diabetic with blood pressure issues,” he said. Asked to comment on the reason behind rise in Covid deaths, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said, “People make delays in seeking medical attention to avoid infection at hospitals. They go for test only when their condition deteriorates, making the task difficult for doctors,” Dr Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-avoid-visiting-hospitals-in-patna/articleshow/76967512.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 15, 2020||Patna||Uncertainty clouds this year’s Pitrapaksha Mela||GAYA: Normally preparation for Pitrapaksha Mela, the most important event of Gaya calendar begins about four months in advance. But not so this year uncertainty clouds the event.  Gayawal pandas, the priests privileged with granting of ‘suphal’ (some kind of spiritual certification of the successful performance of the ritual) and the freeing of ancestral souls from the cycle of birth and re-birth, are a worried lot.  According to Mani Lal Barik, the VHP leader, himself a Gayawal panda, more than 300 priest families, most of them joint families, having 10 or more members exclusively depend on the offerings made by the ritual performers who congregate in a large number for the fortnight-long festival of souls, a once in a lifetime mandatory ritual for every Hindu.  As per estimates, a quarter million pilgrims visit Gaya every during the ‘pindadaan’ season and contribute more than Rs 50 crore to the local economy on account of expenditure made on accommodation, food, purchase of materials used in ritual performance, clothes and utensils gifted to the family priests and cash offerings made to the Pandas to obtain ‘suphal’.  Of late pilgrims, particularly the educated lot, even visits the holy city to perform rituals off season to avoid rush. Such inflow of pilgrims has completely stopped since the countrywide lockdown was announced on March 24.  “A sizeable number of pandas are not well off and they do not even have ration cards to avail the grain being distributed among the needy,” says Barik. His own application for the issuance of ration card was rejected, complained the panda-cum VHP leader. Asked about the reason why preparatory arrangements have not begun for the big event, DM Abhishek Singh said that as per the MHA guidelines, religious congregations stand prohibited.  “Little can be done till the Unlock 2.0 was in vogue. Arrangements can begin only after the withdrawal of ban on religious congregations. Fresh guidelines are expected at the end of this month,” said Singh. Panda leader Mahesh Lal Guput Pitalkewarwale said that the prospective pilgrims are in regular touch with their family priests. As per the calendar, the fortnight-long event is scheduled to begin on September 1.  The rituals including ‘tarpan’ (water offering) according to the Panda leader, an executive committee member of the Vishnupad Temple Management committee, are performed at more than 50 points including the Vishnupad, Ramshila, Pretshila, Baitarni and Akshayvat etc. “Conceding that even if the event was finally allowed, the footfall will be very low,” the Panda leader said that ultimately the event and not the numbers matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/uncertainty-clouds-this-years-pitrapaksha-mela/articleshow/76967129.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 15, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Sans toilets, Marine Drive walkway project incomplete||KOCHI: Even though the renovation of the Marine Drive walkway has been started by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), the project doesn’t include construction of public toilets, which is a longstanding demand of visitors and tourists. The only toilet in the 2.4km stretch has been lying dysfunctional for years under the Kettuvallam Bridge in the northern part of the walkway. People say the renovation work will not be complete and effective unless public toilets are constructed as part of the project. When the amicus curiae Liju V Stephen has inspected the walkway in October 2019 at the direction of the high court while considering a petition filed by activist Ranjit G Thampy to save the walkway, he gave a report about the dilapidated condition of the toilet, but no action was taken till date. Activists say that the walkway needs at least six public toilets considering the high number of visitors and it should be maintained by a contractor to ensure cleanliness and upkeep. "More than 2,000 people visit the walkway daily during normal times; however, toilet facilities weren’t provided for them. The present toilet, which is in a dilapidated condition, is a haven for anti-social elements and open defecation too is common along the walkway. Construction of toilets is inevitable and GCDA needs to include it in the present project. Paid toilets managed by a contractor could be an option," said Thampy, whose year-long litigation at HC made the renovation a reality. The walkway managed by Greater Cochin development authority (GCDA) is being renovated by CSML at a cost of Rs.7.1 crore. Titled ‘open space corridor project linking DH Ground to Mangalavanam’, it is part of the area-based development (ABD) projects under smart cities mission. “Construction of toilets is not part of the current project. The plan at present includes surface paving, landscaping and providing street furniture such as benches, street lights, advertisement boards etc., repairing/ constructing storm water drainage trenches. The widened stretch on Abdul Kalam Marg will be developed as children’s play area. Tactile track will be constructed throughout the 2.4km stretch,” said a CSML official. Meanwhile, GCDA chairman V Saleem said toilets will be constructed in the final stage. “Though BPCL had earlier planned to construct two toilets as part of its CSR activities, the plan stands cancelled. But we are planning to construct two public toilets and GCDA will discuss it with CSML soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sans-toilets-marine-drive-walkway-project-incomplete/articleshow/76967941.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||125-year-old Baobab tree crashes||Vadodara: It had been standing tall for more than 125 years now, even witnessing rise of the present urban concrete jungle. However, the Baobab tree in Subhanpura area, the only one of its species within city limits, couldn’t bear its own weight any more and came crashing down late on Monday night. The 50-feet tall tree's girth was around 25 feet. The boundary wall of two bungalows located next to the tree got damaged along with a car. Fire brigade men rushed to the spot and removed the debris. While a big branch of the African tree had broken in May this year, it had rung a warning bell among the local residents about its weak state. “The tree’s branches are very heavy and needs regular pruning. We had approached the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) asking them to prune the branches,” said Dr Jitendra Gavali of Community Science Centre. Gavali, along with another resident, Hitarth Pandya, applied an organic paste on the tree to give it a healing touch. “But the tree had become heavy. Its trunk is hollow and so, it couldn’t take the weight of its big branches,” Gavali told TOI. A local resident said that when the branch had broken in May, the residents had requested the civic body to bring it down. “But we were told that it's an old tree and can't be cut. Now, it fell down and caused so much damage.” Another of its species in Padra is 950-years-old and the Baobab tree has been listed by the forest department as a heritage tree. The tree’s girth is about 90 feet and it probably stores nearly 50,000 litres of water inside. Environment activists say that no one has idea how this African tree came to Gujarat but it is located in many other cities too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/125-year-old-baobab-tree-crashes/articleshow/76966217.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||Covid testing suspended at Gaya hospital, again||GAYA: Covid testing at the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) was suspended on Tuesday after four doctors, including the head of the microbiology department, tested positive. This is for the second time in a week that Covid testing has been suspended at the Gaya-based hospital. Earlier, it was done due to the non-availability of kits. ANMMCH deputy superintendent-cum-nodal officer Dr N K Paswan told this newspaper, “All the four doctors have been put under home isolation.” Asked about the number of deaths at the dedicated Covid hospital, Dr Paswan replied, “Altogether six people from level I, level II and level III wards have died at the hospital during the last 24 hours. Patients, who need respiratory support, are kept in level III ward.” Meanwhile, district magistrate Abhishek Singh on Tuesday morning directed the ANMMCH administration to prevent the entry of unauthorized people in the prohibited zone. “The security at the hospital has been beefed up,” claimed the nodal officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-testing-suspended-at-gaya-hospital-again/articleshow/76967454.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||Walmart to put $1.2 billion into Flipkart||BENGALURU: US-based retail giant Walmart is leading a fresh infusion of $1.2 billion in Flipkart, two years after it acquired a 77% stake for $16 billion, as the ongoing battle for the online retail market is set to see the entry of Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries. The investment — which will be done in two tranches this financial year — values the company at $24.9 billion, an over 13% premium from the $22 billion at the time of the acquisition in 2018. Walmart’s shareholding will go up to a “little over 80%” with this round of infusion. The companies said in a statement that a “group of existing shareholders” also participated in the round, though it did not specify names. The remaining major shareholders include China’s Tencent and New York-based Tiger Global, both of which own 5%, besides Microsoft and co-founder Binny Bansal. The capital will be used for the online retail business of the Singapore-registered Flipkart — which also includes fashion portal Myntra — where the company has been locked in a market share battle with US-based Amazon. The group’s payments unit PhonePe has been looking to raise capital separately and spin off its business to unlock further value. TOI had reported last year that PhonePe is in talks with existing backers like Tencent to raise $1 billion and has been seeking a valuation of at least $8 billion. “Flipkart continues to leverage its culture of innovation to accelerate growth and enable millions of customers, sellers, merchants and small businesses to prosper and be a part of India’s digital transformation,” Walmart International president and CEO Judith McKenna said. Walmart’s buyout of Flipkart has been one of the largest M&A deals in India’s corporate history. But the company also faced setbacks due to changes in FDI norms for e-commerce in early 2019, which led to it restructuring operations. It has also seen the exit of group CEO Binny Bansal after allegations of improper conduct, while Kalyan Krishnamurthy runs the e-commerce business and Sameer Nigam runs PhonePe, reporting directly to the Flipkart board. Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst at market research firm Forrester, said the competition among Walmart, Amazon India and Reliance’s Jio Mart will get more aggressive and play out in the next 12-18 months as the pandemic pushes e-commerce growth. In terms of areas where Walmart’s new capital will be allocated, Meena said there are three primary segments — grocery & food retail, digitising small sellers & businesses, and experiments around video & social-commerce. “They are looking at aggressive expansion in grocery, which wasn’t in focus earlier. But that has changed after Covid-19. Their food retail licence was not approved, but they are rectifying it and you can expect significant investment to go there,” he added. Flipkart said that it has surpassed 1.5 billion visits per month and reported 45% growth in monthly active customers and 30% growth in transactions per customer for FY20. It has 150 million products across more than 80 categories. TOI recently reported that both Flipkart and Amazon India have seen their shipments increase to 120-140% of pre-Covid-19 pandemic levels as consumers increasingly prefer online sales rather than venture out to physical stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/walmart-to-put-1-2bn-into-flipkart/articleshow/76967652.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||68 containment zones in Saran||CHHAPRA: There are altogether 68 containment zones and 115 active Covid-19 cases in Saran district. Of the total 422 Covid patients in the district, five have so far died and 302 recovered. Commencement of rapid antigen test at Chhapra sadar hospital has, however, come as a relief for people as they are now getting test results within 15-30 minutes. A senior official said the district has received 500 more kits and 500 additional kids would be provided to it within the next 2-3 days. “Patients from containment zones, senior citizens and those suffering from cough, cold and mild fever will be allowed to undergo tests. Truenat machine is being used for collecting swab samples and sending the same to Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna, for tests,” he added. Meanwhile, in a bid to create awareness about preventive measures, including social distancing and wearing face masks, the Saran district officials, including DM Subrat Kumar Sen, SP Har Kishore Rai and sadar SDO Abhilasha Sharma on Monday visited different business localities of Chhapra town and slapped fine on the offenders. They also ordered sealing of some shops in which either the owner or the staff were found without masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/68-containment-zones-in-saran/articleshow/76967381.cms||H K Verma
July 15, 2020||Patna||Another doctor succumbs to Covid||PATNA: The state recorded death of another doctor due to coronavirus when Dr N K Singh (67), an eminent ENT specialist, breathed his last at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna on Tuesday. The virus has so far claimed lives of two doctors in the state. Dr Ashwani Kumar, a physician practising in Gaya, had died at AIIMS-Patna on Monday. Dr Kumar, former head of ENT department of Patna Medical College and Hospital, was working on contract basis at the PMCH after his retirement. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has expressed grief over Dr Singh’s death and expressed condolences to his family members. “Dr N K Singh was a renowned ENT specialist. His death is a big loss to the medical fraternity,” the CM said in his condolence message. President of Junior Doctors’ Association of PMCH Dr Shankar Bharti said Dr Singh used to take samples of corona suspects himself. “He had tested positive on July 5 and was kept in the isolation ward of PMCH on July 6. The next day, he was shifted to AIIMS-Patna,” Dr Bharti said. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said Dr Singh was on ventilator and had respiratory distress. “At least 12 to 15 doctors were undergoing treatment at the hospital. Two of them – Dr Kumar and Dr Singh – have died,” he added. Another city-based physician, who runs a no-profit clinic, is also undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna for Covid. Sources said the physician needs plasma. His colleague Dr Shakeel said, “We work in the same clinic. The clinic was not shut even during the lockdown.” Secretary of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Sunil Kumar said more than 150 doctors and large number of paramedics contracted the virus while discharging their duties. “Beds should be reserved for doctors at AIIMS-Patna. The government should also ensure timely test of doctors,” Dr Sunil added. Though the IMA had on Monday threatened that the doctors would go on a hunger strike, it softened its stand after health minister Mangal Pandey’s assurance who promised to meet the members of the association on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/another-doctor-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/76967411.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 15, 2020||Allahabad||Craving for bright future, students give credit to diligence, hard work||Prayagraj: Carving a bright future for themselves, several students did Prayagraj proud by scoring well in the class X Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. Three students from the district scored 98% marks. Of these, two were from Army Public School and one from Patanjali Rishikul School. Supriya Singh and Ishan Shandilya from Army Public School scored 98%. Mehak Kala and Mayank Kumar from the same school scored 97.4% and 97% respectively. Patanjali Rishikul School’s Devanshi Yadav scored 98% and also topped in the school. She bagged a perfect score in mathematics and social studies and, 98% in Hindi and English. Other students who excelled from the school were Devansh Srivastava (97.8%) and Samarth Varshney (97.4%). Managing 100 marks in social science and 99 in computer science, Delhi Public School’s Mihika Jain scored 97.6%. Somil Agarwal, Raghuvansh Bhutani and Arushi Agarwal were among the other meritorious students of the school. They scored 97.2% and 97% respectively. Aryesh Pandey from Maharishi Patanjali Vidya Mandir (MPVM) got 97.6%, while scoring 100 in science, and 99% and 98% in social science and science respectively. Aryesh (96.8%), Aditya Singh Yadav (96.8%) and Yash Bihany (96.2%) were among the other students who excelled in their class X examinations. In Ganga Gurukulam, the top three ranks were bagged by Akanksha Yadav (95.6%), Prashasti Singh (95.4%) and Himansh (95.2%). Prasoon Mishra (97.4%), Sahaj Jaiswal (96.8%) and Yashasvi Sharma (96.4%) were the top three scorers in YMCA Centenary School and College. Principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya’s IIIT Jhalwa branch Vijesh Pandey, the school managed a 100% pass result. At 94.2%, Suraj Mani bagged the highest marks, followed by Sanjeevani (93.6%) and Raj Bhattacharya (89.8%). Shri Mahaprabhu Public School’s Akansha Yadav scored the highest in her batch by scoring 95%, while Anshuman Singh (94.17%) and Sadhvi Vishwakarma (93.33%) were among the other meritorious students from the school.At ML Convent School, Anam Siddiqui and Mohammad Adeeb Ansari shared the top positions with 88%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/craving-for-bright-future-students-give-credit-to-diligence-hard-work/articleshow/76987514.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||2 SPs, DIG’s bodyguard and driver found corona positive||PATNA: Two out of the five IPS officers posted in Patna district as superintendent of police tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said both got themselves tested on Tuesday and their results came in the evening. They went into home isolation. Meanwhile, the driver and bodyguard of anti-terrorist squad (ATS) DIG Vikas Vaibhav were tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Vaibhav told TOI over the phone that two to three persons had met him in office last week after which he decided to get everyone in his vicinity, including staff members at the residence and office, tested for Covid-19. “Altogether 16 persons, including four of my family members and myself besides 12 of my staff members at residence and office had undergone test on Tuesday,” Vaibhav said, adding the district administration had conducted the tests. He said one of his bodyguards and a driver were found Covid-19 positive. “Both have been sent to a quarantine centre functional at the ATS office in state capital. All others have tested negative,” he said. Vaibhav said sanitisation process and all necessary precautions were being taken up as per protocols of the Centre and state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-sps-digs-bodyguard-and-driver-found-corona-positive/articleshow/76967666.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||Hand sanitiser essential, but faces 18% GST, rules Goa-AAR||MUMBAI: The Goa-bench of the GST-Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) has held that alcohol-based hand sanitisers, manufactured by a local company, will be taxed at 18%. Springfield India Distilleries had approached the AAR to seek a ruling on the classification of its product and the applicable goods and services tax (GST) rate. It had also sought a ruling on whether the hand sanitisers produced by it would be classified as an essential commodity and thus be exempt from GST. In its order pronounced late last month, the AAR bench candidly stated that, “Merely classifying any goods as an essential commodity will not be the criteria for exempting such goods from GST.” The ruling corroborates the stand taken by the GST authorities. Recently, the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau alerted the GST authorities that manufacturers of alcohol-based sanitisers were paying 12% GST by wrongly classifying the product under a different heading and treating it as ‘medicaments’. Following this, GST field officers began to conduct inspections to determine the misclassification and consequent GST loss. Industry associations have petitioned the finance ministry to plead their case for a lower GST rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hand-sanitiser-essential-but-faces-18-gst-rules-goa-aar/articleshow/76967701.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||Patna: Safety worry for people in containment zones||PATNA: People living in containment zones in the state capital and some other towns have accused the government of not taking strict measures, such as sealing and sanitising the areas, to contain the spread of coronavirus. They said the administration concerned does not go for medical survey, contact tracing and sealing the containment areas even after detection of coronavirus cases. Many people do not even approach hospitals because of the stigma associated with the disease. Mrityunjay Pathak, a resident of Station Road in Patna, said two people were tested positive in an apartment next to his home. “The building was sealed 10 days after the detection of Covid cases. In between, people kept visiting the apartment,” he alleged. Ankita Sinha, who lives near Pani Tanki in Patliputra locality of the state capital, said, “No wonder the number of Covid- 19 cases is rising in Patna as infection trial is not being done. The area was sealed only after the locals raised an alarm. However, no one comes to disinfect the locality,” she added. Some residents of Ashok Rajpath said their lane was sealed three days after a person died of Covid. Md Zeeshan of the same locality said for three days, people lived in fear and those who did not know about Covid death, kept frequenting the lane. “The administration is not bothered about disinfecting the area. The whole lane has turned into filth and overflowing drains have flooded it. The sanitation workers visit the locality only after getting repeated complaints,” he said. Some people even took to social media to draw the attention of the authorities concerned. Subhashis Chatterjee from Bari Bazaar in Munger wrote, “Two corona patients have been traced. They were taken to hospital on Saturday. However, the area has not been sanitised and sealed yet.” Rishika Mishra from Vaishali said three people tested positive in the apartment she lives, but the building was yet to be sealed. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said sometimes they get delayed information about Covid positive cases from the testing centres in the district. “It is also difficult to trace the area for the local police station and civic body officials as the patients often refuse to give their full address,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/safety-worry-for-people-in-containment-zones/articleshow/76967616.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||Google eyes $4 billion Jio stake to expand Indian tech play||MUMBAI: A day after Google said it would invest $10 billion in India, the US company is considering to spend a good portion of that amount for a stake in Jio Platforms. The move is part of its plan to join rival Facebook in upping its play in one of the world’s biggest internet services markets. Google, according to Bloomberg, is in talks to acquire a $4-billion (Rs 30,000-crore) stake in Jio, the digital technology arm of billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s sprawling conglomerate Reliance Industries (RIL). If the talks convert into a transaction, then Google will be the second strategic investor in Jio after Facebook, with a seat on the board of the Indian company. Facebook has spent $5.7 billion (Rs 43,574 crore) for a 9.9% stake in Jio. RIL didn’t respond to the query based on the Bloomberg report, while Google couldn’t be contacted for immediate comments. While announcing its $10-billion commitment to India, Google CEO Sundar Pichai had said that the company will route the investment through equity deals, partnerships and other structures. The US tech major already has investments in Indian companies such as local delivery app Dunzo. Google, whose Android mobile operating system powers a bulk of India’s 500 million smartphones, is looking at various opportunities to ramp up its play here. And Jio, which counts 400 million subscribers on its wireless network, offers the largest base of customers. So far, RIL has sold a quarter of Jio to 12 foreign investors, raising Rs 1.18 lakh crore (nearly $16 billion) in total. Aside from Facebook, the rest 11 shareholders in Jio are investment funds. Jio, worth Rs 5.16 lakh crore, is at the core of Ambani’s plan to transform RIL from a refining-to-exploration company to a tech major. All the deals in Jio are a precursor to Ambani’s main plan of taking the digital company public in the future. Ambani may explore an overseas listing for Jio, possibly Nasdaq, after India proposed direct listing of companies in certain foreign jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-eyes-4bn-jio-stake-to-expand-indian-tech-play/articleshow/76967759.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||No settlement of dues till ban: Club Factory||BENGALURU: Club Factory, the e-commerce platform which is one of the 59 Chinese apps banned in India, is suspending all payment settlements for its Indian sellers till the ban continues here, according to its latest memo sent to merchants on Tuesday evening. It has at least 30,000 registered Indian sellers. Typically, these are third-party independent sellers of smaller scale, unlike entities like Cloudtail or Tech Connect, that are one of the largest sellers on Amazon India and Flipkart, respectively. The latest development thus has created uncertainty and anxiety among the sellers. GST authorities also conducted a search on Club Factory’s Gurgaon premises, suspecting a potential tax evasion last Monday, two people aware of the matter said. The authorities reached out to its logistics partners also who deliver the goods ordered through its platform. “Given the government has mandated complete suspension of the business activities of CF in India in light of ban imposed by the government on the CF app, we hereby wish to inform that all settlements with sellers on the CF app and website are hereby being put on hold until the ban of the CF app and website is lifted,” the e-tailer told its sellers. A Club Factory spokesperson said, “Club Factory team is dedicated to complying with the government’s directive and is closely working with the government in order to resolve any queries they may have and submit all necessary documentation required from time to time.” TOI first reported in its July 1 edition, saying merchants were concerned over their existing payments being stuck with the Chinese firm since the ban was imposed. The company, in its message to sellers, said it was trying to get the ban revoked. “However, given that this is a government action, the period for which such ban may be extended is presently unknown,” it added. “Yet another marketplace has defaulted with sellers’ money. We request the government to check why RBI is not ensuring that marketplaces keep money in escrow accounts,” a spokesperson of Aiova said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-settlement-of-dues-till-ban-club-factory/articleshow/76967588.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 15, 2020||Goa||Carnival floats’ groups irked over delay in prize money||Quepem: Five months after the tourism department-organised Carnival floats parades were held, a controversy has broken out over the prize money with some winners crying foul over short payment. Councillor and former chairperson of Quepem municipal council, Raul Pereira’s group has won five first prizes and one second at the tourism department’s all Goa float competitions organised in February. However, he is yet to receive the entire prize money. “I received only three prizes amounting to Rs 2.5 lakh in June. The government is yet to pay me Rs 2.25 lakh of another three prizes,” Pereira said. He demanded immediate resignation of tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar for not clearing the prize money even after four months and for failing to control his department. Another regular participant at the annual competition, popularly known as Alexin Curtorim, who bagged second place at four events and third at two places, is also yet to receive his prize money. He demanded for an inquiry into the matter of the delayed payment. “The government cannot give us any excuse since the competition was held one month before the Covid-19 pandemic,” Curtorim said. Pereira said that it is for the first time in the history of the competition that the prizes were not given within eight days. Both Pereira and Curtorim said that they need nearly Rs 6 lakh to prepare each float. For the last 19 years, Pereira has been organising floats depicting various themes such as Nizachim Goenkaram, Gonvlli, Kumbar, Bonderam, Telacho Gano, O Spatero, Goenchi Feni, Goenchim Festam and Songitkar, which have dominated the float competition organised by both the government and private institutions, and has won many first and second prizes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/carnival-floats-groups-irked-over-delay-in-prize-money/articleshow/76968649.cms||Johnny M
July 15, 2020||Patna||JD(U) decks up for polls amid demands for deferment||PATNA: The ruling JD(U) has pulled out all stops to prepare for the forthcoming polls amid opposition parties RJD and Congress as well as NDA ally LJP demanding postponement of the Bihar assembly polls due to the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. The Nitish Kumar-led party has lined up a series of virtual meetings in various assembly constituencies up to August 7 when the party chief will address a mega virtual rally. It has left behind all other parties, including ally BJP, in organizing such meetings through the social media platforms. Assembly elections in the state are due in October-November. Though the Election Commission is yet to announce the schedule for the polls, all political parties, in their own style, have begun preparations for the polls. In fact, BJP was the first to sound the poll bugle by organizing a grand virtual rally of Union home minister Amit Shah on June 7. Days after Shah’s rally, JD(U) leaders organized a series of virtual rallies. JD(U)’s divisional-level rallies were addressed by the party chief and CM Nitish Kumar and senior party leaders such as energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, building construction minister Ashok Choudhary and water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha. “After the successful completion of its division-level meets, JD(U) has now been engaged in holding virtual meets of its different cells since July 7. It will continue up to July 15. The party’s national general secretary RCP Singh launched such a virtual meet by addressing a ‘Tuesday Talk’ for workers of Chhatra JD(U) on July 7,” the party’s state general secretary Navin Kumar Arya told TOI on Monday. “Moreover, RCP Singh will also hold a virtual meet of the party’s all regional in-charges, district presidents, constituency in-charges and state presidents of different cells on July 16,” Arya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-decks-up-for-polls-amid-demands-for-deferment/articleshow/76967354.cms||Madan Kumar
July 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar records highest single-day Covid-19 cases||PATNA: State recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. A home department’s under secretary-rank officer and ENT specialist Dr NK Singh among 14 people died while several government officials, including an additional chief secretary, and political workers were found infected with the coronavirus. The state has reported 165 Covid deaths and 18,853 positive cases, including 1,432 fresh ones from all the 38 districts, so far. Both Dr NK Singh and under secretary Umesh Kumar Rajak died at AIIMS-Patna on Tuesday. Patna, again, had the maximum 162 fresh cases among the 38 districts on Tuesday. Fourteen employees working at Patna collectorate and DM Kumar Ravi’s residential office have also tested positive for the virus. Ravi said their test reports came on Monday and they had been kept under institutional quarantine. As per the health department official press release, 655 people recovered in the past 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate stands at 69.06%. Also, 10,018 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Total 14 deaths were reported from across the state on Tuesday, including nine confirmed by the state health department. The state health department reported three deaths from Patna, two from Gaya and one each from Khagaria, Munger, West Champaran and Purnea, taking the official toll up to 143 only. Two days back, a video of Rajak lying on the floor outside AIIMS-Patna had gone viral. His family members were heard in the video alleging that he was discharged from IGIMS soon after his report came positive for Covid-19 and he was not being given any bed at AIIMS-Patna. Leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had also tweeted Rajak’s video. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer in charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said Rajak was brought from IGIMS in a serious condition and admitted there on Sunday. Later, he had been put on the ventilator. Even Dr Singh was on ventilator. Apart from Rajak and Dr Singh, three other people died at AIIMS-Patna on Tuesday. They included a 51-year-old resident of Jagdeo Path, a woman (51) from Bhojpur and another from Aurangabad. For the first time, three districts other than Patna recorded over 100 positive cases in a day. While Patna reported 162 fresh corona positive cases, East Champaran recorded 124, Begusarai 114 and Nalanda 107 new patients. With 13,019 recoveries and 143 official deaths, there were 5,690 active cases in state till Tuesday. Patna district has registered 18 deaths and 2,259 Covid cases so far and 1296 of them recovered and had been discharged from hospitals and isolation centres, leaving 945 infected people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76967347.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 15, 2020||Patna||BJP state HQ turns Covid hotspot with 24 members testing +ve||PATNA: The state headquarters of ruling BJP turned out to be a Covid-19 hotspot with 24 members of the party, including four functionaries, testing positive on Tuesday. Senior state BJP leader and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi took to Twitter on Tuesday to confirm the development. BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar, who has himself tested positive, told TOI that samples of 84 people were taken for Covid tests after a spokesperson and the convener of Mahadalit cell tested positive for the virus last week. “Both persons attended a regional meeting held at the party office here and were not wearing masks. Later, we got to know that both have tested positive for the virus and we decided to undergo tests. Apart from me, two state vice-presidents and another general secretary and 18 workers tested positive for Covid-19. Most of us are asymptomatic and under home quarantine,” Devesh said. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said all party activities at the state headquarters have stopped. “Out of 84 people, whose samples were taken for tests, five were party functionaries, others were workers, security and housekeeping staff. BJP is not organizing any social or public event. Our activities are being done from home through virtual or digital meets,” he said. A JD (U) minister also tested positive for the virus on Monday. Sources said the minister came in contact with a party worker, who was Covid positive. Nevertheless, he is under home quarantine at present. Functionaries and workers of almost all major political parties in Bihar are increasingly getting infected by the virus even as most parties are busy with digital electioneering ahead of the assembly polls slated to be held in October- November, this year. The first few to get the virus included RJD national vice-president Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and former parliamentarian Putul Kumari (tested positive in Delhi). Both have since recovered. Bihar legislative council acting chairperson Awadhesh Narayan Singh, another state minister and three MLAs— one each from BJP, Congress and RJD- have also tested positive for the virus. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav expressed concerns over the prevailing situation in the state. “Some ministers and several MLAs have tested positive for Covid-19. And now many people have tested positive for the virus in the BJP office. They are doing virtual rally and spreading the virus. They are more worried about elections, even though we are repeatedly saying that government and ruling parties should focus more on tackling this global health crisis,” Tejashwi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-state-hq-turns-covid-hotspot-with-24-members-testing-ve/articleshow/76967274.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 15, 2020||Madurai||CBI gets custody of 5 cops in custodial deaths case||MADURAI: Madurai chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court on Tuesday granted CBI the custody of five policemen who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. The CBI had on Monday filed an application before the CJM seeking five days custody of inspector Sridhar, sub inspectors Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj. On Tuesday, all five policemen, who were lodged at Madurai central prison, were produced before the CJM. CJM T V Hemanandakumar granted CBI the custody of the five policemen and directed it to produce them before the court on July 16 at 5.30pm. Though initially the CBI had registered cases under sections 176 (1-A)(i) Cr.PC, the case was subsequently altered under sections 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement), section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) and section 109 (abetment) of IPC. There were some tense moments when the cops were brought to court as the grill outside the windows of the van in which they were brought collided with the gate while entering the court campus. No injuries were reported. On getting their custody, CBI officials took the five accused to government Rajaji hospital to subject them to medical examination and they were subsequently taken to CBI office at Madurai for investigation. Five more police personnel — constables Vail Muthu, Chelladurai, Francis, head constable Samidurai and special sub inspector Paldurai — were also arrested on charges of abetment as they allegedly held the victims while they were beaten up at the police station. While Vail Muthu, Chelladurai and Samidurai were lodged at Madurai central prison, Paldurai and Francis were getting treated in Thoothukudi government medical college and hospital for high blood pressure and other bodily ailments. As Paldurai and Francis had recovered, they were discharged on Tuesday and taken to the Tuticorin district jail amidst tight security. They will be taken to the Madurai central prison where their fellow police personnel are remanded. SI Balakrishnan who was arrested in the case had recently filed a bail application before Tuticorin principal district judge. The plea has been adjourned to July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbi-gets-custody-of-5-cops-in-custodial-deaths-case/articleshow/76968651.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 15, 2020||Patna||Patna gets two portable Covid-19 sample collection booths||PATNA: Two Covid-19 sample collection booths have been set up in the state capital. The portable booths, which allows a safer, easier and quicker testing process, have been made functional at the New Gardiner Road hospital (NGRH) and Rajvanshi Nagar Hospital. “The one-of-its-kind swab sample collection kiosks is expected to reduce the need for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits,” DM Kumar Ravi said. He added, “The process involves collection of samples of suspected Covid-19 infected persons by a health worker inside the booth. The suspected individuals just have to walk up to the booth after which, the health worker will take their samples and move on to the next person after sanitizing the gloves. Each contactless test takes about 5 minutes to be carried out.” The testing booths will also save the cost of PPE kits. “The traditional method of testing requires a PPE kit, which has to be destroyed after collecting the sample. Besides, the traditional testing by sample collection requires a lot of time. The testing booth is made in such a way that there’s no requirement of these expensive kits and even if the doctors do not have the kits, they can stand inside the booth and collect samples,” Ravi further said. He added that contact tracing will also be done of those found positive by the health workers in order to find out the main source of infection. Several people were seen standing at the NGRH testing booth. Prashant Kumar (name changed), a Boring Road resident, who was spotted at the NGRH on Friday afternoon was not feeling well for the last few days. “I just want to be sure about my health conditions. My family is in a panic situation as I have flu,” he said. Earlier this week, coronavirus tests through rapid antigen kits began in the state. “Altogether 7,000 rapid test kits, which can show results within 30 minutes, have been made available in the Patna division, with 2,000 kits primarily for Patna district,” said divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-gets-two-portable-covid-19-sample-collection-booths/articleshow/76967647.cms||Archi Rani
July 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar pollution board teams to check waste disposal at hospitals||PATNA: The Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) will send teams to check whether biomedical wastes, including those used for testing and treatment of Covid-19 infection, were dumped in and around PMCH, NMCH, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) and AIIMS-Patna. BSPCB chairman Dr AK Ghosh said on Tuesday that direction was issued following some complaints made by people that some hospitals were ignoring the procedure for proper disposal of the biomedical wastes, posing a serious health hazard. Ghosh also asked the teams to click pictures of such unscientific dumping, if found anywhere, in the hospital so that necessary action could be initiated against their administrations. He further appealed to people not to throw their used masks and gloves on roadside. “All protective gears, masks and gloves used by people as a precautionary measure against coronavirus should be cut in parts and wrapped well in newspapers before dumping in the dustbins,” said Ghosh. A scientist at the BSPCB, Navin Kumar, said the combined biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) is available at Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur for collection and disposal of biomedical wastes generated from hospitals, nursing homes and pathological test centres. All the hospitals and nursing homes of Patna are linked with the CBWTF available on the IGIMS premises, he said. Meanwhile, the PMCH administration geared up its machinery for the scientific disposal of biomedical waste on Tuesday morning. Principal Dr VP Choudhary said some drivers and trolley men had mistakenly threw their used protective gears near the postmortem house on Monday evening. “Soon after getting this complaint, the entire area was cleaned and sanitised,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-pollution-board-teams-to-check-waste-disposal-at-hosps/articleshow/76967185.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Additional chief secretary and DIG test Covid-19 positive||PATNA: An additional chief secretary and a DIG of police in Bihar are among those who have tested positive for the coronavirus. The 1987-batch Bihar cadre IAS officer confirmed to TOI through a WhatsApp message that he was found Covid-19 positive on Monday. He was under home isolation. “Having all necessary arrangements and gadgets. Feeling fine. No worries,” his text message reads. Earlier, at least three district magistrates had been tested Covid-19 positive in state. The IG and DIG-rank officers, who were found infected with the virus, have their offices in the police headquarters at Sardar Patel Bhawan, which also houses the emergency operation centre (EOC) of state disaster management department. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told TOI over the phone that the DIG is posted in Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and his test report came on Monday. Kumar said an IG posted at the State Crime Records Bureau was tested positive last week, but he was recovering fast. “Both the IG and the DIG are under home isolation. Both have offices in Sadar Patel Bhawan. All precautionary measures are being taken. The DIG had attended office last week,” the ADG said, adding the building was being sanitized periodically. He said a Bihar Military Police (BMP) havildar had recently succumbed to Covid-19, taking the toll in state police from the virus to two. “He was tested positive and died a few days back. Earlier, an assistant sub-inspector had died of Covid-19 in Aurangabad last month,” he said. Kumar said the number of Covid cases in state police had increased to 464, out of which 168 had recovered. The total count includes at least 35 police personnel of Patna district, who had been found infected by the virus in the last two days. Besides police personnel, at least eight home guards and 43 from state fire services in Patna had also tested positive so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/additional-chief-secretary-and-dig-test-positive/articleshow/76967496.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 15, 2020||Business||SBI bad debt recoveries less than 8% over 8 years||MUMBAI: State Bank of India’s technical write-off of bad loans in the last eight years amounted to Rs 1.23 lakh crore, while recovery from bad debts during the same period was less than Rs 9,000 crore. The country’s largest bank shared data on its technical write-off and recoveries over the past decade with a shareholder Vivek Velankar, which was first published by Moneylife. According to the data, more than a third of the total write-offs made since FY13 were in FY20 at Rs 46,348 crore. In the year before that (FY19), the write-offs amounted to Rs 27,225 crore. During the same period, recoveries were Rs 5,366 crore (FY20) and Rs 2,215 crore (FY19). The bad debts peaked after 2018 following an RBI-issued circular on February 12 that forced banks to clean up their bad loans. A technical write-off refers to an accounting practice of not consider a particular loan as an asset to offset deposits. “Write-off should not be confused with loan waiver where the borrower’s debts are forgiven. The rights of the bank are not diminished on account of a technical write-off as the bank continues to aggressively pursue recovery,” said a banker. On the recovery being a small percentage of the write-off, a source close to the bank said that there was always a time lag between the write-off and recovery because of the legal process involved. He added that recoveries in respect of some of the loans written off in the last two years are yet to be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-bad-debt-recoveries-less-than-8-over-8-years/articleshow/76967680.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||WFH will help save Rs 1,000 crore: SBI chief||MUMBAI: SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar has said that the bank is well placed to manage Covid-related challenges as it has a strong franchise and has fully provided for legacy bad loans. Kumar said that the bank’s work-from-anywhere (WFA) strategy will save the bank Rs 1,000 crore through cost-optimisation and will be a key component of business continuity amid the pandemic. Addressing shareholders, the chief of the country’s largest bank said that the way forward was to focus on cost reduction, rationalisation and reskilling of workforce, improving staff productivity and redeployment of the workforce from administration offices to sales roles. Responding to shareholders queries at the annual general meeting, Kumar said that the bank was seeking approval to raise Rs 20,000 crore by way of equity as an enabling provision. “The mode of raising capital will be decided at the time we feel it is necessary to raise capital,” he said. Several shareholders said that the bank should opt for a rights issue to give existing shareholders an opportunity to invest. Kumar’s response was that majority stake in the bank was held by the government and a rights issue would require the government to invest to ensure its stake did not come down. Kumar said that SBI will scale up its digital loan offering through its Yono app. “The Bank will further scale up Yono and has set a target of doubling user registrations in the next six months and further strengthen platform through new product offerings like end-to-end home loans, pre-approved car loans and personal gold loans,” said Kumar. To deal with Covid-19, the bank has identified business continuity hub branches to cater to customers in case of emergency and business continuity plan sites identified to support essential back-end services. “The bank has stepped up its monitoring of all the projects under implementation and expects to tide over the Covid impact in the short- to medium-term,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-will-help-save-rs-1000cr-sbi-chief/articleshow/76967990.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||Draw a line between your professional, personal life||By Joel PaulCovid-19 has proven to be an unprecedented humanitarian crisis for all countries and India, too, is no exception. After weeks of a national lockdown, the attention has shifted to the re-opening of the economy, while containing the virus. Over the next several months, India’s economy will have to address the pandemic by building the capability to manage granular, dynamic and localised lockdowns and restarts. This will result in some of us continuing to work from home, while some may start returning to our workplaces in a staggered manner. How would we navigate this? When working from homeChoose, if possible, a dedicated, well-lit corner reserved for work in your home. Make sure that you and your partner discuss the next day’s schedule in advance to avoid conflict on calls, bandwidth priority and to make sure someone is always available to take care of small children or pets. Young children understand timetables very well as they do in school. If you have small children at home, try to keep them gainfully occupied so that they don’t interrupt your calls. And if they do, smile and invite them to say a quick hello on your call! The entire world is in the same place, and everyone will understand. Maintaining work-life balance Balance means being equal on both sides. If any one side is heavier than the other, the resulting imbalance may cause anxiety, dissatisfaction, and burnout. When working from home, you have to be able to draw a line between work and your personal life as you don’t have the same physical cues that you might have had when you used to go to an office. Make sure you build a wrap-up routine similar to how you would end a workout at the gym. Routines help us set boundaries from one activity to the next and offer us clarity. Knowing when to pause and mastering it will truly help work-from-home become both constructive and productive, and ensure individual happiness and fulfilment. Harnessing the power of ritual Emotions are an integral part of human nature and it is vital for us to take the right effort to manage them effectively. One powerful way to do so is through rituals. Rituals are an ingrained human tool to help us control intense emotions and can help regain our sense of control over our lives while working from home. It could be as easy as making your bed every morning, a hard hour of exercise, a virtual happy hour, or as complex as working on a one-thousand-piece jigsaw puzzle. Whatever your activity of choice may be, the trick is to pick one and be consistent at it, which will help us restore, stabilise and reset. Re-opening your workplace For organisations: It would be prudent to assemble a CTF (Covid-19 Task Force) team to plan and strategise all re-opening and return-to-work strategies. This team would ideally have representation from senior human resource leaders as well as a combination of members from different functions, including legal and corporate communications. Ensure as much transparency and communication as is possible — this helps employees understand the way forward and become a partner and ally in your reopening strategy. Finally, engage in dialogue — returning to work can only become successful when there is a constant flow of dialogue between the organisation and employees. This will help prevent any misconceptions, gaps in process and also contribute to building a safe working environment for everyone. For employees returning to work: Be patient, we are all new at this. As organisations begin to reopen and welcome employees back, we must bear in mind there are going to be some changes and some challenges. Masks, greater physical distances between employees, minimum access to common areas, increased waiting time to be checked for temperature and sanitisation are going to be all too common. Be patient, and understand that your company is only trying to keep you as safe as possible. Follow the rules and ensure you lend a helping hand to both the teams managing the transition and your colleagues. Right attitude will help outlast pandemic Finally, a positive and empathetic attitude can help in connecting and managing all this change around us. If you are on a group chat or a meeting, spend some time doing something more personal — like sharing a fun anecdote or playing a game to keep spirits up and draw people out of their shells. If you know of people in your team who live alone, away from their families, go the extra mile to check-in on them and ensure their well-being. Laugh with your team a lot — it will bring you closer and beat the social-distancing blues. Be safe. This too shall pass. (The writer is MD, Randstad RiseSmart India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/draw-a-line-between-your-professional-personal-life/articleshow/76968164.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Widow thrashed, paraded half-naked in Madhubani||PATNA: A 50-year-old widow was dragged out of her house and thrashed in full public view before paraded half-naked at a village in Madhubani district on Monday. The video of her ordeal went viral on Tuesday, prompting the police to lodge a complaint against 13 people of Pappan village under Andhrathati police station. She had to bear the brunt of anganwadi sevika Leela Devi and her husband Moti Mahto for lodging a police complaint against them earlier in the day. The widow alleged that they used to abuse and harass her on one pretext or the other. Getting furious over the widow’s complaint, Leela and Moti, along with their supporters, dragged her to a nearby chowk where she was beaten up black and blue. According to the FIR, the offenders caught her by hair and paraded her in the village with clothes torn. No one came to her help. Later, she was dropped near her house. The victim told the police that the accused were ‘dabang’ (musclemen) and nobody in the village dared to oppose them. “Those who defy their diktats have to meet a similar fate like me,” she told the police. Andhrathati SHO Amrit Lal Barman said her statement was recorded on Tuesday. “The police have got the video of the incident. Efforts are on to nab the culprits, who were absconding,” he told this newspaper over the phone. The SHO, however, clarified that a counter FIR had also been lodged against the widow and her acquaintance Manohar Jha for assaulting the anganwadi sevika and her husband. He said the widow used to lodge complaints against the Leela at the behest of Jha, which led to an altercation between the two families. Madhubani SP Satya Prakash couldn’t be contacted for his comments despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/widow-thrashed-paraded-half-naked-in-madhubani/articleshow/76967042.cms||Ramashankar
July 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Residents hail, traders’ body flays lockdown||PATNA: As the state government ordered statewide lockdown from Thursday till July 31 in order to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission, people from cross-section of society had a mixed reaction. While some termed it as a need of the hour, others said lockdown is not a permanent solution. Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khaitan said lockdown is not a remedy to check the increasing number of coronavirus cases in state. “Allowing services like transport, public vehicles and work on constructions sites will certainly bring people on the streets, causing a surge in Covid-19 cases. Until and unless the government enforces strict rules like wearing of masks at public places, the infection rate will not decrease,” he said. Social scientist and professor of economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, DM Diwakar, said there should be a scientific reason for every action. “It seems like the government has finally realized that the entire state is in danger. However, lockdown won’t help in curbing the spread of the virus. It can only stop the chain till it’s imposed. As far as I can see, the situation will be the same after July 31,” he said. “The authorities, in fact, need to increase testing besides doing micro analysis at block level to trace the contacts of infected people,” he added. As several doctors, laboratory technicians and nurses have been infected by the virus, Dr Sachidanand Kumar said lockdown won’t bring any respite to the health workers or their families. “The government may say it will break the chain, but what about the doctors, who stay in contact with so many people. Not only do they transmit the virus to their family members but to the patients, too. In a situation like this, the least authorities can do is to keep us away from our families and give testing facilities after every 10 days,” he said. Teachers, businessmen and residents, on the other hand, said the lockdown could only keep people confined to their homes. Shailesh Kumar, director of Bishop Scott High School, said it is the only way to manage social distancing. “There were very few cases when the lockdown was imposed in March. Had we followed it with strictness, the situation wouldn’t have been so bad. Also, I feel this is the right time for lockdown, considering the number of people getting infected with the virus,” he said. Cinema halls are the worst hit by the pandemic. But the owner of a cinema hall, Ajay Kumar, hailed the government’s decision. “There’s no point in opening unnecessary establishments in the pandemic situation. It’s not only dangerous but life-threatening too,” he said. People rush to buy essentials: As the news of lockdown spread on social media platforms, residents rushed to the shops and markets across the city to stock up on essential commodities such as rice, flour, cooking oil and spices. Wholesalers, supermarkets, small shopowners and even online retailers said demand for groceries and packaged food went up sharply. Mahesh Shrivastava, an executive at a supermarket on Boring Road, said products went out of stock. Residents said they didn’t have options. “Even though essential shops are allowed to open, several small shops in my locality remained closed last time. Hence, I didn’t want to take any risk,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh of Kadamkuan. Meanwhile, in view of the increasing number of cases in Samastipur, shopkeepers have decided to keep shutters down on the call given by the District Chamber of Commerce from July 13 to 20, said Rakesh Kumar Raj, general secretary of Samastipur Galla Grocery Retail Business Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/residents-hail-traders-body-flays-lockdown/articleshow/76967384.cms||Archi Rani
July 15, 2020||Patna||Six more HC staff found positive||PATNA: At least six employees of the Patna high court were found Covid-19 positive during the last 24 hours. Of the six positive cases, three include an assistant, a peon and a sweeper on Monday. Meanwhile, a testing camp, which has been set up on the premises of the high court itself by the district administration on Tuesday, and was to function till Thursday, has been postponed for the next three days. Patna high court registrar general Nawneet Kumar Pandey said that three HC staff including a female tested positive on Tuesday at the camp, while three others were found positive on Monday. Altogether 120 high court staff were tested on Tuesday. Even senior officers of the high court administration had undergone Covid tests. All of them were found negative. The decision to set up a testing camp on the high court premises was taken up after 19 security personnel including a DSP, who was the security incharge of court premises, tested Covid-19 positive. In fact, the DSP was the first to test positive on July 10 followed by 18 of his subordinates on July 12. At present, a few sections of the high court are functioning with restricted number of staff and since March 16, only virtual hearing of the cases is being done 16 as a precautionary measure. Even the civil courts across state have been directed to take up only urgent matters for at least a week that too only through virtual mode. A communication to this effect was sent by the Patna high court administration to all district and sessions judges across the state on Monday. The communication was based on the decision taken by a committee of HC judges headed by Chief Justice Sanjay Karol. All district and sessions judges have been asked to ensure that no one should be physically present on the court premises unless it is very urgent. Meanwhile, a sub-judge of Dalsinghsarai court, several staff members of the Kishanganj and Biharsharif civil court have also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-more-hc-staff-found-positive/articleshow/76967240.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Madhubani art comes alive on face masks||PATNA: Artisans are adding a pinch of Madhubani art to brighten up the otherwise dull face masks. Priced between Rs 50 to Rs 100, these masks are finding takers from across the country. Ramesh Mandal, who hails from Koilakh village in Madhubani started making these masks in June. “I was completely out of work due to the pandemic and lockdown. However, after seeing the demand for masks, the idea of making such masks popped into my head and I contacted a tailor, who shaped the cloth pieces as I wanted,” he said. Mandal’s two-layered cotton masks are in high demand throughout the country. “More than the local people from Bihar, those from Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra and other places have placed orders,” he added. Like Ramesh, many lost their livelihood owing to the closure of tourist places where they sold their paintings. However, Mamta Devi, a Madhubani painter, who has won several awards, gave at least 100 such artisans a chance to earn a living. “Three months back when we started making masks with Madhubani painting on them, I didn’t know it would grow so much and would benefit the artists to such a great extent,” she said. Several big names such as industrialist Anand Mahindra, actors Raveena Tandon and Nandita Das promoted the masks using their social media handles. Famous for its eye-catching patterns, this is not the first time that the art form has received public attention. Several trains, railway stations and walls have also been decorated with the paintings. The art which is mostly practiced in the Mithila region has made its mark all over the world. The painting is done using natural dyes and pigments with the help of tools, twigs, fingers, brushes, nib-pens, and matchsticks. The state art, culture and youth department plans to give local artists a platform to showcase their talents. Department’s principal secretary Ravi Parmar said an artist database is being created. “In the first phase, we are only selecting state, national and other level awardees. The main motive is to give artists and artisans a reliable platform to showcase their talents,” he said. He added, “We will have an account of at least 1,000 such artists by the end of this month after which, we will start the second phase of selection where the non-awardees will get a chance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/madhubani-art-comes-alive-on-face-masks/articleshow/76967344.cms||Archi Rani
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Beyond dreams: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on XII results||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Tuesday lauded the students whose special efforts had boosted the government schools’ pass percentage in CBSE’s Class XII examinations to 98%. In focus was not only a high scorer like 18-year-old Shailja Koushik, who got 98.4% in humanities, but also Ankita Sharma who scored 64.8%, having sat for the exams after being discharged from a cancer ward just three days earlier. Also cited was the effort of Bulbul, who has ataxia and only 35% vision yet obtained 81%. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that he had not thought “even in my wildest dream” that such a performance by Delhi government schools was possible. He and Manish Sisodia, his deputy and education minister, had a live video interaction with principals of almost 1,000 schools on Tuesday, promising them a bigger celebration once the Covid restrictions were lifted. “No other state has achieved these results in the last 70 years,” Kejriwal said. “Government school students were once considered incompetent, but today they have proved they are no less intelligent than others and that one’s intelligence cannot be measured by one’s wealth.” He said that earlier, because of the poor condition of government schools, economically disadvantaged parents did not send their children to study. But with the schools improving substantially, such families now wanted to invest time and money in their children’s education. The CM attributed this to the changes made and the priority given to education by the Aam Aadmi Party government. Out of 916 government schools, 897 posted a pass percentage of 90% and above, 396 of them, in fact, recording a 100% pass percentage compared with 203 last year. “It is not only the pass percentage that is improving, but also the marks obtained by the students,” observed Sisodia. “The Quality Index (QI) reflects the performance of our students through comparisons of aggregate marks of the students. The average QI went up to 341.8 this year from 306 last year.” Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Sector 10, Dwarka, recorded the highest average QI of 450.6. Koushik was a student at RPVV, Yamuna Vihar. A resident of Loni and daughter of a traffic assistant in the Indian Railways, Koushik said, “Due to the riots and then the lockdown, I could only sit for two exams in history and political science, in which I scored 97 and 99, respectively. The rest were allotted according to my average marks. I am happy, but would have been happier had I been able to write the other papers and earned the marks entirely through my hard work entirely.” Kiran Sharma, principal of SKV, Chhawla, was elated with her students, Ankita Sharma and Bulbul. “Ankita had a cancer operation on February 19 and was discharged from hospital on February 24 before sitting for the exam on February 27,” the principal said. “Bulbul, despite being a special child with ataxia, 35% vision and low body coordination, obtained 81%.” Congratulating the students, Sisodia reminded the principals to begin work on the formation of a new education board and curriculum for Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/beyond-dreams-kejriwal-on-xii-results/articleshow/76968688.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: IT staffers can get fuel with HR pass, says collector Naval Kishore Ram||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday clarified that IT employees could show their company permission passes on HR letterheads to not only commute to work but also to get fuel at petrol pumps during the 10-day total lockdown. Ram’s clarification came after petrol pumps decided on Tuesday not to dispense fuel to IT employees even if they showed the letters from their human resources (HR) departments. Sources said petrol pumps were refusing fuel to such employees since the orders issued by the administration about IT employees travelling with company passes did not mention about these passes being good enough to get fuel. Speaking to TOI, Ram said, “Fuel should be given to the employees who have such travel passes on the company letterhead. Employees travelling to and from work will require fuel for commute and petrol pumps cannot deny it to them.” He said, “Fuel will be given to such employees after they show the passes and identity cards issued by the companies at the petrol pumps. The district administration will take action against those pumps which do otherwise. Separate orders will be issued to the pumps in this regard.” The civic body had on Monday stated that the HR departments of industries and IT offices operating during the 10-day total lockdown should issue passes to the employees for travelling to and from their workplaces. It had stated that the travel passes should be issued on the company letterhead, and the permission letter be forwarded to the police officers concerned. A source form the Pune Petrol Dealers Association told TOI, “The lockdown guidelines have been clear about providing fuel to only essential services. The local government orders stated that employees from industries and IT firms are allowed to move with the passes issued by their companies on the HR letterhead. But they did not specifically say they are also to be given fuel. As a result, there was confusion among dealers about whether or not to give such employees fuel.” Another petrol dealer said, “We did not dispense fuel to the IT employees with the company pass on Tuesday for want of an official order from the authorities. The earlier orders had stated that fuel could be given only to those engaged in essential services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/it-staffers-can-get-fuel-with-hr-pass-collector/articleshow/76968673.cms||Neha Madaan
July 15, 2020||Kanpur||Arrested aide leads cops to AK-47 in Dubey’s den||Kanpur: Special Operations Group of UP Police on Tuesday seized two weapons — an AK-47 and an INSAS rifle — that were allegedly snatched from a police team in Bikru village of Kanpur during the midnight ambush that left eight policemen dead. The pre-dawn raid and seizure of looted firearms followed the arrest of Dubey aide, Sashikant Pandey alias Sonu from his hideout in Mela Tiraha area in Chaubeypur town. While the INSAS rifle was recovered from Pandey’s ancestral house in Bikru village, the AK-47 was found in the now demolished palatial house of slain gangster Dubey. Seventeen cartridges of AK-47 and 20 of the INSAS rifle were also recovered, ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar told reporters. After his arrest at 2:50am on Tuesday, Pandey led the police team to the hidden weapons dump in the rubble of Dubey’s house in Bikru village.ADG, Prashant Kumar said, the accused, Sonu, confessed to his crime and provided names of those who participated in the July 3 bloodbath, which included gangster Vikas Dubey and his lieutenants, Amar Dubey, Atul Dubey, Prem Kumar, Prabhat Mishra, Bauwan, Heeru, Shivam, Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramesh Chandra, Gopal Saini, Akhilesh Mishra, Vipul, Shyamu Bajpai, Rajendra Mishra, Bal Govind and Daya Shankar,” he said. Police will lodge a separate case against Pandey. “Dubey ordered his gang to hide the looted arms and ammunition at his residence at Bikru village after the ambush. While four of 21 accused have been arrested, six accused, including Vikas Dubey, have been shot in separate encounters. We are now looking for 11 on-the-run accused,” Kumar said. Chaubeypur station in-charge Vinay Tiwari and beat in charge K K Sharma have also been arrested for fleeing the encounter site and endangering lives of policemen. “Autopsy report reveals sharp-edged weapons and guns were used to kill 8 policemen, who were shot from point-blank range. DSP Devendra Mishra took four bullets in his chest,” the police officer said. On Saturday, district police reached gangster’s home turf Bikru and fell back on the age-old system of munadis (drummers), asking villagers to help police recovered looted firearms. The state government has constituted a one-member commission to investigate the encounter of gangster, Vikas Dubey. The commission headquartered in Kanpur will submit its report within two months. A special investigation team (SIT) formed earlier is also probing into the angle of alleged connivance of local police with Dubey. Additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy is heading the SIT, with additional DG Hari Ram Sharma and DIG Ravinder Goud as membersADG, Prashant Kumar said, the accused, Sonu, confessed to his crime and provided names of those who participated in the July 3 bloodbath, which included gangster Vikas Dubey and his lieutenants, Amar Dubey, Atul Dubey, Prem Kumar, Prabhat Mishra, Bauwan, Heeru, Shivam, Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramesh Chandra, Gopal Saini, Akhilesh Mishra, Vipul, Shyamu Bajpai, Rajendra Mishra, Bal Govind and Daya Shankar,” he said. Police will lodge a separate case against Pandey. “Dubey ordered his gang to hide the looted arms and ammunition at his residence at Bikru village after the ambush. While four of 21 accused have been arrested, six accused, including Vikas Dubey, have been shot in separate encounters. We are now looking for 11 on-the-run accused,” Kumar said. Chaubeypur station in-charge Vinay Tiwari and beat in charge K K Sharma have also been arrested for fleeing the encounter site and endangering lives of policemen. “Autopsy report reveals sharp-edged weapons and guns were used to kill 8 policemen, who were shot from point-blank range. DSP Devendra Mishra took four bullets in his chest,” the police officer said. On Saturday, district police reached gangster’s home turf Bikru and fell back on the age-old system of munadis (drummers), asking villagers to help police recovered looted firearms. The state government has constituted a one-member commission to investigate the encounter of gangster, Vikas Dubey. The commission headquartered in Kanpur will submit its report within two months. A special investigation team (SIT) formed earlier is also probing into the angle of alleged connivance of local police with Dubey. Additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy is heading the SIT, with additional DG Hari Ram Sharma and DIG Ravinder Goud as members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/arrested-aide-leads-cops-to-ak-47-in-dubeys-den/articleshow/76966886.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 15, 2020||Goa||Two new ferries to be launched by month-end||Panaji: The river navigation department (RND) is set to launch two new ferry boats by the end of July, which were under construction for past few months and are expected to be delivered to the department soon.  These vessels are a part of the Mandovi series, the first of which was launched during the lockdown, in May by chief minister Pramod Sawant at the Panaji jetty. “The two ferries will be launched together and will have dimensions similar to the previous one,” captain of ports, James Braganza said. Built by Aquarius Shipyard Pvt Ltd, , the vessels costing Rs 1.89 crore are being added to the RND fleet. These ferry boats are of a single-screw with 100 horse power (HP) engine with a mechanical gear box of 4:1 ratio. The vessels are designed to sail at the speed of seven knots and carry six cars or 150 passengers at a time. “The ferries are not being built for a specific route. They will be put on ferry routes as and when the requirement arises. The old ones will be sent for repairs and maintenance,” Braganza said. Much like the operations of the current ferry services, the ferry crew will ensure social distancing is maintained aboard the vessel. Only limited number of passengers will be permitted during each commute, Braganza added. Next year, the RND will commission construction of two more ferry boats to operate on the Ribandar – Chorao route. The department has already completed the beautification of the Chorao and Madkai ferry ramp through the PWD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-new-ferries-to-be-launched-by-month-end/articleshow/76968699.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Surat||Textile market limits nCov spread||Surat: While it may be a daunting task for the health officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to carry out inspection and penalise those not wearing face masks or maintaining social distancing in more than 165 textile markets on Ring Road, one textile market has set an example for others to follow. The Japan Textile Market, housing about 800 shops, on Ring Road has set its own guidelines to contain the spread of coronavirus. The market management have appointed security guards for penalising those not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing with Rs 200 fine. The funds collected will be donated for the treatment of the Covid-19 patients. That’s not all. Those entering into the market from the main gate must compulsorily consume ayurvedic kadha. Also, those delivering the bills, invoices etc. must drop them in the bucket kept outside the textile shops and that they are collected by the traders on the next day.President of Japan Textile Market, Lalit Sharma told TOI, “We have gone few steps ahead from the guidelines issued by the SMC to contain the spread of coronavirus in our market. Till now, we have collected Rs 3,000 in penalty from the traders and outsiders visiting the market. The entire fund will be donated to the Covid care centre.”According to Sharma, on the first day, many traders opposed the penalty and argued that if the mask costs Rs 5 and then why is the fine Rs 200. To this, Sharma stated that Rs 195 is for the safety of all the people present in the market. Since July 10, none of the SMC officials has had to visit the market to collect fines. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “If all textile markets start doing the same thing, it would reduce burden on our already stressed staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-market-limits-ncov-spread/articleshow/76966893.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Unhappy with challan? Check traffic cops’ site for speed limit||NEW DELHI: The traffic police has posted speed limits for all roads in the city on its website to avoid confusion after many drivers claimed to have got automated challans through cameras despite driving within speed restrictions. In most of the complaints received by the traffic police, commuters also claimed that either they did not notice the speed limit or found different limits on separate boards erected by the public works department. For example, on Barapullah Elevated Road, two different speed limits are set on the INA and Sarai Kale Khan sides. Speed limits on a stretch are adjusted based on the traffic volume or movement pattern in the area, a police officer clarified. Various other factors, such as congestion, number of accidents and vehicle types, are also kept in mind while fixing the limits. That’s why speed limits keep changing after every three-four years, the officer added. However, while new boards are put up mentioning adjusted speed limits, old ones are often not removed, triggering confusion, said a source. “We have uploaded the speed chart on the website because of this confusion and urge people to go through it before stepping out on the road. There are around 238 cameras installed at 100 spots and 34 junctions across the city. These are calibrated according to these speed limits,” said an officer. According to the chart, the speed limit for any road between Outer Ring Road and Ring Road is fixed at 50kmph, while Barapullah Elevated Road and Salimgarh Bypass have a speed limit of 70kmph. For Noida Link Road between the Akshardham flyover and NH-24, the limit is 60kmph. While all residential areas have a speed limit of 30kmph, commercial vehicles have to adhere to a standard speed limit of 40kmph on all roads. The chart will help car owners check the limit before raising a wrong challan complaint, the officer said. The traffic police has issued almost 250 speed challans a day since the lockdown has been eased. Most of the violators were prosecuted multiple times for crossing the speed limits on different stretches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unhappy-with-challan-check-traffic-cops-site-for-speed-limit/articleshow/76968690.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
July 15, 2020||Kochi||‘Oil tanker with Indian crew missing’||KOCHI: An oil tanker with an Indian captain and a 21-member Indian crew has been missing from the UAE for the past one week, said an NGO named Human Rights at Sea. The vessel, MV Gulf Sky, is allegedly owned by a person facing US action for aiding Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-Quds Force (IRGC-QF), which is designated as a foreign terrorist organization by the US government. In an email to TOI, CEO of Human Rights at Sea David Hammond said the location of the vessel is unknown for the past eight days and that his organization is concerned about the health, safety, and well-being of the crew and its captain Joginder Singh. The NGO had been tracking the case since May 27, when the master of the vessel, which bears the flag of Commonwealth of Dominica, contacted it while anchored off Port Khor Fakkan Anch, UAE. It was reported to the NGO that the crew has inadequate supplies on board, including food, fresh water, fuel, medical supplies, and personal protection equipment.The condition of the crew worsened after a dispute arose between the present and previous owners of the vessel, the NGO said. Missing of the vessel was notified to the NGO by UAE authorities on Monday. The vessel was ordered to be arrested under a UAE Admiralty Law injunction and a prohibition to sail notice was issued via the Commonwealth of Dominica. A press note issued by Human Rights at Sea on Tuesday said Commonwealth of Dominica Office of Maritime Affairs and marine personnel conducted a probe on the vessel’s operator United Island Maritime Ventures Pvt Ltd and the beneficial owner Taif Mining Services LLC as part of reflagging from the Liberian Register of Ships. “It was discovered during the provisional registration period that the vessel was in fact tied to Amir Dianat, who is also known as Ameer Abdulazeez Jaafar Almthaje,” the press note said. Amir has been named by the US treasury department as a sanctioned individual for his alleged association with IRGC-QF’s efforts to generate revenue and smuggle weapons abroad. Along with the action taken by Office of Foreign Asset Control of the US government, the US Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia has filed criminal charges against Amir and one of his business associates for violations of sanctions and money laundering laws. Civil forfeiture action alleging that around $12 million is subject to forfeiture as funds involved in these crimes and assets of foreign terrorist organization is also pending, the press note by the NGO explained. The operator of the vessel United Island Maritime Ventures Pvt Ltd is an Indian company registered in March 2016. Its directors Mohammed Afsar Mohammed Aziz and Shakeel Ahmed Shaikh are also the directors of Seven Seas Navigation (India) Pvt Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/oil-tanker-with-indian-crew-missing/articleshow/76967980.cms||Mahir Haneef
July 15, 2020||Surat||Two dozen textile markets shut voluntarily till July 20||Surat: Nearly 35,000 shops located in two dozen textile markets have decided to observe a voluntary lockdown till July 20 considering the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases across the city as well as the textile industry. These markets are located on the Ring Road, Moti Begumwadi and Sahara Darwaja and they will review the situation on July 20 to decide the future course. The decision comes at a time when new hotspots are emerging in the city and an average of 200 Covid-19 cases and about 10 deaths being reported daily. The textile markets including JJ A/C market, NTM, Hira Panna market, Millennium, Surat Textile Market (STM), Ashoka Market, Hariom Market, Sai Ashish Textile Market, Raghukul Textile Market and others have decided on self-imposed closure starting July 15 to July 20. Krishnan Banka, president of JJ A/c Market on Ring Road told TOI: “We don’t want to risk the lives of our members and increase the spread of the disease in the market” On Tuesday, there was a series of meetings in other three dozen-odd markets over voluntary lockdown and the decision will be taken on Wednesday. Rangnath Sarda, president of Ashoka Textile Market said, “We are already under financial stress since there is no business after the lockdown and the outbreak. Looking at the safety of our traders and workers, we have decided to keep the market shut till July 20.” Few days ago, the Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) had appealed to the textile markets for voluntary closure due to the worsening Covid situation. FOSTTA secretary, Champalal Bothra said, “We welcome the decision taken by the markets to remain shut till July 20. Traders are sitting idle in the market as there is no business. It is better they keep the shops shut and stay at home to protect themselves and their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-dozen-textile-markets-shut-voluntarily-till-july-20/articleshow/76966914.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC to government: Don’t leave everything to doctors, Gandhi must conduct tests||HYDERABAD: Driving home the message that state government should not rely heavily on doctors in implementing its Covid-19 strategy, the Telangana high court on Tuesday pulled up Director of Medical Education (DME) Dr Ramesh Reddy for his stand that they will not conduct Covid-19 tests at Gandhi Hospital, but would admit positive patients for treatment. Directing advocate general BS Prasad to convey the message to the government, a bench, comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, said that Gandhi Hospital has to test and treat people and it cannot throw away patients who knock its doors in distress. “There is no point in asking the critical patients to run from pillar to post in the last minute. You are the nodal hospital for Covid-19 and you have the state-of-the-art facilities to test and treat. You have to do it simultaneously,” the bench said, while hearing PILs filed by R Vatsan and Siva Ganesh Karnati, who wanted the state to do tests at Gandhi Hospital and be transparent about availability of facilities. Petitioner’s counsel Vasudha Nagaraj told the court that the stand was resulting in deaths of patients right in front of Gandhi Hospital. However, DME Ramesh Reddy insisted that they would admit only those patients who come to them with a Covid-19 positive certificate. Initially, he contended that they do not have adequate testing facilities. Public health director Dr G Srinivas Rao told the bench that 1,500 rapid antigen testing kits were supplied to Gandhi Hospital on Monday night. The CJ asked AG to get a response from government by July 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-govt-dont-leave-everything-to-docs-gandhi-must-conduct-tests/articleshow/76968697.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 15, 2020||Kochi||Disabled, woman-friendly bus shelter comes up at Kaloor||KOCHI: A new bus shelter has come up at Kaloor taking into account the needs of women and disabled people. The 176 sqft newly-constructed woman-friendly bus shelter even has an exclusive feeding room, which supports the need of nursing mothers. The well-lit room has comfortable sofas and a television set. A picture by noted artist Ratish Ravi adorns the wall of the room. The waiting area for commuters is located at the entrance. Ramps are provided for the movement of disabled people. A toilet block has also been constructed adjacent to the waiting area. Tiles have been put to beautify the exterior regions of the bus shelter. "Kaloor bus station is one of the major transit points in the city. The need for a safe resting place for women commuters has been a long-pending demand. An amount of Rs 25 lakh was provided for this project during the last phase of my tenure as Ernakulam MLA," said Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden. The launch of Kochi Metro redefined the concept of public transportation in the city. It has also changed the perception on amenities that need to be provided to customers. The Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) set new standards when it came to maintenance of metro premises as well as public spaces. “If passengers are given better amenities, they will naturally patronise public transport. Though several initiatives in this regard were taken in the past, in the long run they did not turn out to be a success. The main reason for failures has always been lack of proper maintenance,” said an official with KSRTC adding that an agency should be given the responsibility of maintaining the new bus shelter at Kaloor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/disabled-woman-friendly-bus-shelter-comes-up-at-kaloor/articleshow/76967960.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Varanasi||Bank deposits, valuables of gangsters seized in Jaunpur||Varanasi: In the ongoing drive against gangsters in Varanasi zone, the police in Jaunpur district confiscated the bank deposits, vehicles and other properties of hooch manufacturers, suppliers, people engaged in cattle smuggling and gambling worth over Rs 4.50 crores on Wednesday. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said the Jaunpur cops initiated major action of confiscation against the gangs involved in hooch manufacturing as bank deposits and other articles of Rs 4.31 crores had been confiscated by targeting the members of only one gang of hooch manufacturers. Besides, the people booked under Gangster Act for generating wealth by indulging in cattle smuggling also remained on the target, he said. Providing details of the action initiated in the district on Wednesday, SP Jaunpur Ashok Kumar said, “A gang of hooch manufacturers had been busted recently by Singramau cops by arresting Dhananjay Yadav, Manoj Yadav, Ankit Upadhyaya, Pankaj Singh, Dinesh Yadav and their kingpin Prateek Singh. They had been booked under section 419, 420, 467, 468, 272, 120B of IPC and 60, 63 of Excise Act while they were also booked under 3(1) of UP Gangster Act.” This gang has been involved in hooch manufacturing for long time, he said adding, they used to supply the hooch even to licenced shops for sale and had generated huge wealth in past few years. After collecting details of their bank deposits and other properties, the cops seized over Rs 4crores from five bank accounts of Prateek only, he said adding, apart from it SUVs of Dhananjay, Manish and Ankit of around of Rs 20 lakhs, Pankaj’s land and bank deposits of around Rs 6 lakhs and Dinesh’s bank deposits were also seized. Kumar further informed, “Another hooch trader Rita Jaiswal, who was also booked under Gangster Act, also faced the action of confiscation of as a pickup van and a motorcycle of over Rs six lakhs were seized.” Cattle smugglers Naushad and Niyaz and a gambler Suresh Sonekar also faced similar action as their vehicles of over Rs 6 lakhs were seized, said Kumar adding, the drive against the gangsters indulged in organised crime and generating increasing their wealth will continue in the district. Before this, action was taken in Varanasi zone especially against the relatives and henchmen of the jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari for past one and half month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bank-deposits-valuables-of-gangsters-seized-in-jaunpur/articleshow/76987574.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Radio collars to study causes behind human-tiger conflict in Sunderbans||Kolkata: More than three years after a young tigress was radio-collared in the South 24 Parganas Forest Division, known as the buffer zone of the Sunderbans, two more tigers — most likely from the same zone — will be fitted with the gadgets soon. While earlier data from seven radio-collared big cats was used to decode home range and territory, foresters now want to ascertain their movement pattern near the human-dominated landscape. State chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha told TOI that under the project in collaboration with WWF-India’s Sunderbans chapter, they have plans to radio-collar at least six tigers. “In the initial phase, we will start with two tigers,” he said. Landscape coordinator of WWF-India’s Sunderbans chapter Ratul Saha said they have already placed order for two collars. “The idea is to gauge the extent of negative interactions between tigers and humans and the casual factors for these kind of interactions,” Saha said, adding that it will help the department formulate holistic strategies to minimise human-tiger negative interaction. On the collars, Saha said they will be light-weight (about a kg) satellite collars with an automatic dropoff mechanism that will help field workers take out the gadget from the big cat through remote control. Recently, the collar on a tiger in Maharashtra that was tracked through VHF radio telemetry was removed through remote control after its battery drained out. Asked about the areas where the tigers will be radio-collared, a source said while one may be collared in the South 24 Parganas division, the other likely in the Basirhat range — both under buffer zone of the Sunderbans. “In such cases, we first try to collar a tiger that has strayed into a village. Otherwise, we try to venture into the sanctuary area to collar a tiger. But in no way, can we collar a tiger inside the national park,” added Sinha. So far in 2020, 11 persons have been killed by tigers in the Sunderbans after they ventured into the woods to catch crabs. Last year, the figure was 13. While these are official figures, the actual number may be higher. The department, along with WWF-India, is also taking other steps to mitigate man-animal conflicts in the delta. “Nearly 520 ponds have been selected through joint forest management committees where WWF will release fish fingerlings. The idea is to ensure that villagers do not venture into the forests to collect crabs. Once the fingerlings are released, the villagers can do fishing activities in these ponds,” said Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/radio-collars-to-study-causes-behind-human-tiger-conflict-in-sunderbans/articleshow/76969170.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Surat||Two dozen textile markets shut voluntarily till July 20||Surat: Nearly 35,000 shops located in two dozen textile markets have decided to observe a voluntary lockdown till July 20 considering the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases across the city as well as the textile industry. These markets are located on the Ring Road, Moti Begumwadi and Sahara Darwaja and they will review the situation on July 20 to decide the future course. The decision comes at a time when new hotspots are emerging in the city and an average of 200 Covid-19 cases and about 10 deaths being reported daily. The textile markets including JJ A/C market, NTM, Hira Panna market, Millennium, Surat Textile Market (STM), Ashoka Market, Hariom Market, Sai Ashish Textile Market, Raghukul Textile Market and others have decided on self-imposed closure starting July 15 to July 20. Krishnan Banka, president of JJ A/c Market on Ring Road told TOI: “We don’t want to risk the lives of our members and increase the spread of the disease in the market” On Tuesday, there was a series of meetings in other three dozen-odd markets over voluntary lockdown and the decision will be taken on Wednesday. Rangnath Sarda, president of Ashoka Textile Market said, “We are already under financial stress since there is no business after the lockdown and the outbreak. Looking at the safety of our traders and workers, we have decided to keep the market shut till July 20.” Few days ago, the Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) had appealed to the textile markets for voluntary closure due to the worsening Covid situation. FOSTTA secretary, Champalal Bothra said, “We welcome the decision taken by the markets to remain shut till July 20. Traders are sitting idle in the market as there is no business. It is better they keep the shops shut and stay at home to protect themselves and their families. CAIT appeals to close shops by 2pm Surat: The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has appealed the traders and merchants in the city to shut their shops by 2pm with the rise in the Covid-19 cases and to contain the spread of the infection. President of CAIT’s Gujarat chapter, Pramod Bhagat stated that Surat has become the coronavirus hotspot of the state and cases are rising day-by-day. For the protection of the traders’ community, CAIT has appealed to shut all the shops in the city by 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-dozen-textile-markets-shut-voluntarily-till-july-20/articleshow/76966943.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||5 Delhi bizmen held for bid to escape quarantine||Dehradun: Police have arrested five Delhi-based businessmen on Tuesday for allegedly trying to escape from the bus in which they were being taken to a government quarantine centre. Dehradun chief medical officer Dr BC Ramola said that a group of seven businessmen had reached the city on the New Delhi-Dehradun Jan Shatabdi Express on Monday night and were being taken to a quarantine centre in a bus along with others when they escaped. “The bus driver told us that they asked him to stop the vehicle for a break and escaped. Hence, we immediately lodged a police complaint, based on which they registered an FIR under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” he added. Health department officials said that 207 passengers had arrived in Dehradun on the Jan Shatabdi Express on Monday around 9.30 pm. While many of them were from the Army who had to be quarantined at their respective facilities, 129 were from non-high load Covid cities. “However, 24 passengers were from high-load cities and had to be immediately shifted to a government facility for the mandatory 7-day quarantine. The accused were also part of that group,” said Ramola. Vasant Vihar police station in-charge Natthilal Uniyal said that the businessmen had arrived in the city for a factory visit when they escaped. He added that it was difficult to track them down as they had switched off their mobile phones. “We finally managed to arrest five of them on Tuesday night. Two of their associates are still on the run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-delhi-bizmen-held-for-bid-to-escape-quarantine/articleshow/76965820.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Quota candidates claim empty general seats, based on merit||AHMEDABAD: In a first, quota candidates have claimed vacant general category seats saying that their merit is higher than candidates of the general category and the vacant seats should hence be allotted to them. As many as 122 candidates of scheduled castes (SC) and socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) filed a petition in the Gujarat high court, asking for consideration of their appointment to 121 vacant seats in the general category and an equal number in the scheduled tribe (ST) category. The recruitment is for the post of assistant clerk in subordinate courts and the HC is the recruiting agency. The HC issued notice to its registry and asked the petitioners to state whether they are ready to give up all quota benefits in the future. The candidates who have approached the HC had earlier obtained benefits of quota such as age limit relaxation etc. Therefore, they have not been considered in the general category according to the law. However, after the written test and interviews, the cut-off for the reserved categories was 61 marks whereas it was 52 marks for general category candidates. Yet, there were not enough general category candidates and 121 seats remained vacant. In the SC category, only five vacancies could be filled. The petitioners are those candidates from SC and SEBC categories who have scored between 52 and 61 marks and they could not secure their positions in the select list of their categories. The petitioner candidates’ advocate, Prakash Jani, based the argument on the fact that the quota candidates here are more meritorious than general category candidates; that seats have remained vacant in other categories and that the relaxations under the quota system were obtained by these candidates only in the initial stages and not in the exams which actually mattered in the preparation of the merit list. Justice A Y Kogje issued notice to the high court’s recruitment registrar and sought a reply by August 11. The court termed these “peculiar circumstances”, that candidates of SC and SEBC categories are now seeking appointment in the open or ST categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/quota-candidates-claim-empty-general-seats-based-on-merit/articleshow/76967984.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||Man gets back lost money after consumer court summons bank||Vadodara: A resident of Waghodiya Road received Rs 39,000 back in his bank account which was siphoned off by fraudsters in February last year.The amount was recently credited back by the State Bank of India after the consumer court here sent a summons to the bank. Jaisinh Mori had received SMS from the bank on February 28 last year when he was out shopping that Rs 39,000 was debited from his bank account. He immediately went to the bank branch where he learnt that the amount was withdrawn from an ATM at Damka in Jharkhand. Mori gave an application to the bank that the money was not withdrawn by him and somebody used a fake card to withdraw the cash. He also gave a complaint to local police informing about the fraud.But when no action was taken by the bank, Mori filed a case at Vadodara district consumer disputes redressal forum through Jagrut Nagrik, a voluntary consumer association. “As per the RBI rules, if the bank and police are informed within 24 hours of fraud, the bank has to reverse the transaction. But in this case the bank did not do anything, so a case was filed in the consumer court,” said P V Moorjani, managing trustee of Jagrut Nagrik.“Though the banks has credited the money, we will continue the case in court to get compensation for mental harassment,” Moorjani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-gets-back-lost-money-after-consumer-court-summons-bank/articleshow/76966266.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||School owners meet collector over FIR threat by edu officer Vanjari||NAGPUR: After Nagpur district education officer (primary) Chintaman Vanjari threatened schools with FIR, local school promoters met district collector Ravindra Thakare on Monday to express their displeasure. The Unaided Schools’ Welfare Association Nagpur (USWAN), which has almost all CBSE schools as members, says if such threats from the education department and refusal to pay fees by parents continue then they will have no option to shut down for the 2020-21 session. Thakre has now decided to hold a webinar for all stakeholders to sort out the issue. Last week, the Unaided Schools’ Forum (USF), a Mumbai-based association with members across the state, had complained about Vanjari to the Chief Minister’s Office. An USWAN member, who was present during the meeting with Thakare, said the discussions were ‘fruitful’. The school promoter said, “The collector told us that within a week he will host a webinar with us and other stakeholders to see how the differences can be overcome. He appreciated the concerns we all showed regarding the financial crisis we all find ourselves in.” In the letter which they submitted to Thakare, promoters say it is only due to the current moratorium provided by banks that they are surviving. “We are able to pay salaries of teachers only because of the moratorium. Schools are in debt and struggling to pay the EMIs. Once banks lift the moratorium, it will be impossible to carry on,” said an USWAN member. Vanjari’s misadventure with choice of words in getting principals to fall in line has united schools from different associations. USF’s honorary secretary Subhash Chandra Kedia said the education officer’s argument of state’s June 15 circular is faulty. “It’s not mandatory. Education officer Vanjari is misinterpreting the advisory and trying to implement it as if it’s a government resolution (GR),” said Kedia. Vanjari warned schools to desist from holding online classes till Std II as per the June 15 guidelines. However, even the Bombay High Court on Monday asked the state government not to take any coercive steps against schools which are conducting online classes for students up to Std II, if they are willing to avail such teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-owners-meet-collector-over-fir-threat-by-edu-officer-vanjari/articleshow/76968714.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Draft ESIC hospitals for Covid-19 fight: HC||HYDERABAD: The high court on Tuesday directed the state to draft into Covid-19 service two hospitals being run by Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) in the city. The government on Tuesday contended that the two ESIC hospitals have no beds with oxygen and ventilator support. It also contended that it has no control over them as they belong to a central corporation. Counsel Vasudha Nagaraj urged the court to direct the authorities to use these facilities for Covid-19 treatment as they have large number of beds. However, ESIC counsel BG Ravinder Reddy rushed to the court room along with ESIC Hospital, Sanathnagar, superintendent Dr KK Paul and informed the court that they have hundreds of beds with oxygen facilities. He also told the court: “The Sanathnagar hospital is being run by Centre. The other ESIC hospital at Nacharam is run by state itself. State’s labour department is running it.” The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy directed the state to rope in both ESIC hospitals in the fight against Covid-19. The bench expressed doubts about the authenticity of the figures furnished by the state. The Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli, was shown having less number of oxygen beds, but later the director of medical education corrected the figures and said they have nearly 1,000 beds with oxygen facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/draft-esic-hosps-for-covid-fight-hc/articleshow/76968717.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three pilots of Air India flight from US test positive for Covid||NEW DELHI: Three of the four pilots who operated Air India’s Washington-Delhi (AI 104) nonstop on Monday tested positive for the novel coronavirus on arrival, sparking fresh fears in the cash-strapped airline. As per protocol, these four senior pilots had been rostered to operate Delhi-Washington (AI 103) last Thursday after they tested negative. Being a long haul, the Dreamliner Boeing 787 had two sets of crew for operating it by turns. “They had a layover in Washington for three days and operated the return flight on Sunday morning (local time) that landed here on Monday. They were tested on arrival and found positive. AI has created a facility for crew members who show mild symptoms and do not need to be hospitalised,” said an official. The airline spokesperson confirmed that three of the four pilots of this flight had tested positive. The cabin crew of this flight was not infected. AI has put in place a strict three-tier testing mechanism. First, all crew members need to undergo the test and only those who test negative are assigned to operate flights. On return to India, the crew is again tested and put up in hotels till the result comes. Those found negative are sent home. Then after 120 hours, the crew — which had tested negative— is subjected to another test to ensure they are Covid-free. “We were facing issues with crew members who were found to be corona positive with mild symptoms and not so sick that they need to be hospitalised. This was especially true for crew members who flew into Delhi and tested positive because of which they couldn’t return to their Noida homes. The airline some time back created a facility for these mild or asymptomatic corona positive cases,” said a senior pilot. Cash-starved AI has been operating the maximum number of Vande Bharat Mission flights. The crew members are, however, upset about uncertainty of pay. “We risk our lives to operate the VBM flights as a ‘national duty’ to bring our compatriots home and many of us have tested positive. Despite that, two months’ flying allowance (which comprises over 70% of their total pay) is yet to be paid to us,” said a senior crew member. The Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) had recently warned the government that they were reaching a “breaking point” because of unpaid salaries and that only “lip service” was being done while hailing AI employees as corona warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-pilots-of-air-india-flight-from-us-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/76968725.cms||Saurabh Sinha
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University cutoff tricky affair this year||NEW DELHI: Three different factors make Delhi University’s probable admission cutoff marks a guessing game this year. One is the significant increase in the number of high scorers among Class XII students, the second is the delay in entrance tests for professional courses and the third is the fewer applications for admission to the university. The 67% jump in the number of candidates who scored 90% and above in the Class XII exams and a similarly significant rise in the number of those who obtained 95% and above indicate that the trend of a very small increase in the qualification bar may not hold this year, though the applications decreasing by nearly 1.5 lakh might prove a relief to aspirants. The trend in the last four years has been an increase in the benchmark whenever there are more applicants who have scored 90% or above. In 2016 when the number students logging 90% and above was 63,387, the cutoff for BCom(H) was in the range of 88-97.25%. Similarly, the qualifying bar for physics(H) was 87-95% in popular colleges that year. In 2019, with the number of those obtaining 90% and above numbering 94,299, the qualifying range rose to 92-98.33%. This year 1,57,934 students have breached that benchmark. So, what can be expected this year? “The increase in cutoff will be slightly higher, around 1-2% more than last year,” surmised SGTB Khalsa College principal Jaswinder Singh, who also heads the DU College Principals’ Association. Singh explained, “For the last two years there was stabilisation due to moderation by the exam boards. But this year, the number of high scorers has risen substantially, especially in commerce, science and in economics. State boards will also look at what CBSE has done and will issue similar results.” Another reason why colleges may look at keeping the cutoffs high is because of the uncertainty about the Covid situation. In essence, many students who earlier were exploring foreign colleges may now have to opt for an Indian campus. “Many overseas universities will be delivering their programmes online. So, a lot of Indian students would prefer not to go abroad,” noted Singh. Singh felt that the delay in the entrance tests for engineering, medical and law due to the Covid pandemic would also have an impact on the cutoffs. But what could neutralise, or at least negate, the effect of these factors is the decline in applications this year. DU has extended the registration deadline from July 4 to July 18, and so far around 2.5 lakh students have applied compared with the usual four lakh or so. And yet, things aren’t all cut and dry. As Suman Kumar, member of DU’s Admission Committee conceded, “It’s a tricky situation and it would be premature to make any assumption. Alongside the lower number of applications, one also has to look at the scores of the applicants. After July 18, when all the applications are in, we may get to know how many high scorers have applied. That will determine 2020’s yardstick for the cutoffs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-cutoff-tricky-affair-this-year/articleshow/76968728.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
July 15, 2020||Surat||Yadav says she has not resigned, IO replaced||Surat: The high drama involving woman lok rakshak dal (LRD) constable Sunita Yadav continued on Tuesday after she refused to accept a notice that policemen went to serve at her house regarding her absence from duty since July 9.Police sources said that she refused to accept the notice and entered into verbal altercation with the cops. She was also called for recording her statement at Amroli police station regarding the inquiry into the July 8 incident in Varachhha area when she had stopped state’s junior health minister Kishore alias Kumar Kanani’s son Prakash and his two friends for defying the curfew orders. The videos of the incident and her audio conversations with some fellow cops went viral on July 11 following which Prakash and two others were arrested for defying curfew orders.However, she left before the questioning ended citing health reasons. Yadav told the inquiry officer that she will return after medical check-up. However, till 6pm she had not returned.Meanwhile, the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) who was earlier tasked with the inquiry was changed on Tuesday. The inquiry has now been handed over to J K Pandya, ACP, F-division. Earlier, CK Patel, ACP, A-division, was conducting the probe. The inquiry officer was replaced since Yadav was posted in Varachha that is under supervision of CK Patel and she had made a call recording with Patel viral earlier. She had also made her call recording with police inspector of Varachha BN Sagar viral after the July 8 incident. Over the last few days, Yadav has levelled allegations against her senior officers that they did not support her and forced her to let go people who were violating lockdown or curfew orders. Earlier on Monday night, she held a Facebook live session and claimed that she has a lot more material regarding the July 8 incident which she will release soon. She also clarified that she has not resigned yet but will do so soon. She claimed that her friend had helped her shoot the entire July 8 incident on camera which is helping her prove that she was right in taking on the minister’s son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/yadav-says-she-has-not-resigned-io-replaced/articleshow/76966879.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Surat||School waives fees worth Rs 1.2 crore||Surat/Bharuch: The management of Ankleshwar’s Lions School has announced waiving off term fees of all its 4,500 students for the first semester. This is a staggering Rs1.2 crore worth decision which the school has taken in order to alleviate woes of parents already grappling with financial crisis. Jashubhai Chaudhri, chairman, Lions Club of Ankleshwar Industrial Area Community Trust told TOI, “We took the decision in the interest of a large number of students and their parents. The total waiver will be of around Rs.1.2 crore for a period of June to November. We will, however, take only tuition fees of nominal cost to meet partial expenses of online education.” The school has further decided complete waiver of all fees for 12 students who have lost their earning parent. At present, the trust bears the cost for 60 such students. For other, fees including the semester, sports, computer, exam, and library will not be charged. The trust manages three schools in the region, including primary, secondary, and higher secondary with a combined strength of 4,496 students. Most students are from the industrial belt in and around Ankleshwar. “Despite the Fee Regulation Committee approving fee hike of six percent, we will not impose any rise in our fees for the next three years,” Chaudhri added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/school-waives-fees-worth-rs-1-2-crore/articleshow/76966970.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH gets record applications||HYDERABAD: Unfettered by the pandemic, the University of Hyderabad (UoH) has received a record number of online applications for the 2020-21 academic year, 62,853 compared to 56,000 last year According to an official release issued by UoH, the highest number of applications were from Telangana (28,612) followed by Kerala (7,019), Delhi (5,082), AP (4,250), West Bengal (3,878) and Odisha (3349). Of the applications, about 60% were from students belonging to SC, ST, OBC communities. “The number of foreign students applying has also gone up by more than 20% . The Institution of Eminence tag has certainly helped UoH in brightening its image ,” UoH V-C Prof Appa Rao Podile said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-gets-record-applications/articleshow/76967993.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||BJP corporators support Pravin Datke, rap town planning dept||NAGPUR: Four BJP corporators from Prabhag 29 on Tuesday came out in support of MLC and former mayor Pravin Datke who had been facing criticism for allegedly using foul language against assistant director of town planning department Pramod Gawande over road widening work in New Narsala. They claimed the department was hushing up irregularities in sanctioning maps. Corporators Swati Akhatkar, Bhagwan Mendhe, Vidya Madavi and Leela Hathibed representing the ward said Datke had not used any foul language against Gawande. Akhatkar, who was in a conference call with Datke and Gawande, said the city president had only requested him to visit the site as some irregularity in department’s function had stalled the widening work. “Actually the pen-down strike by NMC officials, especially by town planning department, was a move to hush up massive irregularities,” said standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke. Zalke told reporters the road widening project was very important for the people in Mhalgi Nagar to New Narala and Besa power substation. Former district guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had sanctioned Rs7.50 crore for it. The state’s public works department also started the work but it got stalled some seven months ago. According to Zalke, the road widening was part of city’s Development Plan since 1986. Even during revision of the development plan in 1993, this road was retained. After frequent follow-ups, PWD resumed work. However, suddenly one Ajay Dorlikar cropped up and claimed the road was 12 metre only not 18 metre wide. “According to Dorlikar, NMC’s town planning department had sanctioned his plot in 2004, which he will lose if the road becomes18-metre wide,” he said. Zalke also pointed out before the road works started, the state’s PWD had carried out the survey and no hindrance was found then. “I have also asked the department to cross-check Dorlikar’s claim,” Zalke said. Zalke and Akhatkar claimed the town planning department had committed many such irregularities. They said it had sanctioned construction of a multi-storey building over sewage trunk line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-corporators-support-datke-rap-town-planning-dept/articleshow/76968723.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Teachers, experts divided over Centre’s work from home order||JAIPUR: The state government is finding a way to implement order of ministry of Human Resource and Development (HRD) of allowing school government teachers to work from home. Government Teachers’ Associations across state is supporting the implementation but many experts are apprehensive about it. In the beginning of July, HRD had written to all the chief secretaries of the states to allow government schoolteachers to work from home (WFH) till July 31. Orders were issued because school opening for students has been extended till July 31 as well. Vipin Sharma, vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary School Teachers Association, welcomed the orders of HRD. “This is an important issue because schools have been opened for government teachers from June 24 but it will take another two months for students. Most of the teachers are sitting idle in the schools without any work to do. What is the point in coming to school. It is better to let them work from home,” said Sharma. However, educational experts in the state are apprehensive about the work from home for government teachers. KB Kothari, an education expert, said, “Government teachers need to churn out a plan to make studies available for the students in the rural and urban areas. They need to engage students and social media is not the only medium. Teachers in private schools are finding it difficult to take online classes from home with laptop and internet facilities. Government teachers need to figure out the way so that learning process of students will not be affected, especially in rural areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/teachers-experts-divided-over-centres-wfh-order/articleshow/76975053.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Digging deep: 75% of illegal borewells in two districts||NEW DELHI: Having already overexploited the ground water resources in six of its districts, water-deficient Delhi is now doing the same to its semi-critical districts. A Delhi Jal Board report on identified illegal ground water extraction shows that North West and South West districts together account for 75% of the 19,661 illegal bore-wells uncovered by inspectors. Rohini and Kanjhawala in North West district are top of the list with over 8,299 illegal water points, followed by South West district (6,681) and West district (2,185). In its 2019 report, the Central Ground Water Board declared both NW and SW districts to be in the semi-critical category with groundwater withdrawal far exceeding recharging by rains. Officials said that in parts of Delhi, illegal borewells bridge the 300 million gallons per day demand-supply gap. “We continuously crack down on the tanker mafia,” a DJB official remarked. “Most illegal withdrawal of water is seen in outer Delhi districts.” A new standard operating procedure has been devised to deal with illegal borewells on the orders of National Green Tribunal. While the forecast for Delhi running out of ground water in 2020 hasn't proved true, the city is still overexploiting its precious underground water resource. In a welcome step, DJB has sealed 7,248 of the 19,661 illegal points. “We will close the remaining 12,413 illegal units in two months,” the DJB official assured. Of these 12,413, the two worrisome districts account for 10,104. The capital’s grim water situation can be gauged from the fact that 90% of its expanse is categorised as semi-critical or critical in terms of subsoil water. Last year, CGWB told the Supreme Court that the water table in various parts of Delhi had been decreasing 0.5-2 metres every year and warned of a pending crisis. New Delhi, South, South East, East, North East and Shahdara are critical districts. CGWB’s report, based on groundwater data from 2000 onwards, said water levels at all its 20 monitoring stations in Delhi had been in steady decline, the direst recorded in Chhatarpur and Dwarka. The report said groundwater was accessible at a depth of 0-5 metres in 27% of Delhi in 2000, but in 17 years since, the figure had shrunk to a mere 11%. CGWB also pointed out that in almost 15% of the capital, groundwater now lay at a depth of 40-80 metres. Save for a few pockets in West and Central Delhi, CGWB placed almost all of the capital in the semi-critical or critical zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/digging-deep-75-of-illegal-borewells-in-two-districts/articleshow/76968780.cms||Paras Singh
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Double whammy of riots and lockdown can’t hold her back||NEW DELHI: Nargis Naseem, a Class XII government school student from northeast Delhi, was on her way to the physical education examination on February 24 when the riots broke out near her home in Khajuri Khas.Accompanied by a relative, she returned home safely but her house was burnt down the very next day. With the home, the 17-year-old girl lost all books too. The family moved to a small rented room in the nearby Chandu Nagar, an area where many riot victims took shelter. Though Nargis was too shocked to study, her family managed to get some of her books through donation. But with Covid-19 derailing the rest of the examinations, Nargis, the daughter of a labourer, could finally appear in just two subjects, political science and physical education, before the examinations were postponed in northeast Delhi due to the riots. On Monday, she was jubilant when the website of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) showed that she had scored 62%. Nargis said she wasn’t sure about clearing the examinations, let alone scoring above 60%. At most, Nargis said, she thought of getting just decent marks as she had done well in those two subjects. “It was on the day of my physical education examination that I witnessed the violence while going to the Gokulpuri government school. We could not get any transport while returning and spent hours walking through lanes before reaching home safely after 4pm,” Nargis recalled. Her uncle Salim, who was instrumental in saving the family, said, “She has done well and we are all proud of her. Despite the odds, she has got over 60%. This is a lot for us as we were running for our lives a few months ago.” Nargis, however, rued that in normal circumstances, she would have scored better. “An NGO gave me books and was helping me with studies.” While CBSE has offered re-examination options for cancelled subjects later, Nargis said she was not sure when those exams would take place and “it would be late for me”. Nargis aspires to be a fashion designer and is now getting ready for college admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/double-whammy-of-riots-and-lockdown-cant-hold-her-back/articleshow/76968771.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 15, 2020||Goa||Comunidade to seek govt aid to restore heritage bldg||Panaji: The authorities of the administrator of comunidades, central zone office, have assured to put up a proposal before the government to restore the 400-year-old heritage building in Panaji that houses the offices of the Tiswadi and Ponda comunidades. The decision was taken following an inspection of the dilapidated edifice. TOI had reported on July 7 that the building is in a precarious condition, with the recent spell of heavy rainfall adding more damage to the dilapidated structure. Comunidade leaders from the 69-odd bodies of Tiswadi and Ponda, comprising presidents, attorneys and components had arranged an inspection on Tuesday. Link officer (administrator in-charge), Ulhas Kadam, and other officials from central zone office, which is located on the building’s first floor, were also present. The inspection followed the comunidade leaders’ complaint to the administrator’s office alleging poor maintenance of the centuries-old archival records and the building that has a unique architecture. The archives of the age-old comunidade bodies in both talukas are stored in the administrator’s office, but are facing decay due to negligence. “After the inspection, the authorities said they are seized of the matter, as the leaky roof, broken furniture and other conditions do need attention,” Jose Carmino Joao, treasurer of Morombi O Pequeno comunidade, Merces, said. The authorities also suggested that the comunidade bodies contribute to the restoration. But the componentes pointed out that revenue-earning bodies contribute to the exchequer. “Revenue-earning comunidades drawing a derrama (income) of above 33% have been contributing since the past two decades. They have also being paying income tax to the government, but the archives and building have not been maintained for many years,” Venzy Viegas, a componente and president of Carambolim comunidade, said. Kadam assured the componentes that he would submit their proposal, comprising findings of the inspection, to the government. “We have decided to clean the precincts shortly on our own initiative, as they are extremely shabby,” Joao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/comunidade-to-seek-govt-aid-to-restore-heritage-bldg/articleshow/76968767.cms||Paul Fernandes
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Counterfeit toys worth Rs 2.7 lakh seized||AHMEDABAD: The toys of Disney or Marvel characters that your child plays with could well be rip-offs. Kalupur police on Monday registered cases for copyright violations against two shopkeepers, for allegedly selling unauthorized copies of Disney and Marvel character toys, and seized items worth Rs 2.70 lakh. Amit Rathod, a resident of New Delhi, whose company has rights for vigilance and prevention of imitation from Disney Enterprises Inc and Marvel Characters Inc, on Monday registered complaints against two shopkeepers, Susheel Solanki and Baldev Devasi. In the complaint against Solanki, Rathod states that he learned that duplicate toys of Disney and Marvel characters were being sold. He informed inspector R G Desai of Kalupur police and police raided Solanki’s shop at Tankshal, where they found 31 toys worth Rs 2 lakh to be unauthorized duplicates. Rathod filed a similar complaint against Devasi, and Kalupur police raided in his shop and found 14 toys, worth Rs 70,000, that were apparently unauthorized duplicates. Police booked Solanki and Devasi for violations of the Copyright Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/counterfeit-toys-worth-rs-2-7l-seized/articleshow/76967996.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Teachers, experts divided over Centre’s work from home order||JAIPUR: The state government is finding a way to implement order of ministry of Human Resource and Development (HRD) of allowing school government teachers to work from home. Government Teachers’ Associations across state is supporting the implementation but many experts are apprehensive about it. In the beginning of July, HRD had written to all the chief secretaries of the states to allow government schoolteachers to work from home (WFH) till July 31. Orders were issued because school opening for students has been extended till July 31 as well. Vipin Sharma, vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary School Teachers Association, welcomed the orders of HRD. “This is an important issue because schools have been opened for government teachers from June 24 but it will take another two months for students. Most of the teachers are sitting idle in the schools without any work to do. What is the point in coming to school. It is better to let them work from home,” said Sharma. However, educational experts in the state are apprehensive about the work from home for government teachers. KB Kothari, an education expert, said, “Government teachers need to churn out a plan to make studies available for the students in the rural and urban areas. They need to engage students and social media is not the only medium. Teachers in private schools are finding it difficult to take online classes from home with laptop and internet facilities. Government teachers need to figure out the way so that learning process of students will not be affected, especially in rural areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/teachers-experts-divided-over-centres-wfh-order/articleshow/76975054.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Hotels, eateries wait in queue||CHENNAI: From restaurants shrinking their menus to hotels accommodating offices on their premises, the hospitality sector is pulling out as many rabbits out of the hat as possible to plan for a viable model when it reopens fully in the state. As the battle for the Covid pandemic transitioned from conquering to containing to co-existing, one thing that has remained constant is the lock outside hotels and the missing fanfare outside restaurants. The sector is stuck between a rock and hard place. While hotels are shut, restaurants are operating on start-stop-start mode and fine dining is all but shut. "We are operating at just 15% to 20% of our pre-Covid levels," said ‘Hotbreads’ Mahadevan. For more than 120 days, hotels and restaurants are fully or partly shut. "There is so much nervousness. We believe we are in a long story of pain, which could last another 18 to 24 months," said Anil Chadha, COO of ITC Hotels. Apart from following the safety protocols of sanitisation, distancing and minimal contact, the sector is trying to make the most of the low footfalls that are expected initially. Offering housekeeping services for households and redesigning some hotel places for accommodating offices, revenues are still a trickle and yet to catch the attention. Opening the laundry is an option, but there is a legal hitch as Laundromat comes under Factories Act which requires a different set of compliances. Restaurants, shrinking the menu is a good bet. "We have shrunk our menu by more than 50% so that fewer people are needed to prepare them, and it helps in reducing wastage," said P Suresh, managing director of Sangeetha group of restaurants. Some others are getting aggressive into institutional sales. "We have signed up for some institutional sales, besides focusing on takeaways," Mahadevan said. But with rising cases, it is not without a reason why people are wary of dining out. "Despite our best efforts to maintain hygiene, coronavirus is like a ticking time bomb for which only a vaccine or medicine is the remedy," said Suresh. So how long will this last? For hotels, till the business traveller starts moving freely with flight operations in full swing and for restaurants till families decide to come out. "Both these are not going to happen anytime soon," said T Nataraajan, honorary secretary, Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association. This is bad news as typically for a hotel, occupancy levels of 60% at agreed rates will mean breaking even. "All hotels are shut, other than those which have signed up as quarantine facilities," he said. It means a third of the year went by with zero billing. "Any hotel or restaurant that operated with high levels of debt will shut down and there are many of them here," he said. The only way out is to trim expenses. While senior employees have taken a pay-cut, restaurant chains are negotiating for rental reduction as part of this cost-cutting exercise. Chains are also pushing their own delivery service. "While we are on Swiggy and Zomato, they charge nearly 24%. We have bought a few bikes and are delivering more with our boys and in the process keep the employees engaged," Mahadevan said. Sangeetha too sees much of its deliveries through its own fleet. "Apart from the food apps we have our own channels for food delivery. In some of our branches, we see more than 65% of deliveries through our channels," said Suresh. The struggling economic condition is not a local problem. "We are present in 16 countries, barring our Auckland operations, everywhere else it’s a struggle," said Mahadevan. Some nations have helped the hospitality industry with fiscal support. But the government here is not looking in that direction yet. "If you can’t stand on your feet, it’s your problem. Don’t expect the government to support you," a senior government official said during a FHRA webinar on Monday. Still restaurant owners hope the government will consider some tax waivers to help them tide over this phase till the cash registers begin to ring again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hotels-eateries-wait-in-queue/articleshow/76968000.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Degree admissions likely in August||HYDERABAD: Admission process for degree courses in the state is likely to commence in August as the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) is in the process of aligning the admission schedule with the common entrance tests (CETs). On July 1, the convenor of degree online services Telangana (DOST) had postponed phase 1 admission by 15 days due to the pandemic. The TSCHE was set to issue a revised schedule for degree admissions but it is yet to take a decision on the same. “We are waiting for the CETs schedule , based on which we will issue notification for the degree admissions. Most likely, the admission process will commence in August,” said Prof R Limbadri, convenor, DOST. According to sources, the TSCHE is planning to conduct the CETs by August-end. Officials are contemplating following UGC guidelines on the academic calendar. “As per the UGC guidelines, classes for academic year 2020-21 can commence by October 1. However, we are not keen on extending the admission process for so long. By and large, we will follow the UGC guidelines but intend to complete the admission process sooner,” said Limbadri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/degree-admissions-likely-in-aug/articleshow/76967998.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 15, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Teachers, experts divided over Centre’s work from home order||JAIPUR: The state government is finding a way to implement order of ministry of Human Resource and Development (HRD) of allowing school government teachers to work from home. Government Teachers’ Associations across state is supporting the implementation but many experts are apprehensive about it. In the beginning of July, HRD had written to all the chief secretaries of the states to allow government schoolteachers to work from home (WFH) till July 31. Orders were issued because school opening for students has been extended till July 31 as well. Vipin Sharma, vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary School Teachers Association, welcomed the orders of HRD. “This is an important issue because schools have been opened for government teachers from June 24 but it will take another two months for students. Most of the teachers are sitting idle in the schools without any work to do. What is the point in coming to school. It is better to let them work from home,” said Sharma. However, educational experts in the state are apprehensive about the work from home for government teachers. KB Kothari, an education expert, said, “Government teachers need to churn out a plan to make studies available for the students in the rural and urban areas. They need to engage students and social media is not the only medium. Teachers in private schools are finding it difficult to take online classes from home with laptop and internet facilities. Government teachers need to figure out the way so that learning process of students will not be affected, especially in rural areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/teachers-experts-divided-over-centres-wfh-order/articleshow/76975055.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Teachers, experts divided over Centre’s work from home order||JAIPUR: The state government is finding a way to implement order of ministry of Human Resource and Development (HRD) of allowing school government teachers to work from home. Government Teachers’ Associations across state is supporting the implementation but many experts are apprehensive about it. In the beginning of July, HRD had written to all the chief secretaries of the states to allow government schoolteachers to work from home (WFH) till July 31. Orders were issued because school opening for students has been extended till July 31 as well. Vipin Sharma, vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary School Teachers Association, welcomed the orders of HRD. “This is an important issue because schools have been opened for government teachers from June 24 but it will take another two months for students. Most of the teachers are sitting idle in the schools without any work to do. What is the point in coming to school. It is better to let them work from home,” said Sharma. However, educational experts in the state are apprehensive about the work from home for government teachers. KB Kothari, an education expert, said, “Government teachers need to churn out a plan to make studies available for the students in the rural and urban areas. They need to engage students and social media is not the only medium. Teachers in private schools are finding it difficult to take online classes from home with laptop and internet facilities. Government teachers need to figure out the way so that learning process of students will not be affected, especially in rural areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teachers-experts-divided-over-centres-wfh-order/articleshow/76968731.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Ashish Bhatia next DGP?||GANDHINAGAR: There is a strong buzz in the power circles of Gujarat that Ashish Bhatia, presently Ahmedabad police commissioner, is the frontrunner to be the next director general of police (DGP) of Gujarat. The buzz is fuelled by reports that the state government has sent a list of names of IPS officers of DGP-rank to the central government and UPSC to vet the next state police chief. The move comes as current DGP Shivanand Jha’s three-month extension ends on July 31. Reliable sources in the government said, “We have sent names of DGP-rank officials in the state to the government of India for consideration. After the government of India clears the names on the panel, the state government can appoint the most suitable officer for the top post according to the present rules.” Officers in the fray for the top post include Rakesh Asthana of the 1984 batch who is the senior-most officer. He is presently on central deputation as director general, civil aviation security (BCAS), New Delhi. Two other contenders are Ashish Bhatia (1985 batch) who serves as police commissioner, Ahmedabad and T S Bisht (1985 batch) posted as DGP, civil defence and commandant, Home Guard. The name of ex-Ahmedabad police commissioner A K Singh (1985 batch), who is also on central deputation and is director general, National Security Guard (NSG), New Delhi, was doing rounds but top sources say he will not be a preferred pick as he has less than two months to retire in September. Key sources in the home department said Ashish Bhatia is most likely to be elevated to the top post. “Ahmedabad police commissioner Ashish Bhatia’s elevation as the next DGP is most likely as he is a low-profile officer in the good books of the political bosses for the high-profile cases he has cracked over the years. His image is that of a non-controversial officer who delivers,” said a key source. Bhatia spearheaded the 2008 serial blasts probe which uncovered the Indian Mujahideen module involved in multiple blasts across India. Earlier the same year, he was among the three IPS officers – the other two being Shivanand Jha and Geetha Johri – appointed by the Supreme Court to investigate nine cases of the 2002 riots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ashish-bhatia-next-dgp/articleshow/76968017.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid spike due to TRS government’s failure: Congress||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Tuesday said the spike in Covid-19 cases is purely due to the failure of the TRS government to effectively handle the situation as it did not follow the ‘trace, test and treat’ norm of the World Health Organisation (WHO). “It was unfortunate that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao went missing from action for 13 days at the peak of Covid-19 pandemic. So far, the chief minister has not given an explanation as to why he went missing from the scene especially after giving an indication that another lockdown may be imposed to control spread of Covid-19,” Uttam, who is also Nalgonda MP, said. Addressing party cadre through a social media platform on Tuesday, Uttam and CLP leader Bhatti Vikaramarka said TPCC Covid-19 Task Force, headed by Marri Shashidhar Reddy, has decided to launch the ‘Speak Up Telangana’, an online social media campaign, from 10am to 5pm on Saturday to voice the concerns of the people. He demanded the state government to include Covid-19 treatment in Aarogyasri scheme, pay Rs 50 lakh ex gratia to frontline warriors who fall prey to Covid-19 and Rs 10 lakh ex gratia to kin of victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-spike-due-to-trs-govts-failure-congress/articleshow/76968015.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Rajkot||With 262 cases in 14 days, Rajkot city feels Covid sting||RAJKOT: With 450 positive cases added in 14 days, coronavirus has assumed pandemic proportions in Rajkot, commercial capital of Saurashtra, in July. The Covid situation has worsened even in Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and Junagadh city too.Looking at the grim picture, principal secretary of health and family welfare department, Jayanthi Ravi has rushed to Saurashtra. In Rajkot city, Covid-19 cases in the first two months of lockdown were limited to Jangleshwar area mainly a few sparsely distributed in other areas. Cases then were mainly from persons with foreign travel history. However, after unlock 1.0, when the district borders opened for migrants from June 1, virus is seen mostly in community spread. City has reported 175 positive cases till July 1, while 262 cases were added in the last 14 days alone. Again, positive cases are now not limited to any specific area but has spread acrosss the city including areas like Kalavad Road, Sant Kabir Road, 150 Feet Ring Road, Mavdi and other areas. Taking stock of the emergent crisis and medical facilities in Jamnagar and Rajkot in the past two days, Ravi advised doctors to maximize use of plasma therapy to treat critically-ill Covid patients. Talking to media persons, Ravi said, “We are encouraging communities to open up their halls and other facilities as Covid care centres. Asymptomatic patients, who do not wish to get admitted into hospital, can take treatment there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/with-262-cases-in-14-days-rajkot-city-feels-ncov-sting/articleshow/76967016.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bail denied over teen’s custodial death||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday dismissed the bail pleas of three staffers of the Mehsana zonal observation home who are accused of murdering a juvenile in their custody. The accused are Vishnu Prajapati, the warden; and Akshay Chaudhary and Kanubhai Chaudhary, the staffers of the zonal observation home-cum-place of safety. They were arrested after an 18-year-old inmate from the Naroda area of Ahmedabad died in February. The postmortem report revealed that he had died of shock and haemorrhage as a result of multiple injuries. When the teenager’s family saw his body in hospital, they raised concerns over possible torture. The investigation revealed that the three accused had beaten him with sticks. The assault was apparently punishment for the teenager for escaping from the home some days earlier. The teenager was first taken to the facility on December 10, 2019, on an order passed by a sessions judge in Ahmedabad. He escaped the home on February 3, but Naroda police caught him on February 12 and sent him to the home again. He was allegedly tortured in the night and hospitalized the next day. After the teenager’s death, the trio was booked on murder charges. A judicial inquiry was also ordered because it was custodial death. Police have filed a chargesheet against the accused. The accused claimed innocence, but the prosecutor pointed to the order passed by a sessions court in Mehsana on their bail applications. The sessions court had observed that the accused had been entrusted with the responsibility of protecting and taking care of the juvenile who had come into conflict with law. Instead, the court had said, they had tortured him to death. Following this, the accused persons’ advocate did not press for bail and Justice Paresh Upadhyay dismissed the pleas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-denied-over-teens-custodial-death/articleshow/76968033.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Seven companies submit bids for Parliament Building plan||NEW DELHI: Seven companies, including four construction majors — L&T, Sapoorji Pallonji, NCC and Tata Projects — have submitted their bids for pre-qualification of firms that can participate in the bidding for the New Parliament Building project. Interestingly, Uttar Pradesh Rajakiya Nirman Nigam, an entity of the UP government has also bid for pre-qualification of contractors. Ahmedabad-based PSP Projects, which has completed Gujarat Vidhan Sabha, CEPT University and a few projects in Gift City, is also in the fray. “The bids will be checked and then the companies which qualify will be allowed to participate in the tendering process of the project. Only those qualified will be allowed to take part. The qualified bidder quoting the lowest amount will get the work,” said a senior government official. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) under the urban affairs ministry is executing the prestigious project, which is part of the Central Vista Redevelopment Plan. On July 3, TOI had first reported about CPWD inviting bids to complete the Rs 889 crore project in 21 months. The CPWD has said the existing Parliament building will continue to function during the entire period of execution of this project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-companies-submit-bids-for-parliament-building-plan/articleshow/76968808.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC staff get single-digit salaries, protest pay cuts||HYDERABAD: Employees of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) are up in arms against authorities over pay cuts for June. While holding a protest in certain parts of the state, the drivers and conductors said that many have received single-digit salaries despite the state government’s decision to pay the employees in full for the month of June. The employees, on Tuesday, condemned the corporation’s decision to continue the deferment of salaries to employees for the third consecutive month by allegedly marking them on leave on days when they attended their duties.  “I received Rs 77 for the entire month. Is it our mistake that the corporation is not running the entire fleet? They are saying that we have not attended work even after we marked our attendance in the register every single day,” said B Venkanna, a conductor working at Bhadrachalam depot. Around 20 people of the same depot received a salary below Rs 100 and 50 people got below Rs 1,000. Employees of Medchal and Mehdipatnam depots have also seen a huge cut in the salaries. However, while agreeing that most of the employees received less salaries, Sangareddy depot manager Naga Bushanam said, “Post lockdown, only those who attended duties were paid. Around 15 members’ pay was cut because they did not show up for work.” He denied allegations of marking the staff absent or on leave when they attended duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-staff-get-single-digit-salaries-protest-pay-cuts/articleshow/76968041.cms||Moulika.KV
July 15, 2020||Noida||Noida residents allege gaps in contact tracing||NOIDA: Residents of Noida and Greater Noida have questioned the district administration’s efforts in tracing contacts of Covid patients, saying that surveys carried out by health department officials are “half-hearted”. The residents claimed that teams of Asha workers that had been visiting households were only asking if there were any family member who had fallen ill recently. No information is being sought on those with comorbidities or ILI symptoms and there is no attempt at checking the oxygen saturation level, they alleged. “Two persons tested positive in our society. We thought all nine towers would be surveyed but the teams visited only two. When they came to my house, they just asked if anyone was sick. Only after I insisted did they check for fever-like symptoms,” said Chhabi Yadav, a resident of Hawelia Valencia Homes in Gaur City. Residents said more testing was being done in areas that had reported fewer cases. Societies such as Supertech Ecovillage 1 had 55 tests for five Covid cases, Ecovillage 2 had 75 tests and six cases, Gaur Saundaryam had 100 tests with four cases and Cherry County 150 tests and five cases. In comparison, over 200 tests were conducted in societies such as 16th Avenue, 14th Avenue, Eros Sampoornam and Galaxy North Avenue 2 — all of which had reported a maximum of two Covid cases each. Health officials and RWA representatives said camps would be set up again in societies where fewer tests had been conducted. Officials said the surveillance teams had so far reported around 900 people with ILI symptoms and close to 14,000 with comorbidities. “The surveillance teams are definitely active and gathering data from across the city daily. However, there are a few areas with problems. People there should inform us so that we can conduct checks regularly. Our helpline can be used for any kind of complaints like these,” said Suhas LY, the district magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-residents-allege-gaps-in-contact-tracing/articleshow/76968805.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Virtual darshan new way to get close to God||JAIPUR: Lockdown of religious places has made virtual darshans quite popular. Temples like Moti Doongri and Govind Dev ji temple go live on Facebook and YouTube every day. Churches across the states have started going live on social media for Sunday mass. Mahant of Moti Doongri temple in Jaipur Kailash Sharma that due to the lockdown, the temple can be seen live every day on social networking sites everyday. “We are live every day from 5 pm to 8 pm on our website www.motidungri.com and on Facebook. We are receiving messages from across the globe from followers of Ganesh who are thankful for this service we are providing,” said Sharma. Similarly, St Andrews Church, Jaipur, is going live with every Sunday for their followers. “For the last three months, no mass has been organised in the church. So we decided to get connected with people on social media. The response is good. We take Bible sessions and also teach people about the prevention of coronavirus. As followers are not coming to the church, we have shared our account details where people can directly transfer money for donations according to their will,” said the reverent of the church, Jagdish Sharma. Urs festival is going on in Dargah Hazrat Maulana Ziauddin Sahib, Jaipur, and the rituals are being made available to people across the world online. Syed Khusro Miyan of Dargah Maulana Ziauddin Sahib said the ritual of flag hoisting goes live on social media every day by members who are allowed to stay inside the dargah. “Now, one cannot come to the dargah due to lockdown, but we can reach out to people especially at the time of Urs,” said Khusro Miyan. Online donations are taken by almost all the religious places since people cannot reach physically. Followers are requested to transfer money through netbanking, Google pay or Paytm, the details of which are provided on websites and during live sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virtual-darshan-new-way-to-get-close-to-god/articleshow/76968795.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Teen gives birth after step-father raped her||NAGPUR: A 16-year-old girl, allegedly pregnant after her step-father forced himself upon her, gave birth to a girl on March 24 at Mayo hospital after she was admitted by her family. She was being sexually abused by the 35-year-old accused for months. It has now come to the fore through police investigation that the rape survivor stayed with her mother and step-father at a mall premises in central Nagpur. Her step-father exploited her after returning from work when she was alone at home. He even threatened her of dire consequences. He used to assault her if she tried to resist. Sources in the police department said the mother remained in the dark about her daughter’s abuse until the latter started feeling uneasy. After being taken to Mayo hospital, she was diagnosed pregnant. The girl’s mother had driven the step-father out of the house but had to bring him back due to hardships during the pandemic. Ganeshpeth police have registered an offence of rape and also invoked the protection of children from sexual offences Act, 2012 against the man who is yet to be arrested. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teen-gives-birth-after-step-father-raped-her/articleshow/76968792.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 15, 2020||Ajmer||Virtual darshan new way to get close to God||JAIPUR: Lockdown of religious places has made virtual darshans quite popular. Temples like Moti Doongri and Govind Dev ji temple go live on Facebook and YouTube every day. Churches across the states have started going live on social media for Sunday mass. Mahant of Moti Doongri temple in Jaipur Kailash Sharma that due to the lockdown, the temple can be seen live every day on social networking sites everyday. “We are live every day from 5 pm to 8 pm on our website www.motidungri.com and on Facebook. We are receiving messages from across the globe from followers of Ganesh who are thankful for this service we are providing,” said Sharma. Similarly, St Andrews Church, Jaipur, is going live with every Sunday for their followers. “For the last three months, no mass has been organised in the church. So we decided to get connected with people on social media. The response is good. We take Bible sessions and also teach people about the prevention of coronavirus. As followers are not coming to the church, we have shared our account details where people can directly transfer money for donations according to their will,” said the reverent of the church, Jagdish Sharma. Urs festival is going on in Dargah Hazrat Maulana Ziauddin Sahib, Jaipur, and the rituals are being made available to people across the world online. Syed Khusro Miyan of Dargah Maulana Ziauddin Sahib said the ritual of flag hoisting goes live on social media every day by members who are allowed to stay inside the dargah. “Now, one cannot come to the dargah due to lockdown, but we can reach out to people especially at the time of Urs,” said Khusro Miyan. Online donations are taken by almost all the religious places since people cannot reach physically. Followers are requested to transfer money through netbanking, Google pay or Paytm, the details of which are provided on websites and during live sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/virtual-darshan-new-way-to-get-close-to-god/articleshow/76972874.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Goa||This Independence Day, design a stamp to win Rs 50k||Panaji: The department of post is organising a stamp design (photography) competition on the theme UNESCO world heritage sites (cultural) in India, to commemorate Independence Day on August 15. The competition is open for people of all age groups. The selected winners will be awarded with a cash prize of Rs 50,000 for the first place, Rs 25,000 for the second place and Rs 10,000 for the third place. Five consolation prizes of Rs 5,000 each will also be given away. The winning entries are also going to be used for designing stamps for issue on the occasion of Independence Day on August 15. The last date of submission for the entries is July 27. The entries are invited through an open contest on the MyGov platform of the ministry of electronics and information technology portal. The entries should not be of provocative or objectionable nature. It should not be aimed at ridiculing or hurting the sentiments of any sections of the societies. The entries shall not give rise to any discord, disharmony and shall not have any graphic content of unpleasant or objectionable nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-independence-day-design-a-stamp-to-win-rs-50k/articleshow/76968813.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University online exam to start on August 10||NEW DELHI: Nudged by Delhi high court, Delhi University on Tuesday agreed to advance its schedule and conduct final year undergraduate online Open Book Examinations (OBE) from August 10-31. DU in an affidavit submitted before a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad had said the exams would start from August 17, but the court had asked it to compress the schedule as final year students were supposed to pass out and join other courses, adding that their career prospects were at stake. The court questioned DU for pushing the exams to mid-August and said, “Why are you starting in the middle of August when you were ready to hold the exams on July 1?” Vinay Gupta, dean of examinations, agreed to hold OBE from August 10 to August 31. It was also decided that the first phase of mock tests would start from July 27, instead of July 31, while the second would begin from August 1 instead of August 4. While the purpose of the first test was only to make students familiarise with the process, the second one would be the real test, DU said. It also sought more time to chalk out a timeline for conducting physical examinations and declaration of results. The university said the students who would not be able to take the online exams could appear for physical examinations scheduled in September. The court asked DU to come out with a notification for the revised datesheet of exams on its portal and also file an affidavit detailing the timeline of the same for the left-out students. The court also sought timeline for results of the students appearing for OBE in August and posted the matter for hearing on August 17. During the hearing, DU’s counsel told the court that there were 2.7 lakh final year students and 95% had filled the forms for the online exams. It added that, while the fresh examination plan has been worked out for the undergraduate courses, it was yet to finalise a plan for the postgraduate students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-online-exam-to-start-on-aug-10/articleshow/76968807.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Business||Biophore gets DCGI nod to manufacture Favipiravir API||Hyderabad: City-based pharma player Biophore India Pharmaceuticals on Tuesday said it has received approval from Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient for anti-viral drug Favipiravir, which has been approved by the Indian authorities for treating mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 Biophore said it has already scaled up its Favipiravir API production and is in talks with several Indian partners to commercialise the product in the country. It is also awaiting DCGI approval for its Favipiravir finished dosage form. Pointing out that it has also been cleared for exports, Biophore said it has already bagged approval for supply to Turkey in collaboration with a local Turkish partner and is also in talks with Bangladesh and Egypt-based companies for exports. “Meeting Favipiravir needs in India is our priority, and we have the capacity to scale up production to meet local requirements without compromising on our export commitments...Our manufacturing facilities comply with US and EU regulations….” Biophore’s founder & chief scientific officer Manik Reddy Pullagurla said. An antiviral agent that was initially discovered and developed for the treatment of the influenza virus, Favipiravir has also been approved for use against Covid-19 in Russia and parts of the Middle East, apart from India and Turkey, even as advanced stage trials are currently underway in other parts of the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/biophore-gets-dcgi-nod-to-manufacture-favipiravir-api/articleshow/76968037.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Fingers crossed as NIMS gets ready for Covid-19 vaccine trials||HYDERABAD: With Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) gearing up to begin the first stage of human trials for Covid-19 vaccine, two selected candidates are under observation and isolation. The authorities have taken care to see they are in safe and healthy condition, atmosphere and do not contact the virus before being administrated the dose. The NIMS authorities said that about 20 volunteers had expressed interest through mails and phone calls. Two young male candidates from Hyderabad were selected and their health samples were sent to Delhi for verification for final approval. “Once the final approval comes from Delhi on these two volunteers we will give them thevaccine dose. The vaccine is expected to reach us on Tuesday evening or Wednesday,” an official who is part of the vaccine trial process, told TOI. After the first dose is given, the volunteers will be under observation for some time. “If everything goes well, we want to be the first centre in the country to give the first vaccine dose,” authorities told TOI. The two volunteers will be given two types of doses, i.e. the placebo dose and theactive vaccine dose. The volunteers will be under observation for 24 hours to observe any negative reactions on them. “If there is no adverse reaction then we will try the dose on the next set of volunteers,” officials said. The reason is to make sure too many people do not have any negative reaction due to them. The first level of safety of the vaccine will be be known within 10 days after starting the trial, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fingers-crossed-as-nims-gets-ready-for-covid-vaccine-trials/articleshow/76968851.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 15, 2020||Surat||Businesses shut in Surat voluntarily as Covid worsens||SURAT/AHMEDABAD/VADODARA: Gujarat on Tuesday added 915 cases and 14 deaths taking the total Covid-19 tally to 43,723 and the death toll is now 2,071. On yet another day of state recording highest positive cases, Surat was worst affected with 291 cases and five deaths. Ahmedabad recorded 167 cases and three deaths. Close on heels of worsening Covid-19 spread in Surat, many businesses especially textile and diamond markets, either declared voluntary shutdown or cutdown in working hours as precautionary measures to contain virus spread. Around two dozen textile markets, housing around 35,000 shops, declared to shut shop from Wednesday till July 20. The voluntary shutdown is prompted by at least 600 persons working in the textile industry, mostly markets, testing positive for Covid-19. Nearly three dozen markets were holding meetings to decide on voluntary shutdown. The diamond industry is worst hit with 1,300 people in diamond units and markets testing corona positive after June 1. The diamond trading hub in Mahidharpura is also operating only from 2pm to 6pm only. In a statement the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has appealed to all the traders and merchants in Surat to shut their shops by 2pm. The situation in industrial towns of Bharuch, Ankleshwar and Dahej is also worrisome with employees of many companies testing positive, forcing closure of some plants. Kamlesh Udani, executive director of pharma major JB Chemicals, also tested positive and is under treatment at a private hospital in Vadodara. Eight staffers of Lupin Laboratories were also found to be infected, company officials confirmed. While the situation has improved in Ahmedabad, the city's Manek Chowk Gold Silver Jewellers’ Association announced on Tuesday that some 5,000 wholesale and retail jewellery stores will cut their working hours by two hours from Wednesday. The market will now operate from 10am to 5pm unlike till 7pm following some workers testing Covid positive. "We are also encouraging our members to wear masks and ensure social distancing,” Paresh Choksi, president of the association said. The association has also discouraged movement of those aged above 65 years in the market. The Vadodara Vepari Vikas Mandal (VVVA) had last week decided to voluntarily shut down shops in the city by 5 pm. The association decided to shut down provision stores by 6pm and restaurants by 9pm. Most shops in the congested areas like Mangal Bazaar and Mandvi have adhered to the deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/businesses-shut-in-surat-voluntarily-as-covid-worsens/articleshow/76968081.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||Man makes thieves flee empty-handed||Vadodara: A solar engineer living in Kalali took on two thieves at his house in the early hours of Tuesday. The engineer sustained injuries on his head as the thieves beat with a wooden stick. Parth Charpat, a 33-year-old resident of Sahjanand Duplex, was woken up by noises in the living room of his house at around 3.45 am. When he went to check, he saw two men in the dark living room. Charpat challenged the thieves and threw a steel water pot at them. One of the two thieves hit Charpat with a wooden stick on the head which left him bleeding. Police said that Charpat then started shouting which woke up his family members. The two thieves then fled from the house, while a neighbour took him to a private hospital nearby where the doctors stitched the wound and discharged him. It was learnt that the thieves had broken into the house from the back entrance gate. But as Charpat took them on, they could not steal anything. A case of burglary causing hurt and trespassing was registered at the Manjalpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-makes-thieves-flee-empty-handed/articleshow/76966319.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Surat||Heavy rain lashes South Gujarat||Surat: Heavy rain lashed parts of South Gujarat region including Navsari, Valsad and Surat district on Tuesday.Navsari’s Jalalpore received the highest rainfall with 105 mm followed by 70 mm in Choryasi taluka of Surat district. Palsana in Valsad district received 55 mm, Navsari 70 mm, Gandevi 40 mm and Pardi received 55 mm rainfall. Most parts of Surat city received a good spell of rainfall for the second consecutive day. Varachha (B) zone receives highest rainfall with 65 mm followed by 53 mm in Limbayat, 50 mm in Udhna, 47 mm in Varachha (A), 44 mm in Katargam, 43 mm in Central and Athwa zone received 40 mm rainfall on Tuesday. According to the Agriculture department officials, sowing has begun slowly in the South Gujarat region. Sowing was completed in 3.16 lakh hectare area in seven districts of South Gujarat region on Tuesday. “All the 13 dams in South Gujarat are filled with 47.90% as on Tuesday. Due to rains in parts of the region, water inflow is increasing in these dams,” said an official. Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued advisory on the hydrometeorological situation for July 15 and 16 for Narmada, Tapi, Damanganga and independent basins. “Lower Narmada, Tapi, Damanganga and independent basins are expected to receive moderate rainfall at isolated places in the next 48 hours. Water level at CWC station in Tapi, Lower Narmada, Damanganga and independent basins are expected to remain constant or rise slowly,” said CWC advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/heavy-rain-lashes-south-gujarat/articleshow/76967057.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rally by murder accused: Gujarat HC wants action against cops||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court asked the state government to take action against the police officials responsible, if they are found to have a role in the car rally taken out by a murder accused after getting bail in Vadodara. The court also said police should have made immediate arrests on intercepting the vehicles. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala found the incident “shocking and disgusting”. The HC was hearing a PIL taking exception to this display of power and seeking action against those responsible. A law student form Vadodara, Suyah Sahay, filed the PIL on the basis of a social media video and news reports from June 4. Suraj Kahar had been arrested on charges of murder after a fight because a vehicle had overtaken his car. When the HC inquired, the state government submitted that Kahar has been jailed under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) and an application for cancellation of his bail in the murder case has also been filed. The HC said, “We expect the state government to inquire whether any police officer is directly or indirectly involved in this entire episode. If the inquiry reveals any type of involvement direct or indirect, then appropriate action shall be taken in accordance with law.” The petitioner submitted to the high court that Kahar was allegedly issuing threats to the mother of the youth he has killed and the threats were administered through a very senior police officer in Vadodara. She is being pressured to settle the matter with the accused. Upon hearing this, the judges directed the state government “to ensure that none of the family members of the deceased are harassed in any manner or are threatened in any manner to settle the dispute with the main accused”. The high court expressed shock and disgust at the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rally-by-murder-accused-hc-wants-action-against-cops/articleshow/76968072.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Schools address fee issue on case-to-case basis||HYDERABAD: With many parents lodging a complaint with police or education department officials against school managements for violating fee regulation norms, schools are allegedly addressing issues of only parents who have lodged a complaint instead of all. Parents said that instead of reducing the fee for all students, the schools are considering it on a case-to-case basis. “After I lodged a police complaint, the management agreed to give me an additional 40% discount,” said a parent, whose child is studying in one of the international schools in the city. She said that the same offer, however, is not extended to other parents. “I withdrew the complaint after the school reviewed the fee,” she added Few parents, however, said that the school managements are asking them to first withdraw their complaints to discuss the issue. “When the school management asked us to clear the total fee, I filed a complaint with the education department officials. Now, they are asking me to withdraw the complaint to discuss the issue,” said another parent. On July 9, the department of school education issued showcause notices to 28 schools in Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal after parents lodged complaints alleging violation of fee regulation norms. As per the Regulation of School Fees for the Academic Year (GO 46) issued on April 21, 2020, schools are not supposed to enhance the fee for the academic year 2020-21. The GO also mandates schools to not collect any fee apart from tuition fee and provide an option for parents to clear fees on a monthly basis instead of paying term fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-address-fee-issue-on-case-to-case-basis/articleshow/76968061.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kanpur||200-yr-old tortoise dies due to negligence||Kanpur: A 200-year-old tortoise of the tortoise pond died due to the alleged negligence of the contractor. Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) spends around Rs. 4.20 crore on beautification of the tortoise pond situated in Panki. According to DD Pathak, manager of the pond, a couple of days back, the contractor had constructed a channel from the pond to fill a dam. The devotees, who used to visit a temple situated on the bank of the pond, informed him that the entire water of the pond had been filled in a nearby dam through the channel. He and Mahant jitendra Das went on the spot and found that the pond was empty and only mud was visible. In the absence of sufficient water, around 100 tortoises somehow managed to hole in the mud to keep them wet, but a tortoise, weighing around 90 kg and around 200-year-old, could not hole in due to his size and died in the scorching sunlight, Pathak said. He said he and mahant ji had forced the contractor to stop constructing the channel and even informed the KMC officials. A supervisor later visited the site and installed a motor to fill water in the pond from the dam, he said. Due to negligence of the contractor fish of the pond had already died, he added. Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi said that an inquiry would be conducted in the matter and the fisheries department has been asked to explore the reason of death of fish and other aquatic animals. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Surendra Maithani also asked the municipal commissioner to conduct an inquiry in the matter and lodge a complaint with the police against the contractor for his alleged negligence. The MLA had also informed Union minister for animal husbandry Giriraj Singh, UP minister Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary and the fisheries department to take action in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/200-yr-old-tortoise-dies-due-to-negligence/articleshow/76968809.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-born NRI’s co gets USFDA acknowledgement for medical imaging software||HYDERABAD: India-born Srikanth Kodeboyina’s Blue Eye Soft Corp, a US-based IT solutions and software development company, has received acknowledgement from the US drug regulator, US Food & Drug Administration (USFDA), for its medical imaging software that can help diagnose diseases such as Covid-19. Srikanth Kodeboyina, who hails from Hyderabad and is now a US citizen, said his company got the USFDA acknowledgement for the pre-submission package of its proprietary artificial intelligence (AI)-driven medical imaging software Bluedocai. Bluedocai is a clinical decision support tool that uses AI-driven deep learning algorithms to assist radiologists and other healthcare professionals with fast and accurate diagnosis by rapidly analysing chest X-rays to detect the presence of Covid-19 with more than 90% accuracy. The technology behind Bluedocai is based on medical image processing research conducted scientists from the University of Dayton, Ohio, and is currently exclusively licensed by Blue Eye Soft, he said, adding that Blue Eye Soft is also developing tools to support the medical diagnosis of other diseases such as pneumonia, pneumothorax, tuberculosis, cancer, and stroke. “Bluedocai has the potential to be used with a variety of medical imaging technologies across different hospital settings and locations. We hope to become a pivotal partner for radiology departments worldwide, helping them deliver precise and high-value patient care even in the challenging times of this ongoing pandemic,” said Srikanth Dodeboyina, Founder & CEO, Blue Eye Soft. Blue Eye Soft has also announced that the Bureau of Industry and Security, US Department of Commerce, has granted the commodity classification number (ECCN) for Bluedocai, paving the way for its exports. “We believe this is an important step to be able to export locally developed AI-powered diagnostic technology beyond the United States with potential reach-out from around 16 countries,” Srikanth Kodeboyina said. Following the commodity classification, the company is now awaiting USFDA approval for use of Bluedocai in clinical settings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-born-nris-co-gets-usfda-nod-for-medical-imaging-software/articleshow/76968076.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Congress using unethical means to save govt: Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia has charged the Congress of using unethical means to lure independents and small-party MLAs to save their government from falling. In a press conference held at BJP headquarters in Jaipur, Poonia said, “During the income tax raid on July 13 at the close aides of the Congress leaders it has come to my attention that the IT department has recovered several documents which will link the unethical methods used to garner support during the Rajya Sabha polls and at present.” He shared a self-made video of BTP MLA Rajkumar Roat narrating that police have taken his car keys and not allowing him to go to his constituency Chorasi in Dungarpur. “An elected representative has been treated in this manner. It is not only him, but several other MLAs have been subjected to spying and phone tapping aiming to get their support,” said Poonia. He hinted that documents recovered from the raid would unearth the Congress involvement in horse-trading of independent and other MLAs. Reiterating his party stand, Poonia said that they will not demand floor test in the assembly at present, but with a rider that changing situation can change their stand. “The party leaders in Delhi and here are monitoring the situation and will act accordingly. Under the present situation, we will not demand the floor test in the assembly,” Poonia added. Sharing his party stand, he said they would like to see the government not proving its majority in the assembly. “We believe that the government has already fallen. Had they got the required number of MLAs they would have paraded before the public. Our party will act according to the changing situation,” Poonia said. Party sources have clarified that they would not ask for a floor test until they are sure that both CM Ashok Gehlot and Pilot doesn’t have the required number. On reaching out to Pilot when his close associates have cleared that he would not join the BJP, Poonia has hinted of a door open for him said. “BJP is the world’s biggest party and it has a tradition of having people from different views. Anyone is welcome in the party.” Deputy leader of the opposition, Rajendra Singh Rathore called the dropping of Sachin Pilot and other Congress leaders a vertical divide which would lead to the fall of the government anytime. He expressed fear that Gehlot would now use SOG to corner Pilot. BJP’s ally and head of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party chief Hanuman Beniwal has jumped into the scene by attending a meeting at the BJP office. “The government has lost the right to rule. The manner in which they have held hostage BTP legislator Roat shows the brutal side of the Congress, which is forcing the MLAs to stay at their side,” Beniwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-using-unethical-means-to-save-govt-poonia/articleshow/76968812.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mysuru||Greens livid as Kerala govt proposes tunnel railway line through forests||MYSURU: The opposition from greens from both Karnataka and Kerala to the controversial Mysuru-Thalassery and Nanjanagu-Nilambur railway lines proposed by the Kerala government notwithstanding, Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail) has now proposed a new tunnel railway line through Bandipur and Nagarahole to Thalassery. V Ajith Kumar, MD of K-Rail and K R Jyothilal, principal secretary (transport department) of the Kerala government, have confirmed sending a proposal in this regard to the Karnataka government. “We proposed a new tunnel line in the forest area, on the lines of Kolkata Metro line that passes though Hooghly river. These lines will be built 30 metres below the ground,” Kumar said, adding: “We have sent a proposal to the Karnataka government. Once it approves the proposal, the survey work begins.” According to the proposal, the new line is proposed between Kadakola on the outskirts of Mysuru and Thalassery in Kerala. The Kerala government has proposed a Heliborne geophysical survey and field surveys for the purpose. The proposed line passes through the Bandipur and Nagarahole national parks, which are eco-sensitive regions. K-Rail has suggested carrying out the cost estimation, surveys and the equity participation between various stakeholders, including central government, Indian Railways and the Karnataka government. A Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) has also been proposed with an equity contribution from the Karnataka government for the implementation of the project. A senior activist said there is no question of accepting it. “The Karnataka government has made it clear that no new line will be built inside Bandipur or Nagarahole. We need to preserve these forest zones for our next generation,” he said, and urged the Kerala government to stop coming out with new proposals in this regard. When contacted, PCCF Sanjay Mohan said his office is not aware of any such new proposal sent by the Kerala government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/greens-livid-as-kerala-govt-proposes-tunnel-railway-line-through-forests/articleshow/76960217.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ghaziabad||Noida: Shops to be open on weekdays from 9am to 9pm||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: In a huge respite to traders, authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad have agreed to let shops open through the week and shut on weekends. This was after an order to that effect was released by the state government on Tuesday. As per the new orders, issued by the district magistrates of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, markets and commercial establishments will be allowed to open on all weekdays between 9am and 9pm in the two cities. Earlier, the timings were between 9am and 7.30pm and shops in a market were supposed to open every alternate day to ensure social distancing as well as sanitisation of premises. “After the weekend lockdown was introduced and its working explained, all previous orders issued by the district administration naturally lay in abeyance. It’s also a fact that a fresh order had to come from the state government, which was released on Tuesday. So, shops can now remain open through the week for up to 12 hours a day,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate. In Noida as well, shops were supposed to open every alternate day. However, since Monday, several traders in Atta market in Sector 18 and other areas decided to keep shops open every day. So, traders have all welcomed the government’s latest decision, saying this will help reduce the losses they would suffer due to the weekend lockdown. Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad administration said it has decided to facilitate the inter-state travel of office-goers, while the GB Nagar administration remained non-committal on the border movement curbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/shops-to-be-open-on-weekdays-from-9am-to-9pm/articleshow/76969934.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chennai||Absence of OBC reservation a systemic issue||CHENNAI: A month ago, a strange scene played out before the Supreme Court, albeit over a virtual hearing. All the major political parties in Tamil Nadu, including the DMK and the AIADMK had filed PILs before the court seeking to implement reservation for other backward class (OBC) students in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical and dental admissions. It was unprecedented for all these parties to unite and speak in one voice on any issue, let alone fight alongside one another in court. Their grievance is that the Union government has not allocated seats for OBC students in these courses for the past four years, despite the law conferring reservation. Medical and dental education underwent a sea change with the introduction of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in 2016. The relevant regulations state that the reservation shall be as per applicable laws prevailing in states/ Union territories where the medical college is situated. Therefore, it follows that for medical/dental colleges in Tamil Nadu, the state’s reservation laws should apply. Tamil Nadu’s 1993 Act provides for 30% reservation for backward classes (BCs) and 20% reservation for most backward classes (MBCs). The Central Educational Institutions Reservation in Admissions Act, 200, prescribes 27% reservation for OBCs in central educational institutions. Therefore, as per these laws, CEI medical colleges should have 27% of their seats reserved for OBCs, and other colleges should apply state reservation laws. A lacuna has arisen because of a concept called ‘All India Quota’ framed by the Supreme Court of India in 1984 in the case of Pradeep Jain vs Union of India. To prevent states from reserving 100% of seats in medical colleges within their states for their own students, using domicile and institutional preference reservation, the SC held that a certain percentage of seats in all state colleges be set apart for an all-India quota (AIQ), in which students from all states could compete equally. At present, 15% of seats in UG and 50% of seats in PG courses are "surrendered" by the states to this AIQ. Peculiarly, for the past four years since the introduction of NEET, no OBC reservation have been given in this AIQ. As a result, OBC students have lost thousands of seats each year. Tamil Nadu has surrendered 8,121 seats between 2013-2020. Of this, if state reservation were applied, almost 4,050 seats should have been reserved for OBC students. This issue has been repeatedly flagged by the DMK and its MPs in Parliament. On July 26, 2019 DMK member P Wilson raised this issue during question hour and he also wrote to the Union minister of health and family welfare, but the Centre has not budged so far, and hence the PILs filed before the Madras high court. There has been clear injustice meted out to the OBC students aspiring for admission in UG and PG medical and dental courses. This sorry state of affairs should be rectified by allocating more seats in the upcoming years and allotting them to the OBC category. This would in some way attempt to right the wrong done to the community. By Richardson Wilson(The writer is an advocate at the Madras high court)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/absence-of-obc-reservation-a-systemic-issue/articleshow/76968064.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Noida||Noida: Shops to be open on weekdays from 9am to 9pm||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: In a huge respite to traders, authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad have agreed to let shops open through the week and shut on weekends. This was after an order to that effect was released by the state government on Tuesday. As per the new orders, issued by the district magistrates of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, markets and commercial establishments will be allowed to open on all weekdays between 9am and 9pm in the two cities. Earlier, the timings were between 9am and 7.30pm and shops in a market were supposed to open every alternate day to ensure social distancing as well as sanitisation of premises. “After the weekend lockdown was introduced and its working explained, all previous orders issued by the district administration naturally lay in abeyance. It’s also a fact that a fresh order had to come from the state government, which was released on Tuesday. So, shops can now remain open through the week for up to 12 hours a day,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate. In Noida as well, shops were supposed to open every alternate day. However, since Monday, several traders in Atta market in Sector 18 and other areas decided to keep shops open every day. So, traders have all welcomed the government’s latest decision, saying this will help reduce the losses they would suffer due to the weekend lockdown. Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad administration said it has decided to facilitate the inter-state travel of office-goers, while the GB Nagar administration remained non-committal on the border movement curbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/shops-to-be-open-on-weekdays-from-9am-to-9pm/articleshow/76968825.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: School clubs all fees under one head, parents up in arms||HYDERABAD: Alleging the school is violating government order (GO) by clubbing all fees into tuition fee, parents of students of St Andrews School, Bowenpally, staged a protest in front of the educational institution on Tuesday. They claimed the school management is falsely showing they are abiding by the GO. “Until the academic year 2018-19, the school used to give us break-up of the fee. The tuition fee was Rs 1,700 out of Rs 5,800 per month. However, they combined everything into tuition fee last year. Now, even during the pandemic, they are forcing parents to pay the entire fee by terming it as tuition fee,” a parent, whose children are studying in Class 4 and Class 7, told TOI. Parents of at least 1, 200 students reportedly have a problem in paying the fee and said that they would not clear the dues until and unless the school reduces it by 50%. “The government order clearly directed schools to collect only tuition fee. We are even ready to pay a little more, but can’t pay the entire fee,” another parent said, adding that about 200 of them participated in the protest on Tuesday. The parents said the management was talking about everything under the sun except about the tuition. Instead, they were saying that they could decrease the fee by 1 or 2%, but not more, the parents added. “The management said they would tell us about their decision—whether or not to consider reducing the fee by July 21,” a parent said. Parents said that if the school fails to address their issue, they would not hesitate to take legal help. When contacted, St Andrews principal Shomita Bhattacharya refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-clubs-all-fees-under-one-head-parents-up-in-arms/articleshow/76968087.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatiya Tribal Party MLA Rajkumar Roat alleges harassment||JAIPUR: A 42-second self-made video of Bharatiya Tribal Party MLA Rajkumar Roat from Chorasi constituency in Dungarpur claiming to be held, hostage in a car by the police has spared another political controversy in the state on Tuesday. The video went viral after it was shared by the BJP state president Satish Poonia and Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s WhatsApp group. In a video shot inside a car, Roat can be heard introducing him and alleging that “The present situation in the state is horrible. We have been held hostage from the last three days in the MLA quarter. I have been contacted by the people asking us to come with them (without naming any party or person)....… (Today) I have tried to go out from here in the constituency but the police are preventing us to go anywhere. They have kept their vehicles in front of me and taken the keys of the car,” said visibly disturbed Roat. #WATCH Rajkumar Roat, BTP (Bhartiya Tribal Party) MLA from Chorasi in a video, alleges police not letting him move,… https://t.co/E1qDKWzhBl— ANI (@ANI) 1594713730000He then moved the camera to show two police vehicles standing in the right and left side of his car. He concluded the video by alleging that “Yeh ek tarah ke batmizi keh jar aha hai vidhayak ke sath (insult is being done with an MLA). All BJP leaders have accused the Congress of forcing and harassing the public representative to support them. Confirming that video is shot on Tuesday, Vela Ram Ghogra, state president of BTP says, “Both our MLAs Roat and another MLA Ram Prasad (MLA Sagwara Dungarpur) have reached Dungapur today evening. They will be here till the Congress will resolve in its internal issue.” A newly floated BTP has two MLAs in the state from the tribal area. The party has been supporting the Congress on a conditional basis since the beginning. They have even supported the Congress in the Rajya Sabha polls held in June. Even during the present crises, until last evening, both the MLAs were counted in the Congress kitty. The twist came when BTP’s national president issued a whip to them stating that they should not either support CM Ashok Gehlot or Sachin Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-mla-alleges-harassment/articleshow/76968821.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 15, 2020||Goa||Heavy rain to continue till tomorrow||Panaji: The India meteorological department (IMD) has extended its orange alert over Goa for one more day. The department had earlier issued a heavy rainfall warning for July 14 and 15 which will now continue for July 16. Heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at a few places while very heavy rainfall very likely at isolated places on July 16, the alert read. IMD also issued local forecast for Panaji and its neighbourhood, valid until the morning of July 16. It said, within 24 hours, occasional spells of rain, heavy rainfall are very likely in the prime city with the maximum and minimum temperatures likely to be around 28°c and 24°c respectively. However, 48 hours on, intermittent spells of rain can be expected with the likelihood of heavy rainfall. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 27°C and 24°C respectively. The meteorological department has also forecast heavy rainfall likely to occur at a few places on July 17 and at isolated places on July 18. On Tuesday, moderate to heavy rainfall occurred at most places over the state. Rain gauge stations at Mormugao and Panaji recorded the highest amount of daily rainfall with 9cm and 7cm, respectively. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph is likely to prevail over the North Maharashtra-Goa coast owing to which fishermen were advised not to venture along and off the coast till July 15, by the meteorological department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rain-to-continue-till-tomorrow/articleshow/76968830.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government to hire 2,000 staff for municipalities||HYDERABAD: If the municipal administration department’s plans are materialised, every municipality in the state will have an environmental engineer or an expert to take care of solid waste management in the civic bodies. These engineers will function apart from public health engineers, town planning officers and other supporting staff. The government is planning to recruit about 2,000 staffers, including engineers and other staff, for 141 municipalities in the state. Telangana government had created nearly 70 new municipalities in the state apart from 10 new municipal corporations. But many of these civic bodies do not have staffers in crucial wings like engineering, town planning and bill collectors. Many of them are being run with incharges for the last one year. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao held a review meeting on recruitment in the department which will be completed in the next two to three months. Officials said before taking up recruitment, the government wants to complete rationalisation of staff. “New municipalities were created to provide better services. More staff may be required for municipalities around Hyderabad and ORR,” KTR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-hire-2k-staff-for-municipalities/articleshow/76968090.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 15, 2020||Rajkot||Doctor sets aside Covid fears to help dying man in Rajkot||RAJKOT: “A doctor forgets everything when faced with emergency” — said radiologist working in a private hospital of city, Dr Ajitsinh Vadher, who didn’t stop to consider Covid protocols while trying to save a life during his morning walk with a friend at Racecourse Road in Rajkot on Tuesday. “I gave him mouth to mouth breath forgetting Covid fears as at that moment I was only a doctor and my aim was to save his life,” Dr Vadher told TOI. Talking about the incident, he said that upon witnessing the man suddenly collapse in front of him, he rushed to his side and started cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to save the man who had suffered a massive cardiac arrest. The incident took place on the opposite side of mayor’s bungalow. Despite all efforts by him along with other passers-by, the life could not be saved as he died before treatment. “We immediately rushed to him and I understood that he had suffered cardiac arrest. I didn’t waste time and gave him CPR that covers mouth to mouth breathing and chest compression. There was a woman paramedic there who helped me with chest compressions on the man, identified as Gulam Hussain,” he said. Meanwhile, people had gathered at the spot and called an emergency ambulance which took the patient to a private hospital, where he was declared brought dead. “I am a doctor and it’s my foremost duty to help people,” asserted Dr Vadher, adding that in face of an emergent situation, a doctor forgets everything else and only remembers that he has to save the life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/out-on-a-walk-doctor-ignores-covid-fears-to-help-dying-man/articleshow/76967170.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kanpur||Man accuses cops of inaction in abduction case||Kanpur: A man from Barra area of the city has accused the local police of doing least efforts to recover his abducted son even after making him pay ransom amount of Rs 30 lakh. According to one Chaman Singh of Barra, his son Sandeep, employed at a local pathology lab, was kidnapped on June 22. The kidnappers called up the family and demanded Rs 30 lakh. Subsequently, Singh lodged a complaint following which an FIR was registered at the Barra police station. The family, somehow, managed to arrange the ransom amount and as asked by the police, handed it over to one of the miscreanst at Gujaini railway track on Monday (July 13) after the police assured that Sandeep would be freed unharmed. “However, the police is now saying that they are clueless about the whereabouts of the kidnappers as well as the victim,” Singh told the reporters on Tuesday. Senior superintendent of police Dinesh Kumar Prabhu, however, said, “I am looking into the investigation of this alleged kidnapping case registered at Barra police station. Our priority is to recover the kidnapped victim,” said the SSP adding that, “Separate teams have been formed and further investigations were on to trace the criminals.” SSP also assured to investigate the role of the cops and if found guilty, they will face strict action. The city police however landed itself into the eye of the storm on social media after the video of the victim’s family crying before the media and pleading senior police officials for help went viral on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-accuses-cops-of-inaction-in-abduction-case/articleshow/76968820.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Wonder kids: Rare surgeries help save premature twins, their mother in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a rare incident, a 26-week-old baby recently managed to survive two invasive surgeries. These surgeries were conducted by doctors at Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh in the national capital. It was part of four life-saving high-risk surgeries on an expecting mother and her premature twins. “At the time of delivery, the twins were stabilised via ventilator support and medication for lung maturation and customised artificial nutrition was provided,” said Dr Vivek Jain, director and head of the neonatology department. However, Dr Jain said, one of the twins developed complications by the third day, an intestinal perforation, much like the initial condition of the mother. An urgent surgery was required, but since the baby weighed only 1,000 grams and was premature, the chances of survival were minimal, the doctor explained. “The first surgery was conducted, and a pouch was made on the side of the stomach and the intestine was left to heal. After six to eight weeks, another surgery was performed to close the hole in the intestine,” he added. The time between both the surgeries passed slowly and excruciatingly; the baby was fighting to live and had developed severe distress, sepsis, respiratory failure and hypotension. However, against all odds, the baby survived and 12 weeks after his birth, he was handed over to the parents. “It was nothing short of divine intervention that this baby, who had been born prematurely and had undergone two intensive operations, had come out thriving,” the doctor said. “Soni, the mother of the twins, underwent dual surgery, wherein an intestinal blockage was successfully removed, and a C-section was performed, with her giving birth to twins who were 14 weeks premature,” the hospital said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wonder-kids-rare-surgeries-help-save-premature-twins-their-mother/articleshow/76968822.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||Edu dept undertakes verification of city colleges||Nashik: The Nashik region education department has started the verification process of 60 colleges located within the city. The verification of these colleges is a mandatory part involving the first year junior college (FYJC) admissions which will start soon. Assistant director of Nashik region’s education department Pushpavati Patil told TOI that the preliminary verification process of 45 colleges is over and the remaining would be done at the earliest. “Under this process, the department examines the documents related to the infrastructure of the colleges, strength and qualification of the faculties, fee structure, lab facilities, new courses offered to students, salaries of the college staff etc.,” informed Patil. According to her, the verification would be done twice. “At present we are carrying out the preliminary verification. Once this is complete we wound form a team that would re-examine the documents of the colleges,” added Patil. All these colleges have submitted the necessary documents to the department pertaining to various aspects of the colleges. According to Patil, the department is gearing up for FYJC admissions in city colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/edu-dept-undertakes-verification-of-city-colleges/articleshow/76968092.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||NMC to provide hot meal for Covid patients through central kitchen||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to provide fresh hot meals to Covid-19 patients through central kitchens at three locations in the city. Two kitchens will be set up at Covid Care Centres (CCC) at Samaj Kalyan centre near Dwarka and Meri and one at the proposed Dedicated Covid facility at the New Bytco hospital. While CCC at Samaj Kalyan centre and Meri have 500 and 200 beds capacity, the proposed dedicated covid hospital coming up at New Bytco hospital building will also have up to 500-bed capacity. Earlier, NGOs and social organizations would provide food packets to patients, but they face some limitations. Hence, the NMC has decided to provide hot meals to Covid patients on its own. Besides food, the patients will also be served with tea and hot water. NGOs and social organizations have been supplying food packets to patients in different Covid care centres and hospitals since April. “At times, the packets provided by NGOs are inadequate and some patients do not get it,” said NMC officials. The officials also said that, at times, some patients are not satisfied with one packet meal provided to them. Also, the NGOs prepare meals at various locations in the city and then transport it to the patients which, at times, causes delay. “Considering this fact, we have decided to start central kitchens at Covid centres and hospitals so that patients will get fresh hot meals on time. They will also get adequate meals as it will be prepared there at the central kitchen and served there,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-provide-hot-meal-for-covid-patients-through-central-kitchen/articleshow/76968108.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 15, 2020||Udaipur||Jodhpur beats Jaipur in Covid-19 cases as state breaches 25,000 mark||JAIPUR: Jodhpur surpassed Jaipur in cumulative Covid-19 cases after 128 new infections were reported on Tuesday even as the state’s tally crossed the 25,000 mark. On the same day, the number of cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur breached the 4,000 mark too. While cumulative cases in Jaipur were 4002, in Jodhpur it has touched 4,052. Jodhpur is currently at the top of the list of districts reporting highest number of cases followed by Jaipur, Bharatpur (1,995), Pali (1,554), Alwar (1,288) and Bikaner (1,061). On the casualty front, six persons died taking the death count to 524 while 635 others tested positive taking the tally to 25,571 on Tuesday. Rajsamand reported two cases taking its toll to 3, Ajmer reported its 25 fatality, Alwar reported its 8th casualty, Jaipur reported its 176th Covid death while one person from another state also succumbed to the disease. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (128), Bikaner (106), Churu (51), Pali (48), Kota (44), Alwar (38), Jaipur (39), Jalore (31), Barmer (29), Dholpur (26), Bharatpur (11), Udaipur (10, )Ajmer (10), Bhilwara (9), Bundi (8), Karauli (8), Sriganganagar (6), Nagaur (6), Rajsamand (5), Dausa (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Sikar (3), Pratapgarh (2), Jhalawar (2), Hanumangarh (2), Banswara (1), Sirohi (1) and three from other states. In the past 11 days, the state has reported 6,519 new infections with an average of 592 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high cases of 5,878 on Tuesday. It was 5,788 on Monday, 5,779 on Sunday, 5,376 on Saturday, 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday and 4,715 on Wednesday. In Jaipur, 26 different areas reported 39 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Vidhyadhar Nagar (6), Shastri Nagar (4), Jagatpura (2), Mahesh Nagar (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), Jawahar Nagar (2), Jagatpura (2), while one case each was reported from Subhash Chawk, Tonk Phatak, Ramganj, Johri Bazaar, Govindgarh, C-scheme, Brahmpuri, Hasanpura, Jhotwara, Malviya Nagar, Durgapura, Sitapura, Renwal, Sanganer, Mansarovar, Phulera, Tonk Road, Raja Park and Amber.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/jodhpur-beats-jaipur-in-corona-cases-as-state-breaches-25k-mark/articleshow/76971851.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur beats Jaipur in Covid-19 cases as state breaches 25,000 mark||JAIPUR: Jodhpur surpassed Jaipur in cumulative Covid-19 cases after 128 new infections were reported on Tuesday even as the state’s tally crossed the 25,000 mark. On the same day, the number of cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur breached the 4,000 mark too. While cumulative cases in Jaipur were 4002, in Jodhpur it has touched 4,052. Jodhpur is currently at the top of the list of districts reporting highest number of cases followed by Jaipur, Bharatpur (1,995), Pali (1,554), Alwar (1,288) and Bikaner (1,061). On the casualty front, six persons died taking the death count to 524 while 635 others tested positive taking the tally to 25,571 on Tuesday. Rajsamand reported two cases taking its toll to 3, Ajmer reported its 25 fatality, Alwar reported its 8th casualty, Jaipur reported its 176th Covid death while one person from another state also succumbed to the disease. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (128), Bikaner (106), Churu (51), Pali (48), Kota (44), Alwar (38), Jaipur (39), Jalore (31), Barmer (29), Dholpur (26), Bharatpur (11), Udaipur (10, )Ajmer (10), Bhilwara (9), Bundi (8), Karauli (8), Sriganganagar (6), Nagaur (6), Rajsamand (5), Dausa (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Sikar (3), Pratapgarh (2), Jhalawar (2), Hanumangarh (2), Banswara (1), Sirohi (1) and three from other states. In the past 11 days, the state has reported 6,519 new infections with an average of 592 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high cases of 5,878 on Tuesday. It was 5,788 on Monday, 5,779 on Sunday, 5,376 on Saturday, 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday and 4,715 on Wednesday. In Jaipur, 26 different areas reported 39 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Vidhyadhar Nagar (6), Shastri Nagar (4), Jagatpura (2), Mahesh Nagar (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), Jawahar Nagar (2), Jagatpura (2), while one case each was reported from Subhash Chawk, Tonk Phatak, Ramganj, Johri Bazaar, Govindgarh, C-scheme, Brahmpuri, Hasanpura, Jhotwara, Malviya Nagar, Durgapura, Sitapura, Renwal, Sanganer, Mansarovar, Phulera, Tonk Road, Raja Park and Amber.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-beats-jaipur-in-corona-cases-as-state-breaches-25k-mark/articleshow/76971850.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mother, son jump into water tank in Sriganganagar||JAIPUR: A mother-son duo allegedly committed suicide by jumping into a water tank in Sriganganagar’s Lalgarh police station area on Monday evening. According to officials, prima facie, the double suicide appears to be because of domestic dispute, but cops have found no suicide note. The deceased were identified as Vimla Devi (42) and her son Pawan Kumar (17). “Initial investigation has revealed that the reason behind the suicides was possibly domestic dispute though we have not found any note. The two jumped into the water tank in the evening and by night we were able to get the bodies out,” said an official of Lalgarh police station. According to officials, the husband of the deceased worked as a labourer and consumed alcohol often, though Vimla Devi’s family has not registered a case against her in-laws or spouse. “While the post-mortem reported is awaited, it seems that the boy jumped into the tank first and there are chances that the mother jumped in after him, in an effort to save him, but both drowned,” said the official. While cops are investigating the case, they are yet to find any concrete reason behind the double suicide and elaborating on the incident, the official said, “The boy was not a small child who could have just jumped into the tank along with the mother. We are looking at possibilities apart from domestic dispute but till now nothing has come to light.” The autopsies of the two were done on Tuesday and the bodies were handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mother-son-jump-into-water-tank-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/76968829.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Six wards marked top priority ‘high-risk areas’ in corporation limits||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The health department has identified six wards as top priority ‘high-risk areas’ in corporation limits in its report on clusters of Covid-19 infection. The report on clusters, which was prepared by the health department, notes that the index case in two largest clusters in the Capital; Poonthura and Kumarichantha was a fish merchant. The report says that he was the source of infection for 13 other cases. In addition, he also used to visit many other households. In Kumarichantha, fish for sale were unloaded from trucks that came from Tamil Nadu. Fishermen from Poonthura area came into contact with truck drivers and headload workers in this area. Most of the cases reported from this area were fish vendors, the report notes. The family of the fish merchant however said that only seven members in their family have tested positive. The fish merchant tested negative within five days of hospitalization, the family members said. He has been brought home. The family members said that some of the persons he had close contact with including his brothers, his driver and some other members in the same family had not tested positive. As regarding the cluster at Attukal, the report shows that the auto-driver cum tele-serial actor who had travelled extensively in Attukal, Manacaud Konchiravila and Kalady, eventually transmitted the infection to eight other people. He had frequent visits from relatives from Kuzhithurai, Tamil Nadu. There is potential history of contact with commuters from Tamil Nadu. This cluster also involves two healthcare workers in the private hospital he had visited at Attukal. As many as 24 wards in the city have been identified to have higher risk of cases due to density of contacts, potential sources and epidemiological linkages. This list also includes city wards like Medical College, Vanchiyur, Fort, Manacaud, Attukal and Palayam. As per the decision of the review meeting convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on July 6, it has been proposed to conduct 2,500 antigen tests and 2,500 immunoassay tests in high risk wards in corporation. According to the advisory of health department, immunoassay tests are intended for qualitative detection of antibodies to SARS CoV-2 in human serum. The test is meant to aid in identifying individuals with an adaptive immune response to the disease indicating recent or prior infection. This test has an overall specificity greater than 99.8% and overall sensitivity of 100% in detection of antibodies including IgG. The advisory notes that the high specificity of the test is crucial to determine reliably if a person has been exposed to the virus and if the person has developed antibodies. Two key objectives will be to detect any local transmission in specific containment zones and to provide epidemiological insights at specific clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/six-wards-marked-top-priority-high-risk-areas-in-corp-limits/articleshow/76968115.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||One PSI booked for molestation, another for threats in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A sub-inspector posted at Vadaj police station in the city was on Monday accused of molesting a woman and attempting to rape her. She also accused another sub-inspector of threatening her, to make her keep mum about the incident. According to the FIR filed at Vadaj police station, the woman, 39, had in October 2019 filed a missing person’s complaint over the disappearance of her husband. During the course of the investigation, PSI R R Mishra allegedly molested her and PSI A P Parmar threatened to kill her 18-year-old son if she spoke about the incident with Mishra. A city police official said Mishra had allegedly first called her to the Juna Vadaj police chowky, where he made obscene gestures to her. He later called her to a hotel in Juna Vadaj, where he allegedly tried to disrobe and rape her, the woman’s complaint states. She said she managed to fend him off and was later threatened by Parmar. A police official said the woman had filed an application of complaint in this regard in November. After that, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, P L Mal, took her statement over the allegations. She, however, later withdrew her application, stating that she did not have any grievance with any cops. The complainant last month moved a plea against a head constable with Vadaj police, Mukundsinh Darbar, alleging that he barged into her house and abused her. That plea was investigated by Mishra, said another cop. At present, Vadaj police have filed an FIR for molestation, criminal intimidation and abetment against the two PSIs, who have not yet been arrested. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-psi-booked-for-molestation-another-for-threats/articleshow/76968111.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kanpur||Man who filed case against Vikas Dubey missing with family||KANPUR: Rahul Tiwari (36), a whistleblower who had raised voice against gangster Vikas Dubey, has been missing under highly mysterious circumstances with his wife and children besides his sister-in-law for the past 13 days. Police have launched a search to trace the missing persons, considering threat to their life. To recall, a police team went to Bikru village to nab Dubey on July 2 & 3 night on the FIR lodged by Rahul on June 30. The team, led by deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra, was attacked by the gangster and his aides in which eight police personnel including DSP Mishra were killed. Police sources said that Tiwari, besides being a complainant, is also the prime witness in the case. Tiwari had dared to lodge a complaint against the gangster at the local Chaubeypur police station. Tiwari in his complaint had stated that Dubey was trying to illegally occupy his in-laws’ ancestral land in the name of his relatives in Mohini Nevada village. Prior to that, on June 27, the aides of Vikas had thrashed Tiwari and taken away his motorcycle. Tiwari had then also lodged a complaint in this regard with Chaubeypur police station, but the police did not take any action. Sources said that on July 1, the then SHO of Chaubeypur police station along with 4 cops had reached Tiwari’s village Jadepur for questioning, but they did not take him to the police station and instead reached Dubey’s village, Bikru. When the police reached Bikru, Dubey allegedly reprimanded all the policemen. After that, Tiwari was mercilessly beaten up by Vikas and his aides. The police, who are probing the disappearance, have questioned several friends and relatives of Tiwari, but to no avail. The last time Tiwari had spoken to his mother Suman was on July 2, the day when the ambush had taken place. Senior superintendent of police Dinesh Kumar P said that Tiwari’s life is also in serious danger. “A team led by Deputy SP Sookshm Prakash is searching for him and his family members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-who-filed-case-against-vikas-missing-with-family/articleshow/76968840.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 15, 2020||Ajmer||Jodhpur beats Jaipur in Covid-19 cases as state breaches 25,000 mark||JAIPUR: Jodhpur surpassed Jaipur in cumulative Covid-19 cases after 128 new infections were reported on Tuesday even as the state’s tally crossed the 25,000 mark. On the same day, the number of cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur breached the 4,000 mark too. While cumulative cases in Jaipur were 4002, in Jodhpur it has touched 4,052. Jodhpur is currently at the top of the list of districts reporting highest number of cases followed by Jaipur, Bharatpur (1,995), Pali (1,554), Alwar (1,288) and Bikaner (1,061). On the casualty front, six persons died taking the death count to 524 while 635 others tested positive taking the tally to 25,571 on Tuesday. Rajsamand reported two cases taking its toll to 3, Ajmer reported its 25 fatality, Alwar reported its 8th casualty, Jaipur reported its 176th Covid death while one person from another state also succumbed to the disease. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (128), Bikaner (106), Churu (51), Pali (48), Kota (44), Alwar (38), Jaipur (39), Jalore (31), Barmer (29), Dholpur (26), Bharatpur (11), Udaipur (10, )Ajmer (10), Bhilwara (9), Bundi (8), Karauli (8), Sriganganagar (6), Nagaur (6), Rajsamand (5), Dausa (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Sikar (3), Pratapgarh (2), Jhalawar (2), Hanumangarh (2), Banswara (1), Sirohi (1) and three from other states. In the past 11 days, the state has reported 6,519 new infections with an average of 592 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high cases of 5,878 on Tuesday. It was 5,788 on Monday, 5,779 on Sunday, 5,376 on Saturday, 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday and 4,715 on Wednesday. In Jaipur, 26 different areas reported 39 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Vidhyadhar Nagar (6), Shastri Nagar (4), Jagatpura (2), Mahesh Nagar (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), Jawahar Nagar (2), Jagatpura (2), while one case each was reported from Subhash Chawk, Tonk Phatak, Ramganj, Johri Bazaar, Govindgarh, C-scheme, Brahmpuri, Hasanpura, Jhotwara, Malviya Nagar, Durgapura, Sitapura, Renwal, Sanganer, Mansarovar, Phulera, Tonk Road, Raja Park and Amber.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jodhpur-beats-jaipur-in-corona-cases-as-state-breaches-25k-mark/articleshow/76971853.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Soon, a single drug for multiple diseases||VADODARA: Doctors have often warned against the use of weight-loss drugs due to their possible side effects that even include cancer. But the discovery of a new molecule by researchers at MS University’s faculty of pharmacy has brightened the prospects of developing a medicine that will not only help in treatment of obesity but also anxiety, depression and sexual dysfunction at the same time. Importantly, the drug developed using this compound will have no side effects, the scientists said. On July 7, the government of India’s patent office granted patent for the molecule named ‘benzazepin-2-one derivatives and the process of its preparation. “There are a variety of receptors, which are essential proteins, in the human brain that activate or de-activate several functions through electrical impulses. There is one class of receptors called 5-HT2C that regulate appetite, food consumption, anxiety, depression and sexual dysfunction,” said Dr Prashant Murumkar, assistant professor who under founder dean professor M R Yadav carried out the research with research scholars Mahesh Shidore and Jatin Macchi. The discovery is a result of nearly 8-10 years of research and successful studies on animals. “We received the desired results like reduction in food intake without any side effects,” he said. The patent has been granted for development of the novel molecule as selective 5-HT2C agonist. Agonist is a drug that activates certain receptors in the brain. Shidore is currently working with R&D department of a pharma company in Hyderabad while Machhi is a post-doctoral research associate at the University of Nebraska Medical Centre, United States. The research paper has also been published in the reputed international journal – RSC Advances – published by the UK-based Royal Society of Chemistry. In February this year, the US FDA had ordered immediate withdrawal of a weight-loss medicine Lorcaserin developed by an American pharma company after a study showed that it increased the risk of cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/soon-a-single-drug-for-multiple-diseases/articleshow/76968105.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur beats Jaipur in Covid-19 cases as state breaches 25,000 mark||JAIPUR: Jodhpur surpassed Jaipur in cumulative Covid-19 cases after 128 new infections were reported on Tuesday even as the state’s tally crossed the 25,000 mark. On the same day, the number of cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur breached the 4,000 mark too. While cumulative cases in Jaipur were 4002, in Jodhpur it has touched 4,052. Jodhpur is currently at the top of the list of districts reporting highest number of cases followed by Jaipur, Bharatpur (1,995), Pali (1,554), Alwar (1,288) and Bikaner (1,061). On the casualty front, six persons died taking the death count to 524 while 635 others tested positive taking the tally to 25,571 on Tuesday. Rajsamand reported two cases taking its toll to 3, Ajmer reported its 25 fatality, Alwar reported its 8th casualty, Jaipur reported its 176th Covid death while one person from another state also succumbed to the disease. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (128), Bikaner (106), Churu (51), Pali (48), Kota (44), Alwar (38), Jaipur (39), Jalore (31), Barmer (29), Dholpur (26), Bharatpur (11), Udaipur (10, )Ajmer (10), Bhilwara (9), Bundi (8), Karauli (8), Sriganganagar (6), Nagaur (6), Rajsamand (5), Dausa (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Sikar (3), Pratapgarh (2), Jhalawar (2), Hanumangarh (2), Banswara (1), Sirohi (1) and three from other states. In the past 11 days, the state has reported 6,519 new infections with an average of 592 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high cases of 5,878 on Tuesday. It was 5,788 on Monday, 5,779 on Sunday, 5,376 on Saturday, 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday and 4,715 on Wednesday. In Jaipur, 26 different areas reported 39 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Vidhyadhar Nagar (6), Shastri Nagar (4), Jagatpura (2), Mahesh Nagar (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), Jawahar Nagar (2), Jagatpura (2), while one case each was reported from Subhash Chawk, Tonk Phatak, Ramganj, Johri Bazaar, Govindgarh, C-scheme, Brahmpuri, Hasanpura, Jhotwara, Malviya Nagar, Durgapura, Sitapura, Renwal, Sanganer, Mansarovar, Phulera, Tonk Road, Raja Park and Amber.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-beats-jaipur-in-corona-cases-as-state-breaches-25k-mark/articleshow/76968838.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||Nandurbar getting Covid testing facilities||Nashik: The state government has decided to put in place a robust Covid-19 apparatus in the tribal-dominated Nandurbar district of north Maharashtra. District collector Rajendra Barhud said the district administration has started carrying out antigen tests and has put in place equipment to conduct tests using Trunat technique at the civil hospital over the past couple of days. “Within the next 15-20 days, we shall be getting a state-of-the-art machine to conduct tests using real-time (RT) PCR tests. Since the machine is being imported from Singapore, it is taking a little time,” he said. These testing facilities would be boon for the district administration as the waiting time for lab reports would reduce significantly. The administration has been sending the swab samples to the lab at Dhule’s government medical college hospital and reports come not before 48 hours. At times, the reports may even take about 5-6 days. “With the testing facilities set up in the civil hospital, we can immediately start treatment of positive patients,” added Bharud. So far, 272 people have tested positive for Covid-19 and there are 81 active cases. A total of 13 patients have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-getting-covid-testing-facilities/articleshow/76968097.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||School built in Aravalis, gets HSPCB notice||Gurgaon: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has issued a show-cause notice to a city-based private school for allegedly violating the Aravali Notification Act. As per forest department records, the school has been constructed on ‘gair mumkin pahar’ (uncultivable hill) which falls under the Aravali Notification. Such areas are protected land where construction of buildings, roads, electrification and cutting of trees is not permitted. In the notice, sent last week, Pathways World school has been asked to reply within 15 days. The school was visited by HSPCB officials on June 30. It was observed that the school was constructed without obtaining prior environmental clearance, which is violation of the provision of Environmental Protection and Aravali Notification Act, the notice stated. “Thereby, you are asked to reply within 15 days as to why action may not be initiated against you,” it added. Meanwhile, the school said it has not violated any norms. “The claims are inaccurate and we have not violated the Aravali Notification Act,” a representative of the school said. In 2009, a case was filed in the Faridabad environment court under against the school for violation of Aravali Notification Act, in which the accused were acquitted from the charges as the area was not considered as gair mumkin pahar at the time. The notice pointed out, however, that the district administration of Gurgaon had in a letter on June 29 clarified that the the land on which the school was built is gair mumkin pahar. “This development comes after a recent direction by the district administration to make corrections in the revenue records,” HSPCB regional officer (Gurgaon) Shakti Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/school-built-in-aravalis-gets-hspcb-notice/articleshow/76968843.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 15, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: 9 tonnes of PDS rice and flour seized||TRICHY: Trichy city police and civil supplies-crime investigation department (CID) seized over nine tonnes of rice and flour meant for public distribution system (PDS) from a go-down in Ariyamangalam in Trichy on Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, police conducted a vehicle check in the area. Police intercepted a mini-truck and checked the vehicle and found rice bags with 3300kg of rice loaded in it. Further investigation rice meant for supply in government fair price shops that was being smuggled. The police informed the civil supplies- crime investigation department in Trichy. The special wing’s investigation revealed that three people -S Ismail, 39 of Ariyamangalam, Ramamoorthy, 47 and Shaik Alavudeen, 32-were involved in stocking PDS rice and making flour out of it. They would then sell the flour in the market. Civil-supplies CID police said that Ismail owned a godown for stocking the rice and flour made out of it. The team found three tonnes of rice and 2400kg of flour and granules in the godown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/9-tonnes-of-pds-rice-and-flour-seized/articleshow/76968846.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district reports 187 new cases, 8 more deaths||Nashik district has registered 187 new Covid-19 cases, including 168 from the city alone, in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 7,385. The district also reported eight deaths on Tuesday. Of theser, six deaths were reported from the city. The death toll in the district stands at 349, including 181 deaths from the city. In addition, 177 people were discharged from various hospitals on Tuesday, including 130 from the city. At present, the district has registered a total of 2,070 active cases, of which 1,400 are from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-district-reports-187-new-cases-8-more-deaths/articleshow/76968119.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Madurai||South TN sees highest numbers: 21 deaths, 1,561 cases||Madurai/ Trichy: A record 1,561 new Covid-19 positive cases including a mere 10 imported cases were reported in the 10 southern districts of the state on Tuesday. The Sunday’s tally of 1,249 cases was the highest number so far. In all, 22,107 cases have been reported in south Tamil Nadu till day, of which 12,178 cases (55% of the total cases) are active. The region also recorded 21 deaths on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the central region of the state also recorded the highest single-day spike of 271 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 5,278 on Tuesday. According to Tuesday’s medical bulletin, nine deaths were reported in Trichy, Thanjavur and Pudukottai that happened on July 10, July 12 and July 13. All the patients were aged above 50 except a 45 year old patient from Thanjavur. The total number of deaths was 56 in the region. The 21 deaths recorded in the south TN are also the highest so far in a day in the region. This takes the total number of deaths in the region to 272. The number of fresh cases in the region on Tuesday is a little more than one-third of the total cases in the state on Tuesday. The number of deaths in the region is close to a third (31%) of the total of 67 deaths in the state. Four deaths each were reported in Madurai, Dindigul, Kanyakumari and Sivaganga, two in Virudhunagar and one each in Theni, Tuticorin and Tenkasi. Three deaths in Madurai were at the Government Rajaji Hospital and one at a private hospital. It included a 60-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment for breast cancer. Deaths in Sivaganga included a 13-year-old girl with chronic kidney disease. In Tuticorin, nearly 200 people who attended the funeral of an aged man before he turned positive were asked to be under isolation till they tested negative. The aged man from Toovipuram was admitted to the Thoothukudi medical college and hospital on Monday morning. Swabs samples were taken from him but he died the same day before results were declared. Kin of the man forced the hospital authorities to hand over the body as they were convinced that he died of other illnesses. They also cremated the body in the Tuticorin corporation crematorium before the civic body and health officials reached the spot. For the second day in succession, Madurai (450) reported more than 400 cases taking the total cases to 6,990 including 4,199 active cases. For the first time, seven districts recorded more than 100 cases in a day. The other districts are Virudhunagar (328), Dindigul (157), Kanyakumari (122), Sivagangai (113), Tenkasi (103) and Tuticorin (112). Clearing backlog of samples is cited as one of the main reasons for the spiralling cases in Madurai, Virudhunagar and Dindigul. While only 25 cases were reported in Virudhunagar on Monday, Tuesday’s 328 include backlog in the data entry from the previous day. Only 66 cases were recorded in Dindigul from July 7 to 13 but it increased to 157 on Tuesday. For the first time, Sivagangai recorded more than 100 cases in a day. With 1,003 cases it is the 8th district in the southern region to cross 1,000 cases. Kanyakumari, Madurai, Tenkasi, Theni, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar have more active cases than those discharged. Tirunelveli, Theni, Tuticorin, Kanyakumari and Ramanathapuram districts saw drop in cases in comparison to the last few days. Meanwhile, Trichy added six more deaths to take its toll to 27. The district also registered 117 cases making it the highest among the eight districts in the central region on Tuesday. Ariyalur witnessed a spurt in fresh Covid-19 positive cases with 29 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Out of the 29 cases, 20 were employees of APN Textile outlet situated in MP Kovil Street in Ariyalur town that had reported two positive cases. The fresh cases were contacts. In Thanjavur, 29 new positive cases were registered on Tuesday. As 20 people from Darasuram market in Kumbakonam alone tested positive, the collector ordered to shut down the market. Meanwhile, traders from Mayiladuthurai have announced to shut their shops till July 19. Covid-19 cases were also reported from Pudukottai (56), Tiruvarur (19), Nagapattinam (15), Karur (5) and Perambalur (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-sees-highest-numbers-21-deaths-1561-cases/articleshow/76968841.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More areas declared containment zones in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: More regions in the capital district were declared as containment zones as Covid-19 cases continue to be reported in large numbers. These include regions under city corporation limits, where already a triple lockdown is in force, as well as wards under panchayat limits. District collector Navjot Khosa on Tuesday declared all wards under Anchuthengu and Parassala gram panchayats as containment zones. Along with this, several wards under Chirayinkeezhu, Azhoor, Poovachal, Vilappil, Karumkulam, Chenkal and Panavoor gram panchayats were also declared as containment zones. Ottappana, Perumathura, Pozhikkara, Pulunthuruthi, Muthalappozhi and Arayathuruthi are the wards that were declared as containment zones under Chirayinkeezhu gram panchayat. Madanvila ward under Azhoor gram panchayat; Kuzhakkad and Kovilvila wards under Poovachal gram panchayat; Chovallur ward under Vilappil gram panchayat; Pallom, Irayimmanthura, Pulluvila and Chembakaramanthura wards under Krumukulam gram panchayat; Keezhkolla, Vattavila, Kottamam, Arayoor East and Thottinkara wards under Chenkal gram panchayat; and Kothakulangara, Aattukal, Panavoor and Vazhod wards under Panavoor gram panchayat are other wards that became containment zones. In the city, Venganoor, Kottapuram, Vizhinjam, Harbour, Vellar, and Thiruvallom wards are the new containment zones. Meanwhile, all wards under Aryanad gram panchayat were removed from the list of containment zones after all latest tests turned negative. Similarly, Vazhuthoor, Chemmaruthimukku, Kuravara, Thalayal, Thrikkannapuram Tagore Road, Vellanad Town and Kannampally were also removed from the containment zone list. The district collector said that all pre-scheduled government exams can be conducted in containment zones by following strict Covid-19 protocols. Special classrooms must be arranged for candidates coming from other containment zones. With majority of the new containment zones being coastal villages, the police are taking extra care in communicating with the people and sensitizing them about the government measures to prevent any untoward incidents like that occurred in Poonthura. “We have already met the political and religious leaders in these places and held talks,” said Rural SP B Ashok. He said that in the case of Anchuthengu, where fishermen have resorted to violent protest measures in the past for various causes, talks had commenced as early as four days ago. He said that additional manpower was provided to the police in containment zones by mobilizing force from Special Armed Police camp in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-areas-declared-containment-zones/articleshow/76968125.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||‘Refusal’ death: Calcutta HC asks state to conduct autopsy on 18-year-old||KOLKATA: Calcutta High Court on Tuesday ordered the state to conduct a post-mortem examination on the 18-year-old from Belghoria, who’s suspected to have died of Covid and whose family had alleged medical negligence and apathy as he was refused by four hospitals last Friday before getting admitted at Kolkata Medical College and Hospital where he died the same night. Justice Debangsu Basak in his eight-page order directed that the post mortem is to be video recorded. After post-mortem, the HC said that the parents should be allowed to see the mortal remains of their son. They will also be allowed to undertake religious rituals at a state-designated place, according to ICMR guidelines before cremation. The parents had moved HC on Monday alleging police inaction. “This is the first time in the country that a Covid suspect’s body will undergo post mortem examination,” said Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, senior lawyer, who represented the boy’s parents. State counsel Amitesh Banerjee said he was not sure if this is the first case of a Covid post mortem. Additional advocate-general Abhratosh Majumdar told the court that the state will conduct the post mortem but cannot allow the parents to be present during it. He said the state will follow ICMR guidelines in conducting post mortem and also in dealing with the body. ICMR guidelines specify that invasive technique should not be adopted for forensic autopsy in Covid-19 death cases as mortuary staff are exposed to potentially dangerous health risks due to organ fluids and secretions even after taking the highest precautions. The order, however, clarified that the court did not decide the issue as to whether the boy died due to Covid-19. State counsel Banerjee said he was not sure if this was the first ever case of such post mortem examination but the state additional advocate general Abhrotosh Majumdar and Banerjee appearing for state submitted to the court that state has no objection to conduct the post-mortem and that the state will permit petitioners to perform last rites at the designated place before taking the body to a crematorium designated for disposal of Covid patients. The entire process will be video-graphed, he said. The boy’s father said: “I welcome the order. The law has been kind to us much in contrary to the inhuman manner in which we have been treated by hospital authorities, doctors and police. We want justice for our son and punishment for all those for whose negligence my son had to die such a painful death.” He added that even on Tuesday morning when he went to Kolkata Medical College and Hospital to collect some documents regarding his son’s treatment, the officials refused to meet him. “One of the staff told me that since I have taken the matter to court, I should go there to get the documents,” he said, adding he is yet to get a genuine swab test report that can confirm if his son had died of Covid. A resident of Ichhapore in North 24 Parganas, the boy was first taken to a hospital in Kamarhati early on Friday. On being refused admission, the family took him to a private nursing home in Belghoria where doctors allegedly refused to check him till the parents sought police help. Within minutes, the boy was allegedly declared Covid positive on a hand-written paper and asked to go to a state-run Covid hospital. The family then took him to a government hospital in Kamarhati where he was allegedly left unattended for hours. He was finally taken to the government hospital in Kolkata, where the authorities first allegedly refused admission saying there was no intimation from health department. But after waiting for over five hours, when his mother threatened to kill herself, the authorities admitted the boy who died around 9.45pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/refusal-death-hc-asks-state-to-conduct-autopsy-on-18-yr-old/articleshow/76968122.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
July 15, 2020||India||Abide by Army’ app ban or quit, HC tells Lt Col||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Tuesday took a senior Indian Army officer to task for challenging a recent policy banning armed forces personnel from using social networking platforms. The HC said he must either abide by the mandate of a disciplined force or put in his papers and declined to grant any interim relief to Lt Col P K Choudhary. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon said that when it has not even found a reason yet to entertain the plea, “the question of granting any interim relief does not arise… especially when the matter has the potential of concerning the safety and security of the country”. The judges made it clear to the officer that he had a choice to make and asked him to delete his FB account as the policy to ban the use of social networking platforms for Army personnel was taken keeping in view the security of the nation. It said he can create a new social media account later. But Choudhary said once deleted all the data, contacts and friends in his FB account would be “irretrievably lost” and the loss would be “irreversible”. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/abide-by-army-app-ban-or-quit-hc-tells-lt-col/articleshow/76969635.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Surat||Surat: Trader ends life fearing Covid-19 infection||SURAT: A 65-year-old diamond trader ended life by jumping into Tapi River allegedly out of fear of getting Covid-19 infection. The body of the deceased Vinod Chatrabhuj was found on Tuesday. Police said that Chatrabhuj, a resident of L H Road in Varachha, was seen near Kamnath Temple on bank of river Tapi. Police had recovered his scooter near Kapodra Bridge after which it was suspected that he may have jumped into the river. The body was fished out by a team of fire brigade divers. “My father went into self-quarantine since last two days after he got fever. He was worried that he had Covid-19 infection and was anxious since then,” said Chatrabhuj’s son Sarthak. He further said that his father was not facing any financial or domestic issue. “The family members have claimed that the deceased feared that he has coronavirus infection,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/trader-ends-life-fearing-ncov-infection/articleshow/76967196.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kanpur||GSVM medical college’s steno tests +ve for corona||Kanpur: The steno, working in the office of the principal of GSVM medical college, tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. His sample, which was found infected in the test done by the true knot machine, has now been sent to the Covid lab for confirmation. The office staff along with principal Dr R B Kamal have quarantined themselves and would be tested soon. According to Prof R B Kamal, the sample of the steno after being found corona positive in the true knot machine had been sent to the Covid -9 lab for confirmation. The office has been sanitized and all those who were in contact with the steno had been asked for self quarantine, he added. On the other hand, GSVM medical college sources expressed apprehension that the steno might have infected several others as a lot of people used to meet him. Meanwhile, the dialysis machine of Covid-19 hospital in LLR hospital was found out of order on Monday when it was to be used for dialysis of a corona infected person. The doctors, when checked the machine, found that its sensor was not working. They informed the additional director medical and health Dr RP Yadav who also manages dialysis machine at Rama medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gsvm-medical-colleges-steno-tests-ve-for-corona/articleshow/76968853.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||Goat export from Nashik hit due to Covid-19||Nashik: The export of sheep and goats to Sharjah has been severely affected this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Halcon, a joint venture of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) and Container Corporation of India (Concor), begins export of sheep and goats via air cargo from the Nashik airport (Ozar) every year by June-end. This year, the export is yet to start due to the lack of immigration clearance. “We are yet to get immigration clearance from the Union government due to Covid-19 pandemic. We have already applied for it. We are also in touch with the government,” said an official of Halcon. The export of animals began in 2016. Overall, 12,356 goats and sheep worth Rs 3.46 crore were exported to Sharjah from Nashik’s air cargo complex on eight flights in July and August that year. Last year, Halcon exported 1.5 lakh sheep and goats through 120 cargo flights directly from Nashik airport to Sharjah. Export by sea is not possible during the 4-month rainy season (June to September). As there has been a good demand for sheep and goats in the Gulf countries, Halcon has been making efforts to increase exports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/goat-export-from-nashik-hit-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/76968124.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||HC stays FIR against MCG chief, HSVP officials||Gurgaon: In a relief to the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG), Gurgaon administrator of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and other senior officials, the Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the registration of an FIR against these officials over illegal construction in Sector 94. A local court in Gurgaon had earlier directed that an FIR be filed against them under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. The order is significant as it will put a stop to the practice of lower courts issuing directions for registration of FIRs against officials in various cases under this Act. Justice Alka Sarin of the high court, in an order issued on Tuesday, observed that Section 45(1A) of the Act specifically lays down that no police officer shall investigate into an offence under this Act unless specifically authorised by the central government. The lower court had directed registration of FIR without approval from the Centre as per the law, the order said. “There has been a trend of filing cases under this particular Act. The HC order is likely to put an end to this practice,” a senior government official said. At present, nine different cases are pending in Gurgaon court under this Act. Gurgaon resident Raman Sharma had last month filed a case before a local court under the Act alleging failure of government officials — including the MCG commissioner, the HSVP (Gurgaon) administrator and the HSVP estate officer, among others — in preventing illegal construction in Sector 94.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-stays-fir-against-mcg-chief-hsvp-officials/articleshow/76968855.cms||Bagish Jha
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||BJP MLA’s faded memory acquits his party colleague in 25-year-old case||Vadodara: In a 25-year-old case, BJP MLA from Dabhoi Shailesh Mehta alias Sotta and two others were acquitted by a local judicial magistrate’s court as the witnesses including Sotta’s colleague, but a one-time arch rival, from the party, MLA Madhu Shrivastava could not relate with the incident that had happened in 1995.The case pertains to an offence registered against Sotta and four others, two of whom passed away during trial, at Panigate police for violation of public notification banning gathering of four or more persons at a place. The other accused have been identified as Kanu Rabari, Nanda Sutariya, late Bhupendra Rathod and late Rajni Shah. The five accused and 50 to 60 other people had allegedly gathered at the residential society for a public meeting ahead of gram panchayat polls without any proper permissions on June 18 in 1995.Interestingly, the offence was registered based on a call made by Madhu Shrivastava to police control room informing illegal gathering at Sattadhar Society on Waghodiya Road. But, when Shrivastava was examined during the trial, he said that several times people make calls in his name and he does not remember making any such call on the day of the incident. The BJP MLA from Waghodiya also told the court that he does not remember who had gathered at Sattadhar Society and for what purpose and he does not have any information about it. Shrivastava, however, was not declared hostile as he was not remembering anything.During the trial, two material witnesses turned hostile while there were discrepancies in the statements of cops and due procedures were also not followed by them.“Our major argument was that the compliance under the criminal procedure code (CrPC) was not carried out in this case and also that there were no independent witnesses that could prove prosecution’s case,” said advocate Hitesh Gupta, who represented the accused. Gupta said that under section 195 of CrPC, the officer who has issued the public notification has to register the complaint. In this case, the notification was issued by the police commissioner and the complainant was the then inspector of Panigate police station. While submitting the charge-sheet, the investigating officer had not submitted any order of the police commissioner allowing the inspector to submit a complaint about violation of public notification. Considering the arguments, the court of additional chief judicial magistrate M B Parmar acquitted the three accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-mlas-faded-memory-acquits-his-party-colleague-in-25-year-old-case/articleshow/76966343.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 15, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Abishekapuram tops with 274 Covid-19 cases||TRICHY: K Abishekapuram zone in Trichy Corporation reported 15 cases on Tuesday, surpassing Srirangam for the total number of Covid-19 cases with 274 cases. The zone, with tightly packed houses and commercial establishments, accounts for the maximum number of fresh cases recorded in the city in the last few days. Since the cases are linked to local transmission, the civic body is planning to establish a massive containment zone similar to Big Bazaar Street. Comprising old city area, K Abishekapuram with 15 wards encompasses commercial cum residential streets. Since July 9, K Abishekapuram zone has been reporting an average of 20 new cases per day. The total number cases in the zone doubled in 11 days. The zone now accounts for 35% of the fresh cases reported in the city daily followed by Srirangam, Ponmalai and Ariyamangalam. The sudden spurt in cases was attributed to two reasons - local transmission in congested areas including Woraiyur and Puthur; and more people volunteering to test for mild or no symptoms. Since July 1, the zone has been recording at least 5-9 cases per day coming from a single house, all primary family contacts. “Initially, returnees from abroad and Chennai were spreading the infection. Now, local transmission is the reason for the surge. At least 30 cases were reported due to local transmission in the last week,” a corporation official said. A mobile testing centre was opened by the civic body on Tuesday to collect swabs from city residents. In Thillai Nagar, 10 cases were reported from two houses of entrepreneurs running mobile service and money exchange centres. Similarly, in Vaathukkara street, 10 cases were reported in the house of a TV repairman. The shopkeepers contracting the infection from hotspots had spread to their families. Multiple sanitary workers employed in the micro compost centre in Panikkan street and skilled workers including plumbers without travel history have tested positive in K Abishekapuram zone. MGR Nagar near Trichy MGM government hospital, Vaathukkara Street near Woraiyur, Thennur and Thillai Nagar had containment zones earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/abishekapuram-tops-with-274-cases/articleshow/76968854.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 15, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 helpdesks at Trichy station await train operations||TRICHY: The recently-established exclusive helpdesks on platform number one of the Trichy Junction railway station, to protect frontline staff involved in verification of tickets and other documents of passengers, have gone unutilised, following the stoppage of train services. Ever since the railways started operating Shramik specials to transport guest workers, railway staff like train ticket examiners (TTE) and those from the district administration are forced to move closer with the passengers. In order to prevent this, six counters with CCTV cameras, computers were set up to prevent them from contracting possible Covid-19 infection by avoiding personal contact as well as maintain social distancing. Now, the helpdesks are waiting for resumption of train operations, which would come in handy, said officials. “This would be helpful for frontline workers from both railways and revenue departments. The railway staff will sit in the cabin. When passengers place their tickets below the CCTV camera fixed there, staff can view the same from their computer monitor fixed inside the cabin without any personal contact. The same way, revenue officials can check identification proofs such as Aadhaar card, voter’s ID or driving license by maintaining proper distance,” a senior official from the division said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-helpdesks-at-trichy-station-await-train-operations/articleshow/76968857.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Schools told to close division if Class I has less than 40 kids||Ahmedabad: The district primary education officer (DPEO) and district education officer (DEO) issued a circular an ordered an inquiry into admissions to Class I at schools after they received complaints about schools admitting fewer than the permissible 40 children.“If the schools do not admit students in the approved numbers (40), they have been told to close the division of the class. There is a lot of anger in the schools against this decision,” said sources close to the development. The authorities had recently issued a circular in this regard and an agitation is likely to erupt over this in the next few days if this decision is not withdrawn, sources added.This was stated in the recent circular issued, and the circular needs to be withdrawn, they added. According to information available, the DEO and DPEO have asked the schools to complete enrolment of students by July 13. The All Gujarat State School Governing Body has approached the Gujarat state education minister to avoid a reduction in the approved classes even if the numbers of students per class is low, in view of the current situation of the pandemic. The order for reduction of classes is not valid given the current situation, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-told-to-close-division-if-class-i-has-less-than-40-kids/articleshow/76968128.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||NMC to appoint 20 lab experts||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has interviewed 41 candidates for 20 lab technician posts, the induction process of which will be conducted within the next three-four days. These technicians will be appointed on honorarium basis for a period of three months. According to civic officials, appointments of lab technicians will help the NMC to increase swab testing of Covid suspects in containment areas of the city. In addition, the NMC has also issued appointment letters to 50 wards boys who are expected to join shortly. The walk-in interviews for lab technicians was held at the office of the additional municipal commissioner at NMC headquarters in Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-appoint-20-lab-experts/articleshow/76968126.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||High court directs Chandigarh to register artwork car||CHANDIGARH: In a significant order, the Punjab and Haryana high court directed the Chandigarh administration to register a car painted with artwork after the transport department had refused to do so, claiming the artwork had changed the vehicle’s character from ‘white colour’ to ‘multicolour.’ The owner of the car had purchased the vehicle from an European Union diplomat posted in Delhi because of the artwork painted by renowned Mexican artist Senkoe. “Any person who drives upon the GT Road will see slogans, quotations, colourful paint jobs on the back/front of trucks that ply from Jammu and Kashmir to Kanyakumari. Some of the standard ones are ‘OK TATA’, ‘Horn Please’, ‘Hum Do Hamare Do’, ‘Mera Bharat Mahaan’, ‘Use Dipper at Night,’ etc. The trucks are beautifully decorated with artwork done on panels or other parts. Apart from that, cars too are plying with stickers plastered all over them of various countries that the owners have travelled to, the most common being ‘Ï LOVE NEW YORK.’ Bumper stickers are put on cars, stickers which show a picture of a baby in the car, which reads ‘Baby on Board,’ can regularly be seen. Apart from this, advertisements are seen painted upon buses, but such paintjob again would not imply that either the basic colour of the vehicle has been changed, or has been altered in any fashion,” observed the high court while allowing the registration of the car painted with artwork. Justice Jaishree Thakur passed the order on Tuesday while allowing a petition filed by Ranit Malhotra, a Chandigarh-based lawyer seeking directions to register the vehicle described as Ambassador Grand Harit-C-1800 (BSIII), 2009 Model in his name. The petitioner had purchased the vehicle from an European Union diplomat posted in Delhi on July 23, 2019. The petitioner obtained a ‘no-objection certificate’ from the registering authorities in Delhi and also completed all formalities before purchasing the vehicle in question. The reason for purchasing the vehicle was the artwork on the body of the car was painted by renowned Mexican street artist Senkoe. The petitioner applied to the authority at Chandigarh for registering the vehicle along with all necessary documents but he was refused on the ground that the colour of the car had been changed from ‘white’ to ‘multicolour’. The petitioner, however, argued that the body of the car had only been partly painted over. Hearing all the parties, the high court observed that the reason for denying registration merely on the ground that there is artwork on the body of the vehicle, where the base remains white, defies logic. “Any reasonable person can easily make out that a white car had some artwork done upon it. Like a canvas with a spray of flowers. The base colour of the canvas would remain as it is,” observed the HC while directing the UT authorities to register the car within two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-directs-chandigarh-to-register-artwork-car/articleshow/76968848.cms||Ajay Sura
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Help pours for migrant’s daughter who scored 80.4% in Class X||ROHTAK: Two days after Pooja Rani, daughter of a migrant worker living in a 10x10 tin shed house scored 80.4% marks in the Class X Board of School Education, Haryana (BSEH) exam, offers to help her started pouring in. Pooja’s father Kailash Kumar is a daily wager and her mother does odd jobs like cleaning. Pooja shares the makeshift shed with her parents and three sisters. The foundation of her brilliant academic record was laid five years ago under a school run under a streetlight. Her schoolmates also battle hardship and deprivation. Puja aspires to be a teacher to help children of migrant workers. Her alma-mater, Gandhi School, is being run free of cost by social activist Naresh Kumar. Talking to TOI, Kumar said several people, including a well-known industrialist contacted him to sponsor Pooja’s education till her post-graduation and beyond. “My phone has been ringing for the last two days with calls from Faridabad, Panchkula and outside Haryana with philanthropists offering to sponsor her education and bear other expenses,” Kumar said, adding that none of them wanted their names disclosed. While he expressed gratitude for the offers, he said he wanted Pooja to focus on completing her schooling from Rohtak. “We will seek help for higher studies after Pooja clears her Class XII,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/help-pours-for-migrants-daughter-who-scored-80-4-in-class-x/articleshow/76968852.cms||Sat Singh
July 15, 2020||Madurai||No curbs on paracetamol tablet sale: state to HC||MADURAI: The state government on Tuesday informed the Madras high court that it had not passed any orders restricting the sale of paracetamol tablets at pharmacies. Following this, the court disposed of a plea which sought to ensure that paracetamol tablets are sold at pharmacies without prescription. The special government pleader V R Shanmuganathan submitted that the petition was filed based on surmises since no order was passed by the government restricting its sale. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam passed the order while hearing the public interest litigation filed by A Joel Sugumar from Madurai, who is the coordinator of the Democratic Corruption Liberation Front, a registered political party. The petitioner stated that as per Schedule K of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, paracetamol tablets have been classified as household remedy. Paracetamol, which is a common painkiller and used to reduce body temperature can be sold at the pharmacy counters even without prescription from a registered medical practitioner. He stated that people who are suffering from fever and cold other than Covid-19 purchase paracetamol tablets as a remedy. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, oral instructions were given to the pharmacies not to sell the tablets without prescriptions, he claimed. He further stated that pharmacies are informing the same to the public. This restriction would cause difficulty to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-curbs-on-paracetamol-tablet-sale-state-to-hc/articleshow/76968878.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram reports 201 new Covid-19 cases including isolated ones||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Clusters of Covid-19 cases in coastal areas are swiftly branching out to new belts as 201 cases were recorded in the district on Tuesday. In addition to large community clusters, isolated cases with no known sources of infection were reported at Anayara and also in Jagathy where a 2-year-old child tested positive. The positive case of the 2-year-old at Jagathy has puzzled the officials. Her father had recently attended the post-funeral rites of a person at Jagathy which was also attended by an Asha worker from Aryanad. After this Asha worker tested positive, around 14 persons were subjected to sample testing and were quarantined. While the father of the child was tested negative, her test results came out positive. Her mother is also uninfected. Meanwhile, the health wing of city corporation carried out the burial of a Poonthura resident on Tuesday. The deceased identified as Aruldasan, 70, was admitted to Medical College Hospital and his test results reportedly came out positive on Tuesday. The funeral was held at St Thomas Church as per Covid protocol. TOI could not confirm from Medical College Hospital authorities whether the person was tested positive for Covid-19. Poonthura cluster, which has been regarded as the largest in the district, reported 49 cases while Pulluvila added 13 more cases, indicative of a new coastal cluster. Six more cases were reported from Poovachal three days after a 27-year-old tested positive here. Four women were tested positive at Anayara on Tuesday. More cases also emerged from Beemapally, Vallakadavu, Kaliyikkavila and Parassala. Fresh cases emerged from Anchuthengu as well, adding to coastal clusters already being reported at Vizhinjam, Venganoor, Perumathura, Poonthura, Pulluvila and Beemapally. Around 100 cases have been reported from within corporation wards. As many as 919 people were brought under disease surveillance on Tuesday. A total of 730 people completed the observation period without showing any symptoms. As many as 18,516 people are under room isolation and 1,637 people are under institutional quarantine in district. A total of 121 people were admitted to various hospitals in the district with symptoms and 45 people were discharged. As many as 806 people are under observation in hospitals. A total of 823 samples were sent for testing on Tuesday. Results of 601 samples were received on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-reports-201-new-cases-including-isolated-ones/articleshow/76968133.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lights, camera on shopping list as music flows online||KOLKATA: It is no longer just about shooting in available light at home with a mobile phone and uploading their videos. Professional musicians are now buying lights and camera before they begin their acts online. With recorded-at-home paid online concerts being the way forward, most are now consciously investing on multiple camera set-up and proper lights. Pt Bickram Ghosh understood this need way back in 1991 when he bought his personal microphone. Some 15 years ago, he set up his own studio which now has a full audio and video production. During the pandemic when he couldn’t drive to his studio, he got an LED light that was to be used for zoom meetings from his residence. “I have at least five phone holding stands including a tripod at home. While recording a video called ‘Twins’ from home, I used two static cameras and one hand-held which was operated by my wife. I used wave recording on my phone that I sent to my audio engineer who did the post-production before we uploaded the video,” Ghosh said, adding that he recently ordered a chroma screen for my video recordings. At his studio, he has two musically-inclined cinematographers on his payroll to shoot his videos. On July 5, singer-song writer Rupam Islam had his big ticketed show that was streamed live on Facebook from his residence. Six hundred viewers paid to watch this show. Before this happened, he bought mood lights, stage lights and high-end web cameras. According to Rupsha Dasgupta, manager of ‘Fossils’, “Initially, Rupam and many others went live on their Facebook pages and sang casually. Then, we decided to stop doing that and come up with a solution that’s dramatically different so that people pay money to watch the shows.” The Fossils thinktank decided to bring their studio equipment home. “We started using our sound cards for the audio. Remotely, our sound engineer, Prasenjit Chakrabutty, set up the sound by controlling my laptop from his house,” Dasgupta said. The total expense was Rs 11,000 for the webcam and approximately Rs 8,000 for lights. “A Fossils fan went to a shop and through video call showed us the lights. We bought stage LED coloured lights and spot lights with regulator control to dim,” said Dasgupta. The show was shot with two fixed cameras that Dasgupta was controlling from her laptop on an Open Broadcaster Software. Pt Tejendra Narayan Mazumdar has bought high-end mixer, microphones with high-end speakers and sound cards. Ghosh admits that many of his musician friends who would tease him for investing on gadgets have had a change of heart during lockdown. “They’ve noticed the difference in presentation when these gadgets are used and some have also asked me where I get them from,” Ghosh added. But, just buying gadgets will not work. Replacing technicians with self-service after sourcing online information on how to do lights and camera might not produce great result. Sound engineer and designer for music and films Abhijit (Tenny) Roy, who is a founder member of ‘Chandrabindoo’, feels that “social distancing has to be replaced by collaborative effort”. “The effort has to be inclusive,” Roy said. For best results, Ghosh said, “You have to sacrifice some luxuries to have a team who can professionally use these gadgets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/musicians-go-shopping-for-gadgets/articleshow/76968139.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 15, 2020||Goa||WRD to release excess water from Anjunem dam||Keri: The water resources department (WRD) on Tuesday evening took the decision to release excess water from the Anjunem dam after the water level in the reservoir touched 86.41m. “Impounding of water in the Anjunem dam had commenced from June 22. The water level in the dam as on July 14 (Tuesday) is 86.38m and it is envisaged that the dam will fill up to the full reservoir level of 89.6m within a few days, necessitating release of excess water,” executive engineer WRD M P Huddelgaddi said. The catchment area of the Anjunem irrigation project lies in the Western Ghat region of Sattari, which has been receiving heavy rainfall since June. Till date, the Anjunem area has received 1,966mm of rain, leading to 2,936.1ham of water collecting in the dam. “The excess water in the dam will be routed through Costi nullah and into the Valvonti river, normally during low tide. Hence, there is a possibility of water level in rivers rising. Villagers have been instructed to be cautious while washing clothes, bathing and taking their cattle to the riverside. They have been told to avoid crossing rivers,” Huddelgaddi said. Last year, on July 23, 2019, the dam’s reservoir had attained a water level of 84.28m and on July 29 the reservoir level had touched 87.98m. After touching the full level, it became necessary for the WRD to release the excess water during the low tide. However, it at times leads to flooding in areas of Keri, Morlem, Poriem, Sakhali and Karapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrd-to-release-excess-water-from-anjunem-dam/articleshow/76968884.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 15, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: One more corporation employee in main office tests Covid-19 positive||TRICHY: A 35-year-old junior assistant with the Trichy Corporation tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The woman works at the main office on the Bharathidasan Road. She is one of the 15 employees working in the general section of the civic body. The woman is the third staff in the building to be infected. She had no travel history. Earlier, two male assistants from the same department tested positive. The non-field worker developed Covid-19 symptoms a few days ago. She had not attended office since then, an official said. Swab samples of 20 other employees of the corporation were collected for Covid-19 test. While employees requested a temporary closure of the department, higher officials said the office space had already been disinfected. “We are screening all the visitors to check their body temperature. There is, however, no necessity to close the office as the employees who developed symptoms did not attend office,” a senior corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/one-more-corpn-employee-in-main-office-tests-positive/articleshow/76968870.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Justice Inderjit is Punjab education tribunal chief||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has appointed Justice Inderjit Singh, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, as the chairperson of the state education tribunal. Chief minister Amarinder Singh has cleared the appointment after Justice Inderjit’s name got the nod from Punjab and Haryana high court Chief Justice Ravi Shankar Jha on the state government’s recommendation. His term would last three years. Justice Inderjit was elevated from district and sessions judge in Jalandhar to high court judge on June 15, 2012, and he superannuated on October 23 last year. . Born on October 24, 1957, he completed LLM in 1982 from the Panjab University, and joined Punjab Civil Services (judicial branch) in 1983. After his promotion as district and sessions judge in April 2006, he also served in Patiala and Faridkot districts. The post of state education tribunal’s chairperson had been lying vacant since December, after previous chairperson Justice Arun Bhaurao Chaudhuri (retd) was appointed presiding officer of the special coal tribunal at Nagpur in Maharashtra. A native of Maharashtra’s Wardha district, which is located adjacent to the Nagpur district, Justice Chaudhuri had headed the Punjab education tribunal for hardly six months. Punjab education tribunal chairperson’s tenure is of three years or till the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier. Appeal against the decisions of the Punjab education tribunal lies before the Punjab and Haryana high court. The tribunal adjudicates issues pertaining to disputes between the management committees and the employees of affiliated private aided and unaided colleges, besides privately managed recognised schools. Punjab has over 3,600 private colleges and technical institutes and over 8,600 private recognized schools. State governments are duty bound to constitute educational tribunals in compliance with the Supreme Court directions in the case “TMA Pai Foundation and other vs State of Karnataka” of 2003. As per the rules, the education tribunal should have a quorum of not less than two members, including the chairman, for deciding the cases filed before it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/justice-inderjit-is-pb-edu-tribunal-chief/articleshow/76968872.cms||Sanjeev Verma
July 15, 2020||Rajkot||Dates do not taste as sweet for Kutch farmers this season||Rajkot:Rajkot: Early rain has watered down the taste of Kutch’s famous dates this season. Farmers too are staring at losses to the tune of 20 to 25 percent this year owing to the fall in quality as well as crop damage, despite using tissue culture.Kutch has been traditionally the hub of dates production as the desert crop can tolerate maximum salinity in water. According to state horticulture department dates were cultivated in 18,500 ha land in 2018-19 and had a production of around 1.74 lakh tonne. The average yearly production of Kutch’s dates is between 1.7 lakh tonne to 1.8 lakh tonne. Flowering starts soon after winter is over and crops are ready by June. According to farmers, as soon mango season ends it’s time for the dates season to start. Rajesh Aahir, who has his farm on the border of Mundra and Anjar, has been farming dates with the tissue culture method of Israel. “The flowering was 25 percent less this season and on top of it, rain has damaged 25 to 30 percent of the crop. Salinity in water is as high as 3,300 TDS in my land where I cultivate Barahi dates with tissue culture. Therefore, my loss is less compared to the desi dates.” According to farmers, Kutch generally gets rain after June 25 and by that time they complete harvesting work. But this year, state government data states that till July 13 Kutch district has already received 296mm rainfall, which is 71 percent of average yearly rainfall. Last year till July 10 Kutch had received 25mm rainfall, which was 6.27 percent of its average annual rainfall. “I have 282 trees in my Madhapar orchid. This year, because of poor quality fruit traders are paying us very less price. Last year, farmers got Rs 40 per kilo of fruit while this year it’s fetching only Rs 20 per kilo,” Naresh Hirani, dates farmer He further said that the rain has also caused a fall in taste of the fruit. “I believe that there is 20 percent damage to the crop,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dates-do-not-taste-as-sweet-for-kutch-farmers-this-season/articleshow/76967221.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Blocked rivulet inundates acres of farmland in Patiala||PATIALA: Blockage in a seasonal rivulet passing through various villages of Patiala district in Devigarh has led to inundation of agricultural fields in a number of villages in the area. The recent rains in the catchment area of the drain caused flooding in some low-lying areas in Sasi Brahmana, Sasitheh, Haripur, Sasagujjar and Dharmeri villages, causing concerns among the farmers. The farmers in these villages said it had become an annual affair for the rivulet to flood low-lying fields in the villages. They have demanded that the rivulet should be dug at least 20 feet deep and the embankments on both sides should be raised by at least 5 feet to prevent flooding of the agricultural fields. Ramandeep Singh Bains, executive engineer along with other officials of the drainage department, visited the affected areas on Wednesday and initiated measures to remove the wild growth from the rivulet due to which the flooding had been caused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/blocked-rivulet-inundates-acres-of-farmland-in-patiala/articleshow/76968867.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb Police: CBI is deliberately not sharing Multani case info||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police stated in the special CBI court on Tuesday that the CBI had all details of the 29-year-old disappearance case in which former state DGP Sumedh Singh Saini is an accused, but it was “deliberately not sharing any information”. Counsel of the force said the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was having the status report, but it was now claiming it to be an internal communication between it and the Punjab and Haryana high court. The matter will now be heard on July 20 for arguments and final order. The state force said the CBI wanted to avoid sharing any information. The CBI, during the last hearing, stated it could not share any information with Punjab Police, while replying to an additional application moved by the syaye force. When asked about the status report which was shared between it and the high court, CBI had described it as “internal communication”. Refuting the CBI claim that it does not have any record of the 29-year-old case, the Punjab Police in the new application had earlier argued that the probe agency had the status report which the high court had returned to it in 2016. Punjab Police had, on June 6, moved the CBI court in Chandigarh, seeking preliminary inquiry record of the agency in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case. At the time, CBI stated it did not have any record of the case as it weeded out records which were five years and older, as per its policy. On June 8, Punjab Police in its additional application asked when the CBI was returned back status report by Punjab and Haryana high court on January 22, 2016 — just a little over four years ago, how could it say it did not have any record. At this stage, the prosecutor had sought time to file its reply to the query. It later said it was internal communication with the high court and it could not be shared. Earlier, when Punjab Police sought previous records, the CBI stated though it registered an FIR in 2008 on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court and conducted a preliminary inquiry, that FIR was quashed by the Supreme Court on technical grounds in 2011. On May 6, a new FIR was registered against Saini at Mohali’s Mataur police station, on a complaint by victim Balwant’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, over the alleged abduction. The Multanis are sons a former IAS officer. The Mohali court has granted anticipatory bail to Saini in this case and investigation is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-police-cbi-is-deliberately-not-sharing-multani-case-info/articleshow/76968863.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||Tribal devpt office draws up programme for document-less ‘Katkari’ community||Nashik: The Integrated Tribal Development Project Office, Nashik, has drawn up an upliftment programme for the ‘Katkari’ community—the most under-developed tribal community spread across six talukas of Nashik district which was deprived of food grain during the lockdown. Such is the state of the members that they do not even have ration cards—let alone being aware of Aadhaar cards—with the help of which they could have at least obtained grain from the fair price shops under the public distribution system (PDS). The issue came to fore when the Nashik district administration reached out to the members of the community to provide them ration during the lockdown that was imposed following the outbreak of Covid-19. “Since members didn’t have ration cards, we conducted a survey with the help of ashramshala and zilla parishad teachers and found there are 31,000 members of the community spread over six talukas in the district,” said project officer Kumar Aashirvaad, who is also the assistant collector of Nashik. The survey also included members who had migrated to other locations in search of jobs. Assistant project officer Pramod Patil said, “The department has now taken up the first step which involves the task of ensuring each person has a caste certificate, a ration card and an Aadhar card.” “Besides, a time-bound programme has been drawn up to ensure these people get their identity with the help of gram panchayat certificates so that they at least get food to eat and also work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tribal-devpt-office-draws-up-programme-for-document-less-katkari-community/articleshow/76968136.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 15, 2020||India||Number of undernourished down by 60m in last 13 yrs||UNITED NATIONS: The number of undernourished people in India has declined by 60 million, from 21.7%of the population in 2004-06 to 14% in 2017-19, according to a UN report. The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World report, released on Monday, said there were less stunted children but more obese adults in India. The report — considered the most authoritative global study tracking progress towards ending hunger and malnutrition — said the number of undernourished people in India declined from 249.4 million in 2004-06 to 189.2 million in 2017–19. The two subregions showing reductions in undernourishment, eastern and southern Asia, are dominated by the two largest economies of the continent — China and India. “Despite very different conditions, histories and rates of progress, the reduction in hunger in both the countries stems from long-term economic growth, reduced inequality, and improved access to basic goods and services,” it said. The report is prepared jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef), the UN World Food Programme (WFP) and the World Health Organization (WHO). It further said the prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age in India declined from 47.8% in 2012 to 34.7% in 2019 or from 62 million in 2012 to 40.3 million in 2019. More Indian adults became obese between 2012-16, it said. The number of adults (18 years and older) who are obese grew from 25.2 million in 2012 to 34.3 million in 2016, from 3.1% to 3.9%. Across the planet, the report forecasts, that the Covid-19 pandemic could push over 130 million more people into chronic hunger by the end of 2020. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/number-of-undernourished-down-by-60m-in-last-13-yrs/articleshow/76969642.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||7L stolen from nursing home, goods worth 92k from 2 houses||Nashik: Burglars walked away with Rs 7 lakh in cash after breaking into a nursing home at Triveni Park on Jail Road between Sunday night and Monday morning, said the Nashik Road police. Elsewhere, goods worth Rs 79,000 were stolen from a house in the Upanagar road police station area on Sunday night while cash and goods worth Rs 13,000 were burgled from a house the jurisdiction of Bhadrakali police station. Kuldeepsingh Borkar, the proprietor of Borkar Nursing Home, has stated in his complaint that he had locked the facility on Sunday afternoon before going home. When he returned to open the shop at 9.30am on Monday, he saw the doors had been broken and found the cash missing. In the other case registered with the Upnagar police station, gold ornaments valued at Rs 79,000 were stolen from a the residence of a citizens. Anita Porje, president of Bal Nandan Row House, Jai Bhavani Road, said that she had been to her friend’s house on Sunday night and returned on Monday morning. She found the door of the house broken. She rushed to the cupboard only to find that gold ornaments and precious stones valued at Rs 79,000 stolen. In the other house break-in incident recorded with Bhadrakali police station, goods worth Rs 13000 were stolen. The complainant, Reshma Shaikh age , a resident of Khadakali, has alleged that three men, who are residents of a neighbouring area, entered her house on Saturday evening when she had gone to the market and stole Rs 10,000 and a television set woth Rs 3,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7l-stolen-from-nursing-home-goods-worth-92k-from-2-houses/articleshow/76968149.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Two smuggler-gangsters held with arms, bullet proof jacket: DGP||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a gang of international arms smugglers and highway robbers with the arrest of two gangsters — Gurpreet Singh alias Gora and Germanjeet Singh. Jalandhar Rural police arrested the gangsters from Bhogpur and recovered a bullet proof jacket and a .455 bore pistol, allegedly provided by gangster Gopi Ghanshampuriya, two Glock 9 mm pistols with four live cartridges, one pump action 12 bore shotgun, one .32 bore revolver, one .30 bore pistol and live cartridges, said DGP Dinkar Gupta. They were also allegedly involved in smuggling of weapons from across the border into India, he said, adding the police also seized a Hyundai Verna car from them. Gora was already facing criminal charges in 14 cases in various districts of Punjab for attempt to murder, assault, snatching, dacoity, gang war and others. He was a proclaimed offender in 13 of these cases. SSP Jalandhar Rural Navjot Singh Mahal said they got a tip-off that Gora, a native of Bariar village under police station Ghuman, and his aide Germanjeet, of village Jawandpur under police station Vairowal, were going towards Behram in a sedan and were planning to commit some heinous crime. As special surveillance was organised at check posts, the police team was able to apprehend the car-borne assailants. The police have registered a case for robbery, harbouring offender, criminal intimidation, criminal conspiracy and under the Arms Act against these gangsters at Bhogpur police station. DGP Gupta said though some of the weapons were recovered from the spot but later on the basis of disclosure statement by Gora, some more weapons and ammunition, including two live rounds etched with Pakistan Ordinance Factory (FOP) markings, packed in a plastic pipe and buried in earth were recovered from canal bank near Rayyia in Amritsar. During preliminary interrogations, Gora revealed that he was in close contact with Baljinder Singh Billa Mandiala, who was well connected with Pakistan-based drug and arms smugglers Mirza and Ahmdeen. He also confessed that he had received many consignments of weapons and drugs from them in the Ferozepur area. The DGP added Mirza had been working as courier on Indo-Pak border for Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF). It has also come to fore that a part of five AK-47 weapon consignment recovered from the Indo-Pak border on September 24 last year by the Punjab STF was also meant for this apprehended criminal Mandiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-smuggler-gangsters-held-with-arms-bullet-proof-jacket-dgp/articleshow/76968886.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Missing ‘saroops’: SGPC seals records||Amritsar: SGPC sealed five-year records of the publication department of Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib on Tuesday. A team led by Akal Takht head granthi Giani Malkiat Singh went to Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib and got the almirahs containing ledgers, store ledgers and other records from 2015 to 2020 sealed under an official stamp. He said every ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib published by SGPC was recorded in the ledgers. The SGPC swung into action after the acting jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh ordered to seal the record of Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib ahead of the beginning of a new probe into the missing 267 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib. The executive committee of the SGPC, through a resolution, had urged the acting jathedar of Akal Takht to conduct a probe by a retired Sikh judge or a prominent Sikh personality after dumping its own ongoing investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/missing-saroops-sgpc-seals-records/articleshow/76968880.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Aurangabad||5,229 recover so far; 158 new cases in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Though the number of Covid-19 positive cases is going up every passing day, the number of people recovering from the infection is also rising. So far, as many as 5,229 people have got cured and discharged from various hospitals across the district. However, the number of active cases currently stands at 3,381, including 158 new cases reported on Tuesday. Of the 158 new cases, 114 were from rural areas of Aurangabad. Of the 8,972 positive cases reported so far in Aurangabad, 362 people have succumbed to the contagion. This includes the four deaths reported on Tuesday at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The GMCH currently has 200 Covid-19 patients of which condition of 104 is said to be critical. Those who died at the GMCH on Tuesday were a 49-year-old woman from Ambedkar Nagar, 42-year-old man from Padampura, two 62-year-old men from Aurangpura and Ramnagar areas of the city. A health official said that they are resorting to rapid antigen test at the entry points of the city and on Tuesday six people tested positive at the check points. “These people have been quarantined and are undergoing treatment,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5229-recover-so-far-158-new-cases-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76966025.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Congress petitions speaker to disqualify absentee MLAs||JAIPUR: The Congress has moved a petition before speaker CP Joshi seeking dismissal of its MLAs who failed to turn up for the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting for two consecutive days on Monday and Tuesday. The party, however, did not specify the number of MLAs who were absent in the CLP. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande confirmed about the move to TOI. “Since the MLAs did not attend the meeting for two consecutive days despite the party issuing the whip twice, it amounts to voluntarily giving up membership of the CLP,” said Pande. He added, “Second, their absence at the CLP automatically comes under the anti-defection law and they stand to lose the assembly membership (for defying the whip).” The AICC leader said, “It is now up to the speaker before whom we have filed the petition to seek response from the absentee MLAs. The speaker may issue them notices and seek replies in the coming days.” The speaker could not be reached for a comment. Congress sources said the MLAs concerned may be required to appear before the speaker to explain their absence. If the absentee MLAs, who are camping in Manesar return to Jaipur, this may give the party an opportunity to win them back. If they do not come, they stand to lose their assembly membership. On being asked how many MLAs were absent, Pande said, “Sixteen or nineteen or thirty (the figure initially claimed by Pilot camp), whatever be the number, they would get the notices.” Party sources said, if the absentee MLAs get disqualified, it will bring down the majority mark in the 200-member assembly and make it easy for chief minister Ashok Gehlot to prove his government’s majority. Earlier in the day, Gehlot claimed he had support of 120 MLAs, including 107 of Congress. The Pilot camp, on the other hand, claimed it had 22 MLAs, including three independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-petitions-speaker-to-disqualify-absentee-mlas/articleshow/76968889.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 15, 2020||Nashik||NMC to buy three rubber boats||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to buy three rubber boats as part of its monsoon-related disaster management plan, the tenders for which have already been floated. These boats will be used by the fire brigade department of the NMC for rescue operations if any such need arises during monsoon. “At present, we have four boats, including two fibre-made ones and two rubber-made. We need three more rubber-made boats that would help us in rescue operations during flood-like situations in Godavari river,” said fire brigade officials. Godavari river gets flooded during heavy and incessant rainfall as well as when the discharge from the Gangapur dam takes place. “Hence, having adequate number of boats will help us for rescue operations to save people trapped in the flood water,” said officials. “We have already started the tender process for procuring rubber boats from manufacturers or agencies concerned. The tender process is expected to be completed within a week and we are expecting the boats by month end,” the officials added. The NMC also plans to appoint teams during night hours to address issues such as water-logging in the city and alerting residents of low-lying areas during flood-like situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-buy-three-rubber-boats/articleshow/76968143.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL hydel projects surpass CEA’s target||Patiala: Optimum utilization of the available resources and close monitoring of energy produced by the generating stations operating uninterruptedly has led to higher generation of power at the hydel power projects run by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad said despite Covid-19 pandemic, the hydel projects surpassed the energy target set by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020-21. The hydro power plants generated 134.5% energy of the stipulated targets by generating 1,419 million units (MUs) of energy against the target of 1,055 MUs for the April 1-June 30 quarter. While the Mukerian hydel project achieved generation of 380.18 million units against the target of 118 MUs (322% of the target), the Anandpur Sahib project achieved generation of 198.34 million units against the target of 168MUs (118% of the target), which had been highest generation achieved since the last eight years. The Shanan Power House, Joginder Nagar, achieved a generation of 213.05 MUs against the target of 194 MUs (110% of the target), which is the second highest generation achieved in the last five years. The Ranjit Sagar Dam achieved a generation of 512.58 MUs against the target of 460MUs (111.4% of the target), which is also the second highest generation achieved in the last 5 years. The units of the UBDC project generated 114.804 MUs, which is the second highest generation achieved in the last eight years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pspcl-hydel-projects-surpass-ceas-target/articleshow/76968893.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Taxi driver, 30, stabs wife’s cousins, held||COIMBATORE: A 30-year-old call taxi driver was arrested on Tuesday for attempting to murder his wife’s relatives, who refused to send her with him, on Mariamman Kovil Street at Vadivelampalayam near Alandurai on Monday night. One of the injured is battling for life in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The Alandurai police identified the accused as P Kumaresan, of Molapalayam. He was working with a private cab operator. A police officer said Kumaresan was a drunkard and his wife Sangeetha, along with her child, had left for her parent’s house at Vadivelampalayam some 10 days ago, unable to bear his mental and physical torture. “On Monday night, Kumaresan consumed liquor and went to his parents-in-law’s house, where he tried to take Sangeetha, whom he married two years ago, back home by assuring her that he wouldn’t fight with her anymore,” the officer said. However, his mother-in-law refused to send her with him and asked Kumaresan to get out of the house. Meanwhile, Sangeetha’s cousins R Karuppasamy, 38, and A Ajith Kumar, 25, intervened and Kumaresan fought with them. “In a fit of rage, he stabbed Karuppasamy in his chest and abdomen and Kumar in his abdomen and fled. Other relatives rushed them to CMCH, where Karuppasamy is in a critical condition. The condition of Kumar is stable,” the officer said. Based on Karuppasamy’s complaint, Alandurai police inspector Balamurugan registered a case against Kumaresan for attempting to murder the duo and arrested him on Tuesday. He was booked under Section 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words in or near any public place) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/taxi-driver-30-stabs-wifes-cousins-held/articleshow/76968146.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Cyber cell saves woman from being duped of Rs 70,000||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Prompt intervention of cyber cell under city police commissioner saved a woman from falling prey to an online banking fraud. They also helped her recover around Rs.70,000 which the scammer had siphoned from her bank account. According to police, the incident happened on Monday. The fraudster called the woman, who resides within Poojapura police station limits, pretending to be an SBI official. He stated the purpose of his call was to activate the credit card which she had recently acquired. He also mentioned the final digits of her bank account and she fell into his trap. She provided her account details to him and even shared the OTP she received on phone. Soon, she received a message that an amount of Rs 70,700 has been withdrawn from her account. She immediately contacted cyber cell officials and reported the matter. Cyber cell officials swiftly contacted her bank and took measures to recover her money. They were able to recover close to Rs 70,000. "The scamster created accounts on mobile banking wallets which he had created using her credentials," said a cyber cell official. City police commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay said money lost through online banking frauds can be recovered if police are alerted without much delay. The success of this case was owing to swiftness of the complainant in alerting police, he added. Citizens can contact cyber cell at 94979 75998 to report such frauds. The suspect, however, in on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cyber-cell-saves-woman-from-being-duped-of-rs-70k/articleshow/76968154.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Integrated Covid combat plan for marginalized areas||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With almost two-third of 51 identified Covid-19 clusters falling along the coastal region, the health department has charted out an integrated action plan for combating the situation. The plan is for those marginalized areas where there is lack of access to health care. The health department has found that the population in coastal areas, slums and tribal areas is usually impacted by structural issues and inequality in access to health care. In the state, there are 80 coastal villages, 25 tribal villages and 15 divisions of slums. It has been decided that from each coastal village and slum 100 samples have to be collected for rapid antigen test. From each tribal village, 40 samples will be collected in a day. It has been decided to set up antigen test at the primary health centre, nursing home, general practitioners or even in private hospitals. Mobile units also should carry out sample collection in these three areas where there are no health centres. The health department guideline says that all positive samples are to be treated as confirmed case. There is no need to reconfirm with any other tests. The plan has also urged to set up first-line treatment centres near to the area, seeking the cooperation of leaders of various sections of the society and public and to provide the best quarantine facilities. At present, the triple lockdown has been implemented in coastal areas to contain the spread of the pandemic. The special action plan has been prepared to prevent further spread of the disease in coastal areas. Currently, there are 51 clusters, including two large community clusters, in the state. The two major clusters are reported in Ponnani and Poonthura. Apart from the five clusters found in three coastal wards of Thiruvananthapuram, Chellanam area in Ernakulam and the coastal areas of Alappuzha too have reported cluster formation. As per the cluster-specific action plan in these areas, contact tracing and active case finding are the two most important aspects. For this, intense testing has been suggested. Apart from this, reverse quarantine, information education communication, intersectoral coordination, involvement of community leaders, NGOs, etc., mobilisation of vehicles for transportation, ensure psychosocial support to people in containment zone, ensuring good quality quarantine and addressing other medical needs of people in cluster zone have been suggested. If there is increase in the patient load, the district health administration has been asked to ensure that ICUs, ventilators and other facilities are available both in the government and the private sectors. The health department has been asked to seek the help of the disaster management and the police in case of a massive spread in the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/integrated-covid-combat-plan-for-marginalized-areas/articleshow/76967268.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Trichy||In Trichy, walkers take off masks, gather to chat||TRICHY: Even as there has been an increase in fresh Covid-19 cases being reported in the city, walking tracks here continue to gather a significant crowd flouting social distancing. Without facemasks, mostly youths, people from various localities spend time to converse with their families and friends. The walking tracks between Uyyakondan canal and Anna Nagar link road usually attracts hundreds of people daily. After the Covid-19 outbreak, there was a lull in the public movement, however, since the last two weeks the footfall has increased. A few were also seen taking off their facemasks while walking. Similarly, families to overcome boredom utilise the walking tracks as a hangout spot to appease their children. These are happening despite a senior citizen with travel history to the vicinity spending time with his friends testing positive. “In the recent past, more youths are gathering along the Uyyakondan banks to chit-chat with their friends. Some of them fail to wear facemasks,”said D Manoj, a resident of Cantonment. Even during the evening, footfall to the walking track has surged in the recent weeks. Senior citizens with ailments were suggested to consider walking on their terrace than exposing themselves in public spots. “The purpose of walking is to burn calories. Irrespective of the place, people can walk uninterrupted within the house for at least 30 minutes to keep them healthy,” said Dr Senthilkumar Nallusamy, a cardiologist. Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said that surveillance will be stepped up along the walking tracks to penalise people venturing out without facemasks. “Residents should understand the severity of the outbreak we are dealing with and consider exercising within their houses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/in-trichy-walkers-take-off-masks-gather-to-chat/articleshow/76968897.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra to hold Congress party chief post||JAIPUR: A three-time MLA, Govind Singh Dotasra has replaced Sachin Pilot as chief of Pradesh Congress Committee amid the political crises within the Congress on Tuesday. The 56-year-old’s appointment was followed by the dropping of Pilot who has been accused of toppling the government. A practising lawyer, Dotasra has been representing Laxmangarh Constituency in Sikar since 2008. He shot to national limelight after assuming the office of education minister of Rajasthan. During his tenure of 19 months in office, he has arguably been under the line of fire of the opposition and his own party members more than any other minister. The controversies related to the downsizing of Maharana Pratap’s history or dropping Veer prefix from Savarkar in the textbooks, appointment/recruitment of teachers, reforms in teaching and transfers of teachers. He has withstood all storms by his robust counter-strategy to his foes and opposition via social media and public platforms. He is rated among the most argumentative Congress leaders in the state and was awarded the best MLA award in 2016 for asking 600 questions in the assembly. He was not in the race of a ministerial berth even in the far-fetched list of MLAs speculated by the political pundits. But his performance as deputy chief whip attracted the attention of party high command. Holding the charge of state’s biggest contingent of government employees — teachers — he has an important task of keeping the Congress flock together. “I started my career as a grassroots worker which helped me understand the mindset of an ordinary party worker. Having an experience of meeting hundreds of teachers every day and solving their problems will certainly help me in motivating the party workers to work for a better society,” Dotasra said. Born in 1964 in a humble family in Kriparam Ji Ki Dhani, Laxmangarh, Dotasra started his career in 1980. He joined NSUI in Sikar and thereafter Youth Congress. His first brush with electoral politics came in 2005. He won as pradhan, panchayat samiti Laxmangarh in 2005. And since 2008 he won three consecutive terms till 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/edu-minister-dotasra-to-hold-party-chief-post/articleshow/76968901.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 15, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra to hold Congress party chief post||JAIPUR: A three-time MLA, Govind Singh Dotasra has replaced Sachin Pilot as chief of Pradesh Congress Committee amid the political crises within the Congress on Tuesday. The 56-year-old’s appointment was followed by the dropping of Pilot who has been accused of toppling the government. A practising lawyer, Dotasra has been representing Laxmangarh Constituency in Sikar since 2008. He shot to national limelight after assuming the office of education minister of Rajasthan. During his tenure of 19 months in office, he has arguably been under the line of fire of the opposition and his own party members more than any other minister. The controversies related to the downsizing of Maharana Pratap’s history or dropping Veer prefix from Savarkar in the textbooks, appointment/recruitment of teachers, reforms in teaching and transfers of teachers. He has withstood all storms by his robust counter-strategy to his foes and opposition via social media and public platforms. He is rated among the most argumentative Congress leaders in the state and was awarded the best MLA award in 2016 for asking 600 questions in the assembly. He was not in the race of a ministerial berth even in the far-fetched list of MLAs speculated by the political pundits. But his performance as deputy chief whip attracted the attention of party high command. Holding the charge of state’s biggest contingent of government employees — teachers — he has an important task of keeping the Congress flock together. “I started my career as a grassroots worker which helped me understand the mindset of an ordinary party worker. Having an experience of meeting hundreds of teachers every day and solving their problems will certainly help me in motivating the party workers to work for a better society,” Dotasra said. Born in 1964 in a humble family in Kriparam Ji Ki Dhani, Laxmangarh, Dotasra started his career in 1980. He joined NSUI in Sikar and thereafter Youth Congress. His first brush with electoral politics came in 2005. He won as pradhan, panchayat samiti Laxmangarh in 2005. And since 2008 he won three consecutive terms till 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/edu-minister-dotasra-to-hold-party-chief-post/articleshow/76971677.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Drivers seek exemption from road tax for 2 quarters||COIMBATORE: Drivers of heavy vehicles, autos, school buses and tourist vehicles on Tuesday protested in front of various regional transport offices in the district, demanding waiver of road tax for two financial quarters. C P Balaji, joint secretary, All India Tourist Vehicle Drivers’ Welfare Association, said, “How fair is it to collect road tax for vehicles that were not operated for almost four months because of the lockdown? Depending upon the seating capacity of vehicles, the tax varies from Rs 2,000 to close to Rs 1 lakh. Even on a normal day, we earn only Rs 300 to Rs 700, which is hardly enough to manage the day’s expense. How then could we pay the tax in the present situation when arranging money to purchase essential commodities itself is difficult.” He said the transport department has been indirectly putting pressure on them to pay the tax by issuing warnings to slap penalty on the defaulters. “Only 10% of the vehicles were operated during the lockdown that too to transport essential commodities in the district, which has about one lakh drivers.” Explaining that their business is highly dependent on tourist places, functions and public transportations, especially train services, he says the business would not pick up immediately after the lockdown. “Whatever the little the drivers earn would not be sufficient to repay even the loans that they had taken during the lockdown.” Pointing out that the state government has not announced any Covid-19 relief fund for the drivers, he said they have requested the government to grant Rs 5,000 a month for the lockdown period to help the drivers tide over the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drivers-seek-exemption-from-road-tax-for-2-quarters/articleshow/76968155.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Microbiology students don gear, collect swab samples||Kolkata: What is common among Susmita Das, Soumya Sarathi Ganguly, Sampurna Ghosh, Suddha Chatterjee and Sanket Bandyopadhyay? Well, the initials of their names from what is visible. Not quite. The five youths are tied together by their will to do their bit to fight this pandemic. They are collecting swab samples from Covid suspected patients for a hospital in the city as voluntary service. While four are students of microbiology, one is a student of biotechnology. They are attached to reputable institutes. “I was looking for an opportunity to help the doctors and other frontline Covid warriors. I am glad that I have been given a place to work as a volunteer microbiologist for sample collection at Peerless Hospital,” said Soumya Sarathi Ganguly, student of integrated MSc PhD in chemical and molecular biology, IIT Kharagpur. The Microbiology Society of India (MSI) responded to the calls for volunteers after Subhrojyoti Bhwomik, clinical director of Peerless Hospital, appealed during an online talk show with microbiology and biotechnology students of St Xavier’s College Mumbai on May 24. Within hours, Shyam Patil, manager of MSI, assured to arrange for volunteers. “I wanted to contribute whatever little I can in these times of global crisis. It has been a very engaging experience and a wonderful learning process,” said Susmita Das, student of MSc in microbiology, Lady Brabourne College Kolkata. All of them had to undergo seven-day training not only on swab collection but also on donning and doffing of PPE. Apart from collecting samples from patients in hospitals, they have also been deployed in mass screening camps. “These volunteers are highly motivated, positive and energetic. With their classes closed at the moment they could have just sat back at home. But they wanted to do their bit,” said Bhowmik. Be it Sanket Bandyopadhyay, MSc biotechnology student at Ramaiah College of Arts Science and Commerce, or Sampurna Ghosh and Suddha Chatterjee, both MSc in microbiology at St Xavier’s College (Autonomous), Kolkata, none are scared of getting infected. “I am doing my bit for the nation in this grave situation,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/microbiology-students-don-gear-collect-swab-samples/articleshow/76968152.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 15, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra to hold Congress party chief post||JAIPUR: A three-time MLA, Govind Singh Dotasra has replaced Sachin Pilot as chief of Pradesh Congress Committee amid the political crises within the Congress on Tuesday. The 56-year-old’s appointment was followed by the dropping of Pilot who has been accused of toppling the government. A practising lawyer, Dotasra has been representing Laxmangarh Constituency in Sikar since 2008. He shot to national limelight after assuming the office of education minister of Rajasthan. During his tenure of 19 months in office, he has arguably been under the line of fire of the opposition and his own party members more than any other minister. The controversies related to the downsizing of Maharana Pratap’s history or dropping Veer prefix from Savarkar in the textbooks, appointment/recruitment of teachers, reforms in teaching and transfers of teachers. He has withstood all storms by his robust counter-strategy to his foes and opposition via social media and public platforms. He is rated among the most argumentative Congress leaders in the state and was awarded the best MLA award in 2016 for asking 600 questions in the assembly. He was not in the race of a ministerial berth even in the far-fetched list of MLAs speculated by the political pundits. But his performance as deputy chief whip attracted the attention of party high command. Holding the charge of state’s biggest contingent of government employees — teachers — he has an important task of keeping the Congress flock together. “I started my career as a grassroots worker which helped me understand the mindset of an ordinary party worker. Having an experience of meeting hundreds of teachers every day and solving their problems will certainly help me in motivating the party workers to work for a better society,” Dotasra said. Born in 1964 in a humble family in Kriparam Ji Ki Dhani, Laxmangarh, Dotasra started his career in 1980. He joined NSUI in Sikar and thereafter Youth Congress. His first brush with electoral politics came in 2005. He won as pradhan, panchayat samiti Laxmangarh in 2005. And since 2008 he won three consecutive terms till 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/edu-minister-dotasra-to-hold-party-chief-post/articleshow/76971678.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 15, 2020||Nashik||2 youths arrested for robbing motorist on top of flyover||Nashik: The Panchavati police have arrested two youths for allegedly robbing a motorist on the Kannamwar bridge in Nashik city on Monday. The incident occurred at around 4.30 pm. The robbery victim was spotted soon after by the Panchavati police personnel, who were returning from the Indiranagar police station. They saw the motorist, in a state of shock, on top of the flyover and stopped to check on him. The victim, Nagesh Mali, a resident of Vinchur village, told the cops that he had been beaten and robbed by two men. He said the two bike-borne robbers approached him from behind and blocked his way. They slapped him and even threatened to push him over the edge of the flyover before robbing him. Mali provided details of the robbers’ bike, clothing and the direction they went towards after committing the crime. This helped the police start the chase and apprehend the suspects. The two accused have been identified as Umesh Bhujbal (20) from Cidco and Rahul Jadhav (18) from the Amrutdham area of Panchavati. Both were presented before a local court on Tuesday and remanded to police custody till Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-youths-arrested-for-robbing-motorist-on-top-of-flyover/articleshow/76968157.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra to hold Congress party chief post||JAIPUR: A three-time MLA, Govind Singh Dotasra has replaced Sachin Pilot as chief of Pradesh Congress Committee amid the political crises within the Congress on Tuesday. The 56-year-old’s appointment was followed by the dropping of Pilot who has been accused of toppling the government. A practising lawyer, Dotasra has been representing Laxmangarh Constituency in Sikar since 2008. He shot to national limelight after assuming the office of education minister of Rajasthan. During his tenure of 19 months in office, he has arguably been under the line of fire of the opposition and his own party members more than any other minister. The controversies related to the downsizing of Maharana Pratap’s history or dropping Veer prefix from Savarkar in the textbooks, appointment/recruitment of teachers, reforms in teaching and transfers of teachers. He has withstood all storms by his robust counter-strategy to his foes and opposition via social media and public platforms. He is rated among the most argumentative Congress leaders in the state and was awarded the best MLA award in 2016 for asking 600 questions in the assembly. He was not in the race of a ministerial berth even in the far-fetched list of MLAs speculated by the political pundits. But his performance as deputy chief whip attracted the attention of party high command. Holding the charge of state’s biggest contingent of government employees — teachers — he has an important task of keeping the Congress flock together. “I started my career as a grassroots worker which helped me understand the mindset of an ordinary party worker. Having an experience of meeting hundreds of teachers every day and solving their problems will certainly help me in motivating the party workers to work for a better society,” Dotasra said. Born in 1964 in a humble family in Kriparam Ji Ki Dhani, Laxmangarh, Dotasra started his career in 1980. He joined NSUI in Sikar and thereafter Youth Congress. His first brush with electoral politics came in 2005. He won as pradhan, panchayat samiti Laxmangarh in 2005. And since 2008 he won three consecutive terms till 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/edu-minister-dotasra-to-hold-party-chief-post/articleshow/76971675.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spirit of honesty lands four Pune men in prohibition mess||AHMEDABAD: While Gujarat police have been enforcing liquor prohibition since the state was established in 1960, some people are still ignorant about this dry state. Four men from Pune, were caught by Gujarat cops at the Amirgadh check post on the Gujarat-Rajasthan border when they showed the liquor bottles they were carrying to the police. Their honesty not only cost them a legal case but also their new SUV, which was seized. A cop with Amirgadh police in Banaskantha district said that they were at the check post on Sunday afternoon when they saw the SUV, bearing a Maharashtra number plate. They flagged down the vehicle and began noting the names and addresses of those inside. The cops then asked the four persons men, all from Pune, what they were carrying with them. To this, the men pointed to a white carton containing eight liquor bottles. Ignorant about Gujarat’s liquor laws, the men told the cops that they were carrying two bottles per person, to last them the journey to Pune. They told the cops they had bought the booze from a wine shop in Abu Road. They thus gave the police evidence that they possessed liquor and intended to consume it in Gujarat. Amirgadh police booked them under prohibition laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spirit-of-honesty-lands-four-pune-men-in-prohibition-mess/articleshow/76968167.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram student is CBSE state topper||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Being the daughter of an Isro scientist and having secured full marks in all science subjects in Class X board exams, everyone expected Shreya Susan Mathew to take up science for higher studies. She chose to pursue humanities instead and has now become the state topper in the humanities stream of Class XII CBSE board exam. She has achieved the feat by securing 99.6% marks in the exam. She has secured third rank in all-India level. A student of Sarvodaya Central Vidyalaya in the city, Shreya is the daughter of Mathew P Daniel, an engineer at Isro and Susan Mathew, an entrepreneur. They reside at Chackai in the city. She has also proven herself in areas like debate and elocution by winning various accolades at state level. It was her affinity for the same that drew her close to humanities stream. “As someone who regularly participated in debate and elocutions, I had to keep myself updated with latest news and followed socially relevant topics,” Shreya said adding that her ambition is to work for United Nations. While studying in Class XI and XII, she has served as the secretary general of model United Nations. She had also won the title of ‘Miss Orator’ in Oratrium 2018, an All Kerala public speaking skill reality show organised by JCI, surpassing 400 contestants. She was also selected as the best outgoing student of Sarvodaya Central Vidyalaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-student-is-cbse-state-topper/articleshow/76968174.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Despite lockdown, plastic surgeons continue to save lives||Kolkata: Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and resultant lockdowns, hospitals in Kolkata have carried out some incredible feats over the last 3-4 months. While the SSKM Hospital succeeded in restructuring the severed hand of a patient, the Central Hospital of South Eastern Railway (SER) at Garden Reach saved the life of a four-year-old child from Asansol who suffered nearly 70% burns. The procedure involved procuring skin from the National Burns Centre (NBC) in Mumbai. “The child fell into a tub of boiling water and suffered severe burns. He arrived at the hospital at Garden Reach early in February. Initially, a team of plastic surgeons led by Anjana Malhotra, president of the Association of Plastic Surgeons of West Bengal, carried out early burn wound excisions that practically left no skin on the child’s body. Skin was first taken from his father for reconstructive surgery. Later, when no more skin could be donated by his father, cadaveric skin was procured from NBC,” a source said. In March, the kid was still critical and in need of more surgeries. The human body normally starts rejecting skin borrowed from donors or cadavers after 3-4 weeks and surgeries were planned to graft new skin from his own body to the parts of body that still required healing. This involved MEEK Micrografting where skin is expanded before use on a burn patient. This continued throughout April. “The child was declared fit and released from hospital last week. During the period, SER’s Central Hospital also treated a patient whose finger got detached from the rest of his hand. This happened when his ring got stuck in some machinery. The finger was successfully re-attached. Other hospitals, including SSKM and R G Kar, have also treated serious cases that involved plastic surgery,” the source said on the eve of National Plastic Surgery Day on July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/despite-lockdown-plastic-surgeons-continue-to-save-lives/articleshow/76968176.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 15, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Longest serving PCC chief resurrected party in 5 years||JAIPUR: When he was sent to Rajasthan as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president in January 2014, the workers of the grand old party were a totally demoralised force having been decimated by the BJP in the assembly polls of December 2013. The saffron party had won a record 163 seats in the 200-member assembly, restricting Congress to its lowest ever tally of 21 seats. The task was cut out for Pilot, who was then a union minister, to raise the party state unit from ruins back to its glory and power. The job was daunting considering that the 36-year-old had to compete against the charismatic chief minister Vasundhara Raje in the state and the rising popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Over the next five years, Pilot travelled across the length and breadth of the country’s largest state meeting party workers from block to the state level. The young leader vowed not to tie a turban, which is associated with pride and dignity in Rajasthan, until the Congress returned to power in the desert state. The party won the subsequent assembly election in December 2018, though its tally touched just 100, one short of the majority. Congress formed the government with support from its pre-poll alliance partner RLD, six BSP legislators who later merged with it, 13 independent MLAs and five legislators from other smaller parties. Pilot tied the turban once again. The celebrations were short lived as the party scored a duck in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections held five months later. On Tuesday, the state’s longest serving PCC chief was sacked by the Congress for allegedly colluding with the BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot-government. From January 21, 2014 to July 13, 2020, Pilot completed six years and almost six months as the PCC chief. The previous record was of late Parasram Maderna, who was PCC chief from December 8, 1989 to November 25, 1995. “In past three days, senior Congress leaders called Pilot several times with an open heart to join the CLP meeting and settle his differences within the party but there was no response,” AICC leader Randeep Surjewala said, while announcing the sacking. Surjewala stressed, “Within a short span of 17 years in politics between 2003 and 2020, Pilot was given several top positions. At the age of 32, he was made a union minister, at 36 years he was made PCC chief of a big state like Rajasthan and at 40 years he was made the deputy chief minister.” He added, “All this shows the personal affection of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi towards Pilot.” All this while, Pilot’s relations with his senior Ashok Gehlot were never amicable as both leaders aspired to be the Rajasthan chief minister. Being a two-term CM with wide acceptance in the state unit, Gehlot considered himself most eligible for the post. Pilot believed the post rightfully belonged to him for reviving the party in the state. The bitter leadership tussle ended in Pilot losing everything he gained in Congress since 2004. “Gehlot’s experience prevailed over Pilot’s impatience,” said a Congress veteran. Pilot entered politics following his father Rajesh Pilot’s demise in a road accident near Dausa in June 2000. Pilot was elected to Lok Sabha from Dausa, which used to be his father’s constituency, in 2004. From 2001 to 2004, his mother Rama Pilot represented Dausa in the Lok Sabha. When the seat got reserved for ST community in the 2009 elections, he moved to Ajmer Lok Sabha seat and won. Pilot lost the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Ajmer and shifted to neighbouring Tonk in the 2018 assembly polls. He is currently the Congress MLA from Tonk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/longest-serving-pcc-chief-resurrected-party-in-5-years/articleshow/76971772.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 2 men land in jail for marrying minors, sexually abusing them||COIMBATORE: Two men, both aged 26 years, were arrested on Monday night in as many separate incidents in the district for marrying minor girls and sexually abusing them. One of them was arrested by the Pollachi all-woman police for raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl. A daily wage labourer, he has five assault cases pending against him at Pollachi west and Anaimalai police stations. According to a police officer, the man was in love with the minor, who was residing with her parents, for more than a year. “They tied the knot in a temple some five months ago. The marriage isn’t legally valid as the girl is a minor.” The girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the Pollachi all-woman police on Monday, when she came to know her daughter was three months pregnant. Inspector Nirmala Devi registered a case against the accused under Section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 5 (l), (j) (ii) read with 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. Police arrested him on Monday night and produced him before ta special court for Pocso cases that remanded him in judicial custody on Tuesday afternoon. In the second incident, a man from Podanur was arrested on Monday night for raping another 16-year-old girl. The Ramanathapuram all-woman police said the man befriended the girl during the lockdown when he went to play cricket on a ground that was near her house. “He was engaged in fabrication work. They fell in love and tied the knot in a temple on Saturday. He then took her to his friend’s house at Chettipalayam, where he sexually assaulted her.” On Monday, the girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the Ramanathapuram all-woman police, who registered a case against Manikandan under Section 366 of the IPC, Sections 7 and 8 of the Pocso Act and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. He was also remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-men-land-in-jail-for-marrying-minors-sexually-abusing-them/articleshow/76968182.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Aurangabad||TET result yet to be announced||Aurangabad: Scores of candidates have been waiting endlessly for the declaration of the results for the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET), the examination for which was held in January. The Maharashtra State Council of Examinations (MSCE) had released the answer-key for TET in February, but has failed to declare the result till date. This alleged inordinate delay in declaration of the result has irked candidates who fear loss of job opportunities. Shaikh Abdul Raheem, who has submitted a memorandum to MSCE seeking early result, said uncertainty over the date of result was wreaking havoc in the minds of candidates. When contacted, MSCE chairman Dattatrey Jagtap said technical issues, including those associated with Maratha reservation, was delaying the announcement of TET result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tet-result-yet-to-be-announced/articleshow/76966067.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Longest serving PCC chief resurrected party in 5 years||JAIPUR: When he was sent to Rajasthan as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president in January 2014, the workers of the grand old party were a totally demoralised force having been decimated by the BJP in the assembly polls of December 2013. The saffron party had won a record 163 seats in the 200-member assembly, restricting Congress to its lowest ever tally of 21 seats. The task was cut out for Pilot, who was then a union minister, to raise the party state unit from ruins back to its glory and power. The job was daunting considering that the 36-year-old had to compete against the charismatic chief minister Vasundhara Raje in the state and the rising popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Over the next five years, Pilot travelled across the length and breadth of the country’s largest state meeting party workers from block to the state level. The young leader vowed not to tie a turban, which is associated with pride and dignity in Rajasthan, until the Congress returned to power in the desert state. The party won the subsequent assembly election in December 2018, though its tally touched just 100, one short of the majority. Congress formed the government with support from its pre-poll alliance partner RLD, six BSP legislators who later merged with it, 13 independent MLAs and five legislators from other smaller parties. Pilot tied the turban once again. The celebrations were short lived as the party scored a duck in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections held five months later. On Tuesday, the state’s longest serving PCC chief was sacked by the Congress for allegedly colluding with the BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot-government. From January 21, 2014 to July 13, 2020, Pilot completed six years and almost six months as the PCC chief. The previous record was of late Parasram Maderna, who was PCC chief from December 8, 1989 to November 25, 1995. “In past three days, senior Congress leaders called Pilot several times with an open heart to join the CLP meeting and settle his differences within the party but there was no response,” AICC leader Randeep Surjewala said, while announcing the sacking. Surjewala stressed, “Within a short span of 17 years in politics between 2003 and 2020, Pilot was given several top positions. At the age of 32, he was made a union minister, at 36 years he was made PCC chief of a big state like Rajasthan and at 40 years he was made the deputy chief minister.” He added, “All this shows the personal affection of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi towards Pilot.” All this while, Pilot’s relations with his senior Ashok Gehlot were never amicable as both leaders aspired to be the Rajasthan chief minister. Being a two-term CM with wide acceptance in the state unit, Gehlot considered himself most eligible for the post. Pilot believed the post rightfully belonged to him for reviving the party in the state. The bitter leadership tussle ended in Pilot losing everything he gained in Congress since 2004. “Gehlot’s experience prevailed over Pilot’s impatience,” said a Congress veteran. Pilot entered politics following his father Rajesh Pilot’s demise in a road accident near Dausa in June 2000. Pilot was elected to Lok Sabha from Dausa, which used to be his father’s constituency, in 2004. From 2001 to 2004, his mother Rama Pilot represented Dausa in the Lok Sabha. When the seat got reserved for ST community in the 2009 elections, he moved to Ajmer Lok Sabha seat and won. Pilot lost the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Ajmer and shifted to neighbouring Tonk in the 2018 assembly polls. He is currently the Congress MLA from Tonk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/longest-serving-pcc-chief-resurrected-party-in-5-years/articleshow/76968908.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 15, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot ghee trader cheated by TN firm||RAJKOT: A ghee trader from the city was allegedly cheated of Rs 18 lakh by a private company based in Erode in Tamil Nadu, which did not make payment after procuring 3,000kg cow ghee from him. The trader Anil Dabhi had contacted the company through an online marketing website last month following which he got a call from a woman named Pavitra, manager Zaheer and a person named Sondraj, who identified himself as the company's managing director. After confirming the order and getting a quality certificate for the product, the company deposited Rs 1,000 in his bank account. When the consignment reached Erode, a company executive sent him a photo of the receipt of RTGS done through Canara Bank on his Whatsapp and told him that the amount will be deposited in his account within 2-3 hours. The transport driver delivered the stock after Dabhi confirmed the receipt and left. However, when he did not receive the payment by evening, Dabhi called up the company officials, who said that the earlier RTGS had failed and that they would make the payment the next day. When he did not receive the payment for nearly a month, Dabhi lodged a complaint naming the trio with Thorala police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-ghee-trader-cheated-by-tn-firm/articleshow/76967284.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Spurned lover gets 10-year RI for abetting woman’s suicide||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur district mahila court has sentenced a 26-year-old man to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for abetting a woman’s suicide at Amaravathi Nagar near Udumalpet in that district in March 2016. A court source identified the convict as K Maruthamuthu, of Madathukulam Road at Komaralingam. According to the source, Maruthamuthu wanted to marry his elder sister K Ramya’s friend 24-year-old Vanitha, who turned down his proposal. “When the incident took place, Maruthamuthu was 22 years old. Unable to bear his mental torture, Vanitha stopped visiting his house. On March 23, 2016, he visited Vanitha’s house at Amaravathi Nagar around 5.30pm and requested her to accept his love. She was alone at her house. When she refused, he pushed her down and slapped her,” the source said. Meanwhile, Vanitha’s mother returned home and fought with Maruthamuthu, who left the house. Vanitha, who was insulted in front neighbours, doused her with kerosene and set herself ablaze the same evening. “She was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital with severe burn injuries. She died after 15 days without responding to treatment. In her dying declaration, she told a judicial magistrate that she took the extreme step only because of Maruthamuthu,” the source said. Subsequently, the Amaravathi Nagar police registered a case against Maruthamuthu under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him. A few months later, he walked out of the Coimbatore Central Prison on bail. The case trial was held before the district mahila court. Judge J P Jayanthi pronounced the verdict on Monday evening and awarded Maruthamuthu 10 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 3,000 for abetting the suicide, seven years imprisonment and a fine of Rs 3,000 for criminal intimidation of the woman and another six months jail under Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act. The sentences would, however, run concurrently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spurned-lover-gets-10-year-ri-for-abetting-womans-suicide/articleshow/76968170.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Longest serving PCC chief resurrected party in 5 years||JAIPUR: When he was sent to Rajasthan as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president in January 2014, the workers of the grand old party were a totally demoralised force having been decimated by the BJP in the assembly polls of December 2013. The saffron party had won a record 163 seats in the 200-member assembly, restricting Congress to its lowest ever tally of 21 seats. The task was cut out for Pilot, who was then a union minister, to raise the party state unit from ruins back to its glory and power. The job was daunting considering that the 36-year-old had to compete against the charismatic chief minister Vasundhara Raje in the state and the rising popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Over the next five years, Pilot travelled across the length and breadth of the country’s largest state meeting party workers from block to the state level. The young leader vowed not to tie a turban, which is associated with pride and dignity in Rajasthan, until the Congress returned to power in the desert state. The party won the subsequent assembly election in December 2018, though its tally touched just 100, one short of the majority. Congress formed the government with support from its pre-poll alliance partner RLD, six BSP legislators who later merged with it, 13 independent MLAs and five legislators from other smaller parties. Pilot tied the turban once again. The celebrations were short lived as the party scored a duck in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections held five months later. On Tuesday, the state’s longest serving PCC chief was sacked by the Congress for allegedly colluding with the BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot-government. From January 21, 2014 to July 13, 2020, Pilot completed six years and almost six months as the PCC chief. The previous record was of late Parasram Maderna, who was PCC chief from December 8, 1989 to November 25, 1995. “In past three days, senior Congress leaders called Pilot several times with an open heart to join the CLP meeting and settle his differences within the party but there was no response,” AICC leader Randeep Surjewala said, while announcing the sacking. Surjewala stressed, “Within a short span of 17 years in politics between 2003 and 2020, Pilot was given several top positions. At the age of 32, he was made a union minister, at 36 years he was made PCC chief of a big state like Rajasthan and at 40 years he was made the deputy chief minister.” He added, “All this shows the personal affection of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi towards Pilot.” All this while, Pilot’s relations with his senior Ashok Gehlot were never amicable as both leaders aspired to be the Rajasthan chief minister. Being a two-term CM with wide acceptance in the state unit, Gehlot considered himself most eligible for the post. Pilot believed the post rightfully belonged to him for reviving the party in the state. The bitter leadership tussle ended in Pilot losing everything he gained in Congress since 2004. “Gehlot’s experience prevailed over Pilot’s impatience,” said a Congress veteran. Pilot entered politics following his father Rajesh Pilot’s demise in a road accident near Dausa in June 2000. Pilot was elected to Lok Sabha from Dausa, which used to be his father’s constituency, in 2004. From 2001 to 2004, his mother Rama Pilot represented Dausa in the Lok Sabha. When the seat got reserved for ST community in the 2009 elections, he moved to Ajmer Lok Sabha seat and won. Pilot lost the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Ajmer and shifted to neighbouring Tonk in the 2018 assembly polls. He is currently the Congress MLA from Tonk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/longest-serving-pcc-chief-resurrected-party-in-5-years/articleshow/76971771.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Longest serving PCC chief resurrected party in 5 years||JAIPUR: When he was sent to Rajasthan as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president in January 2014, the workers of the grand old party were a totally demoralised force having been decimated by the BJP in the assembly polls of December 2013. The saffron party had won a record 163 seats in the 200-member assembly, restricting Congress to its lowest ever tally of 21 seats. The task was cut out for Pilot, who was then a union minister, to raise the party state unit from ruins back to its glory and power. The job was daunting considering that the 36-year-old had to compete against the charismatic chief minister Vasundhara Raje in the state and the rising popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Over the next five years, Pilot travelled across the length and breadth of the country’s largest state meeting party workers from block to the state level. The young leader vowed not to tie a turban, which is associated with pride and dignity in Rajasthan, until the Congress returned to power in the desert state. The party won the subsequent assembly election in December 2018, though its tally touched just 100, one short of the majority. Congress formed the government with support from its pre-poll alliance partner RLD, six BSP legislators who later merged with it, 13 independent MLAs and five legislators from other smaller parties. Pilot tied the turban once again. The celebrations were short lived as the party scored a duck in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections held five months later. On Tuesday, the state’s longest serving PCC chief was sacked by the Congress for allegedly colluding with the BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot-government. From January 21, 2014 to July 13, 2020, Pilot completed six years and almost six months as the PCC chief. The previous record was of late Parasram Maderna, who was PCC chief from December 8, 1989 to November 25, 1995. “In past three days, senior Congress leaders called Pilot several times with an open heart to join the CLP meeting and settle his differences within the party but there was no response,” AICC leader Randeep Surjewala said, while announcing the sacking. Surjewala stressed, “Within a short span of 17 years in politics between 2003 and 2020, Pilot was given several top positions. At the age of 32, he was made a union minister, at 36 years he was made PCC chief of a big state like Rajasthan and at 40 years he was made the deputy chief minister.” He added, “All this shows the personal affection of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi towards Pilot.” All this while, Pilot’s relations with his senior Ashok Gehlot were never amicable as both leaders aspired to be the Rajasthan chief minister. Being a two-term CM with wide acceptance in the state unit, Gehlot considered himself most eligible for the post. Pilot believed the post rightfully belonged to him for reviving the party in the state. The bitter leadership tussle ended in Pilot losing everything he gained in Congress since 2004. “Gehlot’s experience prevailed over Pilot’s impatience,” said a Congress veteran. Pilot entered politics following his father Rajesh Pilot’s demise in a road accident near Dausa in June 2000. Pilot was elected to Lok Sabha from Dausa, which used to be his father’s constituency, in 2004. From 2001 to 2004, his mother Rama Pilot represented Dausa in the Lok Sabha. When the seat got reserved for ST community in the 2009 elections, he moved to Ajmer Lok Sabha seat and won. Pilot lost the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Ajmer and shifted to neighbouring Tonk in the 2018 assembly polls. He is currently the Congress MLA from Tonk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/longest-serving-pcc-chief-resurrected-party-in-5-years/articleshow/76971770.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 15, 2020||Kochi||Unlike others, Kerala finds HCQ an effective drug||KOCHI: World Health Organization (WHO) and many countries may have decided to discontinue the usage of Malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for treatment of Covid-19 patients but Kerala will be continuing with the drug, which was found to be effective on patients here. “Our experience shows that hydroxychloroquine is effective in prevention. We will continue giving the drug to Covid-19 patients as we generally detect Covid cases in early stages and when you give the drug in the early stage of the infection, it’s almost like prevention. It also helps reduce the duration of RT-PCR positivity and has enabled us to maintain a low death rate,” said Dr Santhosh Kumar, chairman, the state medical board that decides on the treatment protocol for Covid. Various trial results worldwide showed that HCQ produced little or no reduction in the mortality of hospitalized Covid-19 patients when compared to the standard of care. Recently, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Maharashtra government removed the drug from its treatment protocol. In Kerala, study on 500 patients shows that the mean duration of hospital stay in-patients who received HCQ and azithromycin was 13.51 days, while the mean duration in those who did not receive it was 14.45 days. Also, it was found that there is a statistically significant reduction in the duration of RT-PCR positivity among patients who received this combination drug to those patients who did not receive it. “We can only copy the treatment protocol of places where the results are good and Covid patients have recovered.Those who died in Kerala, came to hospital late and in bad condition almost eight to 10 days after symptoms developed,” said Dr Santosh. In the state, the drug is also used as a prophylaxis drug that is administered to health workers and contact cases of a Covid patient. Health experts welcomed the government’s decision. “HCQ is a commonly used drug in such inflammatory conditions. There is definite proof that in certain percentages of patients, there are immune modulatory and inflammatory reactions that produce complications and early use of HCQ is useful,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of IMA’s Hospital Board of India. Watch Kerala finds HCQ effective in Covid-19 treatment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/unlike-others-kerala-finds-hcq-an-effective-drug/articleshow/76967293.cms||Preetu Nair
July 15, 2020||India||SC seeks CBI report in sealed cover on Hindustan Zinc disinvestment||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to submit in sealed cover the preliminary enquiry (PE) report of CBI on the alleged irregularities in the Union government's decision to divest Centre's remaining 29.5% stake in Hindustan Zinc Limited. Appearing for petitioner National Confederation of Officers' Association of Central Public Sector Undertakings, advocate Prashant Bhushan said that most of the investigating officers in the CBI and top officials had favoured registration of regular case, on the basis of the irregularities pointed out in the decision to disinvest government stake in HZL. However, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the procedure for closure of the case was followed scrupulously. Mehta said he was willing to place in sealed cover the PE before the SC to dispel any misgivings about alleged irregularities claimed by Bhushan. The bench adjourned hearing after saying, "In the meantime, CBI to file PE report in sealed cover." On January 19, 2016, the SC had stalled the government's proposed sale of its 29.5% equity in HZL, the erstwhile public sector company where Anil Agarwal's Vedanta now has the majority stake. The NDA government had in 2002-03 divested its majority stake in HZL and Bharat Aluminium Company (Balco) and was looking to exit the two companies. The finance ministry was keen to offload its remaining 29.5% share in HZL and a 49% stake in Balco, hoping to raise over Rs 20,000 crore, based on the 2016 market price. The option was to either sell the remaining shares to Vedanta or explore other routes such as auction on the stock exchanges or a public offer. Appearing for Vedanta, senior advocate Harish Salve on Tuesday told the SC that Vedanta had no objection if the government auctioned its stake in the market, and that Vedanta was ready to participate in the general auction. The finance ministry had sought legal opinion on the issue but had not received a clear view at a time when government officers were not keen to push through the sale, fearing adverse comments from the Comptroller and Auditor General later. But, the SC's January 2016 order ruling seems to have sealed the fate of selloff in these two companies after the National Confederation of Officers' Associations of Central Public Sector Undertakings filed a PIL in 2014 questioning the Centre's decision to completely exit HZL, which according them has turned into a profit-making venture. Bhushan had alleged that in 2002-03, the disinvestment was done illegally by the Centre as it did not amend the Act passed by Parliament in 1966 creating HZL and vesting its control with the Union government. He said the government should not be permitted to violate the provisions once again by completely exiting from the erstwhile PSU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-cbi-report-in-sealed-cover-on-hindustan-zinc-disinvestment/articleshow/76969653.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Sachin Pilot exit elicits muted reaction from Gujjars||JAIPUR: Unlike 2018 when the Gujjar community hit the streets and indulged in arson after Sachin Pilot was denied the chief minister’s post, there was no reaction from his community after his unceremonious exit from two key posts on Tuesday. In 2018, the Congress high command had to call back Gehlot from Delhi airport when news spread that agitated Gujjars had blocked a national highway and went on a rampage after Sachin was not made the chief minister. Pilot’s pressure had forced the party to work out a compromise formula by accommodating him as the deputy chief minister and agreeing to retain him in the post of party state chief. But this time the reaction is almost muted. Himmat Singh, a young Gujjar leader associated with the Gujjar agitation said, “The community is really shocked by Pilot’s revolt. Over confidence and over ambition of Pilot led to a situation where the community which had supported him now left in the lurch.” He alleged that though Pilot took advantage of community support, he did precious little to help the community struggle for 5% MBC reservation. Gujjar leader Shailendra Singh Dhabai while reacting to the silence of the community on the political development said, “Sachin Pilot could not rise to the expectations of the community. He kept a distance from the community and never gave the respect to the community which supported him in the past.” Within one-and-half year, his popularly among the community has diminished, he said. However, political pundits said Pilot’s ouster would be a loss to the Congress as he had support among the youth cutting across caste lines. It would be particularly felt in Dausa, Karauli and Sawai Madhopur region, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pilot-exit-elicits-muted-reaction-from-gujjars/articleshow/76975477.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram zooms in on 10 areas, may mark them as clusters||GURUGRAM: Ten more areas in the city could be identified as Covid-19 clusters and are expected to be added to the list of large outbreak regions (LORs). A recommendation in this regard was forwarded by the health department on Tuesday to the district administration, which is likely to release the final list on Wednesday. Sources said that the areas recommended by the health department include Lakshman Vihar, Mullahera, Rajiv Nagar, Nathupur, Choma, Firoz Gandhi colony, Patel Nagar, Om Nagar and Sohna. A few areas from the previous list, including areas that fall under the Patel Nagar primary health centre, are likely to be retained due to their high Covid case load. LORs were identified to regulate the movement in the areas that have reported a higher number of Covid cases. On June 26, the district magistrate had specified the restrictions to be imposed in LORs to contain the spread of Covid-19. The health department started conducting rapid antigen testing in these areas on July 1 and was directed to hold them till July 14. “It is a dynamic process. We are assessing the zones that have already been notified and will come up with an order. The restrictions will continue in some of the areas. They won’t be completely abolished,” said deputy commissioner Amit Khatri. Health department officials said the new areas recommended in the list have seen a spike in cases over the past two weeks. “The administration will release the final list of large outbreak regions. After the final list is notified, the health department will conduct rapid antigen testing, RT-PCR and surveys in these areas. We will also identify people with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) symptoms,” said chief medical officer Virender Yadav. A total of 14 camps have been organised by the health department for rapid antigen testing. Out of these, 11 are in LORs. “About 24,482 tests were conducted in the camps. Out of this, 680 have tested positive,” said district surveillance officer Jai Prakash. While containment zones are areas where five or more Covid cases have been reported, large outbreak regions have 15 or more cases. Currently, LORs include Dundahera-police station road, Aggarwal Sweets Gali (Sector 21), Dundahera Community Centre, Vishal Mega Mart street (ward 4); Arjun Nagar, Jyoti Park, Madan Puri (ward 16); Rattan Garden, Shivpuri Inn (ward 17), Shivaji Nagar, Shanti Nagar (ward 20); Baldev Nagar, Firoz Gandhi Colony, Ravi Nagar (ward 21); Heera Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Shivaji Park (ward 22); Hari Nagar, Shakti Park (ward 23) and Nathupur abadi (ward 35).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-zooms-in-on-10-areas-may-mark-them-as-clusters/articleshow/76968942.cms||Vishakha Chaman
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot exit elicits muted reaction from Gujjars||JAIPUR: Unlike 2018 when the Gujjar community hit the streets and indulged in arson after Sachin Pilot was denied the chief minister’s post, there was no reaction from his community after his unceremonious exit from two key posts on Tuesday. In 2018, the Congress high command had to call back Gehlot from Delhi airport when news spread that agitated Gujjars had blocked a national highway and went on a rampage after Sachin was not made the chief minister. Pilot’s pressure had forced the party to work out a compromise formula by accommodating him as the deputy chief minister and agreeing to retain him in the post of party state chief. But this time the reaction is almost muted. Himmat Singh, a young Gujjar leader associated with the Gujjar agitation said, “The community is really shocked by Pilot’s revolt. Over confidence and over ambition of Pilot led to a situation where the community which had supported him now left in the lurch.” He alleged that though Pilot took advantage of community support, he did precious little to help the community struggle for 5% MBC reservation. Gujjar leader Shailendra Singh Dhabai while reacting to the silence of the community on the political development said, “Sachin Pilot could not rise to the expectations of the community. He kept a distance from the community and never gave the respect to the community which supported him in the past.” Within one-and-half year, his popularly among the community has diminished, he said. However, political pundits said Pilot’s ouster would be a loss to the Congress as he had support among the youth cutting across caste lines. It would be particularly felt in Dausa, Karauli and Sawai Madhopur region, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-exit-elicits-muted-reaction-from-gujjars/articleshow/76968917.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Unni to go back to parents’ arms today||KOCHI: A month after he was placed under Mary Anitha’s care, six-month-old Unni – as she fondly calls him will be reunited with his parents on Wednesday. The toddler’s parents, both nurses in Haryana, were being treated for Covid-19. “I came into the picture when the Ernakulam child welfare committee (CWC) asked me if I could find a volunteer who will be willing to undergo quarantine with the child at the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, where his mother was admitted after testing positive,” says Mary, who runs the NGO Centre for Empowerment and Enrichment. “Hospital authorities weren’t able to arrange a carer for the baby, whose first sample had tested negative. So I spoke to my family, made arrangements for food and drove to the hospital to be with the child. I decided to volunteer because the child was being breastfed and was too small to be handed over to just anybody,” said Mary, who herself has three children. Mary remembers receiving the baby from a wailing mother. The parents had tried to reach out to relatives, who opted out for fear of contracting the virus. Their eldest child was already with grandparents. When the infant tested negative, it became a worry for authorities to keep the child, who had some health issues, in the Covid ward with the mother. “I stayed in the hospital with the baby who had to be weaned off breast milk. He was given baby food. After a week, the result of his second sample arrived, confirming he was disease-free. Still, no relative came forward; and I still remember the loud wail of the mother when she was informed. After signing legal documents, I brought the baby to a flat in an apartment block next to my home,” she recalls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/unni-to-go-back-to-parents-arms-today/articleshow/76967303.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 15, 2020||Aurangabad||District admin announces 15-day lockdown in Latur||Aurangabad: Latur collector G Shrikant on Tuesday said a 15-day lockdown, including first five days of complete closure, will be imposed across the district from Wednesday. In an order issued on Monday evening, Shrikant has exempted health services and pharmacies attached to the hospitals from the lockdown. Other medical stores are allowed to operate only from 7 am to 12 noon. All other services and shops, including grocery stores and vegetable markets, would strictly remain closed for five days — till July 15 in order to break the chain of Covid-19. The collector has also imposed strict prohibition on people above the age of 65 and children under the age of 10, except for emergencies. He also ordered seizure of vehicles if anyone is found to be roaming around without due permission. “The decision to impose lockdown has forced the people into panic buying. This has led to crowding of shops and markets where the social distancing norm is not being followed,” a local resident said. “The district recorded 58 positive cases on Tuesday taking the total number of patients in the district to 781. Of these 388 have already been treated and discharged, but 356 are still being treated. The district has also reported 37 deaths due to Covid-19,” Latur mayor Vikrant Gojamgunde said. He added that only delivery of milk will be allowed on the first five days that too only for three hours. “Civic body has decided to press its staff to conduct door-to-door survey and check for suspected patients. They would be doing more reliable antibody tests, instead of antigen testing. The civic body would primarily concentrate on three red zones in the city. Latur has a population of around 5 lakh,” Gojamgunde said. “From July 21 onwards, the administration has allowed opening of grocery shops, vegetable markets and restaurants between 7am and 12 noon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/district-admin-announces-15-day-lockdown-in-latur/articleshow/76966090.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Golf Green panic after PPE dumped on thoroughfare||Kolkata: Scare gripped a section of Golf Green residents on Tuesday morning when they found several PPE lying on a roadside garbage dump. Some local residents, who were out for a morning walk, noticed them and informed Tapan Dasgupta, the local ward coordinator. Dasgupta rushed to the spot and found the PPE lying with other wastes. He then called KMC solid waste management department and asked the department officials to collect the PPE and dump them at an appropriate place. Later, Dasgupta said he had no idea how the PPE — two of them unused — were dumped on a roadside garbage dump in a residential area. Sources in KMC said officials were worried to find used PPE from places across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/golf-green-panic-after-ppe-dumped-on-thoroughfare/articleshow/76968196.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong: Never opposed return of Himachalis||Shimla: A day after chief minister Jai Ram Thakur alleged that Congress was opposing the return of stranded Himachalis, state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore hit back at him, saying the party had in fact demanded that people who have been stranded during the lockdown be brought back to the state. On Monday, Thakur had said Congress would be in trouble for opposing the return of stranded residents. Interacting with mediapersons on Tuesday, Rathore advised the chief minister to avoid issuing false statements. Referring to the registeration of a case against some Congress leaders, including Rathore, for holding a protest demonstration outside the state secretariat in Shimla on Monday, he said government cannot suppress their voice. Rathore also blamed the government for poor compliance of Covid-19 guidelines. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-never-opposed-return-of-himachalis/articleshow/76968193.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dak adalat to be held via Google meet||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The department of posts, Trivandrum north division, will conduct dak adalat on Thursday at 10am through Google Meet. Those who want to participate in the adalat can forward their complaints/suggestions with their email ID/whatsapp number to the office of department of posts before July 21 through mail (dotpuramnorth.kl@indiapost.gov.in or ssptvnorth.keralapost@gmail.com) or to the following address: Senior superintendent of post offices, Trivandrum North Division, GPO Building, Thiruvananthapuram - 695 001. The link for the Google meet will be shared to the email id/whatsapp number half an hour before the commencement of the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dak-adalat-to-be-held-via-google-meet/articleshow/76968198.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Surat||IMFL worth Rs 28 lakh seized near Bharuch, four arrested||SURAT: The Bharuch police seized 7,044 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 28 lakh after intercepting two trucks near Mandva toll plaza on the National Highway (NH) 8 in Bharuch on Tuesday. Four people were arrested and are being questioned. The liquor being brought from Bahadurgarh in Haryana was to be delivered to bootleggers in Bhavnagar district, said official of Bharuch local crime branch (LCB). The IMFL bottles were hidden beneath the GI Pipes and plastic barrels. The accused have been identified as Parvinder Jat, Gurmeer Singh Jat, and Malkit Singh Jat—residents of Karnal in Haryana—and Gurpreet Jat, from Rohini Sector in Delhi. LCB police inspector, J N Zala told TOI, “This is one of the biggest raids post-lockdown. We had got specific information that two trucks carrying IMFL consignment were coming from Haryana and that they were supposed to deliver the illicit liquor in Bhavnagar via Jambusar. We have arrested two drivers and two cleaners of the trucks with about 584 boxes containing 7,044 bottles.” Zala added, “We are trying to find out the Bhavnagar-based bootleggers who had sought the supply from Haryana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/imfl-worth-rs-28l-seized-near-bharuch-four-arrested/articleshow/76967302.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ludhiana||2 dist residents among 5 succumb to Covid-19||Ludhiana: Covid-19 claimed five lives, including two of Ludhiana residents, here on Tuesday. Besides, 106 patients tested positive for the disease on the day. Of them, 98 are from the district and include two from Ludhiana Central Jail, a 52-year-old SHO of Moti Nagar police station and a 32-year old judge. Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said two Ludhiana residents — a 57-year-old man of Iqbal Nagar, Tajpur Road, and a 40-year-old woman of Vijay Nagar — have died at hospitals. Both of them had respiratory problems. The man had diabetes too. Three more persons from outside the district have succumbed. They include a 60-year-old woman of Sangrur who had diabetes and kidney problems, a 62-year-old man of Jalandhar who had cancer and a 65-year-man of Amritsar, he added. With this, the toll tally of Ludhiana has reached 35 and that of those from outside the district stands at 31. The health department officials said so far, 44,770 samples of suspected patients have been taken. On Tuesday, 74 positive reports were received. Of them, 71 are from Ludhiana and three from Amritsar, Nawanshahr and Rajasthan.  The cases from Ludhiana include six from Basti Jodhewal, five from Khanna, four from Tajpur Road, three from Haibowal Kalan, two from Shimlapuri, two form Janta Nagar, two from Ghumar Mandi, two from Dehlon, four from Rajguru Nagar, two each from Dhuri Line, Ishar Nagar, central jail, Officer Colony and one each from Dholewal, New Madhopuri, Ferozepur Road, Police Colony Sarabha Nagar, Mahima Singh Wali, Railway Colony, Muslim Colony, Sector 32 of Chandigarh Road, Phullanwal, Sherpur, Jamalpur, Bagga Khurd, Ambedkar Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Purva village of Samrala, Payal, Gurmail Nagar of Lohara, Kohara Road, Grewal Colony, Bhamiya, Ram Nagar, Chandar Nagar, Daba Colony, Jammu Colony, Janakpuri, Kreempura Bazaar, Field Gunj, Rahon Road, Burj Litta, Iqbal Nagar, Rishi Nagar, Shivpuri and Bachittar Nagar. As many as 32 positive reports were received from private hospitals. Of them, 27 are from Ludhiana, two from Haryana and one each from Jalandhar, Sangrur and Rajasthan. The district cases include three from Omax flats, four from Jamalpur, two from Moti Nagar, two from Basant Avenue, and one each from Gill Road, Shimlapuri, Payal, Vikas Nagar, Vishal Nagar, Model Town, Sarabha Nagar, Model Town Extension, Nandpur, Gurbachan Nagar, Mullanpur, Raskrishan Nagar, Mundiya Khurd, Janta Nagar, Prem Nagar, Sector 32 of Chandigarh Road. Health department officials said to date 1,508 patients of Ludhiana have tested positive. Besides, 274 from outside the district have tested positive here. On Tuesday, 784 samples were sent for testing. On Sunday, 65 rapid response teams screened 314 persons, of which 219 were isolated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-dist-residents-among-5-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/76967305.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Trichy||Farmers wait for days to sell cotton as only one centre procures it||TIRUVARUR: Cotton farmers have demanded that the government increase the number of procurement centres to enable farmers who have raised cotton on about 20,000 acres to sell their produce. With only one procurement centre in Tiruvarur, the procurement is going on at a snail’s pace, as farmers have to wait for days for their turn. Farmers in Tiruvarur district, particularly from Valangaiman, Needamangalam, Kudavasal and Nannilam cultivated cotton in several acres. A section of farmers from Tiruvarur, Kottur and Mannargudi also raised the crop. Altogether cotton has been cultivated in around 20,073 acres in the district. Farmers had only one procurement centre in Tiruvarur. The union government’s agency, Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), has been purchasing cotton from farmers. The farmers in Tiruvarur district and a section of farmers from Keelvelur and Thalaignayiru in Nagapattinam had also been arriving in Tiruvarur to sell cotton as the CCI has been offering Rs 48 to Rs 52 per kg based on the quality, moisture and stability of cotton. Meanwhile, as the CCI authorities procure only certain amount of cotton from the farmers as per their norms, farmers are forced to sell it to private traders for a lower price. To avoid the loss, hundreds of farmers started queuing up before CCI since Friday onwards to sell it on Tuesdays, which was the usual auction day, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI P S Masilamani said. Despite the long wait, farmers are unable to sell their cotton at CCI forcing them to stage a protest. Hundreds of farmers blocked the road late on Monday demanding to procure all the cotton from them. “Since the production of cotton this year is better than the previous year, the district administration should establish more procurement centres. We are ready to provide land to set up procurement centre by the CCI,” Masilamani said. Meanwhile, the district administration has announced to set up a few additional centres to procure cotton at Moongilkudi centre on Wednesday, Kudavasal centre on Friday evening, and Valangaiman centre on Friday noon, district collector T Anand said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-wait-for-days-to-sell-cotton-as-only-one-centre-procures-it/articleshow/76968919.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, Dera Ballan wants ‘Ravidassia’ as separate religion in 2021 census||JALANDHAR: Dera Sachkhand, Ballan and a section of Ravidassia community saints have urged the Prime Minister to add ‘Ravidassia’ as separate religion in the Census. This brings out the split within Adi-dharmi/Ravidassia community, as already a section of sants and All India Adi Dharam Mission has appealed to the community members to mention ‘Adi-dharmi’ as their religion in the 2021 census. “The dera has sent memorandums to the President, PM and Census Commissioner and we are also appealing to the organisations of the community to send similar memos to the PM,” said Sat Paul Virdee, general secretary of Sri Guru Ravidass Janam Asthaan Public Charitable Trust. A joint statement was also issued on the letterhead of Akhil Bhartiya Ravidassia Dharm Sangathan with this appeal to the PM and it was signed by Dera Ballan head Sant Niranjan Dass, Sant Surinder Dass and 13 other sants. It also mentioned that they have their own religious granth “Amrit Bani Satugruu Ravidass Ji”, their greeting is “Jai Gurudev” and they have their own religious flag with “Har” written on it. “As all the followers of Guru Ravidas Ji are called Ravidassia as they follow the Ravidassia religion, in the last population Census of 2011, lakhs of Ravidassias had to write Ravidassia in “Other” column. Therefore, we humbly request your good self to include a religious column and allocate a unique code for Ravidassia religion, in the upcoming population census of 2021 and in all future population census, so that the Ravidassia may be counted separately,” reads the memorandum sent by Dera Ballan. The decision to send the memorandum was taken after a meeting at the dera on Monday which was attended by its trustees and over a dozen other sants. Dera Ballan is considered the most influential dera of Adi-dharmi/Ravidassia community. In January 2010, it had announced to found “Ravidassia” religion with separate granth ‘Amrit Bani’. However, the move was opposed by Sri Guru Ravidass Sadhu Sampardai Society a representative body of several other sants and deras of the community and they announced to stick to Guru Granth Sahib. The differences had led to bitterness within the community but things had cooled down in the last few years. All India Adi Dharam Mission led by Sant Satwinder Heera, All India Adi-dharam Sadhu Samaj led by its chairman Sant Nirmal Dass, patron Sant Sarwan Dass Bohn and president Sant Sarwan Dass (Salem Tabri) have already issued an appeal to the community members to mention Adi-dharmi as their religion during census. In a statement issued on Sunday, Heera had said that Adi-dharm was recognised as separate religion in the 1932 census. “It is not part of any other religion, it has its own customs and identity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-dera-ballan-wants-ravidassia-as-separate-religion-in-2021-census/articleshow/76968181.cms||IP Singh
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||SC rejects murder convict Rampal appeal for parole||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected a plea by self-styled godman Rampal, convicted in multiple murder cases and serving life term in jail, for grant of interim bail for a week to attend his grand-daughter's marriage scheduled for Wednesday. Appearing for 67-year-old Rampal, senior advocate Sidharth Luthra told a bench headed by CJI S A Bobde that petitioner's son Virender, also convicted along with him in the murder cases, was granted three weeks’ interim bail by the Punjab and Haryana HC to solemnise his daughters wedding. "When the son of the petitioner is granted interim suspension of sentences for three weeks, the hHigh court could have considered the interim suspension for at least a week for the petitioner, especially when both are convicted for the same offence. The high court could not have passed the impugned order without calling upon police to respond to the interim prayer made for a limited purpose of marriage of the granddaughter," Rampal said, challenging the HC's refusal to allow him to attend the wedding ceremony. "The petitioner being the elderly person in the family, his presence in the marriage is vital and necessary being the grand parent to perform the ritual for the marriage along with his grand daughter," Luthra argued. But when the CJI-led bench refused to show any leniency to Rampal, Luthra said, "The petitioner has been in jail for more than five years. and his conduct during incarceration has been exemplary." The bench said, "His conduct is exemplary because there is nothing else he could do inside the jail." Haryana police took help of paramilitary forces in 2014 to arrest Rampal from his Satlok Ashram in Hissar as his supporters fought a pitched battle with law enforcers for more than 48 hours to prevent the self-styled godman's arrest. Four women and a child died in the clashes. Rampal was convicted for the death of the five in 2014 and also for murder of a woman in 2006. The trial court sentenced him to imprisonment for the rest of his life. His appeal against conviction and sentence is pending before the Punjab and Haryana high court .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sc-rejects-murder-convict-rampal-appeal-for-parole/articleshow/76968189.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Udaipur||Sachin Pilot exit elicits muted reaction from Gujjars||JAIPUR: Unlike 2018 when the Gujjar community hit the streets and indulged in arson after Sachin Pilot was denied the chief minister’s post, there was no reaction from his community after his unceremonious exit from two key posts on Tuesday. In 2018, the Congress high command had to call back Gehlot from Delhi airport when news spread that agitated Gujjars had blocked a national highway and went on a rampage after Sachin was not made the chief minister. Pilot’s pressure had forced the party to work out a compromise formula by accommodating him as the deputy chief minister and agreeing to retain him in the post of party state chief. But this time the reaction is almost muted. Himmat Singh, a young Gujjar leader associated with the Gujjar agitation said, “The community is really shocked by Pilot’s revolt. Over confidence and over ambition of Pilot led to a situation where the community which had supported him now left in the lurch.” He alleged that though Pilot took advantage of community support, he did precious little to help the community struggle for 5% MBC reservation. Gujjar leader Shailendra Singh Dhabai while reacting to the silence of the community on the political development said, “Sachin Pilot could not rise to the expectations of the community. He kept a distance from the community and never gave the respect to the community which supported him in the past.” Within one-and-half year, his popularly among the community has diminished, he said. However, political pundits said Pilot’s ouster would be a loss to the Congress as he had support among the youth cutting across caste lines. It would be particularly felt in Dausa, Karauli and Sawai Madhopur region, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/pilot-exit-elicits-muted-reaction-from-gujjars/articleshow/76975478.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Trichy||BDU allows colleges to conduct MPhil viva voce online||TRICHY: After asking affiliated colleges to conduct viva voce examination for PhD online, Bharathidasan University (BDU) has given its nod for institutions to conduct M Phil programmes online as well. The controller of examination (in-charge) BDU, S Srinivasa Ragavan, in a circular asked the colleges to choose any online mode to conduct viva voce examination.“It will be beneficial for colleges having part time students from other states who cannot come in person to appear for viva voce, said the controller. There should be a minimum 30 participants including faculty members/research scholars/ PG students. After conducting the examination online, the soft copy of the complete meeting is to be recorded in a CD/pen drive. The hard copy is to be submitted in the existing method as per the current regulations. The university grants commission (UGC) had recently asked institutions to switch to online mode for PhD and M Phil examinations during the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-allows-colleges-to-conduct-mphil-viva-voce-online/articleshow/76968928.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Civic hospitals charts show up to 80% drop in Covid-19 death rate||MUMBAI: The flattening of the Covid curve in Mumbai is most apparent in the death charts of BMC’s hospitals: They have witnessed between 65% and 80% drop in the fatality rate over the past few weeks. The BMC’s statistical analysis shows the case fatality rate at KEM Hospital, which is reserved for the most severe Covid cases, has seen an 82% drop from 34 deaths in June to six on July 13. At Nair Hospital, which was the city’s first dedicated Covid facility, the death rate has fallen 65%—from 20 cases in June to 10 in the first week of July and further to seven this week. The third civic hospital at Sion has registered a 72% drop— from 25.7 in June to seven now. “Mumbai’s Covid curve has flattened out and our hospitals are in sync with it,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary from Mantralaya on deputation to the BMC for Covid care. “The case fatality rate or the number of deaths per 100 Covid-19 cases is in single digits in most of our hospitals,” she added. In May, at the height of Mumbai’s Covid mayhem, the main BMC hospitals—KEM, Nair and Sion—accounted for most of the city’s Covid deaths. On May 10, for instance, when the city’s Covid toll stood at 489, KEM Hospital—counted among the country’s best medical schools—accounted for a third of deaths at 163. “Most patients would come with advanced disease and a sizeable number would succumb within 24 hours in hospital, but that is not the case now,” said KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh on Tuesday. The high toll prompted municipal commissioner I S Chahal to start Mission Save Lives on June 29. In the first week of July, KEM Hospital’s fatality rate fell to 10 and is now six. In Seven Hills Hospital, Andheri, the fatality rate of 5.3 in June has halved to two deaths per 100 Covid admissions. One of the contributors to the lower death rate is the mandatory rounds by senior doctors. “We have now made it mandatory for senior doctors to take a round in the morning and another in the evening,” said Mhasikar. This, along with the availability of Covid medicines, right from remdesivir to tocilizumab, has helped. Nair Hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi said doctors understand the disease better and have instruments to treat it. “Besides medicines, we have a wider range of oxygen support tools, ranging from O2 masks, non-invasive ventilators, concentrators and high flow nasal cannula that can deliver a flow rate of up to 60 litres per minute,” he said. Relaxation of testing norms, early detection and initiation of treatment have played a key part. “Patients come early, giving us a bigger window to treat. The patient load, too, has decreased, allowing us to manage cases better. Besides the drugs, some of our patients have also got plasma therapy under the pan-India trial,” said Sion dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal, adding physiotherapy in wards and counselling for psychological support is proving effective as well. At Bal Thackeray Trauma Hospital, Dr Vidya Mane said even patients from the slums are seeking care early. A concern for Sion Hospital, though, is critical patients coming from Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Meanwhile, KEM is on the verge of adding 25 ICU beds in the first week of August. “Despite the plateau in the number of Covid cases at present, we are going to stay vigilant and prepared,” said Dr Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/civic-hosp-charts-show-up-to-80-drop-in-covid-death-rate/articleshow/76968210.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||80% of Telangana doesn’t have Covid-19: Government||HYDERABAD: Public health director Dr G Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday announced that 80% of the people in Telangana do not have symptoms of Covid-19. Addressing a press conference here, he said 9,786 people are under home isolation for Covid-19 treatment. He said presently 54 private hospitals are providing Covid-19 treatment as against 98 hospitals having permission to treat Covid-19 patients. “Soon, private medical colleges will offer Covid-19 treatment free of cost,” he said. There are about 10 private medical colleges in and around Hyderabad and a total of 21 medical colleges in the state. Malla Reddy Institute of Medical Sciences and Mamata Medical College are offering free service to Covid-hit patients presently. The director of health further said that three call centres have been made available to people to alert officials on Covid-19 cases. “The bed strength will be made available in public domain,” he said and added that government hospitals are open for both Covid and non-Covid treatment. Meanwhile, Director of Medical education (DME) Dr Ramesh Reddy said the salaries of outsourcing nursing staff would be increased. He also said the issue of regularising their jobs is pending with court and appealed to the striking nurses to resume work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/80-of-state-doesnt-have-covid-govt/articleshow/76968924.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Vishwendra Singh lost cabinet but wins hearts on Twitter||JAIPUR: Vishwendra Singh, who was removed from the cabinet on Tuesday, had won many hearts on Twitter. Singh, who is from Pilot’s camp, is a relatively new entrant in the ecosystem. He has been earning applause, acknowledgement and followings based on his crisp one-liners, prose and poems from both friends and foes. Singh’s indirect comments on Twitter were the only source of information from the Pilot camp for the media, the Congress, the BJP and the general public. He kept the focus on him since the first day of the crisis. Every move by the Congress or CM Ashok Gehlot was responded by poems of Faiz Ahmed Faiz or Bashir Badr. Soon after he lost the cabinet berth, he tweeted Faiz Ahmed Faiz’s song ‘Vah din jiska vada hai, jo loh-e-afzal mein likha hai….hum dekhenge.’ It received over 19,000 likes by evening. Later he came out with another tweet, “just love the way how from being called ‘Mantri’ to ‘MLA’ was a day’s work! Actually that gives me more room on the drawing board! A fresh canvas.’ वह दिन जिसका वादा है, जो लौह-ए-अज़ल मे लिखा है... हम देखेंगे !— Vishvendra Singh Bharatpur (@vishvendrabtp) 1594717402000The tweet, which attracted maximum attention from BJP leaders including Satish Poonia, Union minister Kailesh Choudhary, MP Rajsamand Diya Kumari and former education minister Vasudev Devnani, was a prose by poet Bashir Badr which says, “Mein bolta hu toh ilzam hai bagawat ka….mein chup rahu toj bade bebasi se hote hai.’ Till Monday night, he gave work related instructions to his staff through Twitter. “@khndelwalankit I need a constituency report like always at 6pm. I take it you are heading both veriticals in Bharatpur, given that two senior team members are down with Covid. Have you met the new SDM? Why is Chambal work going on so slow?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vishwendra-singh-lost-cabinet-but-wins-hearts-on-twitter/articleshow/76968930.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||Former MLA amongst 76 new cases in Vadodara||VADODARA: Covid-19 cases continued to spike in the city and district with a fresh peak of 76 cases on Tuesday. The cases were detected from 546 samples that were tested since Monday evening taking the total number of positive cases in the city up to 3,219. The new cases included former BJP MLA from Karjan assembly constituency Satish Patel aka Nishaliya. He was admitted to a private hospital in the city. Former standing committee chairman Yogendra aka Ballu Sukhadiya from BJP who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier died on Tuesday morning. A senior health official said that Sukhadiya had been admitted again after he was discharged after treatment for Covid-19. He added Sukhadiya also had comorbid conditions that may have led to the situation. The fresh cases included 21 cases in the south zone, 20 in the north zone, 11 in the west zone and five in the east zone in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. In other parts of the district 19 cases were detected. These were found from Savli, Shinor, Padra, Dabhoi, Sayajipura and Bhayli. Details of patients discharged from various hospitals and home isolation revealed that 79 persons were discharged on Tuesday, including two from home isolation. This leaves 785 persons under hospitalisation including 36 on ventilators or BiPAP machines and 139 on oxygen support. The condition of remaining 610 patients is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/former-mla-amongst-76-new-cases-in-vadodara/articleshow/76966464.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Cuckoos to be tracked by WII, IIRS in 1st attempt to decode link between ‘rain bird’, monsoon & climate change||Dehradun: Two years ago, scientists from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) had an idea. The cuckoo has always been known as the rain bird, the harbinger of monsoon. But how has it come to be so? They finally hope to find out, in what will be the first attempt to track migratory patterns of a bird to understand its relationship with climate change. On Sunday, a cuckoo arrived on the WII campus, believed to be from South Africa. On Tuesday, another was caught. The first, called Megh (cloud), has been tagged with a transmitter. The other, Chatak (as it is locally known), will be tagged on Wednesday. The transmitters had been imported from the US a year ago but no cuckoo could be caught and the study, consequently, could not be initiated. “It is for the first time that a bird species is being tagged to understand its relationship with climate patterns,” said R Suresh Kumar, senior scientist at the Department of Endangered Species Management, WII. “There are two types of cuckoo — ones that are native to parts of southern India and another that travels all the way from South Africa to northern India. The transmitter will help us map the migration path. That will be studied along with the monsoon patterns along this path,” said Gautam Talukdar, a colleague of Kumar. The arrival of the Jacobin Cuckoo, Pied Cuckoo or Chatak is considered auspicious by agriculturalists, who think it is a sign of good harvest. Local lore says the bird quenches its thirst only on raindrops, travelling with the monsoon clouds. “We have online records from eminent birdwatchers across the country and data from the India Meteorological Department which shows the cuckoo arrives just before the monsoon in central and northern India. If the monsoon arrives earlier than usual, so does the cuckoo,” said Dr Dhananjai Mohan, director of WII, himself a noted birdwatcher. And tied to this tiny bird is a poorly understood climatic phenomenon, the South Asian Monsoon. Climate scientists have observed it has been changing in terms of frequency, intensity and duration over the past few decades. Not much is known about the reasons though. “India is an agrarian community. Decoding the cuckoo’s relationship with the monsoon is important for climate change modelling,” said Sameer Saran, national coordinator of the Indian Bioresources Information Network and head of the department of geoinformatics at IIRS. The migration path will be observed real-time on a geospatial platform. The project has been funded by the department of biotechnology, government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cuckoos-to-be-tracked-by-wii-iirs-in-1st-attempt-to-decode-link-between-rain-bird-monsoon-climate-change/articleshow/76966093.cms||Shivani Azad
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government to scale up rapid antigen tests||HYDERABAD: The testing for Covid-19 is set to increase further with the government deciding to increase the number of rapid antigen tests in the state. Earlier, the authorities were issued instructions to conduct not more than 25 tests at a collection centre, but now the number will be 100 tests per centre every day. The number of antigen tests will increase in GHMC, Medchal and Rangareddy districts. This was decided as part of the strategy to increase testing among the all the first contacts of the patient, irrespective of whether they are asymptomatic or symptomatic. “We want to increase the testing net and see that most people are tested,” a senior official said. Officials said more and more people are preferring to get the tests done with antigen kits as they are giving results within two hours whereas the RT-PCR test takes more than 24 hours. This has also led to a mad rush at the swab collection centres, an official said. “Physical distance is not being maintained at some centres. There were a lot of people standing near a collection centre. It was then I had decided to approach a private lab,” said KV Rao (name changed) of Tarnaka. There are also concerns at centres over safety boxes not being arranged for test samples. Some Primary Healthcare Centres (PHC) do not have safety boxes. “We should be provided safety boxes. Many staff are getting infected, so safety and precaution are of paramount importance,” a doctor at Medchal PHC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-scale-up-rapid-antigen-tests/articleshow/76968936.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Local bodies dept notifies fire NOC charges||LUDHIANA: With the local bodies department notifying charges for fire NoC, those applying for the certificate will have to pay for it. The NoC, which was given for free earlier, will now be given for at least Rs 5,000. Moreover, there will be a 10% increase in charges every year. If anyone has to get the NoC renewed, 50% charges will be imposed. Officials said they have received the notification and are making changes on the website where people apply for online NoC, after which it will be implemented. After a fire breaks out in any unit, the owner will need to pay for the fire call report meant for documentation and insurance. Earlier, the fee for this was Rs 100 but now it is Rs 5,000 and Rs 2,000, which will be made online. Civic bodies in Pathankot, Phagwara, Jalandhar and Amritsar have already fixed charges for Fire NoC. But in Ludhiana, which is notorious for fire incidents, also has the maximum violators who do not apply for the NoC. In 2017, the civic body of Ludhiana tried to impose NoC fee and the MC technical committee also gave technical approval for this but it could not be implemented. A fire branch official said the NoC fee had been fixed to collect money for upgrade of the fire wing. Station fire officer S N Sharma said, “We have received the notification and it has been circulated in the office. The website is closed as of now to upload the amount. Those who apply for new NoC or renewal of NOC will have to pay.”  Box: Fire NoC charges Cinema, petrol pump, godown, high rise buildings (15 metres and above), residential colonies, three-star hotels and above, malls, marriage palaces, hospitals, industrial units, saw mills--- Rs 20,000 Hotels (less than 3 star), other commercial buildings, high rise buildings (less than 15 metres), group housing, institutional buildings (more than 5 marla plot)- Rs 10,000 Other commercial institutions (less than 5 marla plot)- Rs 5,000 Pvt school/college(more than 150 students)-- Rs 10,000 Pvt school/college (less than 150 students)--Rs 5,000 Circus, fairs, stalls, exhibitions etc (within/outside mc limits)--Rs 10,000 Fire call and attendance report (where loss was more than Rs 10 lakh)-- Rs 5,000 Fire call and attendance report (where loss was less than Rs 10 lakh) -- Rs 2,000 Fire incident in shanties, farms of farmers-- No charges Permission for govt and religious events- No charges||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/local-bodies-dept-notifies-fire-noc-charges/articleshow/76967313.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana stands by its antigen test policy, Covid-19 cases climb by 1,524||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday refuted charges that it was not testing enough Covid-19 suspects and flouting ICMR norms, even as the state registered 10 deaths and 1,524 new cases. During the day, Dr G Srinivas Rao, director (public health) strongly refuted the statement of the Press Information Bureau on Telangana’s stand on the rapid antigen tests. “Though the ICMR has suggested that those who test negative in an antigen test, need to undergo an RT-PCR test, the government has decided to ask symptomatic people to go into isolation, instead of testing them again,” read the PIB note. Telangana reached its highest single-day record of testing with 13,175 samples analysed, taking the total testing to the 2 lakh mark on Tuesday. While the death toll went up to 375, the positive caseload in the state stands at 37,745. Refuting PIB’s version, Dr G Srinivas Rao said: “The PIB Covid-19 bulletin of Government of India has falsely alleged the state of Telangana. The PIB has resorted to blame game. In fact, The high court took stock of the situation and appreciated the efforts taken by the state in terms of testing, hospital preparedness, and case management.” He said the state has maintained and strictly followed all the protocols and SOPs of ICMR as well as the government of India. “The director has urged the citizens of Telangana to beware of such news. The state of Telangana is taking all required measures in securing its citizens from Covid-19,” it further stated. Areas under the GHMC saw 815 new cases, while Ranga Reddy, Medchal and Sangareddy districts that surround Hyderabad together saw over 400 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-stands-by-its-antigen-test-policy-cases-climb-by-1524/articleshow/76968215.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Man kills father for assaulting mother||COIMBATORE: Unable to bear the sight of his drunkard father assaulting mother daily, a 21-year-old man in Tirupur city murdered the former on Monday night and surrendered before police. The Veerapandi police identified the accused as G Ajith Ashok, of Jeeva Nagar at Iduvampalayam. Employed with a banian company, police said, he was residing with his father Govindaraj, 45, and mother G Kalpana, 40, in a rental house. An investigation officer said, “Govindaraj did not go for any job and used to fight with his wife often. Around 5pm on Monday, he came home drunk and started assaulting his wife. Ajith took her to his grandparents’ house that is located nearby.” He then returned home, assaulted his father and strangulated him. Later, he locked the door from outside and surrendered before the Veerapandi police, who recovered the body and sent that to the Tirupur Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The Veerapandi police registered a case and arrested Ajith on Monday night. He was remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-kills-father-for-assaulting-mother/articleshow/76968203.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Trichy||Compensation demanded for inferior quality paddy seeds||THANJAVUR: A section of farmers in Thanjavur protested on Tuesday demanding compensation for the loss incurred due to inferior quality of paddy seeds which failed to germinate. They gathered in front of the office of the assistant director of seed certification and urged the government to take action against a private agency who sold the seeds. Farmers affiliated to Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam headed by its union secretary K Muniyandi said that farmers from Kovilur village had purchased Aaduthurai 38 paddy seed during the last samba season. The crop totally failed to germinate and could not harvest even 10% of paddy, he alleged. “Farmers lost around Rs 40,000 per acre, as there was no yield. Based on a complaint, officials from the agriculture department visited the fields and conducted an inspection and confirmed the loss. They also assured to get compensation. However, despite 6 months gone, the affected farmers did not get compensation”, he added. The concerned officials should do the needful to get the required compensation, he added. District secretary NV Kannan, district president P Senthilkumar, All India Agriculture Labourer Association district secretary K Pakkirisamy participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/compensation-demanded-for-inferior-quality-paddy-seeds/articleshow/76968935.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Agri bodies to protest despite Covid||BATHINDA: Various farmers’ unions of Punjab have announced their intention of violating the latest directives of the Punjab government of complete ban on public gatherings and restricting social gatherings to five persons at a place. Despite this, farmers’ unions have chalked a protest schedule against three agricultural ordinances, proposed electricity amendment bill and hike in prices of diesel every day till July 27. Farm leaders said opposing these “anti-farmer” ordinances is important enough for them to risk any eventuality but assured that all possible precautions would be taken during the protests. According to them, they are not afraid of being booked as opposing farm ordinances is a matter of survival for them. Farm organisation Krantikari Kisan Union also took out a protest march in various villages on Tuesday. In view of the spike in Covid-19 cases, Punjab government on Monday issued new guidelines with restrictions on gatherings and announced that FIRs would be filed against violators. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary also said that they will ensure safety precautions are taken but will continue with the protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/agri-bodies-to-protest-despite-covid/articleshow/76968204.cms||Neel Kamal
July 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Pollution control board raids dyeing unit||Ludhiana: A senior environment engineer of the Punjab Pollution Control Board conducted a surprise raid at a dyeing unit, M/s Aggarwal Scientific Dyers, in Phase-8, Focal Point, on Tuesday. An ETP was found totally defunct and the collection tank up to the brim. The condition indicated that the industry was discharging its effluents illegally during odd hours.  “A report has been prepared and strict action will be taken against the defaulting industry,” said senior environment engineer Sandeep Behl.  Earlier, NGT’s monitoring committee, headed by Justice Pritam Pal and former chief secretary of Punjab SC Aggarwal, had visited the unit on August 16, 2019, and its ETP was found non-operational. The committee had imposed environmental compensation of Rs 20 lakh and directions for closure were issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pollution-control-board-raids-dyeing-unit/articleshow/76967319.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizman donates stock of PPE suits to charities, hospitals, employees||Ludhiana: Frustrated over huge stock of personal protective equipment (PPE) suits lying unsold, a Ludhiana-based PPE manufacturer has started donating it to charitable institutes, hospitals and even to his workers to be used as raincoats. Owner of the company says they are no longer interested in carrying on the business of PPE manufacturing due to no support from the government, and so they are donating the unsold stock for noble causes. Several others may soon follow suit. Harish Dua, owner of KG Exports and president of the Knitwear and Apparel Exporters’ Organisation, tells the TOI, “On a call given by the state government, hundreds of textile and garment manufacturers of the city turned their units into PPE manufacturing ones overnight in the service of the nation. We worked day and night to speed up production and get all sorts of formalities completed and employed labour to run factories during the pandemic, putting our workers’ lives at risk. But with no government support to sell the suits locally and earlier ban on the export by the Centre, pieces worth several lakhs are lying unsold with every manufacturer. Now the government has lifted the ban on export, but played a cruel joke by enforcing tough conditions. Every time, we will need to get permission from the government for sending an export consignment. Moreover, there is no surety whether or not we will get permission for it. Therefore, we have given up PPE suit manufacturing and are donating the leftover stock free of cost to our workers, which they can use as raincoats. Besides, we are also giving away suits to charitable institutions and hospitals, which would have otherwise fetched us good money.” Virender Sharma, a PPE suit trader, says, “The current situation is very bad for PPE manufacturers in Ludhiana. A lot of them have stopped making the suits, but still have stocks worth several lakhs lying unsold. As of now, the rate of a PPE suit, which was earlier Rs 635-Rs 650, is not even Rs 150-Rs 200. Therefore, some manufacturers are either donating them or selling at no profit no loss. However, some are still waiting in hope that either the export restrictions will be eased or there will be local demand again.” SUIT STATS More than 110 certified manufacturers in Ludhiana have approval from the government labs like SITRA, DRDO, among others Close to 200 non-certified manufacturers and traders of the PPE suits are in Ludhiana alone Total production capacity is 2 to 3 lakh pieces per day in the city against the national’s 5 lakh How fabric for PPE suits is made PPE fabric is made by non-woven process under which first the PP pallet is extruded then the fabric is made out of it. Then the PE pallet is extruded separately for making the lamination film of the fabric. Then both of them are laminated and the final PPE fabric is manufactured. As per information available from different fabric manufactures, PP and PE pallets as of now are made by only one leading textile giant of India, which has monopoly over this business and the company has also started making its own PPE suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizman-donates-stock-of-ppe-suits-to-charities-hospitals-employees/articleshow/76967325.cms||Mohit Behl
July 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Arecanut, a bright spot for farmers amid pandemic||KOZHIKODE: Even as Covid-19 wreaks havoc on the farming sector, areca growers in the state are having a dream run with arecanut prices touching Rs 340 a kg, the highest in recent years. Prices have risen steadily over the last three months, from Rs 250/kg for new stock in April when markets reopened to Rs 340 on Tuesday in Kasaragod, which is a major arecanut production centre in the state. The around 35% increase in prices has been one of the few recent bright spots in the state’s farm sector. “This is attributed to multiple factors, including the 30% drop in production and slide in imports. Moreover, there has been a rise in demand and prices are likely to remain high for at least the next three months,” said S R Satishchandra, president of Mangaluru-based central arecanut and cocoa marketing and processing cooperative (Campco), which is a major buyer of arecanut in the cooperative sector with procurement centres in Kerala as well. When Campco resumed procurement on April 13, the price was Rs 250 for new stock and Rs 260 for old stock. “Prices climbed to Rs 340 for new stock and Rs 350 for old stock on Tuesday,” he said. In Thrissur, new stock of white arecanut fetched Rs 325/kg on Tuesday Gireesh E, regional manager of Campco in Thrissur, said that following the Covid-19 lockdown and restrictions on movement of goods across borders, import of arecanut from Myanmar and Nepal had stopped, which led to a shortage in the market. "Furthermore, due to the fall in production last season, there was not much carry-forward stock. This led to shortage in major arecanut consuming markets such as Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Nagpur, etc, which has led to the price hike," he said, adding that the last time prices reached similar levels was in 2014.  “It has come as a relief especially since the price of rubber and other crops which we used to depend for livelihood has been hit,” said Jayakrishnan T R, a farmer from Kannur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/arecanut-a-bright-spot-for-farmers-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76967318.cms||K R Rajeev
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Man hires killers to murder wife||KARNAL: Around two weeks after his wife was shot at, a man from Panipat was arrested for allegedly hiring contract killers to kill her, police said on Tuesday. According to the police, the accused, Sandeep hatched a conspiracy to kill his wife Rita and hired two contract killers, Mohit and Deepak for the purpose. He allegedly paid the accused Rs 50,000 and paid Rs 10,000 as advance and told them to kill his wife when he took her to her parents’ house. On June 29, the accused opened fire at them. She sustained a bullet injury on her back but survived the attack, said the police. Panipat DSP Satish Vats said investigations revealed that Sandeep had an illicit relationship with a woman, who he wanted to live with after getting his wife killed. Contract killers Mohit and Deepak have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-hires-killers-to-murder-wife/articleshow/76968208.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pipe bridge lifted out of Metro alignment||KOLKATA: A complex hurdle for the New Garia-Airport Metro link was removed on Sunday as the implementing agency, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), relocated a pipe bridge, which had come in the way of the alignment of the link on EM Bypass. The huge sewerage pipe, which was situated inside a sturdy iron box bridge a few metres from the PC Chandra Gardens (opposite the Atmosphere highrise) on EM Bypass, was lifted with the help of two 250 metric-ton cranes and relocated 30m away to free the alignment at the approach of the upcoming Ritwik Ghatak metro station. The gap adjacent to the twin canals near the Basanti Highway can be filled up as piers 217 and 220 can be constructed unhindered and girders can be launched one after another to cover the canals. A senior RVNL official said, “Now that the sewerage pipe bridge is out of the way, the two pillars will be built and girders can be launched till the viaduct touches Ritwik Ghatak station.”  The RVNL engineers and workers had slogged it out for one week to lift the sewerage pipe bridge and set it aside. “Not only did we remove the bridge from the viaduct’s path but we also relocated the sewerage pipe bridge around 30m from its original position,” said the official. The removal of the pipe bridge was long overdue and put off by the agency because of sheer complexity of the job. It was done in three parts. First the effluence carried in the pipe was emptied. Then the bridge was removed with the help of cranes. And now the relocated bridge is being connected to the crucial sewerage link that carries effluence from Garia and beyond. “Instead of dumping the structure and severing the sewerage link, we have shifted it nearby and are now reconnecting it with the main pipeline,” said the official. “We have also cleared the garbage dumped below the bridge,” he said. The girder-launching of 10 spans over the twin canals will be done continuously in the next three months. “The viaduct will cover the twin canals and meet the station on the other side of water bodies by September-end,” said the official. The 32km Metro link between New Garia and Aiport has several such gaps. The Rs 4,200 crore Metro project was commissioned by Mamata Banerjee when she was the railway minister. Started in 2012, the project missed several deadlines because of infringements along the alignment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pipe-bridge-lifted-out-of-metro-alignment/articleshow/76968240.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 15, 2020||Trichy||Husbands warned against acting as proxies||PUDUKOTTAI: Husbands and relatives of elected woman representatives in local bodies, who are acting as their proxies have been warned of severe action by district collector of Pudukottai, P Uma Maheswari on Tuesday. Elected woman representatives in panchayats, panchayat unions and district panchayat office should function in an independent and fair manner in exercising their rights as guaranteed by the Tamil Nadu Panchayat Act 1994, a release from the district administration said. The statement sent to all blocks in the district, said that family members are barred from operating on behalf of woman elected representatives. They should also abstain from attending review meetings at panchayat offices and grama sabha meetings on behalf of the elected representatives. Officials said the order was issued after a few spouses and relatives posing as elected representatives came to meet the collector. On many occasions, husbands had visited the panchayat offices as proxies and posed for photographs taken on the completion of developmental activities, officials said. The collector told TOI that a similar warning was issued three months ago. She added that it had been almost six months since the elected representatives assumed office and the interference of relatives would not be entertained. “This is the second warning. I don’t want to initiate any action without giving them a warning. If the activity continues, action will be initiated under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994,” Maheswari said. The district collector also asked the public to approach the district collector’s office in case of any complaints in this regard by dialling helpline numbers 1800-425-9013 and 04322-222171.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/husbands-warned-against-acting-as-proxies/articleshow/76968945.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man hits wife with mobile in Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: A woman from the Ambawadi area of city on Tuesday filed a complaint with Navrangpura police, alleging that her husband hit her with a mobile phone, causing injuries to her forehead. Achla Gandhi, 32, resident of Kameshwar Flats in Ambawadi, is an international business executive for a laboratory. She stated in her FIR that her husband, Harshad Gandhi, hit her following a dispute about cleaning his car. Achla stated that she had brought her office laptop home on Monday to work. On Tuesday, she was supposed to take the laptop back to the office. As it was raining, she asked Harshad to lend her his car so the laptop would not get wet. Harshad told her that if she wanted to take the car, she would have to maintain it properly. Achla told him she would get someone to clean the car and fill fuel in it. Harshad got angry at this, and insisted that if she took the car she would have to clean it herself. He later told her he would not let her take the car alone and would drop her to her workplace. As they were going there, he began fighting with her and insisted that she would have to clean the car. While they were arguing, he stopped the car near Samarpan Flats, snatched her mobile phone and hit her on the head with it, causing her to bleed. He then took her home, where she told her mother-in-law and her father about the incident. She later called the police control room and filed a complaint. She said she got two stitches for the injury at VS Hospital. Navrangpura police filed a complaint for causing hurt against Harshad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-hits-wife-with-mobile/articleshow/76968949.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Online classes for CA foundation exam from July 22||COIMBATORE: The school education department is all set to conduct online classes for Chartered Accountancy (CA) foundation exam, which would be held in November, for the second batch of students from July 22. It has directed all chief education officers to instruct government and aided school headmasters to inform students about the classes. The state has tied up with the Southern India Regional Council (SIRC) of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and already started online coaching classes for a batch of 22 students on June 10. Representatives of SIRC of ICAI said the first batch was inaugurated on a trial basis and that was progressing well. Its vice-chairman K Jalapathi said classes for the first batch would get over by September and that the one they were about to begin would conclude by October. “For the upcoming batch, there is no restriction on the number of students. We can accommodate up to 1,000 students also. We have signed a memorandum of understating with the state and would offer free classes for government and aided school students. The state has already given laptops to Class XII students, who just need to arrange a network facility.” The classes would also be offered for private school students at a nominal fee, he said. According to Jalapathi, there is a huge demand for chartered accountants across the country. “While there are around 3 lakh chartered accountants in the country, only 1.4 lakh are active. Now, in addition to income tax, there are several other allied services that chartered accountants can do, such as cost reduction, valuation and system-based audits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/online-classes-for-ca-foundation-exam-from-july-22/articleshow/76968232.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 cases surge in Karimnagar, officials fight to allay fears||HYDERABAD: With as many as 86 new cases reported in a single day (Monday), including 60 in Karimnagar town alone, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has now reached 360. While the sudden surge in the cases is making people jittery, officials tried to allay the fears. “The increase in the cases is because we have ramped up the testing. We would like to assure the public that there is no need to panic. With more testing, we are detecting more cases and providing the medical treatment,” district collector K Shashanka said. Officials said 50-60 tests are being done at Chalmeda Ananda Rao Institute of Medical Sciences every day and another 100-120 tests at the district headquarters hospital. With TrueNat (RT micro PCR device) supplied to the district, officials need not send the samples to either Kakatiya Medical College in Warangal or Hyderabad for testing once it becomes operational.  “Oxygen piping work is being done at the government hospital and more ventilators will also be arranged,” officials said. Officials said apart from Karimnagar town, cases were reported from Jammikunta, Huzurabad, Kothapalli and Chigurumamidi. “The responsibility of the public is not to venture out of their homes. Wear a mask if you step out and take all precautions,” Shanshanka said. There have been eight deaths so far in the district. Till the end of May, the district had only 29 positive cases, which jumped to 88 by June-end. A 400-bed facility is already in place in Karimnagar to serve as an isolation centre for people who may not have the conducive atmosphere or facilities at home to stay in isolation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-cases-surge-in-karimnagar-officials-fight-to-allay-fears/articleshow/76968228.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Mask off MC’s pandemic preparedness||LUDHIANA: Despite the rising number of coronavirus cases, the civic body is yet to get serious. While officials are claiming to have restricted the movement of people inside the zonal offices and moving all public dealings to suvidha centres, a TOI team on Tuesday saw many people entering Zone D office building, where there was nobody at the main gate to check masks. There were many who had not worn masks properly. Besides, even as Article 144 has been imposed in the state, officials were seen holding meetings in which more than five persons were present. The laxity is despite joint MC commissioner Kulpreet Singh testing positive for Covid-19 and a sanitation employee dying of the disease. The officials, however, stuck to their claim that they have made arrangements at suvidha centres for accepting documents from public. At Zone D, clerks were accepting papers through windows, but people were still seen carrying files and documents up to the seats of the officials. One of the officials said there should be no meetings or public dealings anymore and a complaint box should be kept at the entrance. He added that the situation was turning grim by the day and many people were getting infected, requiring high caution. However, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We are streamlining the system and rules will be implemented strictly. We are asking people to send their documents or complaints online or one employee will be deputed outside Zone D with a complaint box. There will be no leniency in implementing the plan Wednesday onwards.” MC’s positive casesMC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. Besides, two sanitation employees had also tested positive and one died on Saturday. He was declared positive posthumously. Acting swiftly, officials sent 10 colleagues of the sweeper in Zone C to isolation. Joint commissioner Swati Tiwana is also under quarantine as she had attended a meeting with ADC (G) Amarjit Singh Bains, who had tested positive. Mayor Balkar Sandhu had claimed on Friday that they would restrict public movement in zonal offices so that employees do not come in contact with people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mask-off-mcs-pandemic-preparedness/articleshow/76967337.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
July 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Thieves strike at store, load steal on its tempo||Ludhiana: Burglars targeted an electronics and furniture store in Nanak Nagar, Karabara Road, early on Tuesday. Store owner Ashok Virmani, 48, said the thieves loaded the steal onto a tempo of the store and escaped. Virmani, a resident of Salem Tabri, said in his police complaint, “My electronics and furniture store is located at the rear of vegetable market. It has two keys. I keep one and the other is with my employee, Rinku. Every day, Rinku opens the store. On Tuesday around 9.30am, when he reached the store, he found the main shutter lock broken. The store was ransacked and our tempo stolen.” The CCTV cameras installed in the shop have captured four accused. “The thieves have stolen a bed, four mattresses, two dressing tables, an LED TV screen, an air cooler and several other items. They loaded the steal on the tempo parked inside the store premises and escaped. I have incurred a loss of over Rs 1.50 lakh,” he added. Later, one of the store employees found the empty tempo parked in the vegetable market. Virmani said, “Two days ago, there was a theft attempt at a dhaba in the market. And before that thieves had targeted a grocery store here. There are no police checks in the area.” Daresi police station SHO sub-inspector Davinder Singh said, “We are scrutinizing the CCTV footage. A case will be registered after recording the statement of the complainant. As of now, involvement of an insider is not suspected.” On night surveillance in the market, the SHO said, “Night patrolling will be increased in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/thieves-strike-at-store-load-steal-on-its-tempo/articleshow/76967342.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Soon, Kalvi TV to offer Neet, JEE coaching classes||COIMBATORE: The Kalvi TV will soon telecast coaching classes for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Neet) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). A source with Kalvi TV said they had been shooting classes for Neet and Jee coaching under the supervision of school education department and completed around 325 episodes so far. “For Neet, episodes on physics, chemistry and biology are ready. For JEE, we need episodes on mathematics. We are in the process of shooting them. They would be telecast along with episodes on regular classes.” Kalvi TV personnel are busy shooting and editing episodes for Class X that would be telecast in a few other channels too. The state is also planning to unveil a Kalvi TV app and upload the classes on that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/soon-kalvi-tv-to-offer-neet-jee-coaching-classes/articleshow/76968223.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Coastal districts report minor spike in cases after Monday’s fall||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi saw a minor spike in Covid-19 cases, with 163 people testing positive on Tuesday against 131 on Monday. If DK accounted for 91 of these cases, Udupi accounted for the remaining 72 cases, to take their respective tallies of positive cases on Tuesday to 2,452 and 1,733. Three Covid related deaths in DK took the total pandemic linked fatalities in DK to 53 against five in Udupi. The general trend of people with co-morbidities succumbing continued unabated, with deaths of a 65-year-old woman from Sakleshpur in Hassan suffering from hypertension and asthma, 55-year-old man from Kundapura diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) from Kundapura in Udupi and 70-year-old from Mangaluru with respiratory distress syndrome and hypertension passing away on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. The 131 cases in DK included 35 whose source of infection is being traced, 29 diagnosed with influenza-like illness (ILI), 20 are primary contacts, five diagnosed with SARI and one case each of international travel history and pre-surgery sample, respectively, said DK deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. The discharge of 47 patients from the designated Covid-19 hospital and private hospitals took the total number of those discharged to 945, and active cases to 1,414 in DK. The discharge of 80 patients in Udupi exceeded its fresh reported positive cases of 72, 48 of whom were primary contacts, 14 diagnosed as those with ILI, one a case of SARI, seven with travel history to Bengaluru and two to Mangaluru, said district health and family welfare officer Sudhir Chandra Sooda. Active cases in Udupi are now at 370 and 1,360 patients have recovered thus far, stated Udupi DC G Jagadeesha in the bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coastal-districts-report-minor-spike-in-cases-after-mondays-fall/articleshow/76966121.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Oil royalty tanks to Rs 234 crore in Q1 against Rs 958 crore last yr||JAIPUR: Crash in crude oil prices has further stretched depleted coffers of the state government with royalty revenue taking a sharp plunge. In the first three months of the current financial year, the royalty revenue from crude oil has declined to Rs 234 crore against Rs 958 crore compared to the same period last year. Sources in the petroleum department said that crude oil falling to historic low levels of $18 per barrel and reduction in volume of production have eroded the earnings which the cash-strapped government needed badly. In the financial year that ended March 2020, the government got only Rs 3,320 crore against a target of Rs 4,300 crore even though lower crude oil prices were not a factor. Officials attributed the drop to lax in not facilitating an acceleration in oil exploration. However, there is small hope the royalty will go up in the coming months after recovery in oil prices which is currently trading at around $45 per barrel. But, the government will miss the target of Rs 4,725 crore for the current year as the oil prices are unlikely go up significantly because of economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The average production in the first three months suffered with drilling of around 1.25 barrels of oil per day as against 145-150 barrels. Most of the oil and gas royalty comes from Cairn India whose production has come down in the past few months, resulting in lower royalty payout. In December last year, TOI quoting sources in the state petroleum department had reported that Cairn India had not been able to add production from new wells as its approvals for land conversion have been held up. Over the past 10 years, royalty from crude oil had given a huge boost to the government. Even before the pandemic, the state government was unable to pay its bills because of the off-budget expenses like farm loan waivers. Excise is another revenue source that is also not yielding as much as it used to, putting further pressure on the government finances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/oil-royalty-tanks-to-rs-234cr-in-q1-against-rs-958cr-last-yr/articleshow/76968254.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Family refuses to carry body of kin in Telangana fearing Covid-19 death||HYDERABAD: With family and relatives of a 30-year-old man unwilling to carry the funeral pyre on suspicion that he may have died of Covid-19, the body pyre was kept in a bullock cart and taken to perform the last rites in Telangana. The incident happened on July 10 in Akaram village in Nalgonda district. Fears of the family came true when three days after they performed the last rites, the reports revealed that he indeed had Covid-19. The family and few relatives of the deceased who attended the last rites were in home quarantine after health workers went to the village and identified them. The victim had a salon in Narketpally. On July 8, he came to the village but the following day he fell ill. The victim who was also suffering from a kidney ailment was rushed to the Nalgonda general hospital in a 108 ambulance by local health authorities on July 9. The following night, he died. The body was brought to the village in a private ambulance. Villagers assisted in performing the last rites as none of the family members were willing to carry the funeral pyre suspecting that he may have died of Covid. On July 13, health officials went to the village and confirmed that the man had died of Covid -19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-refuses-to-carry-body-of-kin-in-t-fearing-covid-death/articleshow/76968244.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Need to keep our men motivated: Top cop||Aurangabad: A video of policemen playing cricket on a deserted street in Aurangabad recently went viral on various social media platforms, resulting into criticism. However, the top brass stood behind the men in uniform and said the policemen were just rejuvenating themselves. This is one of the many cases where the overworked police personnel, who have been on continuous duty for the past few months, are trying to relax and overcome stress due to prolonged working hours. Commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “Keeping our men motivated is the key and we are taking extra efforts to do so by welcoming their ideas and allowing them to be themselves within the frame of discipline.” Authorities said that the policemen on duty are being allowed to have some breaks for making regular calls to interact with parents, wife, children and friends. Deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Nikesh Khatmode Patil said when there is such prolonged stressful situation, happiness and joyous moments need to be provided. “We are using police department’s feedback mechanism to identify even slightest of the good work of our men and officers, to not only appreciate them publicly, but also take it on record. Moreover, ideas even from the grassroots are also being welcomed and are being implemented,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/need-to-keep-our-men-motivated-top-cop/articleshow/76966146.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 15, 2020||Rajkot||Man makes fake Insta accounts to threaten nursing students||RAJKOT: A girl student of GNM Nursing School in Jamnagar was allegedly threatened with dire consequences by a man, whom she befriended on social media, if she did not maintain a relationship with him.The girl's father, who is a gram rakshak dal (GRD) member, lodged a complaint in Sheth Vadala police station against the man named Kuldeep Jadav of Nikava village near Kalavad. In the complaint, the girl’s father stated that his daughter and Kuldeep had met over Instagram around 6-8 months ago and then even started talking on the phone. However, for a month now, she had stopped talking with him. Kuldeep then made several fake Instagram accounts and sent her threatening and obscene messages. He threatened to 'ruin her life' if she discontinued the relationship. Police have booked the accused under section 67 (E) of Information Technology Act and other IPC sections. Jadav is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-makes-fake-insta-accounts-to-threaten-nursing-students/articleshow/76967359.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Rajkot||RCCI seeks more land for Khirasara GIDC||RAJKOT: Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) has sought more land for the newly declared industrial estate at Khirasara GIDC. Rajkot got sanction for Devgam-Khirasara industrial estate in Lodhika taluka after efforts of over a decade. In July 2018 the GIDC invited application from industrial players and started development of 97 hectare land. The Khirasara GIDC is expected to be operational in 2021. While the original plan was to set up the industrial estate in 341 hectare, the state government in 2018 allotted 97 hectare land as part of the first phase and assured more land in the next phase. According to RCCI the GIDC received about 11,000 applications for the allotments of plots out of that only 471 plots have been allotted due to non-availability of land. Players engaged in small engineering parts, diesel engines, submersible pumps, auto components, casting and forging, kitchenware and hardware sector players have applied to get plots at Khirasara. Vice president of RCCI Parth Ganatra said “Rajkot is a hub of engineering industries and there are many units willing to buy plots so we have requested government to develop the area surrounding Khirasara GIDC so that those left could be accommodated.” According to rule, government gives price relaxation to those applicant who apply for less than 3,000 square meter plot. RCCI has also demanded to extend this benefit for those who want plot of 5,000 square meter, in order pass on more benefits to MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rcci-seeks-more-land-for-khirasara-gidc/articleshow/76967349.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Oil royalty tanks to Rs 234 crore in Q1 against Rs 958 crore last yr||JAIPUR: Crash in crude oil prices has further stretched depleted coffers of the state government with royalty revenue taking a sharp plunge. In the first three months of the current financial year, the royalty revenue from crude oil has declined to Rs 234 crore against Rs 958 crore compared to the same period last year. Sources in the petroleum department said that crude oil falling to historic low levels of $18 per barrel and reduction in volume of production have eroded the earnings which the cash-strapped government needed badly. In the financial year that ended March 2020, the government got only Rs 3,320 crore against a target of Rs 4,300 crore even though lower crude oil prices were not a factor. Officials attributed the drop to lax in not facilitating an acceleration in oil exploration. However, there is small hope the royalty will go up in the coming months after recovery in oil prices which is currently trading at around $45 per barrel. But, the government will miss the target of Rs 4,725 crore for the current year as the oil prices are unlikely go up significantly because of economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The average production in the first three months suffered with drilling of around 1.25 barrels of oil per day as against 145-150 barrels. Most of the oil and gas royalty comes from Cairn India whose production has come down in the past few months, resulting in lower royalty payout. In December last year, TOI quoting sources in the state petroleum department had reported that Cairn India had not been able to add production from new wells as its approvals for land conversion have been held up. Over the past 10 years, royalty from crude oil had given a huge boost to the government. Even before the pandemic, the state government was unable to pay its bills because of the off-budget expenses like farm loan waivers. Excise is another revenue source that is also not yielding as much as it used to, putting further pressure on the government finances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/oil-royalty-tanks-to-rs-234cr-in-q1-against-rs-958cr-last-yr/articleshow/76973901.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 15, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Oil royalty tanks to Rs 234 crore in Q1 against Rs 958 crore last yr||JAIPUR: Crash in crude oil prices has further stretched depleted coffers of the state government with royalty revenue taking a sharp plunge. In the first three months of the current financial year, the royalty revenue from crude oil has declined to Rs 234 crore against Rs 958 crore compared to the same period last year. Sources in the petroleum department said that crude oil falling to historic low levels of $18 per barrel and reduction in volume of production have eroded the earnings which the cash-strapped government needed badly. In the financial year that ended March 2020, the government got only Rs 3,320 crore against a target of Rs 4,300 crore even though lower crude oil prices were not a factor. Officials attributed the drop to lax in not facilitating an acceleration in oil exploration. However, there is small hope the royalty will go up in the coming months after recovery in oil prices which is currently trading at around $45 per barrel. But, the government will miss the target of Rs 4,725 crore for the current year as the oil prices are unlikely go up significantly because of economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The average production in the first three months suffered with drilling of around 1.25 barrels of oil per day as against 145-150 barrels. Most of the oil and gas royalty comes from Cairn India whose production has come down in the past few months, resulting in lower royalty payout. In December last year, TOI quoting sources in the state petroleum department had reported that Cairn India had not been able to add production from new wells as its approvals for land conversion have been held up. Over the past 10 years, royalty from crude oil had given a huge boost to the government. Even before the pandemic, the state government was unable to pay its bills because of the off-budget expenses like farm loan waivers. Excise is another revenue source that is also not yielding as much as it used to, putting further pressure on the government finances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/oil-royalty-tanks-to-rs-234cr-in-q1-against-rs-958cr-last-yr/articleshow/76973900.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Oil royalty tanks to Rs 234 crore in Q1 against Rs 958 crore last yr||JAIPUR: Crash in crude oil prices has further stretched depleted coffers of the state government with royalty revenue taking a sharp plunge. In the first three months of the current financial year, the royalty revenue from crude oil has declined to Rs 234 crore against Rs 958 crore compared to the same period last year. Sources in the petroleum department said that crude oil falling to historic low levels of $18 per barrel and reduction in volume of production have eroded the earnings which the cash-strapped government needed badly. In the financial year that ended March 2020, the government got only Rs 3,320 crore against a target of Rs 4,300 crore even though lower crude oil prices were not a factor. Officials attributed the drop to lax in not facilitating an acceleration in oil exploration. However, there is small hope the royalty will go up in the coming months after recovery in oil prices which is currently trading at around $45 per barrel. But, the government will miss the target of Rs 4,725 crore for the current year as the oil prices are unlikely go up significantly because of economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The average production in the first three months suffered with drilling of around 1.25 barrels of oil per day as against 145-150 barrels. Most of the oil and gas royalty comes from Cairn India whose production has come down in the past few months, resulting in lower royalty payout. In December last year, TOI quoting sources in the state petroleum department had reported that Cairn India had not been able to add production from new wells as its approvals for land conversion have been held up. Over the past 10 years, royalty from crude oil had given a huge boost to the government. Even before the pandemic, the state government was unable to pay its bills because of the off-budget expenses like farm loan waivers. Excise is another revenue source that is also not yielding as much as it used to, putting further pressure on the government finances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/oil-royalty-tanks-to-rs-234cr-in-q1-against-rs-958cr-last-yr/articleshow/76973899.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 helpline of no help: Patients||HYDERABAD: Residents say calling the 24x7 helpline for Covid patients is often of no help. Primary contacts are not checked, neither is the patient. Some residents say calls in the evening are going unanswered. Sai Shyam Manohar, of Vidyanagar, got a call on July 6 saying that his father had tested positive for coronavirus. “After the first call, there was absolutely no follow up done. They did not even hand us the report. So, we still do not have confirmation,” he said. His father was struck by the virus after he and his mother had got it earlier. “They did not have a record of my father and neither of my mother who had been positive earlier, so there was no way they could have followed up.” When he called in the evening, no one responded. A Secunderabad resident, who wanted to get tested but did know where to head faced a similar issue. “Last week, I called them at least 10 times in a row at 10am, but there was no response.” Sravanthi Kasaram said she called the helpline on Monday. “It took a long time to connect with someone. When I did, the person did not know where to get tested. Moreover, the helpline is being answered by people who are mainly Telugu speaking. What will happen to people who cannot speak the local language?” She said people in home quarantine were not being checked upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-helpline-of-no-help-patients/articleshow/76968953.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Tourist arrivals in Rajasthan plunge over 40% in first five months, outlook uncertain||JAIPUR: Tourist footfalls have taken a steep dive in the first five months of the calendar year owing to Covid pandemic. During January to May, the number of visitors has fallen by over 40% over the same period last year. The drop was witnessed both in domestic and foreign tourist arrivals. The number of domestic tourists drew a blank in April and May due to lockdown. The number of foreign tourists were 86 in April and 115 in May. Sources said, these tourists were stuck in the state. In terms of volume, in the first five months of 2020, 11.40 million domestic tourists visited Rajasthan compared to 20.63 million in the first five months of 2019. Similarly, foreign tourist footfalls stood at 4.39 lakh compared to 8.05 lakh during the same period last year. According to industry sources, although the arrivals have started which could best be best described a isolated cases. But they said this is a good sign these arrivals are going to create the first dots of a new revival curve. While the government is planning to focus on attracting domestic tourists, all will depend on the Covid situation in the country which is only getting worse by the day. In the absence of tourists coming from outside the state, the industry said the stakeholders including the government should start a marketing drive to promote Rajasthan as a safe destination to travel. “We should be at the forefront whenever the movement starts and accordingly we should ready products and market them in the markets relevant for us,” said an industry representative. Also, the previous government had closed many of the tourist centres. Even though the current government had issued orders to reopen them, they are yet to function. “These tourist centre should be reopened as per the government order. The government should deploy all tools to attract domestic tourists,” said the representative. As per the role of the private sector, he said, “The private sector will do on its own as the stakes are high per them. They have made lot of investment and it is in their best interest, they will try to sell the destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/tourist-arrivals-plunge-over-40-in-1st-5-mths-outlook-uncertain/articleshow/76971947.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Tourist arrivals in Rajasthan plunge over 40% in first five months, outlook uncertain||JAIPUR: Tourist footfalls have taken a steep dive in the first five months of the calendar year owing to Covid pandemic. During January to May, the number of visitors has fallen by over 40% over the same period last year. The drop was witnessed both in domestic and foreign tourist arrivals. The number of domestic tourists drew a blank in April and May due to lockdown. The number of foreign tourists were 86 in April and 115 in May. Sources said, these tourists were stuck in the state. In terms of volume, in the first five months of 2020, 11.40 million domestic tourists visited Rajasthan compared to 20.63 million in the first five months of 2019. Similarly, foreign tourist footfalls stood at 4.39 lakh compared to 8.05 lakh during the same period last year. According to industry sources, although the arrivals have started which could best be best described a isolated cases. But they said this is a good sign these arrivals are going to create the first dots of a new revival curve. While the government is planning to focus on attracting domestic tourists, all will depend on the Covid situation in the country which is only getting worse by the day. In the absence of tourists coming from outside the state, the industry said the stakeholders including the government should start a marketing drive to promote Rajasthan as a safe destination to travel. “We should be at the forefront whenever the movement starts and accordingly we should ready products and market them in the markets relevant for us,” said an industry representative. Also, the previous government had closed many of the tourist centres. Even though the current government had issued orders to reopen them, they are yet to function. “These tourist centre should be reopened as per the government order. The government should deploy all tools to attract domestic tourists,” said the representative. As per the role of the private sector, he said, “The private sector will do on its own as the stakes are high per them. They have made lot of investment and it is in their best interest, they will try to sell the destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourist-arrivals-plunge-over-40-in-1st-5-mths-outlook-uncertain/articleshow/76968258.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Aurangabad||AAP: Admin must be more considerate||Aurangabad: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday demanded that the district administration should take into consideration the problems being faced by the common people before taking any decision related to the imposition of a lockdown. While referring to the ongoing 9-day lockdown in Aurangabad, AAP district unit president Raghunathdada Patil said, “People have lost money as well as jobs, the administration should take these issues into account before coming out with lockdown decisions.’’ In a statement issued on Tuesday, Patil said that its nearly three months when the people are facing the coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdowns have almost broken the back of the common people. “Those who make a living through autorickshaws, laundry, by working in households, by operating eateries, among others have found no way to make their ends meet during the lockdown. The middle class is having a tough time, so one can imagine the plight of the poor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aap-admin-must-be-more-considerate/articleshow/76966169.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||CM approves completion of key projects in Amaravati||Amaravati: Amid plans to shift the executive capital to Visakahaptnam, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has given the green signal for completion of key projects in Amaravati. The chief minister directed CRDA officials to take up the remaining work at the Amaravati Government Complex — apartments and the residential apartments for the government staff, legislators and bungalows for ministers, high court judges and IAS, IPS officers. The decisions was taken at a high-level review meeting held recently. The CRDA in its presentation to the chief minister had said, more than 70% of the work was over and an amount of Rs 2,325.02 crore is required to complete the remaining projects. The chief minister had in principle agreed and instructed officers to begin planning for the completing the work. However, the chief minister has directed the CRDA to suspend major infrastructure work proposed by the erstwhile TDP regime. All major roads, which had been proposed, underground power, telecom, fibernet lines were permanently removed from the plan. As per the master plan 34 roads with a combined length of 302 km with an agreement value of Rs 17,336.53 crore was proposed by the Chandrababu Naidu government. Apart from reducing the six-way lines to two-three-way lines, ICT network, reuse network, footpath, cycle track and iconic bridge have been removed from the action plan. Jaganmohan Reddy also directed the officials to remove Undavalli and Penumaka from the capital city area. He directed the municipal administration department to create a separate Amaravati municipal corporation. Undavalli and Penumaka have already been merged in Tadepalle municipality. In the original master plan, 13 LPS zones were proposed in Amaravati and different work were proposed with a cost of Rs 16,633 crore. After careful evaluation, CRDA proposed to take up remaining work of some of the key projects with an estimated cost of Rs 7,858 crore to which the chief minister has stamped his nod. However, the state government has decided to take another three years to develop returnable plots granted to the LPS farmers. CRDA will expedite allotment of pending returnable plots t o the farmers who contributed land for Amaravati as well as Gannavaram airport expansion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-approves-completion-of-key-projects-in-amaravati/articleshow/76967360.cms||Samdani MN
July 15, 2020||Ajmer||Tourist arrivals in Rajasthan plunge over 40% in first five months, outlook uncertain||JAIPUR: Tourist footfalls have taken a steep dive in the first five months of the calendar year owing to Covid pandemic. During January to May, the number of visitors has fallen by over 40% over the same period last year. The drop was witnessed both in domestic and foreign tourist arrivals. The number of domestic tourists drew a blank in April and May due to lockdown. The number of foreign tourists were 86 in April and 115 in May. Sources said, these tourists were stuck in the state. In terms of volume, in the first five months of 2020, 11.40 million domestic tourists visited Rajasthan compared to 20.63 million in the first five months of 2019. Similarly, foreign tourist footfalls stood at 4.39 lakh compared to 8.05 lakh during the same period last year. According to industry sources, although the arrivals have started which could best be best described a isolated cases. But they said this is a good sign these arrivals are going to create the first dots of a new revival curve. While the government is planning to focus on attracting domestic tourists, all will depend on the Covid situation in the country which is only getting worse by the day. In the absence of tourists coming from outside the state, the industry said the stakeholders including the government should start a marketing drive to promote Rajasthan as a safe destination to travel. “We should be at the forefront whenever the movement starts and accordingly we should ready products and market them in the markets relevant for us,” said an industry representative. Also, the previous government had closed many of the tourist centres. Even though the current government had issued orders to reopen them, they are yet to function. “These tourist centre should be reopened as per the government order. The government should deploy all tools to attract domestic tourists,” said the representative. As per the role of the private sector, he said, “The private sector will do on its own as the stakes are high per them. They have made lot of investment and it is in their best interest, they will try to sell the destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/tourist-arrivals-plunge-over-40-in-1st-5-mths-outlook-uncertain/articleshow/76971949.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Trucks run over 2 cops on duty||Kolkata/Howrah: Two cops — one assistant sub-inspector from Kolkata Police and the other an on-duty civic volunteer of Howrah police — died after being run over by trucks in two separate accidents around the same time on Monday. The Port division police said that ASI Bikas Chandra Roy was returning home at Narkeldanga around 10.30pm on his bike. The 50-year-old, who was posted with the Garden Reach police, had reached Ekbalpore Crossing where he was hit by a truck from behind. Cops from Ekbalpore police station rushed him to CMRI Hospital where he was declared brought dead. The driver fled with the truck after the accident. Prima facie, cops suspect that the driver had jumped the signal. The post-mortem of the deceased was later conducted at the SSKM Hospital. A case of death due to rash and negligent driving has been registered at the Ekbalpore police station. The fatal squad of traffic police is probing into the case with the help of CCTV footage of the area. In the other accident that happened on Kona Expressway in Howrah, civic volunteer Kaushik Saha (29) was mowed down by a truck. The accident happened around 10.30pm on Monday. Saha was taken to a private hospital where he succumbed to his injuries around 6am on Tuesday. Saha was on duty near Kona traffic guard and was carrying out routine checks of vehicles. He had tried to stop the truck, which was moving on the Kolkata-bound lane and trying to overtake another truck. In a bid to avoid being checked, the truck driver allegedly sped up and knocked down the volunteer. The truck sped away after the accident, said the police. “We are trying to trace the killer truck,” said a senior police officer. Most accidents involving trucks are taking place after the “traffic hours” — 10pm when traffic cops are discharged from duty for the day. However, cops are thinking whether the abrupt change in routes with the closure of several bridges and more focus on bikes and buses are triggering a spurt in truck accidents in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trucks-run-over-2-cops-on-duty/articleshow/76968255.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Udaipur||Tourist arrivals in Rajasthan plunge over 40% in first five months, outlook uncertain||JAIPUR: Tourist footfalls have taken a steep dive in the first five months of the calendar year owing to Covid pandemic. During January to May, the number of visitors has fallen by over 40% over the same period last year. The drop was witnessed both in domestic and foreign tourist arrivals. The number of domestic tourists drew a blank in April and May due to lockdown. The number of foreign tourists were 86 in April and 115 in May. Sources said, these tourists were stuck in the state. In terms of volume, in the first five months of 2020, 11.40 million domestic tourists visited Rajasthan compared to 20.63 million in the first five months of 2019. Similarly, foreign tourist footfalls stood at 4.39 lakh compared to 8.05 lakh during the same period last year. According to industry sources, although the arrivals have started which could best be best described a isolated cases. But they said this is a good sign these arrivals are going to create the first dots of a new revival curve. While the government is planning to focus on attracting domestic tourists, all will depend on the Covid situation in the country which is only getting worse by the day. In the absence of tourists coming from outside the state, the industry said the stakeholders including the government should start a marketing drive to promote Rajasthan as a safe destination to travel. “We should be at the forefront whenever the movement starts and accordingly we should ready products and market them in the markets relevant for us,” said an industry representative. Also, the previous government had closed many of the tourist centres. Even though the current government had issued orders to reopen them, they are yet to function. “These tourist centre should be reopened as per the government order. The government should deploy all tools to attract domestic tourists,” said the representative. As per the role of the private sector, he said, “The private sector will do on its own as the stakes are high per them. They have made lot of investment and it is in their best interest, they will try to sell the destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/tourist-arrivals-plunge-over-40-in-1st-5-mths-outlook-uncertain/articleshow/76971948.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guard injured during ABVP protest at Gujarat University||AHMEDABAD: The ongoing agitation by the Akhil Bharatiya Vidhyarthi Parishad (ABVP) against the Gujarat University admission process witnessed violence, with a security guard getting injured on Tuesday. As ABVP workers were trying to paint the vice chancellor’s car, they were stopped by security guards. A scuffle took place and a guard was injured and required treatment. ABVP is accusing GU authorities of inciting the agitating students with the use of security guards. GU has not registered a complaint with regard to the assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guard-injured-during-abvp-protest-at-gu/articleshow/76968957.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi to seal borders for 14 days||MANGALURU/UDUPI: To check the spread of the novel coronavirus, the Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi district administrations have opted for lockdown and sealing of border strategies, respectively. While the DK district administration on Monday already spelt out its move to go in for a 7-day lockdown starting from Thursday and ending at 5am on July 23, the Udupi district administration on Tuesday decided to seal its district borders for 14 days, ending 5am on July 30. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, in her order, provided a 3-hour window every day during the lockdown, for people to purchased essential items from 8am. All other activities other than those permitted by the Union ministry of home affairs in its orders and applicable up to July 31, will continue to be in force, the DC said, adding people are strictly required to comply with social distancing norms during the relaxation window. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said public transport will remain off the roads in Udupi, and the move to do so comes in the wake of repeated violations of the SOP prescribed for the operators. Weekly markets will also be suspended. Places of worship will remain open with collective gathering not exceeding 20, he said. Barring marriages and funerals with gatherings not exceeding 50 and 20 people, respectively, no other public function is allowed. Shops and business establishments will remain open till 8pm each day, the DC said, adding businesses wanting to voluntarily close operations may do so. There have been instances where traders in places such as Kundapura have voluntarily regulated working hours or stopped operations, he said. For people transiting through the district, both Jagadeesha and Sindhu said the travellers need to have valid proof of transit and passes issued by the competent authority for their destination. There will be no restriction of transportation of goods by road as before, the respective district magistrates said. Violation of any of the conditions mentioned will lead to strict action being initiated against people found to be doing so, they DCs maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-to-seal-borders-for-14-days/articleshow/76966162.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Udaipur||‘Nearly 50% of tipplers in Rajasthan switch to cheaper brands due to price hike’||JAIPUR: Nearly 50% of the tipplers in Rajasthan have no qualms in shifting to cheaper, low quality alcohol brands to stay within their budget following a 30% increase in retail prices in the past six months. That may be one of the reasons why beer sales have fallen 64% in May and 39% in June as consumers downgraded their choices to high alcohol content liquor According to a survey by Local Circles, a community social media platform, Rajasthan government’s decision to hike prices to shore up the revenues has led to subdued demand and may not result in excise tax collections going up significantly. As per government sources, IMFL (Indian-Made Foreign Liquor) sales have declined by 14% and 38% in May and June, respectively. The revenues in May fell to Rs 697 crore compared to Rs 857 crore during the same month last year. In June 2020, the revenue stood at Rs 740 crore against Rs 670 crore. With tax revenues drying up due to the lockdown and ensuing ban on alcohol sale, the state government increased excise duty on liquor by 10% in the first week of May 2020. Again, in the first week of June, the finance department levied Covid surcharge. The survey asked consumers in the state if they would consider downgrading or have already done so by shifting to cheaper alcohol brands or products in the coming months to not overshoot their budget. 49% answered that they would turn to low-price, low-quality products while 37% said they would not alter their liquor choice. About 14% of the 8,300 people participated in the survey said they do not plan to buy their alcohol locally. The survey said alcohol sales post-lockdown contributed a little over 20% of the total tax revenue of the state but the share is still lower than the expected figure. After SCGST and VAT, alcohol is the third-largest contributor to the tax kitty of the state government, which has set a target of Rs 12,500 crore in the current financial year. In 2018-19, the state clocked an excise revenue of Rs 8,700 crore. The same in 2019-20 increased to Rs 9,591 crore, falling short of the department’s target of Rs 10,500 crore. Given the current lower demand for the state’s liquors and increasing bootlegging because of wide price gaps with neighbouring states like Haryana, it would be an uphill task to reach anywhere closer to the Rs 12,500 crore target this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/nearly-50-of-tipplers-switch-to-cheaper-brands-due-to-price-hike/articleshow/76974007.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||‘Nearly 50% of tipplers in Rajasthan switch to cheaper brands due to price hike’||JAIPUR: Nearly 50% of the tipplers in Rajasthan have no qualms in shifting to cheaper, low quality alcohol brands to stay within their budget following a 30% increase in retail prices in the past six months. That may be one of the reasons why beer sales have fallen 64% in May and 39% in June as consumers downgraded their choices to high alcohol content liquor According to a survey by Local Circles, a community social media platform, Rajasthan government’s decision to hike prices to shore up the revenues has led to subdued demand and may not result in excise tax collections going up significantly. As per government sources, IMFL (Indian-Made Foreign Liquor) sales have declined by 14% and 38% in May and June, respectively. The revenues in May fell to Rs 697 crore compared to Rs 857 crore during the same month last year. In June 2020, the revenue stood at Rs 740 crore against Rs 670 crore. With tax revenues drying up due to the lockdown and ensuing ban on alcohol sale, the state government increased excise duty on liquor by 10% in the first week of May 2020. Again, in the first week of June, the finance department levied Covid surcharge. The survey asked consumers in the state if they would consider downgrading or have already done so by shifting to cheaper alcohol brands or products in the coming months to not overshoot their budget. 49% answered that they would turn to low-price, low-quality products while 37% said they would not alter their liquor choice. About 14% of the 8,300 people participated in the survey said they do not plan to buy their alcohol locally. The survey said alcohol sales post-lockdown contributed a little over 20% of the total tax revenue of the state but the share is still lower than the expected figure. After SCGST and VAT, alcohol is the third-largest contributor to the tax kitty of the state government, which has set a target of Rs 12,500 crore in the current financial year. In 2018-19, the state clocked an excise revenue of Rs 8,700 crore. The same in 2019-20 increased to Rs 9,591 crore, falling short of the department’s target of Rs 10,500 crore. Given the current lower demand for the state’s liquors and increasing bootlegging because of wide price gaps with neighbouring states like Haryana, it would be an uphill task to reach anywhere closer to the Rs 12,500 crore target this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nearly-50-of-tipplers-switch-to-cheaper-brands-due-to-price-hike/articleshow/76968264.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Jodhpur||‘Nearly 50% of tipplers in Rajasthan switch to cheaper brands due to price hike’||JAIPUR: Nearly 50% of the tipplers in Rajasthan have no qualms in shifting to cheaper, low quality alcohol brands to stay within their budget following a 30% increase in retail prices in the past six months. That may be one of the reasons why beer sales have fallen 64% in May and 39% in June as consumers downgraded their choices to high alcohol content liquor According to a survey by Local Circles, a community social media platform, Rajasthan government’s decision to hike prices to shore up the revenues has led to subdued demand and may not result in excise tax collections going up significantly. As per government sources, IMFL (Indian-Made Foreign Liquor) sales have declined by 14% and 38% in May and June, respectively. The revenues in May fell to Rs 697 crore compared to Rs 857 crore during the same month last year. In June 2020, the revenue stood at Rs 740 crore against Rs 670 crore. With tax revenues drying up due to the lockdown and ensuing ban on alcohol sale, the state government increased excise duty on liquor by 10% in the first week of May 2020. Again, in the first week of June, the finance department levied Covid surcharge. The survey asked consumers in the state if they would consider downgrading or have already done so by shifting to cheaper alcohol brands or products in the coming months to not overshoot their budget. 49% answered that they would turn to low-price, low-quality products while 37% said they would not alter their liquor choice. About 14% of the 8,300 people participated in the survey said they do not plan to buy their alcohol locally. The survey said alcohol sales post-lockdown contributed a little over 20% of the total tax revenue of the state but the share is still lower than the expected figure. After SCGST and VAT, alcohol is the third-largest contributor to the tax kitty of the state government, which has set a target of Rs 12,500 crore in the current financial year. In 2018-19, the state clocked an excise revenue of Rs 8,700 crore. The same in 2019-20 increased to Rs 9,591 crore, falling short of the department’s target of Rs 10,500 crore. Given the current lower demand for the state’s liquors and increasing bootlegging because of wide price gaps with neighbouring states like Haryana, it would be an uphill task to reach anywhere closer to the Rs 12,500 crore target this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/nearly-50-of-tipplers-switch-to-cheaper-brands-due-to-price-hike/articleshow/76974005.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ajmer||‘Nearly 50% of tipplers in Rajasthan switch to cheaper brands due to price hike’||JAIPUR: Nearly 50% of the tipplers in Rajasthan have no qualms in shifting to cheaper, low quality alcohol brands to stay within their budget following a 30% increase in retail prices in the past six months. That may be one of the reasons why beer sales have fallen 64% in May and 39% in June as consumers downgraded their choices to high alcohol content liquor According to a survey by Local Circles, a community social media platform, Rajasthan government’s decision to hike prices to shore up the revenues has led to subdued demand and may not result in excise tax collections going up significantly. As per government sources, IMFL (Indian-Made Foreign Liquor) sales have declined by 14% and 38% in May and June, respectively. The revenues in May fell to Rs 697 crore compared to Rs 857 crore during the same month last year. In June 2020, the revenue stood at Rs 740 crore against Rs 670 crore. With tax revenues drying up due to the lockdown and ensuing ban on alcohol sale, the state government increased excise duty on liquor by 10% in the first week of May 2020. Again, in the first week of June, the finance department levied Covid surcharge. The survey asked consumers in the state if they would consider downgrading or have already done so by shifting to cheaper alcohol brands or products in the coming months to not overshoot their budget. 49% answered that they would turn to low-price, low-quality products while 37% said they would not alter their liquor choice. About 14% of the 8,300 people participated in the survey said they do not plan to buy their alcohol locally. The survey said alcohol sales post-lockdown contributed a little over 20% of the total tax revenue of the state but the share is still lower than the expected figure. After SCGST and VAT, alcohol is the third-largest contributor to the tax kitty of the state government, which has set a target of Rs 12,500 crore in the current financial year. In 2018-19, the state clocked an excise revenue of Rs 8,700 crore. The same in 2019-20 increased to Rs 9,591 crore, falling short of the department’s target of Rs 10,500 crore. Given the current lower demand for the state’s liquors and increasing bootlegging because of wide price gaps with neighbouring states like Haryana, it would be an uphill task to reach anywhere closer to the Rs 12,500 crore target this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/nearly-50-of-tipplers-switch-to-cheaper-brands-due-to-price-hike/articleshow/76974008.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||Selection process for 10 posts begins at MSU||VADODARA: M S University has started the process for recruitment to ten posts including that of joint registrar, chief accounts officer (CAO), and university engineer. While some of the posts are vacant for quite some time, the addition of some other posts has raised eyebrows on the campus. The university has invited online applications for the non-teaching officers’ cadre posts of joint registrar, CAO, university engineer, medical officer (MD), medical officer (MBBS), public relations officer, document officer, system engineer, programmer and computer programmer by July 24. The posts of CAO and university engineer are vacant for quite some time and even in-charge appointments have turned into a sort of musical chair. The university had its share of bitter experiences when it came to the post of CAO. In 2013, a multi-crore fraud involving a private construction firm had surfaced at the university. After this, in-charge CAO was suspended by the university. Even as the fraud continued to haunt the university officials, the officials landed in another round of embarrassment in 2017, when Umesh Oza, made wild allegations of corruption against the university’s top brass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/selection-process-for-10-posts-begins-at-msu/articleshow/76966500.cms||---
July 15, 2020||India||6 BSP MLAs in Rajasthan who joined Cong in focus again||NEW DELHI: Six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs who had joined the ruling Congress in Rajasthan in 2019 are likely to play a crucial role in case chief minister Ashok Gehlot is called to take a floor test to prove his government's majority in the Assembly. The “status” of the six MLAs was called into question in June, ahead of the voting for three Rajya Sabha seats from Rajasthan, when BSP general secretary Satish Mishra wrote to the Chief Election Commissioner and sought that the six legislators be debarred from voting as Congress members. Rajasthan political crisis: Live updatesIn his letter on June 17, Mishra had said, “Six MLAs were elected on party symbols allotted by Mayawati and after winning polls, their names were duly notified in Election Commission’s gazette notification. However, speaker of Rajasthan assembly changed their nomenclature in his records without any notice to BSP. We don’t have a tie-up with Congress at national or state level, which is a mandatory condition under 10th schedule of Constitution of India.” The MLAs include Jogendra Singh Awana, Wajib Ali, Lakhan Singh, Sandeep Yadav and Deepchand. Read AlsoCongress ejects Pilot as dy CM, PCC chief amid Raj turbulenceThe bitter feud between Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and his challenger Sachin Pilot reached the point of no return with Congress on Tuesday sacking the latter as deputy CM and state party chief, accusing him of working at the instance of BJP to topple the state government.Political analysts believe the issue is likely to be flagged off again if the government goes for a floor test. In Rajasthan’s 200 MLA-strong assembly — where the majority mark is 101 — the Congress has 107 seats while the BJP has 72. Sachin Pilot has claimed support of 30-odd MLAs. Read AlsoOutpouring of support for Sachin Pilot, colleagues regret his exitSachin Pilot’s sacking as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state Congress chief and impending exit from the party brought out an outpouring of support and regret from party colleagues who called him a talented leader and wished things had not come to such a pass though some questioned hisA senior BSP leader told TOI that the party is still awaiting the Election Commission’s response to their letter. “We plan to move court on why we were not informed about Rajasthan assembly speaker’s decision to change the MLAs nomenclature.” According to senior constitutional expert Subash Kashyap, while any member of the assembly can file a petition with the speaker to seek disqualification of defected MLAs, the party whose MLAs have defected also have the option of approaching a court of law. “The votes of defected MLAs in case of a floor test are valid as long as they are not disqualified by the speaker.” Senior advocate Ashok Bhan cited previous rulings where the court said the defected MLAs weren’t allowed to vote unless the “merger included the party as a whole, not just a few lawmakers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/6-bsp-mlas-in-rajasthan-who-joined-cong-in-focus-again/articleshow/76969675.cms||Rohan Dua
July 15, 2020||Business||Insurers can act against hosps saying no to cashless||HYDERABAD: Swamped with complaints about Covid-19 patients being denied cashless facility at hospitals despite having health insurance, insurance regulator Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has stepped in and directed general and health insurance companies to take “appropriate action” against network hospitals asking policyholders to pay cash for treatment. “Where any network provider denies cashless facility and deviates from agreed terms of the SLA (service level agreement), insurance company shall take an appropriate action against such network providers as provided in SLA,” IRDAI said in a circular on Tuesday. The regulator has also asked insurance companies to set up an exclusive grievance redressal system to solve the challenges faced by policyholders.. “Insurance companies are advised to put in place an exclusive grievance redressal mechanism to address the grievances of policyholders relating to the denial of cashless facility for Covid-19 and other grievances against such hospitals that are enlisted as network providers,” it said. The regulator has also asked insurance companies to report to government agencies where policyholders’ interests are adversely affected because of conduct the network providers. “Action taken against such network providers may also be published on the website of the insurance company for the information of the insured public,” it said. Additionally, IRDAI on Tuesday said insurance companies will provide a 5% discount in Corona Kavach policy premium to healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/insurers-can-act-against-hosps-saying-no-to-cashless/articleshow/76968976.cms||Swati Rathor
July 15, 2020||Surat||Surat: Jain monk who gave diksha to over 450 dies||SURAT: Revered Jain monk Gunratnasuriswarji Maharaj died in the city on Tuesday morning. He was 88. According to his followers, he was born in 1932 in Padarli village of Rajasthan and left the worldly life at the age of 21. He took diksha in 1954 in Mumbai to become a monk. Maharaj Saheb gave diksha to 450 young people during his lifetime. “He also authored many religious books for Jain followers which include ‘Tension to Peace’, ‘Karma Teri Gati Nyar’, ‘Disha Darshak’, Jain Ramayan among others,’‘ said a Jain community leader. His palakhi was taken out in the city on Tuesday afternoon in presence of his followers and his final rites were performed in Vesu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jain-monk-who-gave-diksha-to-over-450-dies/articleshow/76967410.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mysuru||Kodagu reports 33 new cases||MADIKERI: A total of 33 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Kodagu on Tuesday. The district currently has 127 active cases. Further, new restrictions have been imposed by deputy commissioner Annies K Joy following a rise in the number of cases. All shops across the district are allowed to function between 6am and 6pm everyday even as a complete lockdown will be observed across the district on Saturday and Sunday. This new restriction will be functional from July 15 to July 31. While 19 containment zones were newly declared, adding to the total of 95 across the district, 95 patients have been discharged from the Covid hospital in Madikeri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kodagu-reports-33-new-cases/articleshow/76966188.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana forest department offers online training to staff on afforestation||HYDERABAD: Amid the pandemic, Telangana State Forest Academy Dulapally has begun to train frontline staff of the forest department online to enable them develop natural afforestation. In all, 600 forest staff will be trained. New afforestation concepts like the Yadadri model of natural forest development will be taught to the staff so that it can be implemented during Palle Prakriti Vanam. Programmes on Yadadri model and Palle Prakriti Vanam will provide technical knowledge to 20 members trained in each district. Five districts are being covered daily. Participants include officers right from the post of conservator of forest to forest beat officer rank officers. Sobha PCCF, G. Chandrashekar Reddy, Director General, CEFNARM and Director TSFA and VVN Prasad, Special commissioner RD, involved in the training process have circulated notes to the staff being trained on Whatsapp. As many as 300 staff have already been training through the online method of video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-forest-dept-offers-online-training-to-staff-on-afforestation/articleshow/76968268.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Special safety drive in pharma units soon||Visakhapatnam: Following the mishap at Visakha Solvents Ltd at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC) at Parawada, district collector V Vinay Chand told TOI that to ensure that safety norms in industries, especially in pharma sector, are implemented a special drive will be undertaken in a few days. “We will send four to five teams to help with the special drive and take the help of the factories department of the neighbouring districts as well. The chief minister has strictly instructed us to ensure the safety of the people first. We will conduct special drive in each and every industry in the Pharma city,” he said. He added the government will not spare any industry if found violating norms and henceforth, the safety monitoring systems in industries would be given priority, he said. “We planned a meeting with 20 hazardous industries in two weeks, but the industries have asked us two more weeks to come up with a comprehensive presentation over their products, possible accidents and mitigations procedures,” collector said. In Visakhapatnam city limits alone, over 100 pharma units operate from JNPC in Parawada area. A safety audit was conducted in 2016 by the inspector of factories and around 50% of the units got adverse reports. Between 2013 and 2019, 37 people lost their lives while nearly 150 sustained injuries in accidents at pharma units situated in JNPC. This last mishap took place on June 30 when benzimidazole gas leakage from the Sainor Life Sciences pharma company||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/special-safety-drive-in-pharma-units-soon/articleshow/76967398.cms||Siva G
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four get life sentence for murdering Jhalawar man||KOTA: A special SC/ST court in Jhalawar on Monday sentenced four persons to life imprisonment for murdering a 34-year-old man and injuring another about five years ago. It also imposed penalty of Rs 50,000 on each of the four convicts under sections of IPC and SC/ST Act. The court acquitted fifth accused due to lack of evidence. Public prosecutor Bhairulal Bansiwal said the convicts are Neelam Meena (30), Kamal Kashyap (40), Karim Baig (40) and Nitin Pareta (30), all residents of Jhalawar city. They had killed one Umesh Harijan (34), a resident of bus stand area, and injuring his nephew Aakash Harijan (25). Bansiwal said the convicts and the acquitted person along with some others reached Jhalawar bus stand area in three vehicles where deceased Umesh and Aakash were playing Holi in the afternoon of March 6, 2015. Neelam Meena allegedly shot fire with his 12 barrel gun at Umesh that penetrated into his chest and second fire he shot at Aakash that struck into his head. Umesh and Aakash were immediately rushed to hospital where Umesh died during treatment on the same day, while Aakash was admitted with severe head injury, however he survived, the public prosecutor further said. Umesh had property business and was facing threat from Neelam and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-get-life-sentence-for-murdering-jhalawar-man/articleshow/76968280.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Tourist spots to open from August 1||VIJAYAWADA: The government is set to open the state to tourists from August 1. Making the announcement on Tuesday, AP tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivas Rao said they would be taking all necessary precautions as mandated by the central government while allowing tourists. After conducting a review meeting, Rao said the tourism department has so far lost around Rs 60 crore. “Around Rs 10 crore was per month since the lockdown,” Rao said addressing the media. Justifying the move to allow tourists, Rao pointed out that neighbouring Telangana has already opened its state to torurist. He announced that the state would soon have a five-star and a seven-star hotel, which would be undertaken in the private-public partnership (PPP) mode. Officials are currently doing necessary repair work across various tourist destinations. On the other hand, the minister disclosed that a new district would be created which would be named after freedom fighter Alluri Seetarama Raju. Rao at the meet justified the move of decentralising the capital and shifting the executive to Visakhapatnam stating that it would aid in an all-round development of the state. He alleged that N Chandrababu Naidu was working for the benefit of only a certain section. “We are running the administration without discrimination and corruption; Jagan wants to set up three capitals to prevent strife after ten years,” Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tourist-spots-to-open-from-august-1/articleshow/76967415.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hygiene rules: Ask4Mask campaign to create awareness||AHMEDABAD: A unique citizen initiative ‘Ask4Mask’ has been embarked upon to bring people from all walks of life together to ensure wearing of masks. “There are thousands of active cases in Ahmedabad and many have lost their lives to Covid-19. The scenario can be different if each one understands the importance of wearing mask and wearing it the right way,” says Dr Bharat Gadhvi one of the members of the campaign. “If you have a senior citizen at home and you are going out every day for work, do you or the elderly at your home wear masks while interacting. No. We have come across infections where such vulnerable population has been infected even though they don’t go out,” says Gadhvi. Over the next two weeks, the ‘ASK4Mask’ campaign plans to reach out to residential societies, corporate offices and provision shopowners to observe hygiene rules on their premises. “Covid-19 numbers can be lowered significantly if 75% of the population wear masks,” says Gadhvi. The platform also disseminates information about right way to put on the mask and many other aspects to protect them from the Covid virus. A social media campaign has also been launched in parallel. A senior municipal official said efforts are being made to rope in religious organisations to encourage and make appeals to people to wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hygiene-rules-ask4mask-campaign-to-create-awareness/articleshow/76968337.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Artifical insemination project to boost Telangana rural economy||HYDERABAD: The artificial insemination project, implemented by the Telangana State Livestock Development Agency of Animal Husbandry department, is all set to add high genetic merit calves to the livestock in the state. Over 6 lakh she-buffaloes and cows were cross breed with high genetic merit sperm of breeds such as Murra, Gir, Ongole, Sahiwal and Jersey as part of the artificial insemination project which covered 300 villages in every district. Not only the population of cows and buffaloes will increase by two lakh in the next one year but also the milk production is expected to increase by 12 lakh litres per day and thereby give a fillip to the rural economy. Manju Vani of Telangana State Livestock Development Agency said project was implemented as part of the overall nation-wide artificial insemination programme with the objective of genetic upgradation through free artificial insemination service delivered to the doorsteps of the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/artifical-insemination-project-to-boost-t-rural-economy/articleshow/76968289.cms||Roushan Ali
July 15, 2020||Jaipur||Body of woman found in Rajasthan's Kota||KOTA: Mystery shrouds the death of a 45-year-old woman whose body with a cloth tied around her neck and chopped radial arteries of the wrists was found in her rented room at Sanjay Nagar under Vigyan Nagar police station of the city on Tuesday. Police have lodged a case of murder against unidentified persons and placed the body in mortuary for postmortem to be conducted after arrival of her family members. The deceased was identified as Sumitrabai Koli (45), alias Santrabai, Vigyan Nagar circle inspector Amar Singh Rathore said. “The radial arteries of the woman’s wrists were chopped and a strained piece of cloth called saafi was found around her neck that suggested she was strangulated. However there was no sign of conflict in the room,” he added. Initial investigation revealed the woman worked as maid and daily wage labourer and had been living alone in a rented room for the last three years after a dispute with her husband who lived in Baran district, the CI said. The deceased woman was spotted with routine engagements and talking to the neighbours on Monday night, he added. Police are inquiring about people and other family members who were in regular contact with her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-of-woman-found-in-kota/articleshow/76968287.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s Covid cases up by 22% in a week, deaths dip by 30%||AHMEDABAD: Analysis of the first two weeks of July reveal that compared to July 1 to 7, July 8 to 14 recorded 22% more cases – 6087 cases at an average 870 cases daily compared to 4,993 cases at an average of 713 cases. However, deaths decreased from 131 to 92, a drop of 29.8%. Two major Covid-19 hotspots – Ahmedabad and Surat – showed starkly different trends in two weeks. Ahmedabad recorded a drop of 13.7% in cases – 1,164 this week compared to 1,349 last week – whereas drop in deaths was 47.3% — from 55 last week to 29 in the past seven days. In comparison, Surat recorded a rise of 19.6% in cases – from 1,629 to 1,948 – and recorded the same deaths (33). Share of Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara in total cases of Gujarat went down from 68.3% to 59.3% in a week whereas share in death increased slightly from 68.7% to 70.6%. On Tuesday, Gujarat recorded yet another highest daily cases tally, which was 13th high in 14 days and second consecutive day of 900-plus cases. Vadodara district recorded deaths of Covid-19 patients after 11 days. A total of 749 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 30,555. The discharges include 247 from Surat, 180 from Ahmedabad and 62 from Vadodara. Gujarat carried out 8,102 tests to find new Covid-19 positive patients, taking the total to 4.78 lakh. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat has 3.39 lakh persons under quarantine, including 3.36 lakh under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-covid-cases-up-by-22-in-a-week-deaths-dip-by-30/articleshow/76968345.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mangaluru||DK administration identifies 80 Covid care centres||MANGALURU: As Covid-19 cases are increasing, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has identified 80 Covid care centres (CCC) in the district. People in Dakshina Kannada have been demanding that CCCs should be opened for asymptomatic cases in the district too. The state government has opened many CCCs to manage asymptomatic cases in Bengaluru, when the city was facing a shortage of beds. However, Mangaluru did not have such facilities, though the city has been witnessing a steady increase in Covid-19 cases. Understanding the need for CCCs, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh identified 80 premises, which were functioning as quarantine centres, as CCCs in the district. It may be recalled that the government has already opened more than 12 CCCs with about 4,000 beds in Bengaluru. A majority of the 1,467 active cases in Dakshina Kannada (as on July 13) are asymptomatic, and the CCCs will help those planning to go to private hospitals to reduce their treatment costs. Additional deputy commissioner M J Roopa said that the district administration has identified 80 CCCs throughout the district. These CCCs will work as care centres for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. A medical team will attend to the centres, and supply of food and water will be taken care of by the government. In case of any health issues, the patient will be shifted to the Covid hospital, she said. “All asymptotic Covid-19 patients, who are unable to opt for home isolation, are being kept in CCCs. These centres will cater to their healthcare, food and other requirements of patients, under the supervision of a nodal officer. A designated health team will also monitor each CCC in the district. Meanwhile, the nearest public health centre (PHC) will have an ambulance on stand by in case of an emergency. Till now 189 patients have been shifted to Mangalagangothri working women’s hostel. All taluks will be equipped simultaneously. Currently, 299 are in home isolation in the district,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-administration-identifies-80-covid-care-centres/articleshow/76966257.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: No schools until after Diwali? Parents say safety first||AHMEDABAD: With the Covid situation worsening in the state, as positive cases cross 43K, the state government is considering the reopening of schools only after the Diwali vacation, say top sources. In fact, the education department has decided to focus on online learning and other distance education methods to impart education to students until the academic session starts after Diwali this year. A key official in the state education department said that earlier the government had planned to open the schools from August in rural and non-containment semi-urban areas where population density is not too high. “However, all districts now have active cases and these are increasing rapidly,” an official said. “Allowing schools to open at this time will put students in danger. We have advised the government not to open schools until after Diwali.” The official added that in rural areas, where mobile connectivity is poor and resources like mobiles are not available, the government is planning to provide distance learning resources. Naresh Shah, the president of All Gujarat Parents Association, supported the proposal of not starting schools until after Diwali. “There are 1.25 crore students. Their well-being is important,” he said. “In fact, the government should announce this year to be an exceptional case and not conduct any exams except for Classes X and XII.” Archit Bhatt, the president of Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association, said: “It will be difficult to predict when schools can be opened as infections are increasing.” Manan Choksi, trustee, Udgam School, said: “Online education must continue until Covid-19 cases are brought under control. Even one Covid positive child can be a risk to 40 children of the class and teachers.” He went on to say: “We do not have any plans of starting our school until after Diwali, as students are receiving online education.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-schools-until-after-diwali-parents-say-safety-first/articleshow/76968302.cms||Kapil Dave
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Names of candidates for MLC posts likely to be out today||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has almost cleared the names of aspirants for three vacant MLC posts. Although four posts fell vacant in June, elections are likely to be held for three posts as one post has only a tenure of nine months. The chief minister is understood to have held initial consultations with the core team of the party on Monday and Tuesday and is likely to inform his cabinet colleagues at the cabinet meeting scheduled to be held on Wednesday. Two MLC posts fell vacant following retirement of MLCs, Kantheti Satyanarayana Raju and Rathna Bai. Satyanarayana Raju was nominated to the council in 2014 at the behest of then chief minister N Kiran Kumar Reddy. However, in 2015, Raju joined the BJP but remained an independent MLC in the House. Congress MLC T Rathna Bai switched over to TDP and retired along with Satyanarayana Raju. The chief minister has almost made up his mind to fill these seats, which fall in the nominated quota filled by governor, duly recommended by the state government. It is said that the chief minister has cleared the names of Marri Rajasekhar from Guntur district and Koyye Moshen Raju from West Godavari district for these two posts. While Rajasekhar had sacrificed his MLA seat (Chilakaluripet) for a BC woman candidate in the last elections, Moshen Raju had been a staunch supporter of the YSR family for several years. Two more MLC seats too fell vacant following resignation of Pilli Subhaschandra Bose and Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, who were elected to Rajya Sabha. The term of Subhaschandra Bose is due to expire on March 29, 2021, while the term of Venkata Ramana will expire in 2023. Sources said the chief minister has decided to fill one seat as the term of another is just nine months, less than a year. The competition is, however, too tough for this one seat, which has three years’ tenure. Sources said the chief minister is considering the candidature of former MLAs Amanchi Krishna Mohan from Prakasam district and Thotha Thrimurthulu from West Godavari district. Meanwhile, there is tough competition for the two cabinet posts, which too fell vacant following the resignation of Subhaschandra Bose and Venkata Ramana on their election to Rajya Sabha. Sources in the CMO say that four names are doing rounds for the two vacancies. However, there are strong indications that the chief minister is in favour of fielding a Muslim minority leader this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/names-of-candidates-for-mlc-posts-likely-to-be-out-today/articleshow/76967431.cms||Gopi Dara
July 15, 2020||Pune||Caregivers struggle for transport to get to work||Pune: Lack of transport and the pandemic scare have made it difficult for caregivers in the city to report to work. “I take care of a dementia patient in his 70s. A set routine is very important for the patient. I don’t have my own transport. During the lockdown, the patient’s son would pick and drop me near my house. Now, they don’t want to take any chances. I am worried about losing work,” said Bijula Deo from Bibewadi. Deo added that even though she has applied for an e-pass to go to work, she could not find anything on the road to get her there. Another caregiver, Malati Shinde, who applied online for an e-pass, was still awaiting a reply. “My husband said unless we get an e-pass, we should not go out because we will get in trouble with the police. There are barricades near my house. I fear for my job. If things go on like this, we will lose income. We already live hand-to-mouth,” said Shinde. Some families have offered caregivers temporary accommodation but not everybody finds the option suitable. “The family I work for told me to stay with them during the lockdown but I have young children at home. I spoke to my family about it and they did not want me to go because we don’t know if the lockdown will be extended. We also need the income because times are getting very tough,” said Karuna Gaokar, a caregiver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/caregivers-struggle-for-transport-to-get-to-work/articleshow/76968299.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, two-thirds of Ahmedabad cases from western parts||AHMEDABAD: The western part of the city has seen an increase in Covid-19 cases in the past few days. On Monday, the city reported 152 cases, of which 104 were from the western part. On Tuesday, the city reported 154 fresh cases and three deaths. The West Zone of the AMC, which includes Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna wards, reported 45 cases, the highest among the AMC’s seven zones. It was followed by North West Zone, which reported 35 fresh cases in areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota. The South West Zone reported the third highest 24 cases in Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura and Sarkhej areas. Of the seven zones in the city, all the top three zones with Covid cases were from Western parts. Of the three deaths reported on Monday, all were from the private hospital providing Covid treatment. Currently, the western parts account for 51% of the active cases. As of Tuesday morning, the city had 3,230 active cases, of which 1,637 were from the western parts. West Zone has 627 active cases, North West Zone had 535 cases and South West Zone have 475 active cases each, Central Zone has 248, North Zone 442, East Zone 461, and South Zone has 442 active cases. In the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, 119 patients were discharged, of which 13 were from government hospitals and 94 from private hospitals. Three patients from private Covid centres and nine in home isolation were also given a clean chit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-two-thirds-of-city-cases-from-western-parts/articleshow/76968332.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Srinivasa Apartments adopts strict norms, remains Covid-free||HYDERABAD: Amid the spread of the coronavirus, residents of Srinivasa Towers Apartment in Begumpet have dedicated washrooms for their housekeeping staff to take a bath before and after the work. “Our apartment is 100% Covid-19 free till today, due to teamwork of all the residents, committee members, manager, security and housekeeping staff of our apartment,” said SAS Prasad Choudhary, a residential welfare association member. The association has also arranged an autorickshaw for the housekeeping staffs for their pick up and drop facility. “The housekeeping staff have to take a bath after entering the society, while, they are also encouraged to take a bath and go home before leaving,” said another resident of the apartment. The residents are not allowed to step out of homes without masks, while the residents have also restricted social gatherings in society, including the use of parks and other amenities by residents. Handwash and sanitiser has been made available for people entering the society and the security personnel check temperature at the gate for visitors. “We have taken utmost precautions and so far have succeeded with zero coronavirus cases in the apartment. The building is sanitised daily and regular updates on lockdown rules and guidelines by local governing authorities are provided to the residents,” said a resident. “ Even though delivery boys are allowed, their temperature is checked and they are asked to sanitise themselves,” said Santosh, manager of the apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/srinivasa-apts-adopts-strict-norms-remains-covid-free/articleshow/76968990.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Engineering colleges get future-ready, to teach AI, cyber security||CHENNAI: More than 60 engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu will offer new degree programmes in emerging areas such as artificial intelligence and data science, cyber security, computer science and business systems, and machine learning from 2020-21. Of the 536 engineering colleges, more than 50 colleges, both autonomous and affiliated, will offer BTech in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, a course which colleges believe will attract both students and companies. Another new course, BTech Computer Science and Business Systems, which plans to introduce management science to computer science students, is also gaining popularity among the colleges. Colleges are trying to train their faculty members for emerging areas by entering MoUs with IT majors and setting up centres of excellence on their campuses. RMK Engineering College is introducing two new courses -- BTech in Computer Science and Business Systems, and BTech in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. “Students will learn computer science along with business in BTech in CSBS. We are in the process of signing an MoU with TCS. They will provide syllabus and training to our faculty members. They will also offer internships to the students,” said R M Kishore, vice-chairman of RMK Engineering College. The college is planning to establish an artificial intelligence lab in partnership with Cognizant. Anna University has provided syllabus for BTech in AI and Data Science. Sri Sairam College of Engineering is planning to offer these two UG courses. “Students are showing more interest in joining courses in emerging areas. CSBS course is equivalent to the technology management course offered in the foreign universities. Students will get exposure to both technical and management domains in the course,” said K Maran, director of the college. Valliammai Engineering College will offer BTech and MTech in cyber security along with BTech AI and data science. “For all new programmes in emerging areas, computer science is the base. So, cyber security will have 70%to 80% syllabus from computer science engineering. There will be four or five new courses related to cyber security in the third and fourth year,” said B Chidambararajan, principal of the college. “A report from NASSCOM said there will be big demand for engineers in the cyber security field for next few years,” he said. Anna University approved the syllabus for BTech in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. “Some of the courses have been introduced in affiliated and autonomous colleges. For autonomous colleges, we are allowing new courses approved by AICTE,” said M K Surappa, vice-chancellor of Anna University. For affiliated colleges, the university is planning to introduce specializations where students would study in a particular area in their final semesters. “Students will have broad options if they choose standard degree programmes instead of specialized programmes at UG level,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engg-colleges-get-future-ready-to-teach-ai-cyber-security/articleshow/76968309.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Operational error led to mishap: JNPC CEO||VISAKHAPATNAM: Although the Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC) at Parawada provides employment to over 32,000 people and has an annual turnover of over Rs 25,000 crore, the series of mishaps in the pharmaceutical companies in JNPC has raised safety concerns. Former Union energy secretary and social activist, EAS Sarma alleged that regulatory vacuum is responsible for the industrial mishaps. Sarma emphasised on the need to conduct special safety audits in all the industrial units in north Andhra Pradesh to avert recurrence of accidents. Mishaps in JNPC in the last seven years have left more than 25 people dead and over 70 injured, he said. Asked about the the security concerns, joint chief inspector of factories, J Siva Shankar Reddy, told TOI that there are over 80 pharma units in JNPC-Parawada and there has been a lot of improvement in safety aspects in a majority of the pharmaceutical companies. Despite safety measures, sometimes human-errors lead to fatal mishaps, he said. “Almost all the pharma units in JNPC follow safety measures as they are mandatory. All the employees have been undergoing fire safety and other mandatory trainings. Tuesday’s fire mishap was the result of an operational error,” CEO of JNPC Dr PP Lal Krishna told TOI. Meanwhile, representatives of CPM and CPI alleged that the managements of the pharmaceutical units have been flouting safety norms at the cost of the lives of its employees. “The pharmaceutical units are making profits but they are ignoring the safety of workers. We demand the arrest of A Ayodhya Rami Reddy, founder of Ramky Group and who developed JNPC, for the fatal mishaps. We also demand Rs 1 crore in compensation for the family members of Srinivas Rao, who died in the fire mishap,” said K Lokanadham and B Ganga Rao of CPM. Responding to the series of industrial mishaps, minister M Srinivasa Rao said the government will be holding a meeting with the management of the companies in August on safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/operational-error-led-to-mishap-jnpc-ceo/articleshow/76967455.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 15, 2020||Varanasi||PM appreciates BHU docs for authoring book on coronavirus||Varanasi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his letter sent on Monday, appreciated the doctors of the Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University for bringing out a book on Covid-19. The PM said that this effort to document information on coronavirus to help enhance mass awareness is an appreciable initiative. During the lockdown period, Dr SK Tiwari of the department of surgery and Dr Vishwambhar Singh of ENT department authored a book -‘COVID-19: Challenges Ahead’. Besides, over 25 other senior and junior doctors also contributed to this book. “It is heart-warming to learn that a group of authors at the Institute of Medical Science, Banaras Hindu University have joined hands to bring out a book titled “COVID-19: Challenges Ahead,” wrote PM Modi adding that this effort to document information on coronavirus to help enhance mass awareness is an appreciable initiative. He further said that today, as humanity is battling a pandemic of an unprecedented magnitude, nations and societies are responding to the best of their capacity and capabilities, India’s response to the pandemic has been shaped by the collective resolve of 130 crore citizens. Every individual is discharging duties with a sense of dedication and discipline in the face of this challenge. All of them exemplify the true spirit of selfless service to the nation and society. PM said that proactive and comprehensive measures taken by India in its fight against Covid-19 have been widely appreciated throughout the world. Powered by people’s participation and awareness, we are leaving no stone unturned to overcome this menace. “We also need to remember that the fight against Corona is still going on. It is very important to be always mindful of following the rules of maintaining ‘do gaj ki doori’, covering mouth and nose with face masks and constantly maintaining cleanliness,” he added. “The compilation will surely add strength to the ongoing awareness efforts on Covid-19. My best wishes to the entire team of contributors, who have strived to bring out this publication aimed at good health and well-being of all,” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-appreciates-bhu-docs-for-authoring-book-on-coronavirus/articleshow/76966284.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||10% Gujarat University seats reserved for CBSE, ICSE candidates||AHMEDABAD: While the process for admissions in arts, commerce, and science colleges affiliated to Gujarat University is under way, 10% seats have been reserved for CBSE and ICSE students. It has now been decided to start the process of PIN distribution and online registration for these students from August 20. In all the faculties associated with GU, 90% seats are reserved for Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) students and 10% for other board students, including the central board, said sources. About 4,100 seats are reserved in five courses including commerce for students of CBSE and other boards. Similarly, about 6,000 seats are reserved in science and arts courses, said sources. Currently, admission procedures have been initiated for Gujarat board students. The results of the CBSE candidates were declared on Monday. The results of other boards have been announced as well. Online registrations will be made from July 27 to July 31 for Gujarat board students. The online PIN distribution process will continue till July 30, said sources. Thus, the next admission schedule will be announced after the registration process is completed by July 31, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10-gu-seats-reserved-for-cbse-icse-candidates/articleshow/76968347.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Pune||Lockdown a hassle for working singles, seniors||Pune: For D P Road resident Nidhi Singh, a working professional who shares a flat with a colleague, the 10-day total lockdown is a major worry. “During earlier lockdowns, we mainly survived on oats, noodles, among other instant food. This time, we just couldn’t take time out to buy essentials. With restaurants told to shut down, online ordering of food is also not possible,” she said. Angad Bakshi, a working professional, who lives alone in a flat at Vishrantwadi, said, “I am heavily dependent on food delivery apps and get food from a tiffin service, which will remain shut for 10 days because of the lockdown. I have requested my colleagues with families to help me out.” Even senior citizens have been affected too. Manoj Barwe (65), a resident of Model Colony, said he mostly relied on tiffin services. “A domestc help also comes to my place to cook. We may have to apply for a separate pass for her.” A grocery store owner on D P Road said he had receivedphone calls from youngsters living in the area for biscuits and instant noodles. “I cannot break lockdown regulations and help them,” he said. Anamika Duggal, an event management professional, said the lockdown has forced her to rely on instant noodles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-a-hassle-for-working-singles-seniors/articleshow/76968303.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Saurashtra pips South Gujarat in rainfall||AHMEDABAD: As monsoon arrived early in Gujarat this year, the biggest beneficiary has been the semi-arid Saurashtra region. The region received 61% of its total seasonal rainfall in just one month. South Gujarat region has so far received 20.7% of its total rain quota. This year, monsoon hit Gujarat on June 15 against the expected date of June 26. After 2015, for the first time districts in Saurashtra received higher rainfall than its counterparts in South Gujarat. In fact, two districts — Devbhoomi Dwarka (151%) and Porbandar (101%) — have already recorded 100% of their seasonal rainfall. Of 80 talukas in 10 districts, nine have already received 100% or more rainfall whereas four are such where 90-99% of the rainfall is reported, according to state revenue department-run State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) data. In absolute terms, against 300mm average rainfall for South Gujarat, Saurashtra has received 414mm. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that the trend of Saurashtra getting more rainfall compared to South Gujarat is generally not seen. “But this year, the conditions have been different – with cyclone Nisarga, the state got good pre-monsoon rainfall. Moreover, the systems in Bay of Bengal, that travel to Arabian Sea in westerly/northwesterly direction through Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashra and Gujarat as low-pressure areas or depression are missing so far this year,” he said. He said monsoon trough is currently seen in the Himalayan region and it has not travelled down which could help in the rainfall in the state. “But there is a lot of time left in monsoon and we are hopeful that the deficiency in South Gujarat will be covered,” said Sarkar. According to SEOC data, Gujarat has recorded 32.5% rainfall with 270mm. Kutch tops in percentage with 80% rainfall (329mm), followed by 61% in Saurashtra (414mm), 20.7% in South Gujarat (300mm), 20.2% in East-Central Gujarat (166mm) and 19% in North Gujarat (135mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saurashtra-pips-south-gujarat-in-rainfall/articleshow/76968408.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||NRG and friends help 1,375 Gujaratis return from UAE||AHMEDABAD: A non-resident Gujarati (NRG), Bharat Joshi, and his friends have facilitated the return of 1,375 Gujaratis — stranded because of the lockdown — back to their native land from the United Arab Emirates (UAE).  Joshi and his friends, who have been toiling hard to co-ordinate with the embassy and book chartered flights for Gujaratis wanting to return, arranged seven chartered flights between June 18 and July 13. The last of the chartered flights arrived in Ahmedabad on Monday evening. Joshi, 44, says there are at least 2,000 more Indians in various parts of the UAE who are still waiting to return to India. He says that with the lockdown in force, many of them have not been paid salaries and do not even have enough money for the air fare back. “My friends and I have worked several hours a day, trying to arrange flights for those who are desperate to return, ensuring their Covid tests are done and putting them on to flights back home. Although there are still many Indians who want to come back, we sent the last of the seven chartered flights to Ahmedabad on Monday,” said Joshi. Joshi said that the government of India needs to increase Vande Bharat flights from Gulf countries to various destinations in India. “The price of one ticket on a chartered flights is between 900 and 1,100 dirhams, while the cost of a Vande Bharat flight ticket to Gujarat from UAE is about 600 dirhams,” he said. Joshi is from Chobari village of Bhachau taluka in Kutch district. He went to Dubai in 2004 and began working there for a salary of 1,150 dirhams a month. He soon started his own business and set up showrooms in Dubai and Muscat. He and his friends — Kunjan Pansuriya, Dharamdev Thakore and Pratap Kuchhadiya — all of whom run businesses in the UAE, have been helping stranded Gujaratis to return home. Watch NRG Bharat Joshi and friends help 1,375 Gujaratis return from UAE||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nrg-and-friends-help-1375-gujaratis-return-from-uae/articleshow/76968354.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC orders monthly auto debit from landlord’s account||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court ordered monthly auto debit of money payable to tenants from the bank account of a landlord, after payments ordered by the court became irregular. The landlords were told to make monthly payments to the tenants because they did not keep a promise. They had re-taken possession of a rented shop in Dakor for two months, promising to return possession after redevelopment of the building. Fourteen years passed but the tenants were not given possession back. This resulted in a high court order in 2012, directing the landlords to pay Rs 5,000 to the tenants every month till the issue was resolved. This case involves four brothers of the Dave family in Dakor town, who own a few shop near the famous Ranchhodrai Temple. One such shop was rented out to two brothers, Jayesh and Ketan Shah, who ran a crockery shop. After the redevelopment bid did not work out and the Shahs were unable to resume business, the issue was dragged to a civil court, which ruled in favour of the tenants. In 2011, the owners moved the high court, which one year later made an interim arrangement directing the landlords to make monthly payment of Rs 5,000 to the tenants till the petition was pending, because their actions deprived the tenants of their workplace and business. The payments became irregular last year and the tenants moved the HC seeking contempt of court action against the landlords. The high court found a clear breach of the court order and sent the issue for mediation, to find a settlement.  Due to the irregular payments, the HC ordered the owners to pay Rs 20,000 before the parties sat for negotiations. Negotiations between the parties failed and the contempt plea was heard by the HC on Monday, said Poonam Gadhvi, advocate for the landlords. With the HC’s observations about the irregular payments, one of the landlords, Kirtika Dave, promised that she would regularly pay the tenants from her bank account in a nationalized bank. The HC imposed an additional fine of Rs 7,500 on the landlords and ordered them to ensure that payment is made before the tenth of every month. The HC also directed the bank not to disturb the auto debit system of monthly payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-monthly-auto-debit-from-landlords-account/articleshow/76968369.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Barricades force residents to take detours to hospitals, pharmacies||PUNE: Residents from different parts of the city complained on Tuesday about irrational barricading of roads, lanes and bylanes, posing difficulties to them in accessing emergency services like hospitals and medical stores as also in commuting to permitted workplaces. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the police placed barricades in several lanes and by-lanes to cut off access to main roads, forcing people allowed to travel to take a detour. No way to bypass“I stay in Dattanagar and my office is in Deccan. I took out my car as I was told that two-wheelers were not allowed. All roads leading to Katraj-Dehu Road Bypass were blocked. I had to drive towards Katraj and then take the Satara Road to reach my office,” said a woman banker. Difficulties in DeccanResidents in the Deccan area pointed out that two main entry points to the Bhandarkar Road were blocked. “Most of the bylanes connecting Bhandarkar Road with Prabhat Road have been sealed. It was a hassle reaching different bungalows and apartments for milk distribution,” said a local milk supplier. A dairy shop owner in Model Colony said, “Most inlets into the Model Colony from FC Road are closed and so is the case with Gokhale Nagar-Wadarwadi junction.” Senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Deccan police said, “We have left a major street that houses Kamala Nehru Park open from Bhandarkar Road and Prabhat Road. All internal roads are accessible. It is only that one has to take a little detour.” Lanes connecting to Karve Road, Jangli Maharaj Road and Apte road, among others, have also been blocked. An ambulance driver said, “I had a tough time shifting a patient to a hospital in the Shivajinagar area.” Karve Road hurdlesKarve road resident Sameer Joshi was upset with the barricading of bylanes near Dashabhuja Ganapati temple on Karve Road. “I wanted to go to a medicine store near my house. But I had to take a detour.” Chaos in KondhwaKondhwa resident Sameer Pathan said, “People want the Kondhwa-Saswad Road to be opened for emergency vehicles. The road stands blocked due to barricades at Jyoti Chowk. The police have also blocked the road from Lullanagar Chowk to Wanworie.” Hadapsar’s former MLA Mahadev Babar said, “The PMC and the police ought to have consulted elected representatives before putting up the barricades in Kondhwa. People are worried how a person with Covid-19 symptoms would be taken to a Covid care centre at Yeolewadi or Wanowrie. The PMC has not opened such a facility in Kondhwa.” Hadapsar resident Ashish Gaikwad said, “Barricades cannot be a solution to contain the spread of Covid-19. The police need to play a proactive role in ensuring that people do not venture out on roads.” Bhavani Peth sealedPune Cantonment activist Shashidhar Puram said, “The PMC, instead of wasting time and money on barricading places in Bhavani Peth and adjoining areas, should judiciously use funds for offering free ration and medical treatment to infected people.” Additional commissioner of Pune police Sanjay Shinde said, “We are aware about people having faced difficulties in reaching hospitals, workplaces and addressing family needs, but the local police did facilitate their movement. A study of areas was done before barricading the lanes and the roads. Vehicles were diverted to the main arterial roads from the lanes. It is not correct that all approach roads were blocked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/barricades-force-residents-to-take-detours-to-hospitals-pharmacies/articleshow/76968312.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 15, 2020||Aurangabad||DGP office to hold orderly meets via video conferencing||Aurangabad: Moving away from the traditional way of holding in-person orderly room meetings, the office of the director general of police has decided to hold these meets via video conferencing due to the Covid-19 outbreak. All unit commanders have been instructed to ensure video-conferencing facilities on their respective premises for being used by their subordinates as well as other police units of the SRPF, wireless departments that currently do not have such facilities. This is for the first time that the state police headquarters will be holding weekly orderly meetings online to address the grievances, appeals and request. The meeting is the process of lending an ear to the service-related personal issues of policemen. Taking cognizance of the fact that no orderly room meetings have been held since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, applications, requests and appeals have not only piled on, but also several emergency requests and issues faced by policemen have been left unanswered. The latest orders for carrying orderly meetings through video-conferencing have been issued by additional director general of police (establishment) Kulwantkumar Sarangal. “Due to continuing police bandobast for the past few months, we have decided to hold the orderly meetings online,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dgp-office-to-hold-orderly-meets-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/76966290.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 15, 2020||Surat||Varachha (A) crosses 1,000+ mark||SURAT: The number of Covid-19 cases in diamond hub Varachha (A) zone crossed 1,000 on Tuesday with 29 more people found to be infected. Surat city reported 221 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Three out of the eight civic zones now have over 1,000 cases. Three Covid-19 patients succumbed on Tuesday while 173 were discharged from various hospitals. Additional chief secretary Pankaj Kumar, who was on Tuesday appointed incharge of Covid-19 control of Surat, also held meetings with senior officers to review the situation. “Extensive health monitoring will be carried out and health services will be provided at the door step through Dhanvantari Raths and micro planning. Nearly 1,000 Covid-19 beds will soon be added at the New Civil hospital to cater to more patients,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/varachha-a-crosses-1000-mark/articleshow/76967481.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara’s 30 police chowkis to get facelift||VADODARA: They have been around for decades and are considered an important part of policing in the city. But most of the police chowkis located in every area of the city had been in dilapidated condition for years. The police department has now initiated a drive to refurbish these weather-beaten chowkis and add better facilities for the cops posted there. Altogether 30 chowkis in the city are getting a facelift. “A lot of staff is posted in chowkis that are a key element of policing. Most of these chowkis needed some refurbishment and additional facilities so that the staff could work effectively. So we have begun repairing and redoing them,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. Cramped space, lack of proper lighting or good washroom facilities makes it difficult for them to conduct their duty properly at many chowkis. “In some chowkis, the women staff have to use washrooms of colleagues staying in the neighbourhood,” said a police official. According to the police, 11 chowkis didn’t have washrooms until this date. “Now we are building washrooms inside these chowkis and also renovating the existing ones in others. Also, fresh paint and some minor repair work are being done in most of the chowkis,” said Gahlaut. Eight of these chowkis including Shiyapura police chowky in Karelibaug, Pratapnagar police chowky, Mahila police station, Ganjkhana police chowky in Panigate, Lehripura police chowky in Wadi, Pattargate police chowky in Navapura, Market Chowki and Babajipura police chowky in Dandia Bazaar belong to the Gaekwadi era. “The Gaekwad era chowkis are being treated as heritage buildings. We are ensuring that no external changes are done in these chowkis to retain their original look,” Gahlaut said. In 2013, the then police commissioner Satish Sharma had initiated a project to empower the police chowkis by allotting more staff and vehicles for tackling the crime rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-30-police-chowkis-to-get-facelift/articleshow/76966450.cms||Tushar Tere
July 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Unclean hospitals a big put-off for patients in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Clean toilets and basic sanitation are to key deciding on hospitals, say Covid-19 patients who’ve recovered from the virus now. Speaking about their experience in government hospitals, many said that they refrained from using the toilet more than once a day — because of their pathetic state — even as some others said that they never stepped into these hospitals, for the same reason. With the state health department not paying too much attention to this key component of infrastructure, despite repeated complaints from patients, many continue making futile rounds of private hospitals even as 89% to 90% of beds lay vacant in government hospitals. “Going to a government hospital was not even an option for us as we were concerned about the hygiene there,” said Md Aftab, an attendant who made rounds of 15 different hospitals in the city and spent close to Rs 3 lakh on treatment with borrowed money. Patients who did opt for a government facility said at least 20 to 30 patients in wards were allotted just one or two toilets. “I used to keep track of when the washrooms were cleaned and would use it immediately after or hold back the urge as long as I could,” said a 65-year old patient who was put up at the Gandhi Hospital. The condition is the same at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH), King Koti Hospital and Nature Cure Hospital, rue patients. Also many wards do not have western toilets at all — another deterrent for many visiting government hospitals. While the Director of Medical Education (DME) Dr K Ramesh Reddy did not respond to questions, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital Dr Raja Rao said, “The toilets fall short only when there is overcrowding. In general even in private hospitals, ICU wards don’t have many toilets as patients are not supposed to go to the toilet. In general wards, which can house 20 patients, there are 3 to 4 washrooms. It’s the mildly symptomatic patients currently in the hospital, who are complaining ” The shortage of sanitation staff has only made things worse. A video from OGH, which shows water entering wards on Monday night is yet another example. “Patients and attendants were forced to take shelter on the beds,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unclean-hosps-a-big-put-off-for-patients/articleshow/76969006.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Having a positive attitude helps fight Covid: Doctor||MANGALURU: At times when positive is the most dreaded word thanks to the pandemic, it is only positivity that helps a person fight Covid-19. Getting infected by the novel coronavirus is not a death sentence as news channels are making it to be, and getting quarantined institutionally or at home is certainly not the end of the world, despite the grim statistics contained in the daily health bulletins issued by most governments, says Dr Vishwas Pai, ENT surgeon. Having successfully battled the novel coronavirus with his wife and father, Dr Pai, sharing his experience of having overcome the disease, said, “It is only positivity that helps. It is in this state of mind that the body releases endorphins, endogenous opioid neuropeptides and peptide hormones, which not only relieve pain, but also enhance the healing process,” Dr Pai said, adding with the right attitude, the healing process is quicker. Admitting that being a doctor helped build this positivity within, Dr Pai said the lockdown period saw him attend a lot of webinars, and helped him gather information on the virus. “There is nothing to panic about Covid-19. It is not a major disease like other diseases,” he said, adding the only reason why caution is advised is because of its contagious nature. “It is due to this that maintaining social distancing, sanitising oneself and wearing a mask become important,” he said. Advising people with symptoms to get themselves tested, Dr Pai said it can be lethal if diagnosis is delayed and treatment is started late. “In this scenario, we put a large section of the population at risk by being unwitting carriers,” he said. With seasonal flu afflicting people due to the monsoon, Dr Pai said there are a few overlaps in symptoms with the novel coronavirus and other viruses that cause seasonal flu. It is here that self-assessment helps. If one has been home-bound and in isolation, without going out, and have such symptoms, it can be safely said to be common cold. “If a person has been outside and if symptoms persist, it is better to get tested, which is done for free in a government set up and for a prescribed fee in a private hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/having-a-positive-attitude-helps-fight-covid-doctor/articleshow/76966330.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 15, 2020||Pune||Cash, liquor worth over Rs 2.7L stolen from shop||Pune: Alcohol and cash, collectively worth over Rs2.7 lakh, were stolen from a liquor shop in Mundhwa a day before lockdown came into effect on July 14 midnight. The burglars, with their faces covered by masks, uprooted the shutter of the Jaiswal Wine Centre and Company and stole cash and 250 country and foreign liquor bottles. The incident occurred at Ganga Arcadia Housing Society on Old Mundhwa Road between 1.30am and 2.30am on Monday. The shopowner, Sameer Jaiswal (30), registered an FIR with the Chandannagar police in this regard. Assistant inspector Gajanan Jadhav from Chandannagar police said, “The burglars uprooted the shutter of one of the two shops owned by Jaiswal. They picked-up high-end, expensive brands of alcohol and took Rs15,000 from the store’s cash box before fleeing the spot.” The officer said the burglary came to light after Jaiswal reached the shop around 9am on Monday. “The burglars had managed to uproot the shutter as it did not have a central locking system. Our preliminary probe revealed that the suspects meticulously chose the prominent country and foreign liquor bottles for stealing. They did not touch the other liquor bottles. We believe that they would go on to sell the stolen alcohol at a higher price during the lockdown,” Jadhav said. The officer stated that the analysis of the CCTV cameras from around the area revealed that the burglars decamped with the booty in a car. “We have managed to identify the route taken by the burglars up to Yerawada,” the assistant inspector said. The officer said that their probe was on. “We are conducting technical investigations and working on certain clues. We aim to arrest the burglars at the earliest,” Jadhav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cash-liquor-worth-over-rs-2-7l-stolen-from-shop/articleshow/76968328.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Retired teachers go where online classes do not||PUNE: Schools are tapping retired teachers to make the most of their knowledge and experience as online classes try to match and be as productive as personal and face-to-face teaching. Sambhaji Salunke retired from a zilla parishad school in Bhor about two years ago. But he went back to teaching a few weeks ago. He now visits homes of students who lack any device for online learning, and teaches them. Former teachers Dattatraye Kumbhar help children without access to devicesFormer teachers Dattatraye Kumbhar and Bhagwan Patil help children without access to devices Like Salunke, over 50 retired teachers in Pune, Karad and Satara districts are engaging themselves in delivering lessons face-to-face to ensure that every student receives education in the current Covid-19 scenario. “I am retired, but my knowledge of 35 years of teaching in government school remains. I see many students struggling to learn on cellphones in my wadi and surroundings. I contacted the zilla parishad school in Bhor where the students attend school and told the principal that I would take care of a few children near my house and take daily lessons,” he said. Arjun Koli, principal of a school run by Karad Municipal Corporation, said they have nearly 35 retired teachers who volunteered to teach students in their wadis. “Our school alone has about 2,500 students and they come from nearly 15-20km away. In many areas, there are network issues so online classes are a no-show. When the retired teachers volunteered to teach, we were more than happy,” he said. Bhagwan Patil, who retired in 2005, and resides at Tambe village in Karad, said he started teaching his grandchildren and later on others from the nearby areas started joining the sessions. “So, this gave me the vigour and I have been conducting the class daily for nearly two months now,” he said. Another teacher from Malkapur in Karad, Dattatraye Kumbhar, who retired in 2002, said he was teaching maths and science to the children in his area. “The school principal has agreed and we receive the modules from the schools and take daily sessions for nearly 5-8 children,” he said. State education commissioner Vishal Solanki said the schools have been making extra efforts to ensure that no child is left out in the Covid-19 situation. “The teachers and schools are adopting new ways to overcome technological constraints just to reach out to every student in their region,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retired-teachers-go-where-online-classes-do-not/articleshow/76968325.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bareilly||Student ‘kills self’ after failing for 2nd time in Class XII exams||BAREILLY: Depressed over his poor performance in the Class XII CBSE examinations for a second time, a student allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself using his father’s licenced revolver at his residence on Monday night. According to police, the deceased, identified as Ummeed Kumar, a resident of Sikri village under Chhajlet police station of UP’s Moradabad, locked himself in the room for several hours and later climbed up the terrace and shot himself. There was a sound of gunfire at night, following which, his family rushed to his room and found him lying in a pool of blood. Police were then informed. Moradabad SP (rural areas) Vidya Sagar Mishra said, “The deceased, survived by parents and an elder brother, took the extreme step after he came to know that he has failed for a second time in the board exams. His family said that he was disheartened upon learning about his poor performance, but there was no discussion about the matter in the house. Neither did anyone criticise him for the results." Further investigation is on and the body has been sent for a post-mortem, Mishra said, adding that the licenced revolver has been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/student-kills-self-after-failing-for-2nd-time-in-class-xii-exams/articleshow/76965217.cms||Maria Khan
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Atchannaidu’s bail plea hearing deferred till tomorrow||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Tuesday posted the hearing on former minister K Atchannaidu’s bail petition in connection with the ESI scam to July 16. Atchannaidu had moved the high court after his bail plea was rejected by the lower court. Counsel for Atchannaidu said the anti-corruption bureau did not follow the set procedure while arresting the former minister. He pointed out that the investigation agency must get permission from governor before arresting a former minister, but Atchannaidu was arrested without any permission being taken from the governor. On the other hand, the ACB opposed granting bail to the minister as the investigation into the alleged ESI scam is still underway. The counsel for ACB argued that a few persons involved in the case are yet to be arrested and the process of investigation may get affected if an influential person like Atchannaidu is released on bail. Atchannaidu’s counsel argued that the bail cannot be rejected merely on the ground that the investigation agency is yet to make some more arrests. Atchannaidu has the legitimate right to get a bail and he cannot be held in remand because of delay in investigation. He said that allegations levelled against Atchannaidu were not severe enough as the total extent of the scam, according to ACB, is Rs 3 crore and out of which only Rs 30 lakh payment was made when Atchannaidu was the labour minister. The counsel for Atchannaidu quoted a few Supreme Court judgments to justify his arguments. However, as the apex court judgment copies were not uploaded properly for the verification, the high court posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday. The high court also posted the bail petition of C K Ramesh Kumar, former director of ESI, to Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/atchannaidus-bail-plea-hearing-deferred-till-tomorrow/articleshow/76967511.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Agra||Student ‘kills self’ after failing for 2nd time in Class XII exams||BAREILLY: Depressed over his poor performance in the Class XII CBSE examinations for a second time, a student allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself using his father’s licenced revolver at his residence on Monday night. According to police, the deceased, identified as Ummeed Kumar, a resident of Sikri village under Chhajlet police station of UP’s Moradabad, locked himself in the room for several hours and later climbed up the terrace and shot himself. There was a sound of gunfire at night, following which, his family rushed to his room and found him lying in a pool of blood. Police were then informed. Moradabad SP (rural areas) Vidya Sagar Mishra said, “The deceased, survived by parents and an elder brother, took the extreme step after he came to know that he has failed for a second time in the board exams. His family said that he was disheartened upon learning about his poor performance, but there was no discussion about the matter in the house. Neither did anyone criticise him for the results." Further investigation is on and the body has been sent for a post-mortem, Mishra said, adding that the licenced revolver has been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/student-kills-self-after-failing-for-2nd-time-in-class-xii-exams/articleshow/76977019.cms||Maria Khan
July 15, 2020||Varanasi||Designs being altered to accommodate 23 temples||Varanasi: Though an initial survey conducted before the purchase of 296 buildings for Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) project had shown presence of around 40 temples in 5.30 lakh sq-feet area, after the removal of buildings the number of temples has gone up to 63. As these temples are to be conserved in their original shapes, designs of many buildings approved under the project are being altered. To avoid disturbing the shape of a temple unearthed in the west of KVT, an additional 50 sq-metre area is also being acquired. The Sri Kashi Vishwanath Special Areas Development Board (SKVSADB) is going to rope in the department of history, art and culture, Banaras Hindu University to examine historical aspects of these temples which will be conserved by the Archaeological Survey of India. When 23 more temples and idols surfaced after the removal of purchased buildings, the department of religious affairs set up an eight-member committee under divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal on June 30 to review the project afresh. The commissioner on July 8 convened a meeting of the committee members and representatives of HCP Design Planning Management Private Limited which had prepared a detailed project report for the project. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, the commissioner said that “a detailed project report of the KV Dham project was prepared on the basis of an initial survey which had shown presence of 43 temples, library and some buildings of architectural importance. But when the building were removed the number of temples went up to 63. As all these temples and idols are to be conserved, the company which had prepared the DPR was also called.” Officials said that during the committee’s meeting on July 8 it was decided to make changes in the design of proposed 'bhogshala' (community kitchen) instead of reducing the size of the building to avoid disturbing temples unearthed there. The old building of 'Shiv kutchehri' was coming in the middle of a gallery proposed around main Kashi Vishwanath temple building, they said adding to avoid shifting of 'Shiv kutchehri' it was decided to increase length of gallery by acquiring additional 50 sq-metre land. Some changes were also proposed at the building of a pilgrim facility centre, they added. For the conservation of Neelkantheshwar Mahadev temple, the officials said that the decision of reducing around 400 sq-metre area in the proposedMumukshu Bhawan (hospice) building was also considered. The design of utility and toilet blocks and shop areas is also being revised for the same reasons, they added. The commissioner said that the company will table the revised designs and changes proposed in these buildings at the next meeting of the committee. He said that the project cost was Rs 339 crores and there was no possibility of any further cost escalation and the deadline would also not be changed. The work of conserving these 63 temples and idols will be done by ASI, the commissioner said, adding that experts from department of history, art and culture of BHU had given a presentation on their proposed study for knowing historical aspects of all unearthed temples. “We will soon sign a memorandum of understanding with them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/designs-being-altered-to-accommodate-23-temples/articleshow/76966346.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||HC disposes of plea against UP MLA who violated lockdown, asks petitioner to approach state chief secy, DGP||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday disposed of the plea against UP MLA Aman Mani Tripathi which alleged that the legislator and his aides had travelled to and within Uttarakhand in violation of the lockdown. The court asked the petitioner, Umesh Kumar, to approach the state’s chief secretary as well as director general of police (DGP) who would consider and decide on the representation made by Kumar. The division bench of Justice Ravi Malimath and Narayan Singh Dhanik has asked the DGP and the chief secretary to take the decision on the plaint by July 31. While the case was initially heard by the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe, it was transferred to the bench of Justice Malimath and Justice N S Dhanik last Tuesday. “The bench heard our arguments and disposed of the petition while directing officials to consider our representation by the end of the month,” said Gopal Verma, the counsel appearing for the petitioner. The plea alleged that independent MLA Tripathi and his aides had visited Uttarakhand on a special pass granted at the behest of the state’s additional chief secretary Om Prakash. The ACS was made a private respondent in the case as well. B P Nautiyal, the counsel appearing for Om Prakash, however, said the pass was issued by the additional district magistrate (ADM) Dehradun and the petitioner had misled the court. “The petitioner had said that the pass was issued in violation of the lockdown rules in force in March. But rules amended in April allowed movement of vehicles on some conditions,” said Nautiyal, adding that the ACS had merely forwarded the application to the ADM based on the protocol. “The court has therefore not said anything against our client,” Nautiyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-disposes-of-plea-against-up-mla-who-violated-lockdown-asks-petitioner-to-approach-state-chief-secy-dgp/articleshow/76966357.cms||Prashant Jha
July 15, 2020||Pune||Too many local shutdowns can impact biz, says Piaggio CEO||Pune: Coming from Italy, Diego Graffi, the managing director and chief executive officer (CEO) of Piaggio Vehicles Private Limited, has seen many lockdowns due to Covid-19 at home and in India. For him the brief lockdowns, such as the ongoing one in Pune, are confusing. “India has done very well as compared to the US and Brazil, but I do not think in a country like India, we can expect zero cases. I do not understand the objective of such brief lockdowns, even the harsh lockdown in April and May only had a limited impact,” he said. While driving to the company’s Baramati plant, Graffi said he observed that people had scant respect for rules or social distancing, “especially on the outskirts”. Piaggio started plant manufacturing again on May 10 in Baramati after a nearly 50-day pause in production. “In June, we were back at 50% capacity in the two-wheeler segment and 30% in the commercial vehicle segment as compared to June 2019... . However, now this 10-day lockdown has happened and it will impact us in some ways,” Graffi said, adding that the plant in Baramati would continue to function. He said the company had no plans to shed networks as online and touch model can integrate effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/too-many-local-shutdowns-can-impact-biz-says-piaggio-ceo/articleshow/76968360.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Manish Nagar family 1st in Vidarbha to lose 2 to Covid||Nagpur: With the death of an 80-year-old man on Tuesday, a family from Manish Nagar in the city has become first in Vidarbha to lose two members to Covid-19.According to NMC and IGGMCH sources, the 80-year-old died at 12.30am on Tuesday in IGGMCH isolation ward. A patient of hypertension, diabetes, pneumonia and cardiogenic shock, he had tested Covid positive on June 30. He is also the first among 38 deceased in the district to die in isolation ward after being admitted there for 14 days.The 80-year-old’s son (49) was first from the family to be tested Covid positive on June 29. He was admitted to IGGMCH as SARI patient on June 28. He was suffering from thalassaemia, hypertension, diabetes, pneumonia and cardiac disease and died in isolation ward on July 10.After the 49-year-old had tested positive, all his family members — wife (36), son (10) and daughter (3) along with father were tested and were found Covid positive on June 30.The 49-year-old along with wife was running an e-News channel on crime and police-related stories. A caretaker and staffer from his office had also tested positive, taking the number of his close contacts found positive to 10. There is no other case of Covid-19 from Manish Nagar. As per NMC officials, none from the family had travel history.The district has registered 1,000 novel coronavirus patients in the 14 days of July. The number of deaths has gone up to 38 for a mortality rate of 1.51%. Of total 38 deaths, 21 deceased were from city, three from Nagpur Rural and 14 from other districts and states. While 31 of the deceased were male, seven were female. No death was reported in March followed by 2 in April, 9 in May, 14 in June and 13 in the 14 days of July.The district also registered 148 cases on Tuesday making it the second highest in a single day, first highest being 158 on July 9. The total number of cases jumped to 2,505. It also means 1,000 cases were reported in 14 days of July, making it the quickest 1,000 cases. Last 500 cases have come in just 4 days.As the cases continue to rise, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has warned of full lockdown in the city citing people violating Covid-19 guidelines. Rumours are rife that Mundhe may re-impose full lockdown soon, though NMC officials on Tuesday refuted any such decision.Countering Mundhe’s warning, mayor Sandip Joshi had stressed on the need for more awareness among the people about importance of complying with Covid-19 guidelines. Joshi on Tuesday said he would visit markets every day to appeal shopkeepers to make everybody follow Covid guidelines. He would start from Gandhibagh on Wednesday and thereafter other markets till July 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/manish-nagar-family-1st-in-vidarbha-to-lose-2-to-covid/articleshow/76968333.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 15, 2020||Meerut||To get to the bottom of ITI student’s murder, cops in Meerut go deep into a borewell||Meerut: For the third day running, earthmovers toiled up and down the mounds they had dug up in a bid to get deeper into a borewell on the outskirts of Meerut, where an ITI student’s body is believed to have been dumped, into several pieces. On Tuesday, local police sought the help of the irrigation department fearing that the diggers may hit sludge after a certain point.A student of Industrial Training Institute (ITI), 20-year-old Rupak went missing on June 25. He had gone out to attend a party with friends. When he didn’t return, the family members approached police and a case was filed.During their initial probe, local police zeroed in on four friends. And during questioning, they broke down and told that Rupak was shot dead after a fight with one of them, a police officer said. It all started after Rupak took offence to a comment made about his sister, said Akhilesh Narayan Singh, superintendent of police (SP) of Meerut.The main accused in the case, Vikas, allegedly dismembered the body with a little help from his friends. “They are believed to have shot him, after which they buried his body in a field near a brick kiln. Worried they might be caught, they exhumed the body and dumped it into the nearby borewell in Kinoni village,” Pankaj Singh, circle officer (CO) of Daurala, said.SP Singh had a doubt. “The suspects could also be misleading. Initially, they said that the body was buried in a field. Then they said it had been cut into pieces and dumped inside a borewell,” he said.But, left with no other choice, local police arranged JCBs and local workers and started the digging operation on Saturday. They also lowered a camera and “something” about 45-feet below the earth. The borewell is over 200-feet deep. On Tuesday, police sought the help of irrigation department workers, who are said to be good at digging and drawing water out at the same time.“We have written a letter to the irrigation department. After a certain point, water has started seeping out. It is making digging difficult for JCBs and labourers. Irrigation department can help us in digging the tunnel and drawing water through pumps simultaneously with caution so that the evidence remains intact,” the SP said.Police also fear that an unplanned digging might push the evidence – the body parts and weapon--deeper in the ground, making it impossible to retrieve.All the four youths remained in police custody on Tuesday. In the absence of any proof, they are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/to-get-to-the-bottom-of-iti-students-murder-cops-in-meerut-go-deep-into-a-borewell/articleshow/76966385.cms||Piyush Rai
July 15, 2020||Meerut||Criminal held in Baghpat||Meerut: A criminal, who was involved in loot incidents, was arrested in an encounter on Tuesday. The police also seized country-made weapons from his possession and have set up an inquiry in the matter.Baghpat additional superintendent of police, Anit Kumar, said, “A police encounter was done in Baghpat’s Khekda on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. During a routine checking going on in Baghpat, two bike-borne people were stopped. They started firing on the police. In cross firing, while one criminal got injured, another fled into the jungle.”A case has been filed against Imtiaz, a resident of Rajapur Kala village here. Police have seized one pistol, two cartridges and a bike from his possession||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/criminal-held-in-baghpat/articleshow/76966378.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 15, 2020||Pune||No violation of norms on Day 1 of curbs||Pune: The civic bodies of Pune and Pimpri Chichward said no violation of the 10-day total lockdown was registered on Tuesday, the first day of the curbs. The anti-encroachment departments of the two civic bodies have formed squads and deployed nearly 300 people to monitor people’s movement during the lockdown period. “Most of the establishments, which have been told to shut, followed the instructions. The civic administration has deployed its staffers to keep an eye on the ground situation,” said Madhav Jagtap, head of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s anti encroachment department. Makarand Nikam, joint city engineer of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and who is looking after the anti-encroachment action, said its squads would remain vigilant during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-violation-of-norms-on-day-1-of-curbs/articleshow/76968350.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 15, 2020||Meerut||Irrigation dept official murdered, car looted, later found abandoned||Meerut: A 25-year-old youth employed with the irrigation department in Meerut’s Mawana was killed on Tuesday morning. His body with a bullet injury was found near Kankerkheda. According to police, victim Vijay, a resident of Jewri village, was on his way to the office when his cousin Pankaj asked for a lift. Later, the body of Vijay was spotted by passersby who alerted police. The missing car was later found abandoned at a desolate spot in Daurala area after an alert was sounded for a possible carjacking incident. According to police, the preliminary investigations revealed that Pankaj is the primary suspect and the effort to arrest him is on. According to SSP Ajay Sahani, the body has been sent for postmortem and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/irrigation-dept-official-murdered-car-looted-later-found-abandoned/articleshow/76966379.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Ex-CM apologises for 2016 ‘mistake’||Haridwar: Former chief minister Harish Rawat on Tuesday met the seers of Bada Udasin Akhara and explained the circumstances under which the December 2016 GO declaring the Har-ki-Pauri Ganga stream as an escape channel was issued by his government. He also apologised to the “seers and all other people whose sentiments were hurt due to the GO”. He admitted that it was used inevitably to save 300 houses from demolition as per a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order. He also requested the present BJP government to quash the GO. “After all, it is not a Brahmalekh (writ of destiny) which cannot be altered. Governments change decisions taken by their previous governments,” he added. He further said that he has written a letter to the effect to the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad and the Ganga Sabha. “If the present government fails to rectify the mistake, it will be done by a Congress government in 2022,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-cm-apologises-for-2016-mistake/articleshow/76966387.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Govt releases Rs 9.24 crore for solid waste management projects||Dehradun: The state government on Tuesday released Rs 9.24 crore for solid waste management programmes in different parts of Uttarakhand. The amount would be used by the urban local bodies for establishing or further improving the trenching grounds in the state, said officials. The circular released by finance secretary Amit Singh Negi mentions that Rs 79 lakh has been released for Devprayag, 1.84 crore for Kirtinagar, Rs 75 lakh for Joshimath, Rs 49.59 lakh for Kapkot, 1.21 crore for Badkot, Rs 60 lakh for Agastyamuni, 74.29 lakh for Pokhari, Rs 75 lakh for Chamoli, and Rs 2.04 crore for Almora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-releases-rs-9-24-crore-for-solid-waste-management-projects/articleshow/76966374.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 15, 2020||Lucknow||Development takes a backseat as low income, high spend hit LU’s turnaround plans||LUCKNOW: Cash crunch is the biggest hurdle in way of turnaround plans for Lucknow University as the revenue currently earned by the institution is not enough to meet the salary expenditure of teachers. As a result, teaching posts are lying vacant for years and development work has taken a backseat. Such a situation prevails when 50% marks in the National Assessment Accreditation Council (NAAC) assessment is given for faculty strength and its performance, while the remaining are linked indirectly to teachers. Even the Governor and chancellor of state universities Anandiben Patel raised the issue in a meeting recently to draw the attention of state government officials that only 40-50% permanent faculties are there in most state universities, resulting in dependency on ad hoc teachers. She said in such a situation, even if state universities apply for NAAC assessment, they won’t get good grades. According to LU’s 2020-21 budget, its total revenue is Rs 137 crore while the expenditure is Rs 250 crore, which includes Rs 190 crore on teachers’ salary. Currently, there are 345 teachers and if LU fills the remaining 170 vacant posts, salary expenditure will swell further by Rs 100 crore. Major sources of funds for LU include grant from state government (Rs 44 crore), fee of self-finance courses (Rs 50 crore) and examination fee from students of 170 associated colleges (Rs 43 crore). LU has been reeling under financial crisis for over two decades after the government froze its grants in 1998 at Rs 16 crore under its policy to make all universities self-sufficient. Though the grant was gradually increased to Rs 44 crore by 2009, it is still not sufficient to meet the requirements of quality education as expenses have increased manifold. In a decade, the university has started new self-financed courses, giving out more affiliations – from 19 in 2006 to 176 in 2020. LU also holds state-level entrance exams assigned to it by the government. Sale of application forms brings additional revenue and the amount saved after conducting examinations is used by the university to meet its expenditures. It also relies on encashment of fixed deposits in banks, overdrafts and loans, officers said. A former finance officer of the university said, “LU conducted entrance tests for MBBS for several years. It is also holding state entrance examinations for admissions to BEd courses being run by universities and colleges across the state.” “Some departments which excel in academics or sports get project specific grants from various government and private institutions and various schemes, which are also used for development activities. Some financial help also comes from alumni in the form of infrastructure creation,” he said. LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastava said, “We have been demanding special status for the university like ‘heritage university’, as it is now 100 years old, or ‘central university’ which can improve the financial health of the institution.” Salary expenditure will increase further in coming year due to implementation of pay commission recommendations. Vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “New appointments and development can be deferred but not salaries. If the state government takes responsibility for salary expenses, we can manage the rest through new sources of revenue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/devpt-takes-a-backseat-as-low-income-high-spend-hit-lus-turnaround-plans/articleshow/76969024.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Operation Muskaan: AP cops rescue 119 kids engaged in child labour||VIJAYAWADA: The police on Tuesday rescued 119 children who were made to work as child labourers in Krishna district as part of ‘Operation Muskaan’. ‘Operation Muskaan’ is a pet project of the Andhra Pradesh police with the aim to eliminate child labour. On Tuesday, the police conducted drives at various urban areas including Bandar, Gudivada, Nuzvid, Nandigama and Avanigadda. Of the 119 children rescued, 18 are girls and most are boys. Police said most of the children rescued were found to be working in hotels, bakeries and mechanic shops in Gudivada and Nuzvid. Some were also involved in begging. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh director general of police (DGP), Gautam Sawang launched rescue vehicles of Tuesday for Vijayawada and Guntur as part of the week-long Operation Muskaan campaign from July 14 to 20. The ceremony took place at the state police headquarters. Speaking to the media, DGP Sawang said that the crime investigation department (CID) will trace child labourers and orphans without a home and get them tested for Covid-19. “Those who test positive will be admitted to a hospital while others will be handed over to their parents and guardians. Children without parents will be enrolled at childcare institutions,” the DGP said. So far, a total of 8,200 children have been rescued in the five phases of Operation Muskaan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/op-muskaan-ap-cops-rescue-119-kids-engaged-in-child-labour/articleshow/76967562.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||IMA to help rural health dept in treating patients||Nashik: The rural health department of the Nashik zilla parishad has sought help from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) for treating mild and moderate symptomatic patients at the taluka level. “Otherwise termed as first referral unit (FRU) for primary health centres (PHC), these Covid Care Centres and Dedicated Covid Health Centres are treating patients with infection that spreads among others and depletion of oxygen in blood which is serious in nature. Such patients are generally referred to district level health centres,” district health officer Dr. Kapil Aher said. The IMA has allotted a doctor for each taluka. “The IMA has allotted a physician for every taluka. The medical officers from the areas will call the allotted physician between 11 am and 12 noon every day. During this time, the respective officers will discuss investigations and reports of patients through video calls or a phone call and seek advice on the same.” The physicians will study cases, symptoms, reports and help doctors in patient management system. “This will cut down the rate of reference of patients from local level to district headquarters for treating patients who face problem with oxygen saturation in blood,” Aher said. The DHO further said that the office had organised a video conference call of all local medical practitioners in Niphad and Yeola talukas with additional civil surgeon Dr. Hitesh Mahale from Malegaon. During the call, the officer addressed issues pertaining to treatment and care to be taken while dealing with Covid as well as non-Covid patients. “As many as 60 practitioners from Niphad taluka and 45 from Yeola participated in the program. This will help us in fighting non-Covid issues as well,” the DHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ima-to-help-rural-health-dept-in-treating-patients/articleshow/76967570.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Wanted: Sponsors for Covid-19 centres in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing, the government has decided to set up 50,000 Covid-19 first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) across the state by securing sponsorships. The government decision comes at a time when only 16.2% of the beds in the existing CFLTCs are occupied, as per the figures of the state disaster management authority, till June 29. The government’s latest order also raises questions on its earlier claims that there are sufficient treatment facilities in the state and also whether such a facility can be set up in such a short time span by finding sponsors. The government has asked all district collectors to set up CFLTCs with a minimum of 100 beds in every panchayat and with a minimum of 50 beds in each urban ward, before July 23. The idea is that as soon as an area has been declared as a containment zone, the CFLTCs can admit the infected people in the same area itself. Since the district collectors are busy with their routine works, the government has assigned 14 young IAS officers for primarily undertaking the task. “The district collectors may hire, rent, mobilise, through sponsorship, bed, bedsheets, pillow, infrastructure and other essential items based on necessity,” the order said. The order further says that only if sufficient materials are not received through sponsorships, funds from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) should be used. The government has asked these officers, many of them who are much senior to district collectors to ‘assist’ the incumbents in their tasks. However, the idea come under criticism from the officers themselves. “How are the officers expected to go and ask for sponsorships, especially during the times of economic stress? Moreover, the officers deputed for the districts have nothing to do them and how can they be asked to go and find sponsorships to set up such facilities,” a senior officer said. Each CFTLC would require the services of doctors, nurses, ambulances, paramedical staff and equipment. “Instead of arranging one centre per panchayat, the ideal way would be to arrange one in each taluk, so as to ensure optimal utilization of resources. Moreover, setting up one centre per panchayat would result in more than the required number of such facilities coming up in several places,” another official said. The order is silent on how the doctors and nurses are to be recruited and whether their salaries would also be met through sponsorship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/wanted-sponsors-for-covid-centres/articleshow/76967566.cms||K P Sai Kiran
July 15, 2020||India||Political quarantine with Covid front as Haryana resort turns nucleus of Rajasthan Cong drama||GURGAON: In the political operation to quarantine rebel Congress MLAs from Rajasthan, Covid has become a cover story. A picturesque resort on a rocky sweep of the Aravalis south of Gurgaon became a ‘Covid quarantine centre’ earlier this week, soon after the 20 Rajasthan legislators loyal to deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot shifted based there from the ITC Grand Bharat 8km away. But that was just to keep the curious swarm of visitors, as well as journalists looking for an inside scoop on the Congress potboiler, away. A Covid notice at the reception desk and a decoy ambulance that remained parked outside Best Western Country Club Resort on Tauru Road kept up appearances as the MLAs and Pilot himself remained huddled in long conferences, both on Monday and Tuesday. “We were asked by the VIP guests to put a quarantine centre notice at the reception and park an ambulance outside so that others stay away and it remains a private affair for the politicians. Neither is the resort a quarantine centre nor there is any Covid case here,” said a member of the resort management, adding the property was entirely under the Congress group’s control. The decision to shift the MLAs to the resort was taken because of the media frenzy around the ITC Grand Bharat, sources said. A party source said Pilot himself went to great lengths to stay under the radar. On Monday afternoon, Pilot arrived at the resort from the ITC luxury hotel, where seven Congress MLAs and Pilot are still believed to have rooms, riding pillion on a motorcycle, the source said. A Congress worker borrowed a resort staffer’s bike and brought Pilot there. Pilot had covered his face with a mask and wore a helmet. He used the staff entry and exit to remain inconspicuous, the source said. At Monday’s meeting, where Indraj Gurjar and GR Khatana were among the MLAs present, the decision not to attend the Congress Legislature Party meeting was taken. Pilot visited the resort again on Tuesday and had a long meeting that last from around 2.30pm to 6pm, a source said. The Congress camp has booked around 45 rooms at the Best Western Country Club Resort, a management member said. The rooms are booked in the name of two persons, but the names of the MLAs are not mentioned in the booking form. A senior BJP leader from Haryana, meanwhile, said the party was keeping a close watch on the situation, and will act as per the directions from central leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/political-quarantine-with-covid-front-as-haryana-resort-turns-nucleus-of-rajasthan-cong-drama/articleshow/76969681.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
July 15, 2020||Nashik||1 killed as pick-up rams into motorcycle||TextEditorNashik: A man was killed and another injured when a pick-up truck rammed into a motorcycle near Manur village, in the Jail Road area of Nashik Road. The accident occurred at 2.30 pm on Sunday, said the Adgaon police, with whom the case has been registered. According to the police, complainant Prabhakar Bahirat, a 60-year-old resident of Naigaon in Sinnar taluka, and his friend Sampath Chauhanke, 49, where going towards Jail Road on their bike when the pick-up coming from the opposite direction rammed into them. The complainant and his friend were both thrown on the road and were seriously injured. Sampat Chauhanke died on the spot, the police said, adding that the injured man was rushed to the hospital where he is being treated. The driver of the pick-up truck fled the scene. A case has been registered under section 304 A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) against the driver. Police are tracking his whereabouts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1-killed-as-pick-up-rams-into-motorcycle/articleshow/76967585.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Varanasi||Lockdown imposed in Pt DDU Nagar till July 23||Varanasi: After Ballia and Mau, the Chandauli administration has also decided to enforce complete lockdown in its biggest township of Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Nagar (Mughalsarai) from Tuesday till July 23 in view of the possibility of sharp rise in Covid-19 cases here. With the detection of 20 new cases, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Chadauli district crossed the mark of 300 on Monday night. Within a few minutes of the arrival of this report, district magistrate Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal ordered for extending the prohibitory orders under section 144 in the entire district and also clamped lockdown for a period of 10 days from Tuesday morning. In his order Chahal clearly mentioned that due to casual approach of people in the densely populated DDU Nagar, which is one of the the biggest township in the district housing major markets, the possibility of rapid spread of the virus is high there following he ordered to enforce lockdown in the town. Two wards of Chandauli township were also isolated. After the massive rise in Covid-19 figures, DM Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi had ordered for 10-day lockdown in Ballia city on July 2 which was later extended till July 23. After two days, DM Mau Gyan Prakash Tripathi also ordered for lockdown in Mau main city areas for 10 days following detection of 65 cases in urban localities within a week. Among the newly infected in Chandauli, three had returned from Oman, Chennai and Lucknow while other 17 are local natives including a employee of Trauma Centre of BHU in Varanasi, four railway employees, a fair price shop owner, a lawyer, two health department staff and a jeweller. Four persons have died while 57 have been discharged so far and 142 patients are under treatment in Chandauli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lockdown-imposed-in-pt-ddu-nagar-till-july-23/articleshow/76966403.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nashik||Civic chief makes surprise visit to Zakir Hospital’s Covid ward||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game recently paid a surprise visit to the Covid wards of Zakir Hussain hospital in the city and interacted with patients and enquired about their health status as well as the services provided to them. Game’s visit comes after the administration received several complaints about the ill-treatment of Covid patients by its health department. Game donned a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit as he stepped into the hospital’s Covid ward. During his visit, he ensured that he spoke to each individual and enquired about their health as well as the services provided to them, including timely doctor visits, medicines and meals. In addition, the municipal commissioner also interacted with the doctors and medical staff at the hospital. Medical officer Nitin Rawte informed Game about the treatment and other facilities provided to Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-makes-surprise-visit-to-zakir-hospitals-covid-ward/articleshow/76967578.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||78 fresh cases surface, Covid-19 toll rises to 50||Dehradun: The state's Covid-19 tally shot up to 3,686 cases after 78 new infected patients were found on Tuesday. Among the new cases, the maximum of 34 were reported from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 22 cases from Haridwar, 12 from Dehradun, five from Tehri, three from Pauri, and two from Uttarkashi. Udham Singh Nagar has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the past one week in the state and it also has the most number of active cases — 254 — at present. Also, Tehri Garhwal district, which had become Covid-19 free last week, now has 16 active cases. Similarly, Rudraprayag district, also declared Covid-19 free last week, now has one active case under treatment. Meanwhile, death of a Covid-19 positive patient was reported from Haldwani on the day, taking the toll of the virus in Uttarakhand to 50. Earlier on Monday, a 37-year-old Covid-19 positive woman had died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College of Nainital. “The 37-year-old patient died on July 13. As per death summary, the cause of death is reported to be chronic kidney disease/shock/infective endocarditis/systemic hypertension/ bilateral pneumonitis/septicemia/Covid-19 positive,” informed Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/78-fresh-cases-surface-covid-19-toll-rises-to-50/articleshow/76966429.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||New V-C appointed at Uttarakhand Ayurved University||Haridwar: Governor Baby Rani Maurya on Tuesday appointed Sunil Kumar Joshi as the vice-chancellor of Uttarakhand Ayurved University. Joshi, who is now professor and head of surgery (shalya chikitsa) at the Rishikul State Ayurvedic College in Haridwar, will hold office for three years from the date of joining or till the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier, the order announcing his appointment said. Joshi had also served as the acting VC of the university for six months from September last year to March this year. A well-known Ayurveda scholar, he has specialised in the field of 'marm chikitsa'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-v-c-appointed-at-uttarakhand-ayurved-university/articleshow/76965283.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Car crushes sanitation worker to death in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: A sanitation worker died on the spot while another person suffered grievous injuries after an overspeeding car lost control and rammed the duo sitting on the roadside near Ganguru village in Krishna district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Kale Chinna (53), employed at Poranki village. According to Penamaluru police, the incident happened in the morning when Chinna was taking a break from work along with his friend Vemuri Prasad (50). While they sat by the road, a speeding a car lost control and rammed both the men killing Chinna on the spot who suffered multiple fractures. Locals rushed Prasad to Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH) where his condition is said to be critical. Upon information, cops reached the spot and took the car driver into custody. Cops said that they were heading from Penamaluru to Ganguru village when the incident happened. Meanwhile, Chinna’s body was sent for post-mortem. A case under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) and 337 (causing hurt due to negligence) was registered against the driver at Penamaluru police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/car-crushes-sanitation-worker-to-death/articleshow/76967576.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 spreading across Vidarbha, 339 cases in a day||Nagpur: With 339 cases reported on Tuesday from all parts of Vidarbha, total Covid-19 cases in the region reached 7,636 on July 14. While highest 148 of these cases came from Nagpur, Buldhana, at 64, recorded its highest single day spike. Despite several measures to curb case fatalities, Akola reported two deaths. A 65-year-old woman from Patur and a 75-year-old man from Murtizapur died during treatment, while an 80-year-old patient died in Nagpur taking total Covid-19 death toll of region to 218. The same day 131 patients were discharged, taking total recovery count beyond 5,000-mark. Recovery rate for the region remained 65.50%, which is better than state’s average of 59.77% and national average of 63%. On Tuesday, Nagpur (148), Buldhana (64), Gadchiroli (43), Washim (22), Amravati (21), Yavatmal (14), Akola (9), Wardha (7), Chandrapur (6), and Bhandara (5) recorded cases. This is the second time this month that more than 300 cases were reported. The earlier highest single day figure was 363 on July 9. Of the 339 cases, more than 100 are from remote rural areas. Akola: Out of 267 samples tested, nine tested positive taking total Covid-19 cases to 1,910. A 65-year-old woman from Patur died during treatment. A 75-year-old man from Murtizapur tehsil also tested positive after dying on July 12. Akola’s death toll is 97 now, nearly 45% of Vidarbha’s death toll. Case fatality rate in Akola is 5.07%, way higher than national average of 2.60%. However, with 45 recoveries, 1,593 patients have been discharged, a 83.40% recovery rate. Amravati: Posting a spike of 21 cases, Amravati reached 1,000 Covid-19 cases in 102 days since April 4, and became third Vidarbha district after Nagpur and Akola in this. The 1000th case was a deceased — a 64-year-old man from Kanwar Nagar. Amravati has 35 Covid deaths so far. Seven were discharged to take the count of recovered patients to 648. Buldhana: 64 tested positive on Tuesday, the highest single day spike in this district. Total cases reached 556. Most patients are from remote villages in Buldhana district. At least 10 are above 70 years and two are above 80. With four patients discharged, total 272 patients have recovered. Death toll is 17, with 267 under treatment. Washim: Spike continued for fourth day with 22 new cases. Total 14 are from Mangrulpir tehsil, where lockdown has been announced from July 15. Total 155 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: The district crossed 200 mark with 6 new patients, and the second hundred came in just 12 days, for total of 204 now. More than 50% patients (104) have been discharged, while remaining 100 are being treated. There has been no death in Chandrapur so far. Yavatmal: District recorded 14 cases on Tuesday, 8 tested in the lab and 6 by rapid antigen test. Pusad saw 5 cases, Umarkhed (2), Ghatanji (1), city (2), Digras (2) and Darwha (2. The total has risen to 490, with 43 test reports awaited. Gondia: No new Covid case was reported, while one patient was discharged. Reports of 134 samples are pending. There are 21 active containment zones in the district. Total cases in Gondia are 218, including 167 recoveries and 3 deaths. Gadchiroli: A major spike of 43 cases was reported. After CRPF jawans, 42 SRPF jawans tested positive on Tuesday. This took cases in Gadchiroli to 237 including 8 from other districts/states. Total 71 have recovered. Wardha: 7 Covid cases were recorded on July 14, 5 from Ramdev ward, Arvi, and one each from Washim and Yavatmal. Total cases are now 75. Sub-divisional officer of Arvi Harish Dharmik announced a two-day curfew in Arvi town. Three days curfew is over in Wardha town on Tuesday. Now, there are 33 active patients in district. Bhandara: Five new cases reported in Bhandara district against over 100 samples tested. Results of 214 samples are awaited. Total cases in district are 179, including 87 recoveries, 2 deaths and 90 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-spreading-across-vidarbha-339-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76968366.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Doon DM holds meet, directs to plant 2.7L saplings in Doon during Harela||Dehradun: The Dehradun district administration has kept a target of planting 2.75 lakh saplings during the Harela festival which will be celebrated on Thursday (July 16). Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava held a meeting with SDMs and other officials on Tuesday asking them to achieve the target of planting 2.75 lakh saplings and also attempt to go beyond the target. The officials have been asked to make sure that the preparations for the plantation drives are completed by Wednesday. On the day, DM Srivastava also inspected the Lachhiwala forest area which is being developed as a nature water park in Doiwala area. He was accompanied by the officials of the forest department. Once ready, the park will be equipped with entertainment facilities for visitors. “The Lachhiwala forest area will be developed as a nature-cum-city park. Apart from Tulsi Vatika, Ganga Vatika will also be developed under the Namami Gange scheme. In addition, cycling tracks and tracking routes for children will also be developed. The facility will also give a boost to tourism activities,” said DM Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dm-holds-meet-directs-to-plant-2-7l-saplings-in-doon-during-harela/articleshow/76966415.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kozhikode||53 test positive for Covid-19 in Thuneri panchayat||KOZHIKODE: In an indication of the worsening Covid-19 situation in the district, 53 persons in a panchayat tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. Antibody tests were conducted at Thuneri panchayat after two persons, who attended a burial function, tested positive for Covid-19. It is suspected that the others contracted the infection from them. The persons who tested positive for the virus on Tuesday include Thooneri panchayat president and a staff at the panchayat office. “The office has been closed for one week after it was known that the president and the staff have tested positive. It will be opened only after disinfection,” said Shaji Joseph, deputy director of panchayats. Four cases have been reported in the neighbouring Nadapuram panchayat also. More samples have been collected these panchayats for antibody tests. Meanwhile, an urgent meeting of the officials decided to strictly implement measures to prevent the virus spread in the wake of reports that people are apathetic to regulations. Briefing reporters after the meeting, district collector Sambhasiva Rao said violation of restrictions cannot be tolerated. “The control room which will work for 24-hours will monitor those who are coming from outside. Under no condition more than 50 persons will be allowed for marriage function. All functions should follow Covid-19 protocol,” he said. The collector said people from other districts are flocking tourist spots. Restrictions will be imposed, he said, adding that more than 10 persons will not be allowed in political gatherings. The collector gave directions to shops and other establishments to keep a register of visitors. Those who are leaving the district should inform members of the rapid response team, he added. At the same time, a total of 58 persons tested positive for the disease in Malappuram. As many as 21 among them were found to be infected at the rapid test conducted in the Ponnani taluk. Twelve people tested positive in Kannur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/53-test-positive-for-virusin-thuneri-panchayat/articleshow/76967586.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Madurai||OPS’ son scripts a cow and bull story||Call it affection or love, a bull and a cow which grew up together demonstrated how inseparable they were when the cow was sold four days ago. A video showing the bull trying its best to stop the vehicle in which the cow was being taken away has been going viral on social media. Appreciating the intensity of their bond, O P Jayapradeep, son of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, bought the cow and reunited her with the bull on Tuesday. Muniyandi Raja, who runs a tea shop at Palamedu, sold his cow for about Rs 20,000 as he needed money to compensate the loss of his livelihood due to the lockdown. He had sold it to a farmer from Sattur in Virudhunagar a few days ago. The video shows the bull coming around the vehicle which was about to carry the cow away and showing its affection and trying to prevent it from going. When the driver drove off the vehicle finally, it gave a chase for about one km before coming to a stop. The video was telecast on a private news channel. On coming to know about this, O P Jayapradeep, contacted the buyer, bought the cow from him and reunited it with the bull. Sholavandan MLA K Manickam said it was at the insistence of Panneerselvam that Jayapradeep took steps to reunite the cow to the bull. Since the bull belongs to Manjamalai Swami temple, the cow was also handed over to the temple committee, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ops-son-scripts-a-cow-and-bull-story/articleshow/76969033.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fake celebrity profile, follower, views racket exposed by police||MUMBAI: City crime branch unearthed a major software racket, used to make 176 fake profiles, five lakh followers, many comments and views of celebrities on social media, to influence business. The racket came to light after singer Bhoomi Trivedi approached Mumbai police commissioner complaining that somebody had made a fake Instagram profile of her and was misusing it. Investigations were handed over to crime intelligence unit (CIU), which arrested Abhishek Dawde (21), a Kurla resident. Abhishek, who was booked for cheating and forgery, and under Information Technology Act, is believed to have played a minor role in the international racket. This is the first time in India that fake profiles and followers have been exposed by police. Abhishek was said to be working for followerskart.com, one of 100 such portals involved in the scam in India. CIU officials have identified 54 such Indian portals. The accused allegedly created profiles on Instagram, TikTok and Facebook to fraudulently project them as influencers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fake-celebrity-profile-follower-views-racket-exposed-by-police/articleshow/76968274.cms||Ahmed Ali
July 15, 2020||Varanasi||Arms licences of Mukhtar’s henchmen suspended||Varanasi: Five arms licences of the relatives and henchmen of jailed mafia don-MLA Mukhtar Ansari were suspended and the arms deposited in police stations of Ghazipur district. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “During verification of the arms licences, arms and ammunition issued to the relatives and henchmen of Mukhtar, the Ghazipur cops had detected many irregularities after which they sent their report against five of them to district magistrate between July 7 and 9.” Taking note of it, the DM Ghazipur ordered suspension of the arms licences of Uday Narain Yadav, Reyaz Ansari, Ramanuj Singh Yadav, Afzal Ali Khan and Valiullah Khan, all from Mohammadabad area. The ADG said that so far 33 arms licences of the people associated with Mukhtar gang have been suspended and deposited in police stations. The officials have tightened the noose on the relatives and henchmen of Mukhtar, who is currently lodged in Ropar jail in Punjab, for the past one month in Ghazipur district where illegally captured land and other properties of Rs 39.83 crores have been freed from the possession of the don’s close associates in a bid to destroy his economic empire. Not only in Ghazipur, but large scale action to break the monopoly of Mukhtar’s henchmen in fish trade in east UP districts including Mau, Varanasi and Jaunpur was taken especially after May end. Mau cops also cracked down on Mukhtar-supported racket involved in extorting money in the name of taxi stands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/arms-licences-of-mukhtars-henchmen-suspended/articleshow/76966424.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 15, 2020||Bhopal||97 fresh cases take Bhopal corona count to 3775||BHOPAL: With 97 fresh infections, the Covid tally in the state capital went up to 3,775. As per reports, the ninetieth person with Covid-19 was diagnosed in the state secretariat. Meanwhile, two doctors from Gandhi Medical College have been tested positive. In the last week, five people from GMC have been diagnosed with the infection. Earlier in April, when the pandemic took hold, a number of staff and doctors of the medical college were infected. The current spurt has made the administration change the duty roster for some staff. Unlike before, hotel or out of campus accommodations for junior staff is not available. During the lockdown, many medics were given such accommodations. Other emergency care providers were also diagnosed with the infection on Tuesday. It includes a number of policemen posted in Ashoka Garden police station. A staffer in PHQ also tested positive. Four people from 1100-quarters and three from Bagsewania area were diagnosed with the infection. Two positive cases were reported from Jawahar Chowk and one from Nehru Nagar. Two more people linked to a hotel were quarantined. The hotel has reported 13 Covid-19 infection in the past week. Others who tested positive are from Jehangirabad, Aishbag, Budhwara, Kotwali and Lakherapura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/97-fresh-cases-take-city-corona-count-to-3775/articleshow/76968393.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||At least a week more for sero survey result, Delhi HC told||NEW DELHI: The preliminary results for the serology survey for the capital will take “minimum one more week”, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) informed the Delhi high court on Wednesday. In an affidavit, NCDC said the analysis “needed to be done with utmost care and the interpretation of the results required scientific expert review before finalisation,” adding that it was a “time consuming exercise” given the volume of samples collected. NCDC’s stand came in after a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, unhappy over the lack of information about the status of the survey, directed it on Tuesday to file the serology surveillance report on the results and analysis of antibody testing carried out in the capital. NCDC told the court that the “exercise had to be done methodically” and that “imposing timelines for declaration of result would lead to a compromise in the quality of analysis and could have a detrimental impact on the evidence-based results so expected to be obtained through such sero survey studies.” Giving details, the affidavit informed the high court that samples from 11 districts were collected “in record time (from June 27 to July 10)” and had a total of 12 parameters to be studied for 21,387 samples. It argued that NCDC had a limited role to play in the PIL being heard by the high court since the present petition “broadly pertains to augmenting testing for detecting Covid-19 infection, and to make it more accessible to the general public” while pointing out that “sero studies, which detect antibodies, serves a completely different and distinct purpose than the conventional RT-PCR and other antigen-based tests.” NCDC apprised the high that the antibody detection tests utilised during sero survey studies are done not to guide the treatment “but to primarily assess the prevalence of infection at the community level and is used for evidence-based public health response.” It added that the central government was giving the study “utmost priority” and hence, there was no reason to delay making the study findings public “except the time needed for undertaking such tasks.” “Once preliminary findings are obtained, the same will be shared with all stakeholders and will also be made available in the public domain,” it said. The high court will take up the affidavit on Thursday when it has also directed the NCDC director to remain present during the virtual hearing. The high court’s summons were issued after Delhi government counsel Satyakam informed it that when he called up the NCDC director on July 12 for the results, he was asked not to call the official and told that the concerned department should write to NCDC. The court had then ticked off the Centre for such “red-tapism” and issued the directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-least-a-week-more-for-sero-survey-result-hc-told/articleshow/76988252.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 15, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: KDMC to get lab for 3,000 tests a day, results in 12 hours||KALYAN: Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will get its own testing laboratory at Gauripada with a capacity for 3,000 tests a day. Lok Sabha MP Dr Shrikant Shinde and mayor Vinita Rane on Tuesday visited the laboratory to inspect work area in Kalyan. Dr Shinde said the lab was set up by KDMC on PPP basis with Krishna Diagnostic Laboratory at a civic reserved plot and it is expected to operate after a nod from National Accreditation Board for Testing Calibration Laboratories (NABL) in a week. It will benefit neighbouring civic bodies in Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Badlapur. KDMC commissioner Dr Vijay Suryawanshi said results will come in 12 hours and treatment can start soon. He said, “Our health teams collect swab samples of suspects, which they send to Mumbai laboratories, which take take up to three days to give results.” KDMC sources said its services will be free for patients at civic-run Covid hospitals, while for others, it will be as per government rates. The twin cities on Tuesday reported 336 patients and nine deaths, taking the total to 13,576, including 207 deaths. Also, 527 patients were discharged, taking the total to 6,936. Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kdmc-to-get-lab-for-3k-tests-a-day-results-in-12-hours/articleshow/76968267.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling: Minister KT Jaleel phoned Swapna Suresh eight times||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The gold smuggling case involving diplomatic channels seemed to involve more higher-ups, following information that higher education minister K T Jaleel and IAS officer M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister, figured among frequent callers in the mobile phone call lists of accused Swapna Suresh and P S Sarith. Parts of the call lists sourced by investigating agencies NIA and Customs were leaked to the media on Tuesday. As per call records accessed by the media, there were nine calls and an SMS between Jaleel and Swapna Suresh. While the minister called Swapna eight times, she called him once. Jaleel told reporters that he had spoken to Swapna only about distribution of food kits from the UAE consulate. Sivasankar also appeared before Customs officials at the Customs office in GST Bhavan in the capital by 5pm on Tuesday, in response to a notice served to him in the afternoon. He was being interrogated at the time of filing this report. The call lists from April 20 to June 1 show that there were 14 calls between Sivasankar and Sarith, who was arrested by customs on July 5 for the gold smuggling bid through Thiruvananthapuram airport. Sarith called Sivasankar nine times while the latter returned five calls. It also shows that Sarith had spoken to Sivasankar just before his arrest. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters on Tuesday that there were still no proper grounds for suspending Sivasankar from service. "Action will not be delayed if there is substantial evidence to prove his role in the case. From media reports, it has been learnt that he has made contact with the other accused in the case also. The questioning is going on now. If there is any development in the questioning, action will be taken based on that," he said. He said a committee comprising chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh will probe charges against Sivasankar. "Though call records have emerged, the nature of the contact will also have to be probed. The government will take action on the basis of the report,” he said, adding that the same rules will apply to minister Jaleel too. The CM also denied reports that special branch had earlier warned him about Swapna's illegal activities. Jaleel told reporters that he had spoken to Swapna about distribution of food kits from the UAE consulate. He said the UAE consulate distributed food kits during Ramzan every year and he had also taken part in such programmes. This year, he received a message from the official phone number of UAE consular general that kits were available for distribution and a person named Swapna Suresh would contact him. He said he then Thiruvananthapuram: The gold smuggling case involving diplomatic channels seemed to involve more higher-ups, following information that higher education minister K T Jaleel and IAS officer M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister, figured among frequent callers in the mobile phone call lists of accused Swapna Suresh and P S Sarith. Parts of the call lists sourced by investigating agencies NIA and Customs were leaked to the media on Tuesday. As per call records accessed by the media, there were nine calls and an SMS between Jaleel and Swapna Suresh. While the minister called Swapna eight times, she called him once. Jaleel told reporters that he had spoken to Swapna only about distribution of food kits from the UAE consulate. Sivasankar also appeared before Customs officials at the Customs office in GST Bhavan in the capital by 5pm on Tuesday, in response to a notice served to him in the afternoon. He was being interrogated at the time of filing this report. The call lists from April 20 to June 1 show that there were 14 calls between Sivasankar and Sarith, who was arrested by customs on July 5 for the gold smuggling bid through Thiruvananthapuram airport. Sarith called Sivasankar nine times while the latter returned five calls. It also shows that Sarith had spoken to Sivasankar just before his arrest. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters on Tuesday that there were still no proper grounds for suspending Sivasankar from service. "Action will not be delayed if there is substantial evidence to prove his role in the case. From media reports, it has been learnt that he has made contact with the other accused in the case also. The questioning is going on now. If there is any development in the questioning, action will be taken based on that," he said. He said a committee comprising chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh will probe charges against Sivasankar. "Though call records have emerged, the nature of the contact will also have to be probed. The government will take action on the basis of the report,” he said, adding that the same rules will apply to minister Jaleel too. The CM also denied reports that special branch had earlier warned him about Swapna's illegal activities. Jaleel told reporters that he had spoken to Swapna about distribution of food kits from the UAE consulate. He said the UAE consulate distributed food kits during Ramzan every year and he had also taken part in such programmes. This year, he received a message from the official phone number of UAE consular general that kits were available for distribution and a person named Swapna Suresh would contact him. He said he then received 1,000 kits, which were distributed in Edappal and Thriprangode panchayats in Malappuram, and the bills were sent by Consumerfed to the UAE consulate. It was in this connection that Swapna was contacted, asking her to settle the bills of Consumerfed at the earliest, he said. received 1,000 kits, which were distributed in Edappal and Thriprangode panchayats in Malappuram, and the bills were sent by Consumerfed to the UAE consulate. It was in this connection that Swapna was contacted, asking her to settle the bills of Consumerfed at the earliest, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/upwardly-mobile-kt-jaleel-phoned-swapna-eight-times/articleshow/76968402.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kanpur||Another lieutenant leads cops to AK-47 in don Vikas Dubey’s den||KANPUR: Special Operations Group of Kanpur Police on Tuesday seized two weapons — an AK-47 and an INSAS rifle — that were allegedly snatched from a police team in Bikru village of Kanpur during the midnight ambush that left eight policemen dead. The pre-dawn raid and seizure of looted firearms followed the arrest of Dubey aide, Sashikant Pandey alias Sonu from his hideout in Mela Tiraha area in Chaubeypur town. While the INSAS rife was recovered from Pandey’s ancestral house in Bikru village, the AK-47 was found in the now demolished palatial house of slain gangster Dubey. Seventeen cartridges of AK-47 and 20 of the INSAS rifle were also recovered, ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar told reporters. After his arrest at 2:50am on Tuesday, Pandey led the police team to the hidden weapons dump in the rubble of Dubey’s house in Bikru village. ADG, Prashant Kumar said, the accused, Sonu, confessed to his crime and provided names of those who participated in the July 3 bloodbath, which included gangster Vikas Dubey and his lieutenants, Amar Dubey, Atul Dubey, Prem Kumar, Prabhat Mishra, Bauwan, Heeru, Shivam, Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramesh Chandra, Gopal Saini, Akhilesh Mishra, Vipul, Shyamu Bajpai, Rajendra Mishra, Bal Govind and Daya Shankar,” he said. Police will lodge a separate case against Pandey. “Dubey ordered his gang to hide the looted arms and ammunition at his residence at Bikru village after the ambush. While four of 21 accused have been arrested, six accused, including Vikas Dubey, have been shot in separate encounters. We are now looking for 11 on-the-run accused,” Kumar said. Chaubeypur station in-charge Vinay Tiwari and beat in charge K K Sharma have also been arrested for fleeing the encounter site and endangering lives of policemen. “Autopsy report reveals sharp-edged weapons and guns were used to kill 8 policemen, who were shot from point-blank range. DSP Devendra Mishra took four bullets in his chest,” the police officer said. On Saturday, district police reached gangster’s home turf Bikru and fell back on the age-old system of munadis (drummers), asking villagers to help police recovered looted firearms. The state government has constituted a one-member commission to investigate the encounter of gangster, Vikas Dubey. The commission headquartered in Kanpur will submit its report within two months. A special investigation team (SIT) formed earlier is also probing into the angle of alleged connivance of local police with Dubey. Additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy is heading the SIT, with additional DG Hari Ram Sharma and DIG Ravinder Goud as members||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/another-lieutenant-leads-cops-to-ak-47-in-don-dubeys-den/articleshow/76970087.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Best to study from textbooks: SSLC science topper||Mangaluru: Abhijna Rao, who topped the state in the science stream by scoring 596 out 600, says that she prepared for this day when she stood second in the SSLC exam in 2018. “In the SSLC exam, I missed coming first by one mark. From that day I made a firm decision that I will stand first in SSLC, and today, the hard work has paid off, despite having scored four marks less than the total,” says an elated Abhijna Rao. Abhijna, a student of Vidyodaya PU College, Udupi, scored 100 out of 100 in physics, mathematics, chemistry, Sanskrit, and computer science, and scored 96 in English. On how she achieved her goal, Abhijna says that she studied without taking any stress. “Complete concentration during class hours helped me a lot, and I studied 4-5 hours every day, during the examination. The icing on the cake was the college environment, which is situated adjacent to Krishna Mutt,” she said. Her suggestion to students was to study only from textbooks and not other materials. “Most of the questions come from textbooks,” she adds. Abhijna wants to pursue computer science engineering and walk in the footsteps of her elder sister Raksha Rao, who is a fresh graduate from NITK, Surathkal. Her mother Asha Rao is a homemaker and father Vittal Rao B passed away four years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/best-to-study-from-textbooks-sslc-science-topper/articleshow/76966414.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Lucknow||Another lieutenant leads cops to AK-47 in don Vikas Dubey’s den||KANPUR: Special Operations Group of Kanpur Police on Tuesday seized two weapons — an AK-47 and an INSAS rifle — that were allegedly snatched from a police team in Bikru village of Kanpur during the midnight ambush that left eight policemen dead. The pre-dawn raid and seizure of looted firearms followed the arrest of Dubey aide, Sashikant Pandey alias Sonu from his hideout in Mela Tiraha area in Chaubeypur town. While the INSAS rife was recovered from Pandey’s ancestral house in Bikru village, the AK-47 was found in the now demolished palatial house of slain gangster Dubey. Seventeen cartridges of AK-47 and 20 of the INSAS rifle were also recovered, ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar told reporters. After his arrest at 2:50am on Tuesday, Pandey led the police team to the hidden weapons dump in the rubble of Dubey’s house in Bikru village. ADG, Prashant Kumar said, the accused, Sonu, confessed to his crime and provided names of those who participated in the July 3 bloodbath, which included gangster Vikas Dubey and his lieutenants, Amar Dubey, Atul Dubey, Prem Kumar, Prabhat Mishra, Bauwan, Heeru, Shivam, Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramesh Chandra, Gopal Saini, Akhilesh Mishra, Vipul, Shyamu Bajpai, Rajendra Mishra, Bal Govind and Daya Shankar,” he said. Police will lodge a separate case against Pandey. “Dubey ordered his gang to hide the looted arms and ammunition at his residence at Bikru village after the ambush. While four of 21 accused have been arrested, six accused, including Vikas Dubey, have been shot in separate encounters. We are now looking for 11 on-the-run accused,” Kumar said. Chaubeypur station in-charge Vinay Tiwari and beat in charge K K Sharma have also been arrested for fleeing the encounter site and endangering lives of policemen. “Autopsy report reveals sharp-edged weapons and guns were used to kill 8 policemen, who were shot from point-blank range. DSP Devendra Mishra took four bullets in his chest,” the police officer said. On Saturday, district police reached gangster’s home turf Bikru and fell back on the age-old system of munadis (drummers), asking villagers to help police recovered looted firearms. The state government has constituted a one-member commission to investigate the encounter of gangster, Vikas Dubey. The commission headquartered in Kanpur will submit its report within two months. A special investigation team (SIT) formed earlier is also probing into the angle of alleged connivance of local police with Dubey. Additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy is heading the SIT, with additional DG Hari Ram Sharma and DIG Ravinder Goud as members||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-lieutenant-leads-cops-to-ak-47-in-don-dubeys-den/articleshow/76969039.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 15, 2020||Pune||2 PMC staffers booked on assault charge||Pune: Two PMC staffers have been booked on the charge of assault for hitting their colleague with a plastic chair and a stick in front of the civic building on Sunday night. Inspector Manisha Zende of the Shivajinagar police said, “The injured, Ravindra Jalindar Sonawane (52), from Dapodi has lodged a complaint. He manages security at the site and sustained deep injuries on his head.” The complaint stated that Sonawane was regularly given duty at the Covid Care Centre in Khadki by the two staffers. “As he had been performing his duty at the centre for the last couple of months, he feared of contracting infection,” she said. “On Sunday, he visited the PMC office with a request that he be assigned some other duty. The two staffers were annoyed with his request and confronted him near the entrance of the PMC headquarters. One of the staffers was armed with a stick, while the other carried a chair. They then assaulted Sonawane,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-pmc-staffers-booked-on-assault-charge/articleshow/76968385.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||699+ve, Hry tally hits 22,628||Chandigarh: With a record 699 new cases, Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Tuesday crossed the 22,000 mark, with Gurgaon and Rohtak districts crossing 7,000 and 1,000 cases, respectively. The total reached 22,628 cases. Also, four people succumbed to virus and the death toll rose to 312. Meanwhile, 453 people recovered from the virus, taking the count of recoveries in the state to 17,090. There are 5,226 active cases in the state, including 82 who are in a critical condition. Despite a record hike in cases, the doubling rate in the state remained stable at 21 days, with a recovery rate of 75.53%. The testing rate in the state too crossed 15,000 test per million of population. NCR districts, especially those sharing direct borders with national capital Delhi, continued to get a high number of cases. Till Tuesday, of the total 22,628 cases, 19748 cases had been reported from NCR districts, including 16,543 in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar districts, which share their border with Delhi. According to information, Gurgaon got 160 new cases and 2 deaths. This took the district’s total to 7,126 with 109 deaths. With 5,933 recoveries, there are 1,084 active patients in district. Gurgaon was followed by 115 new cases in Faridabad, where the total rose to 5,665 cases with 101 deaths. Rewari got 96 new patients. There were 55 new cases in Sonipat, 46 in Ambala, 43 in Mahindergarh, 40 in Rohtak, 26 in Jhajjar, 23 in Palwal, 19 in Sirsa, 18 in Nuh, 15 each in Karnal and Panipat, 12 in Bhiwani, nine in Kaithal, three each in Panchkula and Jind, and one in Yamunanngar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/699ve-hry-tally-hits-22628/articleshow/76969040.cms||Manvir Saini
July 15, 2020||Madurai||Wife, mom of army man murdered in Sivaganga||SIVAGANGA: Unidentified people murdered the mother and the wife of an armyman at their home in Sivaganga district in the early hours of Tuesday. Police suspect that the duo were murdered for gain as 58 sovereigns of gold jewellery and cash were missing from the home. The deceased have been identified as S Rajakumari, 65, of Mudukkoorani and her daughter-in-law, S Sneha, 28. They were beaten using iron roads and smothered to death. The eight-month baby of Sneha was not hurt in the incident, police sources said. Sneha’s husband, S Stephen, is serving the Indian Army in Ladakh region while her father-in-law, Santhiyagu, is a retired armyman. Police sources said that Santhiyagu was not at home, when the murder took place. He was staying in his farmland near his house. The murders came to light when he reached the house in the morning. On being alerted, a police team from the Kalaiyarkovil station rushed to the spot. Superintendent of police of neighbouring Ramanathapuram district V Varun Kumar, who is in-charge of Sivaganga district, also visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. Deputy inspector general of police, N M Mylvananan also visited the spot. Police sources said that a murder case under the IPC section 302 has been registered. They strongly suspect that the incident could be a murder for gain. A dog squad was pressed into service. A scientific team conducted collected fingerprint evidences from the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wife-mom-of-army-man-murdered-in-sivaganga/articleshow/76969041.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Erode||House gutted after air cooler blast in Erode||ERODE: A house was damaged in a fire caused by an air cooler blast at Gobichettipalayam in Erode district on Tuesday. Items like refrigerator, television and Rs 6 lakh cash kept in an almirah were gutted. Police said Mohammed Iliyas of Bharathi street, along with his wife, went to his grocery shop, leaving his 13-year-old son Mohammed Ali at home. “Suddenly, the house was engulfed in a fire. Neighbours rescued the boy,” a police officer attached with the Gobichettipalayam police station said. After being alerted, fire and rescue services personnel reached the spot and put out the fire. “The preliminary inquiry revealed that an air cooler exploded suddenly. It was running whole night. Due overheating the blast could have happened or it could be due to electric leakage,” the officer said. The Gobichettipalayam police have registered a case. Further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/house-gutted-after-air-cooler-blast/articleshow/76968404.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Positivity rate soars as AP ramps up testing, recovery plummets||VISAKHAPATNAM: While the state attempts to leave no stone unturned in its efforts to combat the pandemic, the positivity rate (number of cases detected against the number of persons tested) in AP has shown a rapid rise. A measure of disease prevalence, the positivity rate over the past four days has been hovering around 10%, compared to an average of just 2% in June and 0.8% in May. While mortality rate continues to remain stable at 1.24% against a national average of 2.62%, the number of deaths has been increasing in tandem with rise in new cases. Eighty deaths have been reported in the last two days. A rising death toll and number of positive cases have pushed down the recovery rate to 52.9%. In an advisory released in May, the World Health Organisation (WHO) stated that less than 5% of samples testing positive for the virus for at least two weeks would indicate that the disease is under control. Apart from testing suspected cases, symptomatic patients and primary and secondary contacts of positive cases, the state government adopted a two-pronged for containment. The state has been implementing a sentinel surveillance system since the first week of May to randomly test persons belonging to various groups, such as migrants, fever cases, agriculture/construction labour, shopkeepers and vegetable/fruit vendors. Additionally, the state has focused on vulnerable categories such as those above the age of 60 and people suffering from comorbidities to reduce the mortality rate. Limited capacities at labs, however, have slowed down efforts. In some districts, results are taking two to three days while it is further delayed in other districts. Labs in the state have a combined testing capacity of 35,000 samples a day. It is feared that delay in results may lead to asymptomatic cases unknowingly transmitting the disease to those they come into contact with. Dr R Ramana Rao, a general physician, said that it is time for the public to wake up and practise all Covid-19 related precautions. “Adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines is important to break the chain of transmission. Going by the daily new Covid-19 infections, the curve is fast going northwards. Collective social responsibility is the need of the hour to contain the spread of the disease,” said Dr Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/positivity-rate-soars-as-ap-ramps-up-testing-recovery-plummets/articleshow/76967625.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 15, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Bloodbath horror testimony captured in clip||KANPUR: The horror of the midnight ambush of policemen in Bikru village was captured in a sensational over 2-minute audio clip, which plays out a conversation between gangster Vikas Dubey’s sister-in-law and wife of his henchman, Sashikant Dubey, who was nabbed in a pre-dawn raid on Tuesday. The clip, which has gone viral, can be the first testimony to the macabre happenings of the fateful night, which was confirmed by one of the women when mediamen confronted her with the audio proof in Bikru village on Tuesday. TOI, however, could not immediately verify the authenticity of the audio, which surfaced 11 days after the bloodbath. A traumatized Manu, Sashikant's wife, can be heard screaming on the phone about three blood-splattered bodies of cops lying near her house. “Bhabhi, bodies of policemen have been dumped near my door and in my courtyard. Vikas Dubey and his aides have killed them and fled.” Manu sounds shaken as she seeks advice on how to deal with the crisis. “What will we tell the cops when they come calling,” she asks. Manu again asks what she would reply if questioned about her husband’s whereabouts. The relatives advise her to tell police that Shashikant didn’t return home and maybe doing double shift at work. When Manu counters, saying police can enquire from his workplace, the sister-in-law says she could tell police her husband did not call. The woman tells Manu to feign ignorance and not reveal anything to police. Manu is heard saying she would bury the mobile and then asks if police can track the device if switched off. Then she adds in shock that her husband (Sashikant) had in fact left his mobile at home before fleeing. Her relative advises her to delete all contacts on the cell phone’s receiver list and swiftly go underground. Manu could then be heard saying she would remove the phone’s battery as it would not be possible to run in the pitch darkness and cites her mother’s bed-ridden state. On Tuesday, media persons visited Bikru village and spoke to Manu, who admitted it was the recording of her voice in the conversation with Vikas’ sister-in-law. She added her mother heard policemen crying and begging Dubey’s sharpshooter, Amar, for their lives. “They were saying Amar bhaiya, Amar bhaiya mujhe mat maaro.” Manu thereafter went on to curse the don, saying, “He (Vikas) made our lives hell, he should have died long ago.” Amar Dubey was shot in a police encounter in Hamirpur region of Bundelkhand, just days after the Bikru bloodbath. Talking to reporters, IG Kanpur Range Mohit Agarwal said, “An audio clip of a telephonic conversation between three individuals discussing the crisis after the ambush is being shared on social media. We are verifying it and investigations are underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bloodbath-horror-testimony-captured-in-clip/articleshow/76972688.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 15, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur: Bloodbath horror testimony captured in clip||KANPUR: The horror of the midnight ambush of policemen in Bikru village was captured in a sensational over 2-minute audio clip, which plays out a conversation between gangster Vikas Dubey’s sister-in-law and wife of his henchman, Sashikant Dubey, who was nabbed in a pre-dawn raid on Tuesday. The clip, which has gone viral, can be the first testimony to the macabre happenings of the fateful night, which was confirmed by one of the women when mediamen confronted her with the audio proof in Bikru village on Tuesday. TOI, however, could not immediately verify the authenticity of the audio, which surfaced 11 days after the bloodbath. A traumatized Manu, Sashikant's wife, can be heard screaming on the phone about three blood-splattered bodies of cops lying near her house. “Bhabhi, bodies of policemen have been dumped near my door and in my courtyard. Vikas Dubey and his aides have killed them and fled.” Manu sounds shaken as she seeks advice on how to deal with the crisis. “What will we tell the cops when they come calling,” she asks. Manu again asks what she would reply if questioned about her husband’s whereabouts. The relatives advise her to tell police that Shashikant didn’t return home and maybe doing double shift at work. When Manu counters, saying police can enquire from his workplace, the sister-in-law says she could tell police her husband did not call. The woman tells Manu to feign ignorance and not reveal anything to police. Manu is heard saying she would bury the mobile and then asks if police can track the device if switched off. Then she adds in shock that her husband (Sashikant) had in fact left his mobile at home before fleeing. Her relative advises her to delete all contacts on the cell phone’s receiver list and swiftly go underground. Manu could then be heard saying she would remove the phone’s battery as it would not be possible to run in the pitch darkness and cites her mother’s bed-ridden state. On Tuesday, media persons visited Bikru village and spoke to Manu, who admitted it was the recording of her voice in the conversation with Vikas’ sister-in-law. She added her mother heard policemen crying and begging Dubey’s sharpshooter, Amar, for their lives. “They were saying Amar bhaiya, Amar bhaiya mujhe mat maaro.” Manu thereafter went on to curse the don, saying, “He (Vikas) made our lives hell, he should have died long ago.” Amar Dubey was shot in a police encounter in Hamirpur region of Bundelkhand, just days after the Bikru bloodbath. Talking to reporters, IG Kanpur Range Mohit Agarwal said, “An audio clip of a telephonic conversation between three individuals discussing the crisis after the ambush is being shared on social media. We are verifying it and investigations are underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bloodbath-horror-testimony-captured-in-clip/articleshow/76969045.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Ban on study tours for legislators||Chandigarh: The Haryana assembly speaker has banned inter-state and other study tours of MLAs and committees due to the Covid-19 crisis. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta made an announcement to the effect on Tuesday. Haryana has a 90-member assembly and most MLAs are members of various house committees. These committees have been organising study tours to other states. “Now, the situation does not allow continuation of such study tours. Most states besides Haryana have barred activities involving inter-state movement. As of now, study tours stand barred till further orders,” said Gupta. Notably, study tours are part of the privileges of MLAs in other committees. Political experts term the study tours as a way for MLAs to have paid tourism facilities. Recently, the assembly speaker reconstituted the privileges committee with fresh guidelines. A former district food and civil supplies controller (DFSC) was put under the committee’s scanner on the complaint of Gohana MLA Jagbir Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ban-on-study-tours-for-legislators/articleshow/76969042.cms||Manvir Saini
July 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Conductor turns security guard to earn a living||PUNE: Standing on guard at a corner of the Sanganwadi-Vishrantwadi Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor, Vijay Pasalkar (52) cannot help but think of how only four months ago he was a conductor with the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML). As the pandemic brought the bus service to a grinding halt, Pasalkar has been deputed as a guard at the BRTS corridor. However he is not complaining about the circumstances. “I am lucky to be getting a monthly salary. The change from a PMPML bus conductor to a security guard has been difficult but it is a job and I have to do it sincerely. I was working as a conductor with the PMPML for 27 years. So many people have lost jobs and are without salaries. Senior PMPML officials have ensured that we keep working and get paid,” said Pasalkar, who is a resident of Sinhagad road. In May, the PMPML had replaced 350 contractual employees with their permanent staff. This resulted in many drivers, conductors and technical staff getting the jobs of guarding BRTS corridors. Earlier, contract workers were employed as guards. With many PMPML staffers getting meagre salaries of Rs300 to Rs600 because they had no work on hand, the transport body shifted over 1,000 permanent employees to the offices of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations to ensure they have a job. “My work starts at 6am and continues until 2pm. I have to ensure that the corridor is safe, there is no crowd at bus stops and other vehicles do not stray into the corridor. PMPML is running buses only for those engaged in essential services and some buses come through the corridors to pick up and drop employees,” Pasalkar said. He does miss his job as a bus conductor though. “It was busier and more challenging but life has changed since the pandemic and lockdowns. At times, I look at the buses with drivers and conductors, who were my colleagues, and pray that things change so I can go back to doing what I did best,” he shared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/conductor-turns-security-guard-to-earn-a-living/articleshow/76968405.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 15, 2020||Pune||Heavy rain likely in Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra today||PUNE: Monsoon is all set to revive for a short duration in some parts of the state this week. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy falls forecast for parts of Maharashtra, including Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra, on Wednesday. There could be moderate rainfall in Pune also, with possibility of heavy showers at isolated places, the IMD said. The rain intensity in Pune might reduce on Thursday, followed by light to moderate showers on Friday. The ghat areas in Pune district might, however, experience heavy spells of rain till Thursday. The IMD on Tuesday said isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall was likely over north Madhya Maharashtra, south Gujarat region and north Konkan during July 14-16 with isolated extremely heavy showers over north Madhya Maharashtra and north Konkan on July 15 under the influence of strong lower level wind convergence along the west coast. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI that though the rainfall was expected to continue in the state for the next four to five days, the activity would peak on Wednesday. “The rain revival is expected for a short duration this time, as this spell is likely to continue only till July 18-19. On Wednesday, Konkan-Goa is likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with extremely heavy falls at isolated places, while heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls in ghats at isolated places over Madhya Maharashtra are expected,” said Kashyapi. For Pune city, rainfall is likely to peak on Wednesday, mostly moderate rain with chances of heavy rain at isolated places in the city and adjoining regions in 50km of Pune’s radius. The IMD’s forecast stated moderate rain with isolated heavy rain was very likely (isolated heavy to very heavy rain in ghat areas) in Pune city/district on Wednesday. The residents of the city have been missing rain for the past few days. Some of them have even been tweeting about it. A post on Twitter on Wednesday stated, “It still feels like we are in pre-monsoon season in Pune ... not a single instance of solid rain throughout the day :-( can’t wait for that to happen.” Another post read, “Rain is not in a mood to start action in Pune.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-rain-likely-in-konkan-madhya-maharashtra-today/articleshow/76968400.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Minor bureaucratic reshuffle in U’khand||Dehradun: In a minor bureaucratic reshuffle in Uttarakhand, six IAS officers were transferred or given new postings. Vijay Kumar Yadav has been made the new additional secretary of forest. The charge of director general for registry and commissioner tax was taken from Sowjanya and given to Iqbal Ahmed but she will continue to look after other departments held by her. IAS Deependra Kumar Chaudhary has got the additional charge of additional secretary higher education. IAS officer Sonika has been given the additional charge of additional secretary medical, health, and family welfare. Gaurav Kumar, deputy collector of Udham Singh Nagar, has been given the additional charge of municipal commissioner of Kashipur. Besides, seven PCS officers were also transferred by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-bureaucratic-reshuffle-in-ukhand/articleshow/76966458.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 15, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi current affairs, history series put off||NEW DELHI: Rahul Gandhi’s promised video series on history and current affairs, which was to be launched on Twitter on Tuesday, was put off due to the developments in Rajasthan. On Monday, taking many within the party by surprise, Rahul had announced a video series in which he said that he would expose “fascist interests” in the media and a “narrative of lies” that was “tearing India apart”. The first part of the video series, understood to be on the border tensions with China, is now expected to be released on Wednesday, or once the situation in Rajasthan settles down. Rahul has been persistent in his attacks on the Modi government over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic as well as the China tensions, and said his series would make “our current affairs, history and crises clear and accessible for those interested in the truth”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-current-affairs-history-series-put-off/articleshow/76969706.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala tally nears 9,000 as 608 test Covid-19 positive on Tuesday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Tuesday registered a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases with 608 more persons testing positive for the virus, taking the total number of cases reported to 8,930. The death toll also went up to 35 on the day, with the samples of Nazeer Usman Kutty (47) of Chunakkara in Alappuzha, who returned from Saudi Arabia and died on Sunday, testing positive. He was suffering from cancer. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said clusters had been found in various districts in the state and the next stage is community transmission. Stressing the need to remain vigilant against the virus spread, he said a community spread seems imminent in the state. “When the state fought Nipah, it was just for one month. But now, the entire health machinery has been fighting the virus for the past six months,” Vijayan said. “As per WHO, the fight will continue till this year-end. Any lapse on the part of the common man will prove too costly for the entire community,” Vijayan said. The state had been reporting over 400 cases for the last four days and Tuesday's tally is the highest single-day spike reported so far. Among the new cases, 201 cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram. The total number of contact cases is 409, which included eight health workers, two CISF, two ITBP and one BSF personnel. The cases with unknown source of infection are also on the rise, with 26 such cases reported on the day. Thiruvananthapuram (177) also had the highest number of contact cases on the day, followed by Ernakulam (58), Kozhikode (53), Thrissur (32), Malappuram (22), Kasaragod (20), Alappuzha (17), Kollam (12), Kottayam (3) and Palakkad and Kannur (1 each). As many as 4,454 Covid patients are under treatment in the state now. Besides Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam reported 70 cases on Tuesday, Kozhikode and Malappuram 58 each, Kasaragod 44, Thrissur 42, Alappuzha 34, Palakkad 26, Kottayam 25, Kollam 23, Wayanad and Kannur 12 each and Pathanamthitta three. In the last 24 hours, 14,227 samples were collected for tests. Till date, 4,35,043 samples have been sent for tests in the state, of which results of 7,745 are pending. As many as 1,81,847 people are under observation in the state, of whom 4,780 are admitted to designated hospitals. The chief minister said special officers had been deputed in all districts to assist the district administration. An intensive surveillance has been launched in the coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram and Chellanam, Aluva municipality and Keezhumadu panchayat in Ernakulam as there is a rapid rise in the case load. In Alappuzha, Kayamkulam municipality, Cherthala taluk, Arattupuzha, Nooranadau, Palamel, Thamarakkulam and Pulinkunnu have been declared containment zones. Till date, 130 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel have been infected. Those who tested positive have been shifted to hospitals while the remaining personnel in the camp have been quarantined. A similar situation is prevailing in Tuneri grama panchayat in Kozhikode, where 53 persons were infected from two persons, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/state-tally-nears-9k-as-608test-positive-on-tuesday/articleshow/76971668.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thane||Bhayander, Thane traders threaten protest if lockdown extended||MUMBAI: As complete lockdown in Mira-Bhayander and Thane entered around two weeks on Tuesday, residents have begun defying it, while traders and political parties have threatened protests if it is extended. Mira Road’s Independent MLA Geeta Jain, under home quarantine after testing positive last week, threatened a jail bharo if lockdown is extended beyond July 18. In Thane, traders met deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi to defer a triple lockdown beyond Sunday. TMC has allowed grocery shops (except in main market) to stay open from 9am-11am from Wednesday. Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) deputy mayor Hasmukh Gehlot (BJP) wrote to the civic chief not to extend lockdown beyond July 18. Only home deliveries are allowed in the region. Residents have started defying lockdown and are moving out, while vendors are illegally selling vegetables and fruits and shops too are functioning illegally. Traders have threatened to keep shops and businesses open after July 18, even if a lockdown is announced. “Our business has suffered. An odd-even method like in Vasai-Virar would have been better,” said a Bhayander trader. Around 30 social activists, led by Mira-Bhayander unit of AAP took out a protest march to the civic headquarters in Bhayander (W) demanding opening up of the city. MBMC officials said rising cases forced an extension in lockdown. On Tuesday, 105 cases took the total to 5,851. Eight deaths took the toll to 207. The lockdown from July 1 has seen over 1,400 cases, while over 6,000 swab tests have been done. In Thane, shopkeepers’ association want shops to reopen and demanded exemption from property tax. “Till June 5 we were under total lockdown. Then the odd-even rule kept us afloat. Now a fresh lockdown has dried up income,” said Rasik Chheda, president of Ram Maruti Road Traders’ Association. Traders have begun winding up businesses due to the lockdowns, said Kamal Hemani, president of Subhash Path Traders’ Association. Thane civic chief Vipin Sharma said lockdown served its purpose as cases have come down by around 400 in the last two to three days. He said that it was a matter of few days as the war was against Covid-19 and not traders. On Tuesday, ….. cases were reported in Thane, taking the toll to …… The death toll touched …. with …. succumbing to the virus. During the lockdown, Thane had …. cases and …. swabs were tested. Sandhya Nair & Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/bhayander-thane-traders-threaten-protest-if-lockdown-extended/articleshow/76972275.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Lawyer files plaint over Hisar mayor’s Covid status||HISAR: A local lawyer has filed a criminal complaint with the police against the Hisar civil surgeon, deputy civil surgeon and mayor over the alleged cover-up about the Covid-19 status of mayor Gautam Sardana. In his complaint to the Hisar city police station in-charge, lawyer Rajesh Jakhar demanded action against the three. Jakhar alleged that the contact history of mayor Sardana was neither traced, nor he was quarantined. He also stated no containment zone was created in the mayor’s locality, which could have led to the spread of Covid-19 infection. He demanded registration of a case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 (punishment for obstruction) of the Disaster Management Act. He said he came to know through the newspapers that Sardana had tested Covid-19 positive on July 6. “However, it is being claimed that the mayor had also tested negative in the subsequent investigation. But on July 10 and July 12, I read the statements of the civil surgeon and the deputy civil surgeon in the newspaper, in which they said Sardana was Covid-19 negative, so he was not home quarantined or isolated. For this reason, his family members were also not home quarantined,” Jakhar said. He said it was necessary to quarantine the mayor not only because of his testing positive in the first report, but also because he came in contact with Hisar MP Brajendra Singh who had contracted Covid-19 infection. “By declaring that the mayor had tested negative for Covid-19, the civil surgeon and deputy civil surgeon are deliberately hiding the truth and are not performing their duty honestly. If the report of the Hisar mayor is false and fake, action should also be taken against the scientists who made the report,” he submitted in his complaint. Hisar civil surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti are yet to respond to the allegations. Sardana said he was ready to follow every rule, but he couldn’t do much if the health authorities had declared him Covid-19 negative. Deputy civil surgeon Dr Jaya Goyal said she had no information about the complaint, but she did all the work based on the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lawyer-files-plaint-over-hisar-mayors-covid-status/articleshow/76969048.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala tally nears 9,000 as 608 test Covid-19 positive on Tuesday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Tuesday registered a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases with 608 more persons testing positive for the virus, taking the total number of cases reported to 8,930. The death toll also went up to 35 on the day, with the samples of Nazeer Usman Kutty (47) of Chunakkara in Alappuzha, who returned from Saudi Arabia and died on Sunday, testing positive. He was suffering from cancer. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said clusters had been found in various districts in the state and the next stage is community transmission. Stressing the need to remain vigilant against the virus spread, he said a community spread seems imminent in the state. “When the state fought Nipah, it was just for one month. But now, the entire health machinery has been fighting the virus for the past six months,” Vijayan said. “As per WHO, the fight will continue till this year-end. Any lapse on the part of the common man will prove too costly for the entire community,” Vijayan said. The state had been reporting over 400 cases for the last four days and Tuesday's tally is the highest single-day spike reported so far. Among the new cases, 201 cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram. The total number of contact cases is 409, which included eight health workers, two CISF, two ITBP and one BSF personnel. The cases with unknown source of infection are also on the rise, with 26 such cases reported on the day. Thiruvananthapuram (177) also had the highest number of contact cases on the day, followed by Ernakulam (58), Kozhikode (53), Thrissur (32), Malappuram (22), Kasaragod (20), Alappuzha (17), Kollam (12), Kottayam (3) and Palakkad and Kannur (1 each). As many as 4,454 Covid patients are under treatment in the state now. Besides Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam reported 70 cases on Tuesday, Kozhikode and Malappuram 58 each, Kasaragod 44, Thrissur 42, Alappuzha 34, Palakkad 26, Kottayam 25, Kollam 23, Wayanad and Kannur 12 each and Pathanamthitta three. In the last 24 hours, 14,227 samples were collected for tests. Till date, 4,35,043 samples have been sent for tests in the state, of which results of 7,745 are pending. As many as 1,81,847 people are under observation in the state, of whom 4,780 are admitted to designated hospitals. The chief minister said special officers had been deputed in all districts to assist the district administration. An intensive surveillance has been launched in the coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram and Chellanam, Aluva municipality and Keezhumadu panchayat in Ernakulam as there is a rapid rise in the case load. In Alappuzha, Kayamkulam municipality, Cherthala taluk, Arattupuzha, Nooranadau, Palamel, Thamarakkulam and Pulinkunnu have been declared containment zones. Till date, 130 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel have been infected. Those who tested positive have been shifted to hospitals while the remaining personnel in the camp have been quarantined. A similar situation is prevailing in Tuneri grama panchayat in Kozhikode, where 53 persons were infected from two persons, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-tally-nears-9k-as-608test-positive-on-tuesday/articleshow/76971669.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Pune||Two persons lose Rs 6 lakh to job bait||Pune: The Khadki police on Monday booked three persons, including one from Urali Kanchan and another from Solapur, on the charge of duping two unemployed youths from Beed of Rs6 lakh by promising them jobs of helpers with the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB). “The incident came to light after the two youths — Tukaram Dhore and Ganesh Akhade — reached the KCB office with their appointment letters. The KCB clarified that the etters were fake and approached the police,” sub-inspector Vijay Zanjad from the Pune city crime branch said. The officer said the suspects had taken Rs3 lakh each from the duo and gave them the fake papers. “Dhore and Akhade had met the trio through some mutual contacts,” Zanjad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-persons-lose-rs-6-lakh-to-job-bait/articleshow/76968415.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Demand for PAN cards in RTE admission process||PUNE: An official of the Pune Zilla Parishad has suggested that submission of PAN card copies of both parents should be made mandatory during Right to Education Act admissions. Ranjit Shivtare, vice president of Pune ZP, claimed that he has received several complaints from parents in Junnar, Baramati and Mulshi about fake admissions under 25% reserved quota. He has written to the education minister Varsha Gaikwad about submission of PAN cards. The students, who avail caste-based reservations, should be made to produce their income certificate and PAN cards so that needy students get admission, he added. Ganesh Vhaval, a driver from Narayngaon, said, “RTE is the only way I can admit my daughter in an English medium school. But when the lottery was drawn, her name was not on the list. Children of people with acres of land and big businesses and stores got admission. They had fake income certificates. If there is an investigation, many claims of admission will turn out to be bogus,” he said. Shivtare, who is also the chairman of education and finance committee of the ZP, said he had come to know some parents whose annual income is above Rs 1 lakh are able to show less income and become eligible for admission under free seats under RTE. “I recommend that PAN card be made mandatory for all who apply for admissions and there should be a check whether the student getting admission actually comes from a family that earns less than Rs 1 lakh. I hope an investigation will be conducted to weed out bogus applicants,” Shivtare said. Joint director of primary education Dinkar Temkar said he understands the problems in the system and that people are exploiting the loopholes. “An Income Tax official told us that it will be possible only if the person files his tax returns. Secondly, many people get their income certificate from the talathi and tehsildar in their native villages whereas they may have all their property in the city. As per the Union government guidelines, students from the reserved caste need only a caste certificate. Hence, during the lottery, a needy student doesn’t get admission,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-pan-cards-in-rte-admission-process/articleshow/76968410.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 15, 2020||Bhopal||No new lockdown in Bhopal for now||BHOPAL: Amid rumours that the city will go into lockdown again, the district administration on Tuesday denied any such possibility for now. Meanwhile, a meeting of crisis management group of the district, which was expected to discuss the issue of lockdown in the wake of spurt in the cases of coronavirus, didn't take place on Tuesday either. District administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, when asked about rumours of the lockdown, said “It is not true.” Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, had asked the district collectors at the coronavirus review meeting not to clamp ‘general lockdown’ in their districts, but put specific areas under the lockdown, where more cases are being found.” Something like what has been done in Ibrahimganj area after a sudden spurt in coronavirus cases in the area. The locality is under lockdown for a week since Sunday. Collector Avinash Lavania, while talking to TOI, had said that there could be more areas where ‘local lockdown’ can be imposed as done in Ibrahimganj. District administration, which has already announced lockdown on Sundays till July 31, doesn’t want to put the city under another round of lockdown but the spurt in coronavirus cases in July has definitely put it on alert. In the past three days, 94, 102 and 83 coronavirus cases were found respectively in the district, which has only added to the concern of the district administration, which feels that people in Unlock-2 have not been cautious and even fundamental precautions like wearing mask while stepping out of the house, maintaining social distancing at public places and not spitting in public are not being followed, thus pushing the administration to resort to ‘coercive’ action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-new-lockdown-in-city-for-now/articleshow/76968409.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Now, Rs 2.75 lakh gold mask up for sale||COIMBATORE: A city-based goldsmith has made masks out of gold and silver to wear as ornament and offer protection from the coronavirus. Goldsmith Radhakrishnan Sundaram Acharya from Thoppampatti Pirivu came out with the idea of making masks in gold and silver to create awareness among about coronavirus. “The masks are not just ornamental but would actually offer protection just like cloth face masks,” he said. “The specialty of the masks is that they are as flexible as a cloth. It is designed not just to give a rich look to the users but, also to ensure their safety. The masks have up to four layers – three layers of cloth beneath a layer of gold or silver,” he said. Turning the metal into thin threads of 0.06mm thickness, he had weaved the threads to form a thin sheet. “But, the mechanism and technology used to weave the gold thread is completely different from that of a weaver. I have customized equipment to weave gold threads,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-rs-2-75l-gold-mask-up-for-sale/articleshow/76968413.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: Deaths double in a week in AP's Chittoor district||TIRUPATI: Twenty-three out of 43 deaths in the state on Tuesday were reported from the Rayalaseema region. In Kurnool district, three deaths and 169 cases were reported on Tuesday, with the death toll reaching 108, the highest in the state. The administration has imposed a 10-day lockdown in Nandyal. In Anantapur, 10 patients died and 185 new cases reported on Tuesday. So far there have been 3,615 cases and 40 deaths in the district. Chittoor and Kadapa districts reported five deaths each. So far, the death toll in Chittoor is 29 and in Kadapa, 12. Chittoor district on Tuesday reported 238 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in Andhra Pradesh, pushing up the district’s tally to 3,074. Official data show that the numbers have doubled in a week. The overall number of cases was 1,510 on July 7, while the death toll on that day was 15. In Tirupati, Covid-19 hospitals at SVRR government general hospital and Sri Padmavathi state hospital are almost stretched to their full capacities. TTD-run SVIMS suspended outpatient services at the superspecialty hospital after 40 of its staff members including doctors, paramedic staff tested positive. Outpatient services were also suspended at another TTD-run hospital BIRRD. Although a partial lockdown has been enforced in the city from Monday, several locals told TOI that now is the time to enforce a stringent lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deaths-double-in-a-week-in-chittoor-dist/articleshow/76967656.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala tally nears 9,000 as 608 test Covid-19 positive on Tuesday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Tuesday registered a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases with 608 more persons testing positive for the virus, taking the total number of cases reported to 8,930. The death toll also went up to 35 on the day, with the samples of Nazeer Usman Kutty (47) of Chunakkara in Alappuzha, who returned from Saudi Arabia and died on Sunday, testing positive. He was suffering from cancer. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said clusters had been found in various districts in the state and the next stage is community transmission. Stressing the need to remain vigilant against the virus spread, he said a community spread seems imminent in the state. “When the state fought Nipah, it was just for one month. But now, the entire health machinery has been fighting the virus for the past six months,” Vijayan said. “As per WHO, the fight will continue till this year-end. Any lapse on the part of the common man will prove too costly for the entire community,” Vijayan said. The state had been reporting over 400 cases for the last four days and Tuesday's tally is the highest single-day spike reported so far. Among the new cases, 201 cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram. The total number of contact cases is 409, which included eight health workers, two CISF, two ITBP and one BSF personnel. The cases with unknown source of infection are also on the rise, with 26 such cases reported on the day. Thiruvananthapuram (177) also had the highest number of contact cases on the day, followed by Ernakulam (58), Kozhikode (53), Thrissur (32), Malappuram (22), Kasaragod (20), Alappuzha (17), Kollam (12), Kottayam (3) and Palakkad and Kannur (1 each). As many as 4,454 Covid patients are under treatment in the state now. Besides Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam reported 70 cases on Tuesday, Kozhikode and Malappuram 58 each, Kasaragod 44, Thrissur 42, Alappuzha 34, Palakkad 26, Kottayam 25, Kollam 23, Wayanad and Kannur 12 each and Pathanamthitta three. In the last 24 hours, 14,227 samples were collected for tests. Till date, 4,35,043 samples have been sent for tests in the state, of which results of 7,745 are pending. As many as 1,81,847 people are under observation in the state, of whom 4,780 are admitted to designated hospitals. The chief minister said special officers had been deputed in all districts to assist the district administration. An intensive surveillance has been launched in the coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram and Chellanam, Aluva municipality and Keezhumadu panchayat in Ernakulam as there is a rapid rise in the case load. In Alappuzha, Kayamkulam municipality, Cherthala taluk, Arattupuzha, Nooranadau, Palamel, Thamarakkulam and Pulinkunnu have been declared containment zones. Till date, 130 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel have been infected. Those who tested positive have been shifted to hospitals while the remaining personnel in the camp have been quarantined. A similar situation is prevailing in Tuneri grama panchayat in Kozhikode, where 53 persons were infected from two persons, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-tally-nears-9k-as-608test-positive-on-tuesday/articleshow/76968422.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mumbai||Bhayander, Thane traders threaten protest if lockdown extended||MUMBAI: As complete lockdown in Mira-Bhayander and Thane entered around two weeks on Tuesday, residents have begun defying it, while traders and political parties have threatened protests if it is extended. Mira Road’s Independent MLA Geeta Jain, under home quarantine after testing positive last week, threatened a jail bharo if lockdown is extended beyond July 18. In Thane, traders met deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi to defer a triple lockdown beyond Sunday. TMC has allowed grocery shops (except in main market) to stay open from 9am-11am from Wednesday. Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) deputy mayor Hasmukh Gehlot (BJP) wrote to the civic chief not to extend lockdown beyond July 18. Only home deliveries are allowed in the region. Residents have started defying lockdown and are moving out, while vendors are illegally selling vegetables and fruits and shops too are functioning illegally. Traders have threatened to keep shops and businesses open after July 18, even if a lockdown is announced. “Our business has suffered. An odd-even method like in Vasai-Virar would have been better,” said a Bhayander trader. Around 30 social activists, led by Mira-Bhayander unit of AAP took out a protest march to the civic headquarters in Bhayander (W) demanding opening up of the city. MBMC officials said rising cases forced an extension in lockdown. On Tuesday, 105 cases took the total to 5,851. Eight deaths took the toll to 207. The lockdown from July 1 has seen over 1,400 cases, while over 6,000 swab tests have been done. In Thane, shopkeepers’ association want shops to reopen and demanded exemption from property tax. “Till June 5 we were under total lockdown. Then the odd-even rule kept us afloat. Now a fresh lockdown has dried up income,” said Rasik Chheda, president of Ram Maruti Road Traders’ Association. Traders have begun winding up businesses due to the lockdowns, said Kamal Hemani, president of Subhash Path Traders’ Association. Thane civic chief Vipin Sharma said lockdown served its purpose as cases have come down by around 400 in the last two to three days. He said that it was a matter of few days as the war was against Covid-19 and not traders. On Tuesday, ….. cases were reported in Thane, taking the toll to …… The death toll touched …. with …. succumbing to the virus. During the lockdown, Thane had …. cases and …. swabs were tested. Sandhya Nair & Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhayander-thane-traders-threaten-protest-if-lockdown-extended/articleshow/76968294.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Girl found dead in septic tank||COIMBATORE: A three-year-old girl fell into a septic tank at her residence at Irugur and died on Monday. Police identified the deceased as Baby Malik, daughter of Dushasan, of Kendrapara district in Odisha. On Monday afternoon, the girl was playing with her father in front of the house. Around 5pm,he went inside for sleeping. Around 6.30pm, her parents searched for her but in vain. Neighbours found the girl dead in the septic tank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/girl-found-dead-in-septic-tank/articleshow/76968428.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bareilly||46 more test positive for Covid-19 in Meerut, 16 cases in Agra||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: The number of daily Covid-19 positive cases continued to remain high in west UP's "corona hotspot" Meerut. Three police officials and a health staffer were among at least 46 people to have been tested positive in the district, taking the total tally to 1,593, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). In Agra district, at least 16 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 1,427. These include two kidney patients, three suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome and two patients of SARI. Moreover, 12 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Of the 1,427 cases reported, 81.71% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 168 active Covid-19 cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,166 people have recovered.” In Bareilly, district surveillance officer Dr Ashok Kumar said 29 people tested positive on Tuesday. While in Budaun, seven fresh cases were reported. Of these, two are native of Bareilly, four are from Jalandar Sarai locality of Budaun and one from Asafpur block. The active cases in Budaun rose to 76. In Lakhimpur Kheri district, the grandchild of an MLA was found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/46-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-meerut-16-cases-in-agra/articleshow/76976862.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||MoEF report: Special team to probe recent lion deaths||AHMEDABAD: A central committee report examining the large number of deaths of Asiatic lions in Gujarat recently, has recommended a slew of conservation measures which includes freeing the area of humans and cattle. A special team of experts should also be formed to identify the exact cause of lion deaths between January and May this year. “We have concluded that the National Park, which is just 250 sq km, should be increased and the entire Gir sanctuary should be declared a National Park, which will be home only to the lions and other wildlife,” said a senior MoEF official. The Union ministry of environment and forests committee report says that from January 2020 to May 31, the total number of lion deaths in the landscape was 85, of which 59 occurred in the Gir East division, Dhari. In comparison, lion deaths in the entire calendar years 2018 and 2019, were 112 and 134, respectively. While the report does not name the canine distemper virus (CDV) as the reason for the deaths, it recommends precautions such as expediting the development of CDV vaccines for the strain isolated from the Asiatic lion population in Gir and improving its efficacy. The state government, according to the report, procured 1,000 CDV ferret vaccines for lions and is acquiring another 1,000. A CDV outbreak killed 27 lions in two months of 2018. The report recommends setting up a special team comprising of immunologists, epidemiologists, virologists, parasitologists, clinical experts and ecologists to ascertain the actual cause of mortality. MoEFCC officials said the committee felt that the entire Gir sanctuary should be freed of cattle and Maldharis. Even grazing rights of the Maldhari community should be withdrawn and they should be relocated outside the sanctuary. The committee did not deliberate on shifting lions to Kuno Palpur, as the matter is being before a high-powered committee formed by the apex court, sources said. This year, 124 lions were captured of which 79 were treated and released on the spot. Forty-five animals were sent to care centres/zoo hospitals because of complications relating to injuries, fracture-related septicemia, renal failure etc. “Inviolate areas for Asiatic lions need to be created by voluntary relocation of Maldhari nesses from within the Gir Protected Areas,” the report states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/moef-report-special-team-to-probe-recent-lion-deaths/articleshow/76968430.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 15, 2020||Agra||46 more test positive for Covid-19 in Meerut, 16 cases in Agra||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: The number of daily Covid-19 positive cases continued to remain high in west UP's "corona hotspot" Meerut. Three police officials and a health staffer were among at least 46 people to have been tested positive in the district, taking the total tally to 1,593, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). In Agra district, at least 16 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 1,427. These include two kidney patients, three suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome and two patients of SARI. Moreover, 12 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Of the 1,427 cases reported, 81.71% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 168 active Covid-19 cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,166 people have recovered.” In Bareilly, district surveillance officer Dr Ashok Kumar said 29 people tested positive on Tuesday. While in Budaun, seven fresh cases were reported. Of these, two are native of Bareilly, four are from Jalandar Sarai locality of Budaun and one from Asafpur block. The active cases in Budaun rose to 76. In Lakhimpur Kheri district, the grandchild of an MLA was found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/46-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-meerut-16-cases-in-agra/articleshow/76966493.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||9 succumb to virus in Punjab, toll rises to 213||CHANDIGARH: Six police personnel and two doctors were among 340 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Punjab on Tuesday. Nine patients succumbed to the virus, taking the state’s death toll to 213. The state’s tally for the virus rose to 8,511. Though it was 8,178 till Monday and the new figure woud have been 8,518, six cases from Jalandhar and one case from Mohali were shifted to other states. A total of 77 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus. Of the nine fatalities, three were in Ludhiana, two each in Mohali and Sangrur, and one each in Amritsar and Fazilka. Ludhiana and Jalandhar got 88 cases each, highest in the state. They were followed by 51 cases in Patiala, 26 in Mohali, 22 in Amritsar, 20 in Sangrur, 12 in Faridkot, nine each in Nawanshahr and Ropar, seven in Fatehgarh Sahib, six in Kapurthala, four in Fazilka, three in Hoshiarpur, two in Tarn Taran, and each in Mansa, Bathinda, Moga, Pathankot and Gurdaspur. In Patiala, civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of the 78 new cases, two were of people admitted to PGI, 52 from Patiala city, nine from Nabha, two from Samana, eight from Rajpura, and seven from villages in the district. He said 47 cases were from containment zones, contact tracing and interstate travellers. Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said the administration had earmarked several containment and micro-containment zones, including Dhiru Ki Majri in Patiala, Anand Nagar Extension, Top Khana Road, Machhi Hatta in Samana, Piragari Mohalla, Tej Colony and Jatta Patti. In Fatehgarh Sahib, a 13-year-old girl and a 10-year-old boy were among the four new cases, which took the district tally to 177. (Inputs from Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9-succumb-to-virus-in-punjab-toll-rises-to-213/articleshow/76969053.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Pune||Gutka worth Rs 38 lakh seized||Pune: The Wakad police on Monday arrested four men for trying to transport gutka from Karnataka to Mumbai and seized 11,700 pouches of the banned substance worth Rs38 lakh and two vehicles. The seizure was collectively worth Rs56 lakh.A Wakad police team, led by senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar, arrested the four men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gutka-worth-rs-38-lakh-seized/articleshow/76968418.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vadodara||Cops’ focus now shifts to tracing victim’s body||VADODARA: A day after seizing the car that was allegedly used to disposing of the body of 62-year-old custodial death victim, Sheikh Nishar Babu, investigators have shifted focus on tracing his body. Police are now trying to track movement of the car owned by a head constable posted at Fatehgunj police station. “It’s an eight-month old incident, so we can’t get CCTV footage installed in the city areas. But our focus is on ascertaining the route the car took that night. If we are able to map the route, we can trace Sheikh’s body,” said a senior police official. Investigating officials are finding it tough to track the route as all the six cops accused in the custodial death case are still missing. “We are focussing on the staff that was present in the Fatehgunj police station the day when Sheikh was brought there. Though the cops posted there are tight-lipped about the incident and denying any knowledge, we are questioning each one of them. We are hoping that some may spill the beans,” the official told TOI. Investigators are also hopeful of getting some evidences from the car that has been sent for FSL tests. The accused cops including police inspector, Dharmendrasinh Gohil, PSI Dasrath Rabari and LRD jawans Yogendrasinh Jeelansinh, Pankaj Mavjibhai, Rajesh Savjibhai and Hitesh Shambhubhai are on the run for a week since the FIR was filed against them. Pankaj had borrowed the car from head constable Maheshbhai for reportedly disposing off the body. The cops have reached out to the relatives of the accused and even visited their hometowns to track them down. But they have failed to get any clue. Sheikh had gone missing from Fatehgunj police station in December last year after being picked up as a suspect in a theft case. A month later, his son approached the police that began investigations but FIR was filed after the court directed the police to probe the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-focus-now-shifts-to-tracing-victims-body/articleshow/76966605.cms||Tushar Tere
July 15, 2020||Agra||AMU girl opposes forcing of veils on students, batchmate says, ‘Will make her wear brass hijab’||AGRA: First trolled for supporting CAA and NRC, an engineering student of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has now got a threat on social media platform for saying that girls are being “forced to cover themselves in some colleges”. The student has lodged a police complaint against the accused. Taking note of the matter, UP’s Women Commission member Meena Kumari has written to senior superintendent of police (SSP). Muniraj G and has sought action on the complaint filed by the girl. The police had assured to register an FIR in the matter. According to the complaint filed with the senior superintendent of police (SSP), the girl alleged that a student of Bachelor in Architecture (BArch) had used derogatory language against her on a social media platform. “I was only expressing my opinion that girls are being forced to cover themselves in some colleges,” she said in the complaint. She also alleged that a group of students had been targeting her since the CAA/NRC bill was passed as she had supported it. She claimed that she had received abusive messages that time too. Demanding strict action against the accused student, she said that she is scared of further harassment by him once the university opens. The girl, who is pursuing engineering from AMU, was allegedly threatened again by the student to “stop playing victim card”. In a message on Instagram, the accused has threatened to file a complaint against the girl for “demeaning the AMU and for character assassination”. When contacted, Aligarh SP (crime) Arvind Kumar told TOI that the matter is being probed. “Appropriate IPC sections will be imposed in the FIR after the preliminary inquiry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-girl-opposes-forcing-of-veils-on-students-batchmate-says-will-make-her-wear-brass-hijab/articleshow/76966502.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bhopal||Two more secretariat staff test Covid positive in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Two more corona positives have been found in the secretariat in the 48 hours. As of now, the secretariat has seen three Covid patients. On July 1, a peon of an official in CM secretariat was found corona positive while in 48 hours, two personal assistants of one of the OSDs to CM have also tested corona positive. CM secretariat is on fifth floor of Vallabh Bhavan II building where 17 positive cases have been found, so far. Two have lost their lives to the pandemic. Total number of corona positives in secretariat has gone up to 19. Earlier, around 15 people tested positive in the Governor House. Officials said, precautions at the individual level are the only option as the administrative buidlings from where the entire state is governed cannot be closed. Employees found corona positive in secretariat are so far were from commercial taxes department, urban administration department, energy department, CM secretariat, health department, finance department, law department, medical education and home department. The state secretariat is divided into three interlinked buildings. Old building is called as Vallabh Bhavan I, while the new buildings are called as Vallabh Bhavan II and Vallabh Bhavan III. Sudhir Nayak, president of the Mantralayin Karmachari Sangh said, government should take strict measures to check spread of virus in secretariat before the situation goes out of control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-more-secretariat-staff-test-positive/articleshow/76968419.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Short of funds, SDMC plans to levy usage charge on utility agencies using its roads||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation is thinking about boosting its revenue by levying “way leave” or usage charges on utility agencies that dig up roads to lay pipelines, cables, etc to provide services to consumers. Currently, SDMC only levies a “road cutting fee” on the service providers for relaying the damaged roads. This is the first time since SDMC was carved out from the unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi that it has been unable to pay salaries to its staff. The civic body is also staring at depleting revenue sources and grants. SDMC argued that the strip of land became unusable after being taken over by utility agencies and such a charge was already being levied in cities like Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru. A civic official said that land and footpaths coming under the SDMC’s jurisdiction were being used by various agencies to provide services like telecom, water, sewerage and gas. “The road restoration charge paid by the agencies is used exclusively for repairing the broken stretch. The land occupied by these underground, overground and overhead services, including cables, chambers, poles, transformers and pump houses, cannot be used for any other purpose that can generate revenue for SDMC. It is rendered practically useless,” said the official, explaining the rationale behind the “way leave” charge. The proposal cleared by SDMC’s standing committee stated: “While the corporation incurs heavy cost in developing and maintaining infrastructure of footpaths and lanes, agencies only pay restoration charges while making huge profits by charging consumers commercially.” “Delhi Municipal Corporation Act empowers commissioners to utilise the land for augmenting financial resources. It is estimated that the total length of cables for telephone and internet services alone is 20,000 kilometres. DJB, discoms, IGL, etc use 30,000 kilometres,” the official said. The corporation plans to use the average circle rate in 1,027 colonies falling under its jurisdiction for calculating the “way leave” charges. “The average circle rate is Rs 88,050 per sq metre. With the lease charge being 10%, the figure comes to Rs 8,806 per sq m. If we consider a one-metre width of 10 cables of 10cm average diameter, the charge will come to Rs 881 per metre,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/short-of-funds-sdmc-plans-to-levy-usage-charge-on-utility-agencies-using-its-roads/articleshow/76969050.cms||Paras Singh
July 15, 2020||Meerut||46 more test positive for Covid-19 in Meerut, 16 cases in Agra||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: The number of daily Covid-19 positive cases continued to remain high in west UP's "corona hotspot" Meerut. Three police officials and a health staffer were among at least 46 people to have been tested positive in the district, taking the total tally to 1,593, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). In Agra district, at least 16 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 1,427. These include two kidney patients, three suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome and two patients of SARI. Moreover, 12 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Of the 1,427 cases reported, 81.71% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 168 active Covid-19 cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,166 people have recovered.” In Bareilly, district surveillance officer Dr Ashok Kumar said 29 people tested positive on Tuesday. While in Budaun, seven fresh cases were reported. Of these, two are native of Bareilly, four are from Jalandar Sarai locality of Budaun and one from Asafpur block. The active cases in Budaun rose to 76. In Lakhimpur Kheri district, the grandchild of an MLA was found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/46-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-meerut-16-cases-in-agra/articleshow/76976861.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||No quarantine if visiting Punjab for less than 72 hours||Chandigarh: Those coming to Punjab for less than 72 hours are now exempt from the mandatory home quarantine, and only need to submit a formal undertaking at the border check post. Announcing this relaxation for inbound domestic travellers, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said this concession was provided to facilitate students wishing to come for examinations or business travellers, whose stay in the state is less than 72 hours from the time of their arrival.  It has been decided to exempt such travellers from the 14-day mandatory home quarantine requirement that remains in place for domestic inbound travellers in Punjab, he said. However, the exempt travellers will need to submit a formal undertaking at the check post in a standard format provided on COVA app, which they would have to download on their phones. Besides entering their details in the app’s travellers’ information section, these persons would have to undertake that the COVA app will remain active throughout their period of stay in Punjab. The additional SOPs for such travellers require them to voluntarily submit that they are not coming from any containment zone and undertake not to stay for more than 72 hours in Punjab from the time of arrival in the state. During this period, they shall commit to monitoring their health and maintaining distance from those around, and also interact with the assigned surveillance team in case they suffer from any symptoms consistent with Covid-19 and will immediately call at 104. All due precautions would have to be strictly adhered to and non-adherence to wearing of mask/social distancing norms would make them liable to be acted upon under Section 188 of the IPC as per provision of The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897,’ said Amarinder. If within a week of return any such person is tested positive, he/she will have to immediately contact the Punjab government at 104 and assist them in contact tracing. It may be recalled that while the Centre had recently waived off the requirement of home quarantine for domestic travellers and replaced the same with self-monitoring, Amarinder has said that quarantine restrictions will continue to remain in place in Punjab on account of rising numbers. The latest announcement is the only exception to the rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-quarantine-if-visiting-punjab-for-less-than-72-hours/articleshow/76969064.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bhopal||Don’t panic over Covid spurt: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asked the district administration in Agar-Malwa to take effective steps towards early identification and isolation and treatment of patients to contain the spread of Coronavirus. He was chairing the district crisis management group meeting in Agar-Malwa on Tuesay. Chouhan directed for effective monitoring at the district borders stating that nobody should be allowed to enter the district without proper screening. He said that the administration must not shy away from taking harsh steps to stop spread of the disease. If required, they must do it, he said. Stressing on the need to wear a mask while stepping out of home, he also appealed to the social bodies and people’s representatives to come forward to make people aware about the disease so as to break the chain of Corona virus infection. He said the people must not panic over the increasing number of cases, but should try to ensure proper treatment for the patients. Collector Avadhesh Sharma informed the meeting that 35 people have been infected in the district of which 15 have recovered and were discharged from hospital while two have died. Presently, there are 18 active cases in the district, he said. Efforts are being made for containment an isolation of the areas and people infected and their samplings. Under the Kill Corona campaign 1.10 lakh house with a population of 5.89 lakh people have been surveyed. Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia and state BJP chief VD Sharma, Lok Sabha MP from Rajgarh Rodmal Nagar, MLA Susner Vikram Singh Rana, commissioner AK Sharma and IGP Rakesh Gupta were present at the meeting. The chief minister Chouhan accompanied by Jyotiraditya Scindia and VD Sharma later visited the Baba Baijnath temple and prayed for the safety of the people in the state. Earlier, the chief minister reviewed the Covid-19 status in Hatpipaliya and presided over the district crisis management group meeting. He appealed to the people to cooperate with the state government and district administration in its effort to stop spread of Corona virus infection and stay at home and desist from organising community prayers and pandals during the upcoming puja celebrations. Collector Chandramauli Shukla informed about the steps being undertaken in the district to keep the infectionunder check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dont-panic-over-covid-spurt-cm/articleshow/76968427.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Soon, auto drivers to don blue aprons||Ahmedabad: Soon, autorickshaw drivers in Ahmedabad and across the state will have to sport blue aprons while on duty. The state transport department issued a notification on Tuesday making it mandatory for the drivers to wear the aprons over their clothes.The notification stated that several meetings were organized with autorickshaw unions before the decision was taken. Although a date has not been specified in the notification, sources said that the rule will be implemented in the coming days.Ashok Punjabi, of the Ahmedabad Autorickshaw Drivers’ Association, said: “We agreed with the apron decision. However, unions wanted aprons of two colours to distinguish drivers who own autorickshaws from other drivers.” Punjabi said that several unions had suggested white aprons for owners and blue or khakhi aprons for others.Rajveer Upadhyay, an autorickshaw driver who on July 6 made headline news for getting his daughter a ‘secular’ school-leaving certificate, said that he had moved court over the dress code for drivers.“We have demanded a dress code for drivers of all permit-holding vehicles and not just for autorickshaw drivers,” Upadhyay said. “We have filed an application in the high court stating that a dress code for autorickshaw drivers alone will be a violation of their rights.”Upadhyay, a leader of the Jagrut Autorickshaw Drivers’ Association, wants the dress code to cover radio cab, tempo, and chakkada drivers as well. Moreover, he said, the high court had directed the state government to fix the number of permissions to be given to new autorickshaws in Ahmedabad city, but the government has not done so yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/soon-auto-drivers-to-don-blue-aprons/articleshow/76968632.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Allahabad||Implement social distancing in letter & spirit: High Court||Prayagraj: The Allahabad High court on Tuesday expressed concern over non-adherence to social distancing and rising cases of Covid-19 in the state and directed the state government to chalk out a plan to see how the concept of physical distancing is implemented in letter and spirit. “We would not hesitate in suggesting that incarceration and high fines be thought of,” the court added. “Somehow because of the Unlock-2, our people have got a wrong impression that they can now freely mix with each other and move around. Keeping this in mind, we had on March 25, 2020, directed the state government through the director general of police (DGP) to make the wearing of masks compulsory. We had also directed that mohalla committees to be more cautious and vigilant and to report about persons in the mohalla who were showing symptoms like influenza,” the court observed. Hearing a PIL seeking betterment of corona patients at quarantine centres, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “We cannot understand why the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulations, 2020, is not being implemented properly which clearly envisages action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Also, we cannot understand why Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which we are told is in force, is not being used.” Passing these directives, the court said that this exercise would have to be undertaken compulsorily as we found that the Covid-19 infection had been still there and that the people of our state were somehow not getting sensitive to the concept of physical distancing. The court directed the registrar general of this court to forward a copy of this order today to the chief secretary of the state, all the other concerned principal secretaries and all other teams, which are formulating ways and methods to fight the pandemic so that they may come up with a definite plan which may enforce physical distancing. The court fixed July 20 for the next hearing of the matter. The court further directed that a definite plan may be chalked out by the state government with regard to making available corona treatment in private nursing homes. The court passed this order after the additional advocate general, representing the state government, informed the court that no definite plan had yet been chalked out in this regard. The court expected the citizens of the state that they would not only maintain physical distancing but would also help the administration by providing information about persons who come from out of state and were not observing physical distancing and were not quarantining themselves. Passing the above directives, the court observed, “Lockdown for the prevention of the spread of Covid-19 virus was clamped on March 25, 2020. Thereafter, when in view of the experts the economy could be opened up, it was decided that in a phased manner economic and other activities would be revived. The government, therefore, came up with the concept of ‘Unlock-1’ and ‘Unlock-2’. Though we see that the economy is reviving, we are also seeing from the various news reports that the infection of Covid-19 virus is speedily rising.” “This probably is because of the fact that the denizens of the state of Uttar Pradesh do not understand the concept of ‘Unlock-2’. By Unlock-2, the experts of the government had meant that even though economic and other activities would open up, people would have to be more careful. They would have to observe physical distancing in letter and spirit and also would have to stick to various precautions; namely, frequent washing of hands, wearing of masks and maintaining regular hygiene,” The court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/implement-social-distancing-in-letter-spirit-high-court/articleshow/76965346.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat RERA disposed of 1,912 complaints||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority has resolved 1,912 consumer complaints since the new real estate law came into force across the country three years ago. With 1,912 consumer complaints resolved as of July 2020, Gujarat ranks sixth among Indian states in RERA cases resolved, Anarock Property Consultants stated in its analysis of data from the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. “One of RERA’s primary functions is addressing real estate consumer grievances. Since RERA implementation, authorities of various states and UTs have resolved over 48,556 consumer complaints,” said Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. Of complaints resolved across India in the past three year, 57% were disposed of in the last year alone. According to the consultancy, Uttar Pradesh topped the list with 18,509 cases resolved, followed by Haryana (9,919), Maharashtra (7,883), Madhya Pradesh (3,279) and Karnataka (2,221). With a total of 7,210 registered projects as on July 4, Gujarat ranks second in terms of project registration, while Maharashtra is at the top with 25,604 projects registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-rera-disposed-of-1912-complaints/articleshow/76968437.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Weekend curbs to continue till August, govt issues guidelines||LUCKNOW: With coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh climbing to almost 40,000 on Tuesday, the state government decided to clamp weekend curbs on social activities. Sources said, restrictions are likely to continue through August. As implemented last week, markets, restaurants, malls and offices would remain shut on Saturday and Sunday. The curbs would begin at 10 pm on Friday and continue till 5 am on Monday. An extensive sanitization drive will be taken up in public places over these two days while the health department will carry out door-to-door screening for those displaying Covid-19 systems. A notice issued by chief secretary RK Tiwari said, restrictions will apply to markets, malls, restaurants, all government and private offices, except banks and those providing essential services. All urban and rural haats, markets, grain mandis, commercial establishments will also remain shut. On weekdays, markets will remain open from 9 am to 9 pm. Any weekly market that used to be set up over the weekend will now be shifted to a weekday. During the weekend, restrictions will not apply to public transport, except Metro services. UP road transport services, which were not allowed during the first weekend of restrictions, will be allowed to operate. Both domestic and international air travel, as cleared by the Centre, and rail services will also continue and passengers moving to and from airports and railway stations will not be stopped. Essential services, including health services, major construction projects, fruit and vegetable markets and religious places will be allowed to function. The government said those involved in essential services, corona warriors, sanitation work and doorstep delivery personnel will be allowed to move about. Work will also continue on all major construction projects, including private construction works, expressways, bridges roads and government offices. Goods carriers will be allowed to operate on both state and national highways. Petrol pumps and dhabas along the highways will remain open. Essential services and their associated offices will remain operational. Their identity cards will function as passes for easy movement across the state. The notice says that PA systems will be installed at all public places, hospitals, medical colleges, industrial organisations and crossroads where announcements will be made on prevention and protection from Covid-19 and communicable diseases.“District magistrates and police officials will be required to carry out joint inspections in their areas during the weekends,” the CS said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/weekend-curbs-to-continue-till-august-govt-issues-guidelines/articleshow/76969060.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Agra||Antigen test for Covid-19 in Bareilly from today||BAREILLY/AGRA: In order to enable faster diagnosis of Covid-19 at lower rates, the health departments in Bareilly and Agra will start antigen testing from Wednesday onwards. The health department in Bareilly has received 5,000 antigen-based testing kits for Covid-19. Officials said that since the result of the antigen test will come in about 15 to 30 minutes, lab technicians will use it in containment zones to detect the likely cases. Bareilly presently has nearly 80 containment zones. Officials said Covid-19 testing through antigen kits will begin from Wednesday. Meanwhile, the health department in Agra district will start the antigen test from Thursday onwards. Around 1,000 testing kits have been provided to the SN Medical College by the state government. Chief medical officer of Bareilly Dr Vineet Shukla said, “If a person tests positive through the antigen test, it means his or her test result is confirmed. However, if a person tests negative for Covid-19 via antigen test, another round of RT-PCR test will be conducted for confirmation. We will use the kit to examine highly suspected cases so that if they test positive, their treatment can be started at the earliest.” Talking to TOI, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We are going to start the rapid antigen testing from Thursday onwards. It is a test on swabbed nasal samples that detects antigens (foreign substances that induce an immune response in the body) that are found on or within the SARS-CoV-2 virus. It is a point-of-care test, performed outside the conventional laboratory setting, and is used to quickly obtain a diagnostic result.” SNMC principal, Dr Sanjay Kala said, “The symptomatic individuals who test negative for Covid-19 by rapid antigen test would be tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out infection, whereas a positive test would be considered as a truly positive and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test. On being tested positive, the patient will be immediately shifted to the isolation ward.” In Bareilly, the samples for Covid-19 are being tested at the laboratory of Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) and through trueNat machine installed at the district hospital. The laboratory at district hospital with a capacity of 100 samples per day will begin testing for Covid-19 this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/antigen-test-for-covid-19-in-bareilly-from-today/articleshow/76966516.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Court points to ‘weak’ evidence, grants bail to accused||NEW DELHI: A man accused of rioting in northeast Delhi in February was granted bail by a Delhi court on the ground that he was identified by a police constable much later after the incident. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav’s order called it prima facie a “very weak” evidence. “If the constable was present at the time of the riots at the spot and had identified the applicant as one of the rioters, then the least he should have done was to report him at the police station. But he didn’t. His naming the applicant in his statement on March 7 is a very weak evidence,” it said. The constable, in his statement, had named Ahmed and two others accusing them of unlawful assembly and causing damage to a school. Seeking bail for the accused, Ahmed, advocate Abdul Gaffar argued that though the incident took place on February 25, the FIR had been registered on March 5 and his client was arrested on March 16. “The applicant is not named in the FIR. There is no CCTV footage in which he can be seen. There is no call data record (CDR) of the applicant. He has been arrested merely on the basis of constable Piyush’s statement,” Gaffar argued. Special public prosecutor DK Bhatia claimed that the delay in filing of the FIR was owing to the rampant nature of riots and curfew-like situation in the area. “The situation attained normalcy only in the first week of March. Thereafter, complainants started reporting to police,” he argued. Bhatia added that Piyush was the area’s beat constable and knew Ahmed resided there. The court held that after Ahmed’s arrest, the investigating officer should have got his judicial test identification parade conducted. “The applicant is admittedly not seen in any CCTV footage. His CDR locations are also not there on record,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/northeast-delhi-riots-court-points-to-weak-evidence-grants-bail-to-accused/articleshow/76969065.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chennai||Admission race: CBSE, Tamil Nadu board students may take it to the wire||CHENNAI: Though the number of centums scored by CBSE students this year is less than the previous year, city schools have witnessed a surge in the number of high scorers in the CBSE Class XII exams. While only 13% students scored above 90% at the national level, many city schools said 30% to 60% of their students secured above 450 out of 500. Due to the high scores, teachers and career consultants expect CBSE students would give a tough fight to state board students in engineering and arts and science college admissions this year. Teachers said cancellation of exams such as business studies and computer science could be the reason for high scores. The students were awarded marks based on their best three scores in these subjects. At Maharishi Vidyamandir Senior Secondary School in Chetpet, out of 471 students, 316 students (67%) have scored above 450. “CBSE students have a better chance this year to get admissions in top colleges. But it depends on the state board Class XII results,” said S Namasivayam, senior principal of Maharishi School. At Bhavans Rajaji Vidyashram in Kilpauk, out of 236 students, 105 students (44%) scored more than 450. “The marks have been awarded for whatever they have written. Our students have bright chances to get more admissions in top colleges,” said P G Subramanian, principal. In Modern Senior Secondary School in Nanganallur, more than 40% students have scored above 90%. “Out of 178 students who appeared in the exam, 142 students have scored above 90 in English,” said L Padmavathy, principal. Career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi said the cut-offs will be known only after the state board Class XII results. “Normally, state board students would score more centums. But this year it seems the number of centum will be less and there will be a close fight for seats in top engineering colleges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/admission-race-cbse-tn-board-students-may-take-it-to-the-wire/articleshow/76968433.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Mumbai||Hosp cuts cake as patient discharged on eve of 100th birthday||Mumbai: A centenarian who tested positive for Covid-19 a fortnight back was discharged from BMC-run HBT Trauma Care Hospital (Jogeshwari) on Tuesday. Arjun Naringekar celebrates his 100th birthday on July 15, so before bidding him goodbye, hospital doctors and other staff cut him a cake, wishing him good health. The Charkop resident had not stepped out of home through lockdown but some family members had fever, after which he showed similar symptoms. In the last week of June, when he lost appetite, he was tested and his report came positive. The family shifted him to the hospital as he also in need of an ICU bed. His son Rajan, a BMC insecticide officer, said his father lived with him, but since Covid, he shifted him to his brother’s home in Malad as a precaution. “My father never had health issues. Being a teacher, he has been on his feet all through life and retired in 1978 as headmaster of a zilla parishad school in Devgad. In 1982, he shifted to Mumbai and has been with us. He has grandchildren and great grandchildren around him. Due to his age, we have been very careful. We are happy he fought the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hosp-cuts-cake-as-patient-discharged-on-eve-of-100th-birthday/articleshow/76968272.cms||Richa Pinto
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||States to take call on wedding guests: MHA||Chandigarh: The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has clarified that it is for Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh to impose restrictions on the number of guests in marriage related gatherings on the basis of their assessment of the situation. Earlier on June 24, a division bench of the HC had directed the MHA, both the states and the UT to take calls on a representation that in marriage related ceremonies, the gathering should be reduced from 50 guests to 25. Responding to these directions, M Subramanian, deputy secretary to the Government of India, MHA (disaster management division), through his letter dated July 13, has clarified, “It is for the states to impose such restrictions on the basis of their assessment of the situation...” As far as the state of Punjab is concerned, it has issued a notification on Monday reducing the maximum number of guests that may be permitted in a wedding from 50 guests to 30 guests. However, the response of the Haryana government as well as UT administration is still awaited. The matter had reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by advocate H C Arora. According to Arora, the MHA guideline prescribing a limit of 50 guests in marriage was on higher side and the same had been fixed without taking cognizance of the state amendments made by Punjab and Haryana governments to the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. “Thus, not only the government guidelines are too liberal, but the same are violative of the provisions of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, as applicable in the states of Punjab and Haryana as well as Union territory Chandigarh,” Arora had told the HC. Taking cognizance, the HC had then asked the MHA to take a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/states-to-take-call-on-wedding-guests-mha/articleshow/76969066.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Create new category to help micro units’||COIMBATORE: Representatives of micro and small industries from the city have sought that a new category of ‘cottage enterprises’ be created for them to help them ward off unfair competition from bigger industries. Due to the revision in definition of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs), the identity of micro and small units had been affected. Representatives said the investment limit for cottage industries should be fixed at Rs 25lakh and the turnover limit at Rs 1crore. Industrialists said till around eight years ago, there was a category of industrial units called ‘cottage or tiny’ units. Later it was subsumed into the ‘micro’ category. In May this year, the Centre raised the investment limit for micro industries from Rs 25lakh to Rs 1crore and fixed the turnover limit at Rs 5crore. The investment limit for small industries was raised from Rs 5crore and Rs 10crore and its turnover limit was fixed at Rs 50crore. For medium industries, it was raised from Rs 10crore to Rs 20crore and the investment limit was fixed at Rs 100crore. This would mean that bigger industrial units would come into the classification of MSMEs and subsequently cottage and tiny industries would stand to lose their share of benefits and orders, leading to unfair competition, said representatives of micro and small industries. There were around 20,000 engineering industrial units which could be classified as cottage units, they said. In addition, another 20,000 rural industries involved in making products such as agarbathis, candles, and areca plates also would fall into this category. These industries would have an investment of less than Rs10lakh, said J James, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT). “Even in getting the emergency credit line loans announced by the Centre, tiny and cottage industries did not benefit as much as the medium ones did,” he said. If cottage and tiny units were defined as a category, their issues could be represented separately, said S Surulivel, president of Railway Suppliers Association (RASA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/create-new-category-to-help-micro-units/articleshow/76968435.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Amaravati||Experts call for fresh approach to flatten Covid infection curve||AMARAVATI: Medical experts are worried about the sharp increase in the death rate of Covid-19 patients in the state. Experts have called for an urgent introspection into the indiscriminate testing of suspects that is increasing the burden on healthcare professionals. Doctors have appealed to the government to allow medical professionals to take the lead instead of having district collectors manage the situation. “This situation of a global pandemic is basically a medical emergency, which requires expertise from the respective fields such as infectious disease specialty, emergency physician, virologist, epidemiologist and community medicine and a pulmonologist. Instead of collectors, hospital chiefs should be made Covid-19 commanders to handle the situation better,” observed a senior pulmonologist associated with Covid-19 hospitals’ management. “The mortality rate in AP is still one of the lowest in the country. There is a spike in the deaths due to the change in the weather conditions, which is triggering asthma, pneumonia and other comorbidities among the Covid-19 patients,” said state government doctors’ association president and senior anesthetist Dr Jayadheer Babu. A few experts from other fields are also of the same opinion. “A call centre for video conferencing should be built to treat or cater to the needs of the population,” said a senior professor at GMC, Guntur. She said a patient should have access to doctors via video conference before visiting the hospital. There should be a diagnostic facility close to the doorstep. “Triaging of patients should start from video conferencing, which would also includes allaying anxiety, supplying home quarantine kits along with betadine. If the patient develops symptoms, all the details should be known to the team of doctors before arrival. This would help them send the patients to the appropriate ward or ICU and start with treatment immediately,” said a noted general physician. Such smart strategies can only save people and restore faith in the system, but not collectors who are blindly ordering doctors to give oxygen to each and every patient, he rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/experts-call-for-fresh-approach-to-flatten-covid-infection-curve/articleshow/76967672.cms||Samdani MN
July 15, 2020||Bareilly||Antigen test for Covid-19 in Bareilly from today||BAREILLY/AGRA: In order to enable faster diagnosis of Covid-19 at lower rates, the health departments in Bareilly and Agra will start antigen testing from Wednesday onwards. The health department in Bareilly has received 5,000 antigen-based testing kits for Covid-19. Officials said that since the result of the antigen test will come in about 15 to 30 minutes, lab technicians will use it in containment zones to detect the likely cases. Bareilly presently has nearly 80 containment zones. Officials said Covid-19 testing through antigen kits will begin from Wednesday. Meanwhile, the health department in Agra district will start the antigen test from Thursday onwards. Around 1,000 testing kits have been provided to the SN Medical College by the state government. Chief medical officer of Bareilly Dr Vineet Shukla said, “If a person tests positive through the antigen test, it means his or her test result is confirmed. However, if a person tests negative for Covid-19 via antigen test, another round of RT-PCR test will be conducted for confirmation. We will use the kit to examine highly suspected cases so that if they test positive, their treatment can be started at the earliest.” Talking to TOI, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We are going to start the rapid antigen testing from Thursday onwards. It is a test on swabbed nasal samples that detects antigens (foreign substances that induce an immune response in the body) that are found on or within the SARS-CoV-2 virus. It is a point-of-care test, performed outside the conventional laboratory setting, and is used to quickly obtain a diagnostic result.” SNMC principal, Dr Sanjay Kala said, “The symptomatic individuals who test negative for Covid-19 by rapid antigen test would be tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out infection, whereas a positive test would be considered as a truly positive and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test. On being tested positive, the patient will be immediately shifted to the isolation ward.” In Bareilly, the samples for Covid-19 are being tested at the laboratory of Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) and through trueNat machine installed at the district hospital. The laboratory at district hospital with a capacity of 100 samples per day will begin testing for Covid-19 this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/antigen-test-for-covid-19-in-bareilly-from-today/articleshow/76976484.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||HC’s move to allow virtual proceedings in all cases will lower pendency, say lawyers||VISAKHAPATNAM: Lawyers have welcomed the recent decision of the Andhra Pradesh high court to allow virtual proceedings for all cases, including pending cases. Since the lockdown began, virtual proceedings have been allowed only for cognizable cases in which the police had to produce the accused in court and for new cases of an urgent nature in which the immediate intervention of the court was required, such as a civil dispute where the plaintiff has applied for an injunction. “It has been more than three months since there has been any progress in pending cases. Its good that the high court has allowed urgent proceedings of old cases on a virtual platform,” Srikrishna Prasad, secretary of Srikakulam District Bar Association told TOI. The circular issued by the high court states that “hearing of all types of cases will be taken up through Blue Jeans video conferencing application or any other applications approved by the court.” However, the circular comes with a condition. It states, “At the first place, the cases filed from June 24 be listed in seriatim for motion hearing. Meanwhile, in any pending matter, looking into the nature of dispute, advocate may apply by filing urgent hearing application which shall be considered by the honourable chief justice and be listed before the bench.” Lawyers said that resuming proceedings of pending cases was essential given that most district courts are burdened with old cases and new cases, though few at present, are being filed everyday. “There are around 70,000 pending cases in Visakhapatnam, around 20,000 in Srikakulam and around 58,000 in Vizianagaram districts. Since the lockdown there has been no proceedings for these 1,48,000 cases. What would be the condition of the entire state?” said Kuppalli Muralidhar, president of Forum of Legal Professionals. Advocates agreed with the high court’s decision to allow virtual proceedings only for urgent pending cases as proceedings for all pending cases may not be possible on a virtual platform. “As an advocate I would say virtual proceedings of all old cases are not possible. Most of the cases need detailed analysis during proceedings. Virtual proceedings should be allowed only if there is urgency,” YV Ravi Prasad, president of Andhra Pradesh High Court Advocate’s Association told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hcs-move-to-allow-virtual-proceedings-in-all-cases-will-lower-pendency-say-lawyers/articleshow/76967689.cms||Arpit Basu
July 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Now, Khurda’s turn to give cause for concern||BHUBANESWAR: Khurda is emerging as the next big worry for the state government after Ganjam as 567 cases in July have taken the district’s count to 1423. Till June 8, Jajpur was on the second spot. But Khurda quickly graduated to take the place in terms of total infections, active cases and deaths. The 567 cases in July include 453 from Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) jurisdiction and 114 from Khurda rural, under Khurda district administration. On Tuesday, the district added 87 new cases, out of which 51 were reported from the capital city. The district has 471 active cases, second after Ganjam, which has 1856 active cases. Khurda has reported 12 deaths (10 in Bhubaneswar and two in Khurda rural). Khurda district collector Sitanshu Rout blamed its proximity to Bhubaneswar and said even for small health related problems people go to the capital, and in the process, they have been contracting the virus. “Also, Khurda has a floating population, especially working class people. Before we sealed the border, many from Ganjam would come here in search of work and that is one of the reasons why cases have gone up. We will get better results in a week’s time as more and more people recover,” Rout explained. Ganjam has the highest number of cases, 4335, with 188 new infections and 1856 active cases. In July alone, Ganjam added 2821 cases, around 200 on a regular basis. Ashok Mohapatra, vice-chancellor of SOA University, said now that the borders have been sealed, it will significantly check movement of people and help reduce the spread of virus. “But along with that the government should also focus on testing all those in institutional quarantine (both symptomatic and asymptomatic) so as to segregate the ones with negative results. Secondly, home isolation should be monitored properly as there are reports of people jumping quarantine and mingling with people,” Mohapatra observed. Of the 51 cases reported on Tuesday in the capital city, 35 were from quarantine and 16 local cases (not quarantined and suspected to have contracted the virus from primary contact). The city also saw five patients recover, taking the total cured to 361 while active cases went up to 397.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/now-khurdas-turn-to-give-cause-for-concern/articleshow/76967686.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Madurai||Once shunned, online markets are now thriving in Madurai||MADURAI: Two years ago, a major online supermarket shut operasions in Madurai thanks to poor patronisation, but with people wanting to stay indoors now, small online markets have mushroomed in the city.  ``I have decided to buy even my vegetables online even if it means taking chances with quality,’’ said S Kavitha of K K Nagar whose area has recorded a spike in cases. In fact, the demand for online delivery of everyday essentials has turned many into entrepreneurs. Yaadhum, a social media group, is delivering only organically certified products to customers. Krishnan Subramanian, its coordinator, says they now have 75 loyal customers after opening a month ago. ``Our objective is to create a dialogue on healthy eating and we also organize webinars on healthy eating with experts,’’ he said. G V Muthukumar, who has a software firm, launched Mazz online supermarket, promising the best quality products on request. ``The software firm has about 400 customers in Madurai, of which about four or five are wholesale grocery traders with whom we have tied up,” he said. The customer has to WhatsApp the list of items he requires and they get back in an hour with the price list. Once confirmed, the goods are delivered in an hour and delivery fee of Rs 50 charged for goods costing less than Rs 1,000. Director of Born Natural, Deepak Pandian, said they had launched the app in January to sell produce from their organic farms. They have created a fullfledged online market on the lines of BigBasket where you can find all you need. Nature’s Best is another venture by K Sakthivel, which will deliver fruits and vegetables from Kodaikanal to Madurai from next week. As for fish, Zion Seafoods has a range of fresh fish delivered free of cost to customers in the city. M Rakesh, who owns the venture, claimed that freshness of the fish,which they procure from Rameswaram and Tuticorin, was their USP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/once-shunned-online-markets-are-now-thriving-in-madurai/articleshow/76969077.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||HP reports record spike of 63 positive cases, 12 recover||Shimla: In Himachal Pradesh, 63 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported on Tuesday, including 48 from Solan district, seven from Chamba, three each from Solan and Una, two each from Kangra and Shimla and one from Kinnaur. In the state, 12 positive patients have also recovered — seven from Kangra and five from Solan district. Total number of positive cases has now increased to 1,309 in the state, of which 347 are active, while 938 patients have recovered. Of the total tested positive, 13 have migrated out of the state, nine have died of Covid-19, while two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district have occurred due to non-Covid reasons. In Solan, 48 industrial workers from Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area tested positive on Monday around midnight. In Shimla district, two persons who had arrived here on July 5 and were in quarantine have tested positive. These include a 50-year-old man in home quarantine and a 42-year-old apple trader in institutional quarantine. In Una district, a 22-year-old man from Amlehar village and a 27-year-old man from Behar Patehar area, who had returned from Raigad in Maharshtra and were in institutional quarantine, have been tested positive. A 22-year-old man from Mava Sindhiyan in Gagret who had returned from Gujarat and was in institutional quarantine has also been tested positive. In Chamba district, a 31-year-old ITBP jawan from Samot village, along with his 28-year-old wife and two children aged five and three, have been tested positive. Another 27-year-old ITBP jawan from Bharari village of Bahttiyat block, and a 28-year-old ITBP jawan from Garnota have also been tested positive. A 26-year-old Army jawan from Garbnei in Dalhousie sub-division has been tested positive. In Kangra, a 23-year-old man and a 70-year-old man from Chhatri, who are both direct contacts of already admitted patients, have been tested positive for Covid-19. A total of 64,359 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Tuesday, of them 43,873 have completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 20,486 are under active surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-reports-record-spike-of-63-positive-cases-12-recover/articleshow/76969078.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Allahabad||More containment zones in city than trans-Ganga, Yamuna areas||Prayagraj: With rapid rise in positive cases of coronavirus in city localities, the urban pockets of the district have more number of clusters and containment zones compared to trans-Ganga and Yamuna. As per the data revealed by the health department, there are a total of 89 clusters including Sadar-city (61), Handia ( 11), Soraon (4), Phulpur (6), Meja (3), Bara (3) and Karchana (1). Similarly, there are a total of 322 containment zones including Sadar-city areas (139), Handia (37), Soroan (21), Phulpur (27), Koraon (7), Meja (21), Karchana (18) and Bara (11). For instance, a total 24 people tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Monday wherein 20 of them were from urban pockets while rest four from rural areas. From July 1 to13, a total of 346 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city and over 92% of them were residents of either old city or upscale localities like Civil Lines, Tagoretown, Georgetown, Chowk, and Lukerganj. The sudden rise in number of novel coronavirus cases has also put a major dent in Prayagraj district’s recovery rate — which dropped from 72% to 59.65 % till July 13. Ironically, as many as 346 coronavirus cases were surfaced between July 1 and 13 leaving the authorities of health department to run from pillar to post to find out the carriers responsible behind rapid spread. Till June 30, the city had recorded only 286 Covid-19 positive cases while the graph on July 13 stood 647. As the strength of Covid positive patients is increasing and majority of them hailing from urban areas, the strength of containment zones has also increased in city equally. The city has a total of 139 containments zones compared to trans-Ganga (85) and trans- Yamuna (57). Health officials, however, claimed that teams are working overtime to identify hotspots where maximum cases of positive patients were detected in a particular area in city limits. Besides, the officials were also compiling a data of positive patients detected in city areas between July 1 and 13. Pointedly, the door to door campaign being taken out by the health authorities has helped health department authorities to compile a data of people who came in contact with positive people in the past 14 days. According to data released by health department, as many as 647 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the city by Monday night. Of these, 386 patients have recovered and have been discharged, while 22 have succumbed to the disease so far. Health department data shows that on July 1, 2, 3, 4 , 5, 6, 7, 8 , 9, 10, 11 , 12 and 13 was 10, 16, 31, 22 ,27, 22, 5, 8 , 52, 49, 35, 45 and 24 cases were reported respectively. A senior health official said, “There are adequate beds in the covid hospitals in district including Covid Level one hospital (41 beds), Covid CHC Kotwa (29), TB Sapru Level two hospital ( 209), SRN Level Three hospital (200) and railway (100). He further added that while 212 patients are currently undergoing treatment at these aforesaid hospitals, 367 beds are still vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/more-containment-zones-in-city-than-trans-ganga-yamuna-areas/articleshow/76965387.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: East-West tunnelling operations may not resume before end of July||KOLKATA: Around 40 labourers and engineers associated with the movement of tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urvi, which was digging the east-bound tunnel for the East-West Metro corridor, have tested Covid positive. With the entire tunnelling team indisposed, tunnelling operations have been suspended for now and can resume only after they recover. A senior official of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the agency implementing the 16km East-West Metro linking Howrah Maidan and Salt Lake’s Sector V through the Hooghly riverbed, said tunnelling should start by July 25, once the infected had served their isolation period. Following contact tracing protocol, another 170 personnel have been tested. “The swab test reports will come in by tomorrow. Meanwhile, most of those who tested Covid positive are asymptomatic. Those with minor symptoms have been shifted to the state government’s Covid facility in New Town. The rest are in their respective residential quarters,” the KMRC official said. The Covid contagion is the latest setback for the beleaguered Metro project that KMRC was desperately trying to expedite amid the pandemic. Tunnelling had resumed on June 19 and engineers were much relieved as the TBM hit the main road, BB Ganguly Street on June 28, even as one or two labourers had tested Covid positive along the way. But quite a few of them are now infected and isolated inside the camps belonging to contractors ITD ITD Cementation at New Town. “All safety guidelines at the work site and the labour camp are being followed,” said the official. He said work for the rest of the project, along the Howrah Maidan-end where track laying is on, is unaffected. The last leg of tunnelling, the 2.45km from Esplanade to Sealdah, has been saddled with challenges. The twin tunnels had to pass through more than 700 old and unstable buildings. And halfway into the zig-zag route, on August 31, last year, Urvi’s twin, Chundee, that was digging the west-bound tunnel, hit an aquifer, which led to large-scale subsidence and building collapses at Bowbazar. With barely 500m of the tunnelling left for Urvi, which was due to reach its destination Sealdah Station by August-end, KMRC was looking forward to an uninterrupted journey of the TBM. “But the Covid outbreak has come as a blow. We hope tunnelling can resume at the month-end,” an KMRC engineer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-tunnelling-ops-may-not-resume-before-end-of-july/articleshow/76968423.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Best to study from textbooks: PU science topper||MANGALURU: Abhijna Rao, who topped the state in the science stream by scoring 596 out 600, says that she prepared for this day when she stood second in the SSLC exam in 2018. “In the SSLC exam, I missed coming first by one mark. From that day I made a firm decision that I will stand first in PU, and today, the hard work has paid off, despite having scored four marks less than the total,” says an elated Abhijna Rao. Abhijna, a student of Vidyodaya PU College, Udupi, scored 100 out of 100 in physics, mathematics, chemistry, Sanskrit, and computer science, and scored 96 in English. On how she achieved her goal, Abhijna says that she studied without taking any stress. “Complete concentration during class hours helped me a lot, and I studied 4-5 hours every day, during the examination. The icing on the cake was the college environment, which is situated adjacent to Krishna Mutt,” she said. Her suggestion to students was to study only from textbooks and not other materials. “Most of the questions come from textbooks,” she adds. Abhijna wants to pursue computer science engineering and walk in the footsteps of her elder sister Raksha Rao, who is a fresh graduate from NITK, Surathkal. Her mother Asha Rao is a homemaker and father Vittal Rao B passed away four years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/best-to-study-from-textbooks-pu-science-topper/articleshow/76966542.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP invites expressions of interest for textile parks||LUCKNOW: To develop Uttar Pradesh as a readymade garments hub, especially since much of the business in this field has been taken up by countries like Bangladesh, Vietnam and Indonesia in Southeast Asia, the textile department has invited expressions of interest for setting up integrated textile and apparel parks in the state. The move comes days after CM Yogi Adityanath had directed the department to develop a textile hub in state to boost the economy and create employment. Textile minister Sidharth Nath Singh said: “The chief minister had announced that UP will become India’s textile and apparel hub. For that, we have come up with a most attractive policy and have invited tenders for it now. This will give a huge boost to apparel exports from UP.” The textile department said that UP is the third highest fabric producing state in the country and ranks fifth in the total silk production. It has 58 spinning mills and 74 textile mills in the non-Supplemental Security Income sector. It has the fifth highest number of handlooms in the country with 2.58 lakh weavers and about 5.5 lakh power loom weavers. UP also produces around 90% of the country’s carpets. As conceptualised by the government, the proposed parks will be state-of-the-art and should be developed in a minimum area of 20 acres in Bundelkhand and Purvanchal and in 30 acres in Pashchimanchal and Madhyanchal. Parks which are developed in an area of 100 acres or more will be given special preference. Preferred locations for the parks are Meerut, Agra, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Lucknow and Kanpur. The developer, however, can suggest an alternate location based on its viability. The parks are expected to be developed with comprehensive infrastructure, including factory sheds, flatted factories, warehouses, common facility centres, skill development centres, repair shops, dormitories and hostels and incubation centres. The activities which the government is proposing for the park could include sericulture, handloom, spinning, weaving, processing, technical textiles, fashion accessories etc. Among the incentives offered by the government under the Private Industrial Park Scheme of Industrial Investment and Employment Promotion Policy of 2017, the textile department will assist the developer in getting up to 50% of annual interest on loan taken to purchase land reimbursed, subject to conditions, reimbursement of interest of up to 60% of annual interest for 7 years on loan taken for building infrastructure and hostel, 100% reimbursement of stamp duty and assistance in availing incentives under the scheme for integrated textile parks of the Government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-invites-expressions-of-interest-for-textile-parks/articleshow/76969075.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Scientist awarded for 3 salt tolerant clones of Casuarina||COIMBATORE: The Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education has conferred the national award for excellence in outstanding research in forestry for the year 2019 on scientist Kannan C S Warrier, senior principal, Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), for releasing three productive clones of Casuarina, also known as Kattadi and Savukku, that are suitable for salt affected soils for the first time in the country. The country has around 6.73 million hectares of salt affected land. The institute in its statement said Warrier has also been the recipient of the Rolla S Rao National Award for his extensive research on conservation of endangered sacred groves, also called ‘Koil Kadu’. The scientist, in his 27 years in forestry research, has 232 research publications. The clones he released is expected to boost ICFRE’s agroforestry initiatives. ICFRE was recently declared the centre for excellence in addressing issues related to land degradation by the prime minister. The scientist, who has a doctoral degree in forest genetics, is the first rank holder for both BSc and MSc forestry degrees from the Kerala Agricultural University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/scientist-awarded-for-3-salt-tolerant-clones-of-casuarina/articleshow/76968442.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||SSC called off, all class X students pass||VIJAYAWADA: The school education department on Tuesday issued government order (GO) no. 34, cancelling SSC examinations and all class X students were declared to have passed. The SSC Public Examinations were initially scheduled from March 23 to April 8 but later postponed from March 31 to April 17 after the announcement of local body elections. After the lockdown was imposed, the number of papers were reduced from 11 to 6 and the dates shifted to July 10 to 17. A majority of district collectors, however, said they were unable to make arrangements for the exams as Covid-19 cases were on the rise. The state government permitted the director of government examinations to declare all students registered for the exam as having passed, and to treat issuance of hall ticket as the basis for awarding the promotion, instead of grade points, as an exceptional measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ssc-called-off-all-class-x-students-pass/articleshow/76967694.cms||Venu Lanka
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Border bridge opened briefly for wedding||Pithoragarh: The suspension bridge at Dharchula in Pithoragarh district, connecting India and Nepal, was briefly opened for 15 minutes on Tuesday to solemnise a marriage between families from both the countries. The Pithoragarh district administration and Darchula (Nepal) authorities gave the permission for opening the bridge to facilitate the wedding ceremony. The wedding of Kamlesh Chand, 26, with Radhika, 21, from Dhaulakot village in Darchula (Nepal) was scheduled to be held on March 22 and even the preparations were all completed. However, the Covid-induced lockdown played spoilsport and the marriage had to be postponed. With no sign of normalcy returning anytime soon, the families approached the authorities who gave permission for the bridge to be opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/border-bridge-opened-briefly-for-wedding/articleshow/76965401.cms||Prem Punetha
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Two more railway passengers shifted to IGGMCH||Nagpur: Two more railway passengers were shifted to Indira Gandhi Government College and Hospital (IGGMCH) following their arrival on Tuesday afternoon. A 22-year-old man and another 29-year-old had reportedly left Bangalore to escape being quarantined, officials said. When fellow passengers came to know this, they informed the GRP (government railway police) which alerted the railway protection force (RPF) about the two passengers who were Covid19 suspects. “Destination of both the passengers was Nagpur but they were not allowed to go home. An ambulance was called and as per SOP they were referred to IGGMCH. The B10 coach of Bangalore-NDLS Rajdhani Express was sanitized and sealed,” said Central railway assistant commercial manager Vipul Suskar. On Sunday, a 29-year-old man was informed after his sample tested positive in Delhi and he had to deboarded the NDLS-Bangalore Train at Nagpur. He is asymptomatic and under treatment at IGGMCH. Another 19-year-old passenger on Sanghamitra Express had been admitted to IGGMCH and tested. His result is awaited. IGGMCH doctors said the two passengers from Tuesday are under observation but not positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-railway-passengers-shifted-to-iggmch/articleshow/76968431.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Child porn & sex toys found in Pyare Mian’s apartment||BHOPAL: Police raided fugitive Pyare Mian’s flat in a posh complex in Bhopal on Tuesday and unearthed a hoard of child pornography, a dance bar set-up, sex toys, sexual stimulants and hundreds of bottles of very expensive foreign liquor. This is where he allegedly held ‘sex parties’ where minor girls were exploited. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said police raided Pyare Mian’s locked luxurious flat on the fourth floor of Ansal Apartment, which had dance-bar type seating arrangements. The administration on Tuesday razed two more ‘encroached’ properties that belonged to him -- a four-storied apartment in Talaiya and an illegal shed built beside Ansal Apartment in Shyamla Hills. A marriage hall he owns in Talaiya was demolished on Monday and another in Aishbagh may be razed on Wednesday, say sources. There’s a Rs 30,000 bounty for his arrest and police said they will nab him soon. Police were shocked to find child pornography in Pyare Mian’s flat in Ansal Plaza, and have added these charges in the two cases registered against him. Charges under Excise Act were added after a huge amount of liquor was found in the apartment. There were bottles arranged in every nook and corner, said an officer -- wherever you reached out in the house, there was a set of liquor bottles. Some wild animal trophies were also seized, say police. A case has been registered against his son Shahnawaz over this and police are looking for him. Three luxury cars – an Audi, a Pajero and a Fortuner – have been seized. Police said many influential people live in the posh Ansal Apartment in Shyamla Hills but they were unaware of the goings on in Pyare Mian’s flat. While searching for Pyare Mian’s properties, the authorities found that had built a four-storied building, with six flats, on government land in Hathikhana area of Talaiya. A joint team of police, district administration and BMC started demolishing the illegal apartment around 11am and completed the work around 6pm, said SP Thota. A team from Indore had been called to blow it with explosives but this plan was scrapped because it’s a densely populated area. So, it was demolished manually. A 1,000-sqft shed built next to Ansal Apartment was also found and razed. It had a kitchen, garage and seating area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/child-porn-sex-toys-found-in-pyare-mians-apartment/articleshow/76968440.cms||Sudeept Mishra
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government extends stricter lockdown in Kolkata containment zones till Sunday||KOLKATA: Strict containment measures in Kolkata had been extended till July 19, said a state notification on Tuesday. State home secretary Alapan Bandhopadhyay, who became the nodal officer for Kolkata on Monday, chaired a meeting with top KMC, health and police officers on Tuesday to decide on containment measures. Working on a “holistic plan”, the administrators would meet daily to take stock of the ground situation, an official hinted. At the meeting, Bandopadhyay indicated that the state health department would develop a web portal for better coordination between state and private hospitals. He also said KMC and the Kolkata Police control rooms would be better connected while, stricter norms would be imposed on containment zones and the number of safe houses and quarantine centres would be increased. Bandopadhyay stressed on better collection of information relating to virus spread and treatment. of Covid patients. According to a senior police officer, the KMC commissioner was likely to hold another meeting with the special commissioner and joint commissioner (headquarters) of the Kolkata Police in the next 48 hours before finalizing the new containment zones. The city currently has 28 containment zones. “We have been making necessary additions and omissions to the list every day, at the micro level. But it has been decided that the overall changes in the nature or number of containment zones, if any, will be announced only after a week of the containment zones coming into existence to study its effectiveness,” said a senior police officer. Sources said a few areas in the north, especially in the Jorabagan-Girish Park belt, along with parts of Tollygunge-Jadavpur and Behala, are under “specific watch”. “There has been a spike in the number of Covid cases there and so, the need for larger containment zones are being discussed. But no decision has yet been taken. Similarly, particular clusters within containment zones in Maniktala, Phoolbagan, Bhowanipore and Sakherbazar, where the mandatory two weeks have passed without any new case, is likely to be taken off the list,” an official said. The other measures being looked into are gathering of Covid information at the ward level, better coordination between KMC and police control rooms, increasing the scope of satellite centres and paid safe houses, where patients with minimal symptoms, can be quarantined and improving coordination between government and private hospitals following allegations of patients—Covid and otherwise—not receiving proper treatment. “The idea of starting an online solution was mooted,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-extends-stricter-lockdown-in-city-containment-zones-till-sunday/articleshow/76968432.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 15, 2020||Chennai||290 more deaths in Chennai from June 11 to July 5 yet to make it to TN coronavirus count||CHENNAI: At least 290 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai between June 11 and July 5 haven’t been included in Tamil Nadu’s toll. This is in addition to the 256 deaths from March to June 10 that had not been added to the state toll. If all these deaths are counted, Chennai’s case fatality rate goes up to 2.3% from the present 1.6%. As of Tuesday, the official Covid-19 death toll in the city is 1,295. That 290 deaths were left out was discovered by the Greater Chennai Corporation while reconciling data from the city’s burial and cremation grounds. On July 10, city health officer Dr M Jagadeesan wrote to the director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam with details of the 290 deaths that occurred between June 11 and July 5. Health department officials said the directorate of public health found that 188 people on the list of 290 had tested positive. But they weren’t sure about the remaining 102 deceased as either they hadn’t been tested for Covid-19 or the test results couldn’t be located during the preliminary search. Health minister C Vijayabaskar told TOI that the state was working with transparency. “We will be adding the deaths to the state record soon,” he said. A preliminary review by officials on Monday showed that a majority of these patients were either brought dead to hospitals or died soon after admission. The hospitals – both government and private -- handed over the bodies to the families and asked them to carry out burial or cremation as per the Covid-19 protocol in the presence of a health official or sanitary inspector. However, when the test results turned positive for the viral infection the hospitals concerned did not report it to the civic agency or health department, officials said. Some deaths also happened at home, they added. “All these deaths will be added to the state toll,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. And to minimise delays and errors, the state has formed a permanent reconciliation committee that will meet every week to review deaths, he said. “In the last three weeks we have been updating our records and it was during this process we discovered these 290 deaths. We have submitted it for reconciliation,” a senior health official in the Greater Chennai Corporation said. WHO has provided codes for Covid-19 deaths -- U07.1 for all Covid-19 deaths and U07.2 for probable Covid-19 deaths. In the second case, Covid-19 virus is not identified through tests, but doctors have clinically or epidemiologically diagnosed and suspect the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/290-more-deaths-in-city-from-june-11-to-july-5-yet-to-make-it-to-tn-virus-count/articleshow/76968443.cms||Pushpa Narayan
July 15, 2020||Bhopal||Cops: Pyare Mian forged I-T papers of minors to take them abroad||BHOPAL: The minor girls who were lured into a child sex racket in Bhopal have told police how Pyare Mian, a newspaper owner now wanted by police, sent goons to terrorise them and their parents if they didn’t give in to his demands. Also, police say they are beginning to pick up the threads of the racket and how minor girls from poor families were lured into it with offers of loans to their parents. Pyare Mian forged income-tax certificates so that he could take the girls abroad, say police. Investigators will take the help of income tax department to identify those who helped Pyare Mian in this. Once trapped in the racket, the girls had no escape.  A 16-year-old, who approached police on learning that Pyare Mian was on the run, has alleged that he raped her for six months around two years ago, and took her to Singapore, Doha and Kashmir after threatening her parents. Pyare Mian’s driver’s brother Ubesh Ahmed raped her too, she says. Childline director Archana Sahai, who counselled the girl, said that when the survivor started avoiding Pyare Mian, he sent his goons to attack her parents. They were so terrified that they kept mum and never dared speak to anyone about it until now. According to Sahai and police, Pyare Mian used to show his victims his pictures with politicians and government officers, and would boast that even if they filed a complaint, nothing would happen to him. SHO of Koh-e-Fiza police station, Anil Bajpai, said that the 16-year-old approached them on Monday evening to say she was 14 when her mother, who had taken a loan from Pyare Mian, sent her to his home to work. It was the beginning of six months of sexual exploitation, she alleged. Among the five co-accused is the grandmother of one of the survivors, who knew she was being raped but allegedly aided in the crime.  The other four are Pyare Mian’s secretary Sweety Vishwakarma, his driver Anas Ahmed, the driver’s brother Ubesh and a pimp named Gulshan. Sweety and the grandmom are in custody. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said police have received information that Pyare Mian supplied girls to some people. This information is being verified. Pyare Mian used to give money, branded clothes and other luxuries to minors in return for sexual favours, say police. The two scooters on which five drunken minors were seen in the wee hours of Sunday were given by him, the girls have said. He often took them to Indore in his luxury SUV. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-pyare-forged-i-t-papers-of-minors-to-take-them-abroad/articleshow/76968444.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 2,166 crore credit for MSMEs in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has sanctioned Rs 2,166 crore to micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) units under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) out of which around Rs 1,134 crore has already been disbursed. Punjab industries minister Sunder Sham Arora said the state ranks third among all states in India, with 94.93% sanctions to MSMEs to mitigate their suffering and provide proactive financial assistance. He said there are approximately 1.64 lakh MSME eligible loan accounts involving an eligible loan amount of Rs 4,372 crore. Out of this, over 1.11 lakh eligible borrowers had opted in for the ECLGS scheme till last week. After the adverse impact of Covid-19 pandemic on various industries, the Union ministry of finance, through the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company, had introduced the ECLGS for providing 100% guarantee coverage for additional working capital term loans up to 20% of the entire outstanding loan liability up to Rs 25 crore as on February 29, 2020. This means that an industrial unit is eligible for a maximum loan amount of Rs 5 crore, subject to certain stipulations, under the scheme. A special state level bankers’ committee meeting was convened on the request of Punjab industries department to expedite sanctions and disbursement as per the target given by the Union government, which is 100% sanction by July 15 and 100% disbursal by July 31, said the minister. As majority of the banks in Punjab had started financing under the scheme, the Punjab government had constituted an ECLGS cell in the department of industries and commerce for coordination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-2166cr-credit-for-msmes-in-punjab/articleshow/76969082.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CM Naveen Patnaik to launch first plasma bank on Wednesday||BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik is scheduled to inaugurate state’s first plasma bank for Covid-19 at SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, on Wednesday paving the way for convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) of the infected patients. With inauguration of the plasma bank, the plasma therapy will start in SUM, KIMS and Aswini Covid hospitals, additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said. The plasma bank has been established in the transfusion medicine department of SCB. A registry of prospective donors, recovered Covid patients, is being prepared for a pool of voluntary donors. So far, 9,864 patients have been discharged and many would be potential blood donors. The cured patients would be eligible to donate blood within four weeks of discharge subject to other screening tests, a doctor associated with the plasma therapy said. The plasma bank has been set up in Hub and Spoke Model: While blood will be collected at SCB MCH, Cuttack, these will be issued to the user hospitals for storage and use. Moderate to severe patients, who don’t respond to steroids will be given plasma therapy subject to their informed consent, government sources said. Earlier, a decision to start plasma therapy for the treatment of Covid-19 patients was taken in a meeting chaired by health minister Naba Kishore Das on July 2. So far, more than 5,500 patients have recovered from Covid. They would make a good pool of plasma donors. “There would be plasma banks in the hospitals for Covid patients. The hospitals together will come out with a process to use the plasma. They will assess patients who may be fit cases for plasma therapy,” Mohapatra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/plasma-bank-to-be-inaugurated-at-scb-today/articleshow/76967704.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Allahabad||Caste & religion take a backseat in Covid times||Prayagraj: Though Covid-19 pandemic has caused several problems like setback to the economy, escalated inflation and unemployment, these hardships have also helped dilute the caste and religious divide deep rooted in Indian society. This is what social scientists of the Govind Ballabh Pant Social Science Institute (GBPSSI), Jhunsi have found while conducting a survey-cum-study on migrant workers who have returned to different cities of the state. “The migrant workers openly accepted the help and support that came their way on their return and it was seen that humane and humanity was at the forefront while caste and religion were nowhere in the picture,” said director of the institute Badri Narayan. In their struggle to survive and reach back home, they (migrant workers) accepted help from anywhere it came. However, they were surprised by lack of camaraderie from fellow caste members who distanced themselves when they returned to their home villages, he added. This research was aimed at understanding how caste functions in Indian society during emergencies. It was centered around migrant labourers of UP and Bihar who returned from various destinations and tried to document changes in inner content of caste in their everyday life, he explained. The team interviewed 215 migrants comprising Dalits, OBC and upper castes who returned from places like Mumbai, Delhi, Surat and Pune to UP and Bihar. For the study, the team of experts, comprising research scholars and faculty members of the institute selected six quarantine centres each in UP and Bihar and documented everyday life experience of migrants staying there. Most respondents have completed their quarantine period either at a quarantine centre or in home-quarantine, and then reached their villages and towns. The subjects (migrant workers) were interviewed over phone and some of them face-to-face and the experts tried to know how caste identities remained with them in destination and during the pandemic. The researchers came to know about many incidents where upper castes took food and water from the hands of fellow dalits and OBC migrant travellers during their journey. The same was in case of accepting help from a Muslim or Hindu. They shared that one vulnerable poor upper caste respondent told them that: “uss waqt jaat nahi yaad aata tha, jaan bachani thi aur ghar pahuchna tha (we didn’t remember caste at that time of distress, we just wanted to save our life and reach home).” Another Dalit respondent during survey asked “vipati ke mare ki kya jaat bhaiyya (what is caste for sufferer of a disaster?).” “When they entered a quarantine centre, caste consciousness which was diluted during travel routes may have reappeared in some cases, but we documented various incidences where various castes ate and stayed together forgetting untouchability,” Prof Narayan said adding that “we also observed that a new form of social distance and untouchability emerged during quarantine. A Brahmin youth from Mumbai returned to his village in Bundelkhand. For his society, he was more than untouchable at least for 14 days and was viewed with hatred. People called him corona. His wife was stopped by his own caste people to take water from the well.” As per 2011 Census, there are 453.6 million internal migrants in India. Based on 2011 Census, it is estimated that UP accounts for nearly 25% (over 56.4 million) and Bihar accounts for 14% (over 20.4 million) inter-state migration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/caste-religion-take-a-backseat-in-covid-times/articleshow/76965406.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Trust brings back 174 stuck in Dubai||Amritsar: Dubai-based philanthropist and chief of Sarbat Da Bhala Trust S P S Oberoi arrived in Amritsar with 174 stranded Indians, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, in Dubai in a chartered flight. He had already announced to bring back the stranded Indians who had lost their jobs due to the coronavirus pandemic in four chartered flights from Dubai. Talking to mediapersons here on Tuesday, Oberoi said earlier on July 7, one chartered plane had landed in Chandigarh with 177 Punjabis onboard. Other two chartered flights would arrive at Chandigarh and Amritsar on July 19 and 25, respectively, he said. He said the worst affected Indians were those who had lost their jobs after the companies they worked for closed due to coronavirus. He claimed that he had provided shelter to many jobless Indians in his personal places and was also serving them food round the clock. He said the trust had spent for Covid-19 tests of all the Indians arriving in chartered flights arranged by trust. “If needed, the trust will arrange for another four chartered flights to bring back stranded Indians in Dubai,” he announced. For the jobless youth, he said the trust would open ‘Hunar Vikas Kendra’ in all the districts of Punjab where vocational training would be provided to the youth so that they could become independent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/trust-brings-back-174-stuck-in-dubai/articleshow/76969084.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Special jails soon for Covid-19 positive inmates||RAJAHMUNDRY: The prisons department is planning to set up special jails for Covid-positive inmates to check the spread of the virus to other prisoners. The special Covid-19 jails would be set up in every district of the state. With the virus feared to be spreading through remand prisoners, tests would be now conducted on all such prisoners as well as newcomers before they enter the jails, particularly the big ones which house thousands of prisoners. I Srinivasa Rao, DIG (prisons) for coastal region, said 13 sub-jails would be converted into special Covid-19 jails. “The inmates of these sub-jails would be shifted to other prisons after taking permission from the judiciary. Covid-19 tests would be conducted in the special jails for remand prisoners and new inmates and they would be shifted to other prisons if they test negative,” he said, adding that only those who test positive would be shifted to the special Covid-19 jails. The sub-jails in Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Anakapalle, Kakinada, Bhimavaram, Machilipatnam, Narasaraopet, Prodduturu, Dhone (Kurnool), Gooty (Anantapur), Pileru (Chittoor), Kavali (Nellore) and Markapur (Prakasam) will be converted into special Covid-19 jails. About 15 remand prisoners have tested positive in the coastal region so far, he informed. “All staff deployed in the special Covid-19 jails would be provided with PPE kits, masks, gloves and other required equipment. The special jails are likely to be ready by the end of this week. After obtaining permission from the judiciary, the inmates would be shifted to other prisons. Only male prisoners will be admitted into the special jails,” Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/special-jails-soon-for-covid-19-ve-inmates/articleshow/76967706.cms||Samson Raj
July 15, 2020||Kochi||Palarivattom flyover may collapse anytime: MoRTH||KOCHI: Hinting that an accident is imminent at Palarivattom due to the weak structure of the flyover along NH-66 bypass, ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has submitted a report recommending the state government to take urgent measures to reinforce the structure. Top officials with MoRTH had inspected the flyover and found that the structure may collapse anytime unless it is reinforced. On the basis of their visit to Kochi and subsequent inspection held in June, officials’ team from MoRTH prepared a report and submitted it to the state government. As per the report, supporting pillars should be constructed immediately so as to avoid collapse of the structure. Vehicles pass under the bridge and this raises concerns of accidents. “We have got a report from MoRTH stating that the structure of the flyover is weak and may fall down any time. But we won’t be able to do anything right now as a case pertaining to conducting load test is pending before the Supreme Court. Once the apex court gives a final order in the case, we will be taking appropriate measures on the basis of the court order,” public works minister G Sudhakaran said. “The MoRTH report vindicates the stand of the state government that the structure is weak and it will have to be pulled down,” Sudhakaran said. The flyover has been closed since May 1, 2019 after cracks were detected on the structure. It was found that there are cracks on pier caps of 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 7th, 10th and 12th pillars of the flyover. Then, the state government had entrusted IIT Madras to study about the structural stability of the flyover. Experts from the IIT had pointed out that the structure is weak. Then, the government had approached Metro Man E Sreedharan for looking into the issue. After inspection, Sreedharan also found that the structure is very weak. Following these reports, the state government decided to dismantle the flyover and construct a new one. Government also decided to entrust Sreedharan for pulling down the structure and reconstructing it. But an association of structural engineers in Kochi moved the high court challenging the decision of the state government to demolish the bridge without conducting a load test. Later, the high court ordered the state government to conduct a load test. The government moved the Supreme Court against the high court order and the apex court stayed the order of the high court. “Still, a final verdict from the Supreme Court is pending. So, we are unable to do anything at this juncture,” said an official with Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK), which constructed the flyover. After the flyover developed major cracks within three years of its inauguration in 2016, the state government ordered a vigilance probe into the alleged anomalies related to the construction of the bridge. According to the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB), the RBDCK officials released an advance amount of Rs 8.25 crore to the builder in violation of norms. It is alleged that the officials did this as per the recommendation of former PWD minister V K Ebrahim Kunju. Vigilance had interrogated Ebrahim Kunju in connection with the case several times. Vigilance officials had arrested former public works secretary T O Sooraj, former managing director of Kitco Sumit Goyal and RBDCK general manager P D Thankachan in this case. “Now, the contractor is ready to reinforce the structure at his expense. But this may weaken the vigilance case. So, the government is unable to take a decision in this regard,” sources with the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palarivattom-flyover-may-collapse-anytime-morth/articleshow/76968447.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Numbers dip but experts still wary||Kolkata: After the number of Covid cases in Bengal saw the highest spike on Sunday, with 1,560 people testing positive, the figure has been witnessing a decline for the past two days. While 1,435 cases were registered on Monday, it dipped to 1,390 on Tuesday. Though the declining trend might come across something positive, health experts said it was too early to read anything into it. “We should not read much into the drop in the number of positive cases in just two days. To arrive at a conclusion, we need to observe the trend for a much longer period. We are still in the ascending phase and we have not yet reached the peak,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. A health department official pointed out that the dip might have been due to a number of reasons, such as backlog in entering data and no OPD sample collection over the weekend. The state home department claimed the Covid situation in the state was not alarming as of the total number of cases across India, only 3.4% patients were from Bengal. The figure is reportedly a little below the national average. So far, 19,931 people have been discharged, the rate being 60.6%.On Tuesday, 11,102 samples were tested, of which 1,390 came positive. At 524, Kolkata recorded the highest number of new cases. The scene in the city and three neighbouring districts has been such that hospitals have been struggling. Medical College and Hospital ran out of all its 500 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/numbers-dip-but-experts-still-wary/articleshow/76968441.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Garden containing plant species mentioned in Valmiki’s Ramayana, opened for public in Haldwani||Nainital: The Uttarakhand forest department has developed a thematic garden based on the Valmiki Ramayana in its biodiversity park in Haldwani that was inaugurated on World Environment Day on June 5. The garden focuses on different forests and flora species that Lord Ram is believed to have come into contact with during his 14 years of vanvaas (exile). The garden was thrown open to the public on Tuesday. Speaking to TOI about the garden, Sanjiv Chaturvedi, conservator of forests (research), said, “The vatika (garden) is spread over an acre and houses around 140 flora species. All these plants have had a huge significance in the life of Lord Ram and there is a detailed description of them in the Ramayana written by Valmiki.” During the period of his exile, Ram along with Lakshman and Sita, is believed to have crossed a wide range of forests like the tropical deciduous forest of Panchvati (modern day Nasik in Maharashtra), dry and moist deciduous forest of Kishkindha (present-day Bellary district of Karnataka). Also described in the epic is the evergreen forest of Ashok Vatika (in Sri Lanka), among others. The forest department has also included herbs from the alpine range of Himalayas where Hanuman is believed to have gone in search of the life-giving herb, Sanjeevani. “It is surprising to know how much detail has been provided by Maharishi Valmiki. The most interesting part is that the geographical location and species composition of forests described in Valmiki's Ramayana is still more or less the same, whether it is the occurrence of sal (Shorea robusta) and sagwan (teak) in Dandakaranya (a region of Central India) or that of chandan (sandalwood) and raktchandan (red sandalwood) in Kishkindha (a kingdom ruled by the monkey-king Vali). Similarly, the seeta ashok (Saraca asoca) and nagkesar (Mesua ferrea) are found in the forests of Sri Lanka where the Ashok Vatika was situated,” said Chaturvedi. He added that “this vatika is the first-of-its-kind project in the country which not only touches upon the unexplored aspect of the Ramayana but is also an effort to promote protection and conservation of flora species by linking them with Indian culture and mythology.” “We want to link conservation efforts with mythology and the culture of our country so that people become more interested in them.” The forest service officer was also quoted by news agency PTI as saying, The Ramayana highlights the extraordinary range of plant life of India at that time. In fact the Ramayana is a botanist's delight with detailed descriptions of forest types. Though a religious epic, it is unique in its celebration of nature. It is full of brilliant passages describing the bio-diversity that surrounds Ram and the other characters during their life in the forest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/garden-containing-plant-species-mentioned-in-valmikis-ramayana-opened-for-public-in-haldwani/articleshow/76965409.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC to turn quarantine centre at varsity into isolation ward||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is going to convert the quarantine centre at the Shivaji University into an isolation ward due to the steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city.The civic health officials on Tuesday visited the university's department of technology building, which has 100 quarantine beds meant for high-risk contacts or people with Covid-19 symptoms.Deputy municipal commissioner Nikhil More said, “We will be converting the quarantine centre into isolation ward for Covid-19 patients. We are going to tie up with hotels for lodging people to be placed in quarantine.”As on Tuesday, there were around 325 isolation beds available in different hospitals where patients from the city and district are being treated. The isolation beds have oxygen facilities, x-ray and ECG machines. There are around 800 quarantine beds still vacant.More added that their quarantine facilities are filling up fast because the administration has not allowed home quarantine for those entering the district from red zones and also high-risk contacts.He added that the number of people approaching the Covid screening centres has gone up. All such people, who show mild symptoms, are also shifted to the quarantine centres till the test results are available. Further, they are kept in the quarantine centre for two days even if their test reports come back negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-to-turn-quarantine-centre-at-varsity-into-isolation-ward/articleshow/76966613.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Puducherry||103-yr-old TN woman who survived Covid-19 onslaught struggles to ward off social stigma||Vellore: Hameeda Bee survived the Covid-19 infection and returned home on July 12. But the 103-year-old woman, perhaps the oldest Covid survivor in the country, has another battle on hand – social stigma and ostracization by neighbours, who are demanding that she, along with her family, vacate her rented house in Periyavarigam village near Ambur in Thirupatthur district, a famous leather hub in north Tamil Nadu.Hameeda Bee lives with her daughter Mubarak, 58, and granddaughter Shama, 30. On June 29, Hameeda was taken to the nearby public health centre (PHC) in Nariyampattu village with complaints of common cold. Her swab samples were collected and sent for Covid test. On July 1, the family was informed that she was Covid positive and Hameeda was admitted to the Ambur government hospital.“Hameeda responded well to treatment and in the two follow up tests, the results showed negative. She was discharged on Sunday (July 12),” said Nariyampattu health inspector D Pream Kumar. But Hameeda and her family are now fighting social stigma. “Our neighbours are being heartless. They are demanding that we vacate our house and leave the village. Some of them threatened us with dire consequences if we refused to vacate the area within a week. We don’t have money to shift to another rented accommodation” said a tearful Shama, Hameeda’s granddaughter.Tirupattur collector M P Sivan Arul told TOI he would ensure protection to the family. “We will delegate an officer to render all possible help to her family,” he said.Mubarak is the youngest of 13 children born to Hameeda. Within a few years of the death of her father Vanakar Abdulla Sha, her husband and her daughter’s husband too passed away, in different road accidents. “We, the three widows, and my nine-year-old grandson live without any male support. Now, we are being targetted by our neighbours,” Mubarak said, breaking down. None of her siblings are alive.On learning that Hameeda and her family were being harassed, Ambur DMK MLA A C Vilvanathan visited them and handed over a hamper of essentials and Rs 5,000. “We are the only Muslim family living in the vicinity. We don’t have any relatives nor family friends. With my mother devoted to taking care of my grandmother, I was working in a private shoe manufacturing company to take care of the family,” said Shama. But after the Covid pandemic hit the country and the lockdown began in March, Shama was laid off along with other workers. “We were surviving on ration from the PDS (the state’s public distribution system),” she said.On hearing about their neighbours harassing Hameeda and her family members, the DMK legislator visited the family along with revenue officials, including the Periyavarigam village administration officer. “I also requested the revenue officials to initiate the process to provide widow pension to Mubarak. I alerted our party functionaries in Periyavarigam to take care of the family and ensure they are not harassed,” said Vilvanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/103-yr-old-tn-woman-who-survived-covid-19-onslaught-struggles-to-ward-off-social-stigma/articleshow/76968449.cms||Karal Marx
July 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Augment bed strength, VIMS directed||VISAKHAPATNAM: District collector V Vinay Chand visited Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) and King George Hospital (KGH) on Tuesday and instructed enhancing bed strength, testing and ambulance facilities at teaching hospitals under Andhra Medical College (AMC). He also instructed that all beds at VIMS be equipped with oxygen facilities. The collector also asked officials to make arrangements for increasing the bed strength from 548 to 750. The district collector also gave directions to superintendents of various teaching hospitals, including Government Hospital for Chest and Infectious Diseases (GHCCD), ENT Hospital, Regional Eye Hospital and Rani Chandramani Devi Hospital, to get ready to conduct Covid-19 tests. These hospitals shall also prepare another 250 beds for keeping patients in isolation, while awaiting test results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/augment-bed-strength-vims-directed/articleshow/76967712.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Congress, JD(S) accuse BS Yediyurappa govt of corruption||BENGALURU: Members of the opposition have accused the government of misusing its power to alter the procurement process through exemptions provided by the law in times of crisis like the pandemic, questioning how masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) and testing kits were bought at different rates from different suppliers. The finance department, headed by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, had relaxed norms allowing departments to directly procure medical equipment up to Rs 10 crore without calling for tenders. Officials can also select companies and manufacturers of their choice, irrespective of the price. The change in rules was made to ensure ‘rule of three’ and ‘lowest bid’ under Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act doesn’t become a hindrance in the fight against the pandemic. Siddaramaiah, leader of the opposition, said the government paid more than the market price for PPE, ventilators, masks and sanitisers. He alleged about 1,000 ventilators, which cost Rs 4 lakh per piece, were purchased for a total Rs 120 crore. The government also paid Rs 150 crore for 4.9 lakh PPE kits which cost Rs 995 per piece and 10 lakh masks for Rs 40 crore. “It’s hard to imagine how the government can misuse emergency powers when people are dying every day,” alleged former speaker and health minister KR Ramesh Kumar. “There are reports that they have even procured second-hand ventilators that have clocked 40,000 hours. This baffles me.” Congress working president Eshwar Khandre said, “Renting bedsets at exorbitant rates for Covid care centres is only the tip of the iceberg. A high-level independent inquiry into procurement of medical equipment in the last two months will unearth more irregularities. From the beginning, there has been no transparency.” With complaints of irregularities pouring in, the 20-member Public Accounts Committee (PAC) had wanted to inspect equipment being used in hospitals on May 28, but the speaker’s office issued an order on May 27, barring the house committee from going ahead with the inspection. “If one goes by the number of health workers catching the infection in the last two months, it clearly suggests substandard PPE are a major reason. Is this how we respect them?” said former JDS MLA K H Konreddy. CN Ashwath Narayan, DyCM, reacted to the allegations saying, “We are ready for scrutiny, but this is not the right time to discuss this.” Cooperation minister ST Somashekar said, “There is no corruption at all. The opposition should refrain from making wild allegations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/medical-equipment-opposition-accuses-govt-of-corruption/articleshow/76968039.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Garbage scam: NMC slaps Rs 25L fine on operator on Thakre’s expose||Nagpur: Following the expose by West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has accepted that one of two garbage private operators — AG Enviro Infra Projects Private Ltd — had mixed mud with garbage and committed an irregularity. The civic body has levied a fine of around Rs25 lakh on the operator and also decided to issue a show cause notice asking why it’s contract should not be terminated for the irregularity. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday reportedly approved fine of 10% of total payable amount to the operator for the month of June. The amount comes to around Rs25 lakh. Deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradeep Dasarwar told TOI, “Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi conducted an inquiry into the case. He endorsed it as an irregularity of the operator. Therefore, fine has been levied as per conditions in the agreement.” Thakre, also president of City Congress Committee, along with corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar and former corporator Prashant Dhawad had inspected garbage trucks right inside NMC’s Bhandewadi dumping yard on June 28. They found 60% mud mixed with 40% garbage in four trucks of AG Enviro. When they questioned the drivers, it came to fore they unload the garbage on the road after the weigh bridge and before the dumping site. They also took statements of drivers on video, in which the latter accepted mixture of mud and stones with garbage. Later, they also visited the place where mud was being mixed with garbage and captured that too on video. Later, on June 29, TOI had reported NMC was clearing weight of 6-6.5 metric tonne (MT) garbage in a truck despite its capacity being only 3-4 MT. Also, it was highlighted that NMC was allowing these trucks inside dumping yard for unloading despite knowing the excess weight at the weigh bridge at the entrance. AG Enviro is operator for zone 1-5 and BVG India for zone 6-10. Thakre said, “NMC is trying to protect operator by just levying a fine. The irregularities are being done by two operators right from their appointment on November 16, 2019. Fine should have been levied on both operators from date of appointment. Also, NMC should have lodged complaint with police as now it itself has accepted the scam. NMC should terminate their contracts immediately.” NMC is yet to take any action on BVG India despite Shiv Sena leader Nitin Tiwari levelling similar allegations on this operator on May 24. IAN * NMC appointed two operators — AG Enviro and BVG India — in November 2019 for household garbage collection and transportation to Bhandewadi dumping yard * NMC weighs garbage in trucks at weigh bridge at entrance of dumping yard * Two operators being paid around Rs5-6 crore per month * West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre on June 28 unloaded four trucks of garbage brought by AG Enviro and found 60% mud in load * Drivers admitted mixing mud * Thakre demanded FIR against both operators, recovery of loss and termination of contracts * Two notices issued to AG Enviro * NMC fine co 10% of payable amount of June, to issue show cause for termination * Thakre demands FIR, recovery of loss since November last year and termination of contract||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/garbage-scam-nmc-slaps-rs-25l-fine-on-operator-on-thakres-expose/articleshow/76968470.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||BJP’s politics at its lowest: Harish Rawat||Dehradun: Drawing parallels to the political crisis in Uttarakhand in 2016 and the ongoing political turmoil in Rajasthan, former chief minister and Congress veteran Harish Rawat on Tuesday said that the situation in Rajasthan caused by Sachin Pilot’s revolt is an indication of “politics stooping to its lowest level”. In an obvious reference to the ruling BJP, Rawat said that “a party is busy destabilising governments even as the entire nation is fighting an unprecedented crisis like Covid”. He added that the 2016 political turmoil in Uttarakhand was an experiment gone wrong for the BJP, yet the party is continuing its tactics in other opposition-ruled states. “BJP is always looking to poach legislators from other political parties, especially the Congress. Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Goa are just some examples. The fresh instance we are seeing is Rajasthan where efforts are being made to topple a democratically-elected government,” said Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjps-politics-at-its-lowest-harish-rawat/articleshow/76965427.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 15, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam: Authorities shift focus to coastal areas, hospitals||KOCHI: As Covid-19 cases are going up in Ernakulam district, authorities are planning to enhance surveillance in private hospitals and coastal areas. Chances are high for the formation of more clusters and so efforts have been started for conducting more testing in the areas which are prone to become clusters. The district authorities have started measures to train block-level nodal officers for contact tracing and providing quarantine. Two health experts are monitoring the situation in the district. “Now, the focus is on coastal areas. We have decided to conduct more testing in such areas. For taking care of each block in the district, nodal officers for such areas are being fixed and they are given training on various aspects like contact tracing, quarantining and providing logistics,” an official with the district health department. The cases reported from private hospitals also are going up. Authorities have decided to intensify Covid control activities at Chellanam. The major objective is to prevent the coastal village from transforming into a large community cluster like Ponnani. As of now, Chellanam is a limited community cluster where the severity of the disease spread is less compared to large community clusters. There are four limited community clusters in the district — Ernakulam Market, Chellanam, Aluva and Munambam. Of the four, the condition at Chellanam is more prone to get worse. That is why the authorities have shifted their focus to the area. The situation at Ernakulam Market which is the first cluster in the district has improved a lot. If the public adhere to the restrictions, chances are high for containment in the area. As of now, the situation at Munambam is not problematic. But it can worsen unless stringent measures are in place for preventing the spread. Spread of the disease at Aluva and Keezhmad continues. On Monday, the district administration issued orders declaring triple lockdown at Chellanam. A rapid response team headed by tahsildar, Kochi, for carrying out necessary measures for preventing the disease spread as well as to arrange other facilities in the areas like Chellanam has been constituted. Measures for tracing contacts and active cases, implementing reverse quarantine, ensuring involvement of local leaders for spreading awareness among the public regarding the need to practice social distancing and other preventive measures, etc. will be adopted in all the areas in clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/authorities-shift-focus-to-coastal-areas-hosps/articleshow/76968463.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Allahabad||Oli should apologize for Ram remark: Giri||Prayagraj: National president of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), Mahant Narendra Giri, on Tuesday strongly opposed the statement made by the Prime Minister of Nepal about Ayodhya and Lord Rama. In a statement, Giri said that ABAP, the apex body of saints in the country, strongly opposes KP Sharma Oli’s statement. The Prime Minister of Nepal had said, “Real Ayodhya is in Nepal and the one that is in India is fake. He had also alluded that Lord Rama was born in in Nepal.” “Ayodhya is in India and in Uttar Pradesh and there are many historical evidences of this. Nepal is just playing into China’s hands and is making false statements against India. Today, the entire country is opposing the statement made by Oli,” said Giri. “India and Nepal have friendly relations, but the PM of Nepal is trying to spoil the equation by coming under the influence of China,” added Giri. Giri has appealed to the leaders of all political parties in the country to unite and strongly oppose Oli’s statement and also force him to apologize for this false statement. The ABAP president has also demanded that PM Modi should also strongly oppose this statement. “In the upcoming meeting of the Akhara Parishad, the sage fraternity will discuss this issue,” Giri said.Meanwhile, Kanak Mani Di xit, a senior writer of the neighbouring country tweeted, “It was folly for PM Oli to wade in and raise controversy on the placement of Ayodhya, home of the mythological Lord Rama. He has now alienated the Indian people when earlier it was only the Indian government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/oli-should-apologize-for-ram-remark-giri/articleshow/76965422.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Govt may have to cut salaries if lockdown is extended||Bengaluru: If the government is forced to extend the week-long lockdown beyond July 22 to get a grip on the pandemic, it will have to consider pay cuts for its employees to finance the fight. The state has 6.5 lakh employees and the government spends about Rs 5,500 crore per month in salaries and pensions. Besides this, the government has to service debts and allow for aids and subsidies, which means it needs a bare minimum of Rs 8,500 crore per month. An extended lockdown will make payment of salaries and pensions a tough task in the months ahead. However, revenue in July so far has been about Rs 3,200 crore and the finance department is concerned it may not get much more because of the lockdown. It will have no other recourse but austerity measures. “We will have to consider pay cuts if curbs are extended,” said an official in the finance department. He said, currently, mobilising funds to tackle Covid is not a problem. Except Covid operations, the government has already frozen funds for all development projects and has withheld hike in dearness allowance till June 2021. But it needs to do more to rein in the fiscal deficit. Legislators too will have to sacrifice perks and privileges. The state was battered by the nationwide lockdown, but the economy showed signs of recovery with June fetching Rs 6,710 crore through commercial taxes – marginally higher than the same month last year. Other heads also showed growth in July. While SR Viswanath, the CM’s political secretary said, “Yediyurappa is not in favour of extending the lockdown nor is he considering cutting salaries for now. But it all depends on how the Covid situation pans out.” However, epidemiologist Dr Giridhara Babu said nothing would be gained by a week-long lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-may-have-to-cut-salaries-if-lockdown-is-extended/articleshow/76968066.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
July 15, 2020||Bhopal||Chambal girl who pedalled her way to success, is now govt ambassador||BHOPAL: Roshni Bhadouriya, 15-year-old from Ajnol village of Bhind district, who paddled 24 kms daily to her school and came to limelight by scoring 98.7% in her Class 10 exam, has been made the brand ambassador of Madhya Pradesh women and child development department on Tuesday. She was eighth on the state board merit list. After assuming the charge, the minister for woman and child development department, Imarti Devi, made the her first announcement by appointing Roshni as department’s brand ambassador. Imarti Devi said that Roshni has an set example that most difficult tasks can be achieved easily with passion and hard work. When contacted, Roshni's first reaction was "I am told that government has recognised my efforts. I do not know what exactly is the meaning of brand ambassador. I think they will tell me what I have to do. I am happy that my family has become a star in the society," said Roshni. Her father Purushottam Bhadouriya said, "I have no words to express my feelings. After she scored such good score we were all happy. I did not know that her efforts would give us such blessings and recognitions," said Purushottam. Her mother Sarita Bhadouriya said, "We want to see her excelling and bringing a good name and recognition to our village. And what does Roshni think of the future? “I want to join the IAS. I want to be a collector,” she said. “I am told that a collector can do a lot of good work," she added. Roshini has scored perfect 100 in mathematics and social science. “I was always attentive in class and focused on writing exactly what I had learnt. I am thrilled to get good marks,” she said. Maths and English in which she scored an impressive 96 are her favourite subjects, she said. She used to attend governement school in Mehgaon tehsil of Bhind district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chambal-girl-who-pedalled-her-way-to-success-is-now-govt-ambassador/articleshow/76968501.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 15, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corporation now collects 2,700 samples a day as cases surge||MADURAI: Making use of the intense lockdown to full extent, the Madurai corporation has ramped up Covid-19 sample collection from 1,800 to 2,700 samples per day in order to tackle the disease effectively. A corporation higher official said that they are increasing tests and isolating people, who had come in contact with positive patients. “On Monday alone, around 2,700 samples were collected by the corporation through fever camps and mobile testing units. This is an increase by 900 samples from our previous high of 1,800 samples in a day. We are testing people even if the person has just one symptom, unlike earlier, where one has to have a travel history or multiple symptoms,” he said. Increase in mobile sample collection units from three to 14 is helping in increasing sample collection, he said. “Although large number of people have started coming forward to the fever clinics, there is a section still concerned about the social stigma attached with the infection. It can be addressed only though more of social acceptance,” the official added. Meanwhile, the district administration has deployed nodal officers for each of the four corporation zones. Dr M Somasundaram, designated officer for food safety, (zone one), A Jeeva, joint registrar (zone two), Mathi, deputy registrar (zone three) and Prabaharan, planning officer (women schemes) (zone four) have been deputed to oversee various day to day activities in their respective zones. Apart from this, 10 officers in the rank of assistant director have been deputed as supervising officers to cover 50 wards, where spread of infection is higher. “They will monitor restriction in public movement on roads, distribution of kabasura kudineer every day, door-to-door fever screening activity, collection and testing of samples among others,” another official said. One of the officials involved in the supervising works said they could not find any lacunae in the works carried out by corporation officials and volunteers. Functioning of the mechanism has been smooth. However, they conduct thorough inspection every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corporation-now-collects-2700-samples-a-day-as-cases-surge/articleshow/76969087.cms||V Devanathan
July 15, 2020||Meerut||6 arrested for attacking police team in Bulandshahr||Meerut: Six people were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly attacking a team of crime branch in Bulandshahr district when they were searching for a criminal, Shahid, who is wanted in a murder case, in Sarai Qazi area. The accused have been identified as Shaakir, Aakil, Nadeem, Nawab, Naimuddin and Chaand. It is being alleged that they attacked the police team with lathis and stones during the raid on Saturday. A video of crime branch team members in plain clothes fleeing a locality in Kotwali city area after being chased by a mob has also surfaced on social media.In the video, lathi-wielding men can be seen purportedly chasing the cops while some throwing stones at them. Police have already registered an attempt to murder case against Shahid, his brothers and 5-6 unnamed suspects. On Saturday, after the police team spotted Shahid, the criminal tried to escape as his brothers and other locals confronted the police. The confrontation turned ugly after miscreants began stone-pelting and opened fire, throwing a spanner in their works to nab Shahid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/6-arrested-for-attacking-police-team-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/76965435.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown extended in Kashipur till July 17||Rudrapur: The lockdown imposed in Kashipur till Tuesday (July 14) night has now been extended for three more days. According to the new order by Udham Singh Nagar district administration, the lockdown will now be lifted on July 17. The lockdown was enforced in the town after several new Covid-19 cases had surfaced. In an order issued on Tuesday by Gaurav Singhal, joint magistrate of the city, it was stated that the four-day long lockdown which started on July 11 has been extended for three more days. This will be a complete lockdown and only the shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to open for certain hours. “Banks, milk shops, grocery stores, and medical stores have been given relaxation and they are allowed to remain open from 7 am to 12 noon during this lockdown period,” said Singhal. The administration has also cancelled all the permissions given for social gatherings or marriage functions in the city. Meanwhile, police said they are keeping vigil in three cities — Rudrapur, Bazpur and Kashipur — of the district which are presently under lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-extended-in-kashipur-till-july-17/articleshow/76965437.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Neta, 2 aides booked for property grab||Nagpur: Three persons, including a woman, were booked for duping, criminal trespass and conspiracy for their alleged role in forcibly occupying a house in MIG Colony at Vaishali Nagar last year. The offences against Sahil Sayyed, Girish Girdhar and Neelima Jaiswal were registered at Pachpaoli police station on Monday. Sayyed is learnt to be part of labour cell of a political party and close to several politicians. It’s learnt that the trio had prepared fake transfer and ownership documents of the house to dispossess Ravishankar Sahare, who is the complainant in the case. Police said the property was owned by one Vasudha Rupde. Sahare claimed to have purchased the property from Rupde. Sayyed allegedly prepared fake documents with “signature” of Rupde to claim the property. Sayyed and his gang had also barged into the house and occupied it with force. Sahare had kept some of his belongings at the place which Sayyed reportedly ignored before establishing his possession. Around a week ago, Sayyed had created ruckus at a private hospital in Mankapur claiming that the management was engaged in illegal activities. A senior medical officer of the civic body too was present at the time when Sayyed and others were engaged in rowdy behaviour inside the hospital premises. An offence was also registered against Sayyed for having created nuisance at Mankapur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neta-2-aides-booked-for-property-grab/articleshow/76968445.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kochi||Over 99% schools register 100% pass in Ernakulam||KOCHI: More than 99% of schools in Ernakulam have scored 100% pass in the CBSE Class XII board examinations. Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Elamakkara, reported 169 distinctions and 33 full A1. While 126 students at Bhavan’s Adarsha Vidyalaya, Kakkanad, secured distinction, 14 students got full A1. At Bhavan’s Varuna Vidyalaya, Thrikkakara, 102 scored distinction and 23 students got full A1. While Bhavan’s Munshi Vidyashram, Thiruvamkulam, reported 94 distinctions and 11 full A1, Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Girinagar, got 114 distinctions and 22 full A1. Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Eroor, has 144 distinctions and 15 full A1. Bhavan’s Newsprint Vidyalaya, Velloor, reported 101 distinctions and 4 full A1. With 100% pass, 51 of 193 students of Rajagiri Public School, Kalamasserry, secured full A1. Of the 131 students at Toc H Public School, Vyttila, 16 secured full A1 and 117 got distinction. At Rajagiri Kristu Jayanthi, Kakkanad, 188 of 192 students secured distinction and 39 got full A1. The Choice School, Tripunithura, got 169 distinctions and 17 full A1. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Vaduthala, got 108 distinctions and 12 full A1. At Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Tripunithura, 13 students secured full A1 and 108 secured distinction. Five students of Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Kannamali, scored full A1. At Global Public School, 101 students got distinction and 20 got full A1. St Peter’s Senior Secondary School, Kolencherry, got 21 full A1. Mar Thoma Public School recorded 80 distinctions with five full A1. While, SBOA Public (Sr Sec) School, Ernakulam, has 79 distinctions with 7 full A1, Saraswati Vidyanikethan, Elamakkara, got 45 full A1. In Assisi Vidyaniketan Public School, Chembumukku, 147 students secured distinction and 14 among them got full A1. In Gregorian Public School, 97 out of 100 students secured distinctions with 11 full A1. The Delta Study, Fort Kochi, secured 100% pass and 3 full A1. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-99-schools-register-100-pass-in-ernakulam/articleshow/76968473.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Madurai||Many Madurai residents not serious about masks||MADURAI: Even as the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise in Madurai, people in many parts of the city are not wearing masks at public places. People are seen on roads without wearing masks. While most people do not wear masks when they go out to nearby shops in their respective residential areas, some do not wear it even when they go around the city. Officials said that the corporation has taken all necessary action such as awareness drives and levying fine of Rs 200 for not wearing masks. They say that the residents should also cooperate. “Continuous announcements are being made through public address system at every major junction on the importance of wearing masks,” a corporation official said. V P Manikanan, a social activist, said that people without wearing masks are wandering on streets. People think that the infection will not affect them. This has to be changed as every street now has a Covid-19 patient, he said. P Jayaprakash, a resident of Anupanadi, said, “Only a few wear masks in interior roads and streets. Comparatively, more people wear masks when they go out on the main junctions and roads. People should realise that everyone has to wear mask, every time they go out, irrespective of the distance they move,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-madurai-residents-not-serious-about-masks/articleshow/76969089.cms||V Devanathan
July 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Won’t impose lockdown in Kolhapur, says Satej Patil||Kolhapur: District guardian minister Satej Patil on Tuesday said that he stands firm on the decision to not impose another lockdown in Kolhapur as it will hurt common people and cause problems for daily wage workers. As the number of Covid-19 patients is increasing rapidly across the district, the demand for imposing another lockdown has been growing from many quarters. However, Patil, while speaking with TOI, said all measures are in place to avoid surge in Covid cases. “I appeal to the people to follow all the necessary precautions as it will help them avoid getting infected. People need to follow all the rules being laid down by the local authorities,” he said. On Monday, senior minister Hasan Mushrif had demanded another lockdown in Kolhapur. Mushrif had also said that he along with Patil will meet health minister Rajesh Tope to discuss about ways to go with the lockdown. Patil, however,said no such meeting took place on Tuesday. Meanwhile, political leaders are coming out in support of lockdown. Kolhapur MP Sanjay Mandlik said, “Lockdown is very much necessary. It should be imposed for some days to put break on the rising cases. Before starting lockdown, people should be given two days for buying essentials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/wont-impose-lockdown-in-kolhapur-says-satej-patil/articleshow/76966643.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Tension in Joshimath over molestation||Dehradun: Minior communal tension broke out in Chamoli’s Joshimath area on Tuesday after a 20-year-old youth, belonging to a minority community, allegedly molested a minor girl from another community. Based on a complaint, police have arrested the accused under section 354 (outrage of modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant sections of POCSO Act. Soon after, an angry mob took to streets and ransacked two vegetables shops in Joshimath market. The girl’s family alleged that the youth called her to his room and tried to molest her. Chamoli superintendent of police Yashwant Singh said, “The girl’s family filed a complaint against the man on Monday night.” He added that they are now checking the CCTV footage to identify the miscreants who attacked the shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tension-in-joshimath-over-molestation/articleshow/76965451.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||No Manimahesh, Shrikhand yatras this year||AMRITSAR: Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh (HP) government will keep its doors closed to tourists and pilgrims coming from other states during the ensuing international Minjar Mela and Manimahesh Yatra, which are attended by a large number of people from Punjab. The popular Shrikhand Yatra will also be suspended and people will not be able to undertake the pilgrimage this year. Pandit Krishan Kumar, president of Manimahesh Yatra Mandal, told TOI on Tuesday that more than 36 religious groups travelled to Chamba from across Punjab every year for the treacherous Manimahesh Yatra, but there would be no such pilgrimage for them this year. “HP government has given permission to tourists to enter the state with certain conditions. We wish the Himachal Pradesh government allows pilgrims in without any restrictions,” said Kumar. Shrikhand Yatra, the toughest pilgrimage of the country to 72ft tall lingam at altitude of 18,000ft in Nirmand region of Himachal’s Kullu district, has been suspended this year. The yatra is organised by Himachal Pradesh government from July 15 to July 31 under Shrikhand Mahadev Yatra Trust. After recommendation of many panchayats of the region who are scared of possibility of spread of the Covid-19 due to arrival of large number of pilgrims from other states and sub-divisional magistrate of Anni, Kullu deputy commissioner has ordered to suspend the yatra for this year. Kumar said they had decided to inaugurate the Minjar festival with just 50 persons and outsiders would not be allowed to attend it. “However, there will be a daily evening program of Kunjri Malhar (folk songs based on Raag Malhar), which will be telecast through cable network to encourage people to stay indoors,” said Chamba MLA Pawan Nayyar.The mela will start on July 26 and end on August 2, with the immersion of Minjar (golden tassel worn on dress) in the Ravi,” said Nayyar. Narinder Sharma, a resident of Gurdaspur who organises an annual tour to Chamba on the occasion of Minjar Mela, said the Manimahesh Yatra would on from August 11 to 27. “Our group used to travel to Chamba for nearly a month, first participating in the mela and then going on the pilgrimage to Manimahesh. We were hopeful the Himachal Pradesh government will allow pilgrims to visit, but it didn’t; we all will miss our annual pilgrimage,” Sharma said. Kullu DC Richa Verma said Chayal, Bhalsi, Arsu, Sarahan, Nor, Tunan, Nishani and Rahanu panchayats, which fall under Shrikhand yatra, urged to cancel yatra. “Given the safety of the public and directions o the government, the yatra has been suspended,” she said. The DC warned that order will come into force immediately until next order and if anybody found violating the yatra, strict legal action will be initiated against the offender. A few days ago, a woman from Kullu was booked for doing Shrikhand yatra and uploading photos and videos on social media. Before this, Kinner Kailash yatra of Kinnaur district was suspended by the administration. Chamba deputy commissioner has asked Bharmour additional district magistrate to organize a meeting under chairmanship of Bharmour MLA to decide on Manimahesh Yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-manimahesh-shrikhand-yatras-this-year/articleshow/76969088.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Van Bhavan accountant dies of Covid-19; norms violated||Nagpur: Even after the death of an accountant due to coronavirus on July 13, there has been blatant violation of Covid-19 guidelines at Van Bhavan, the state forest department’s headquarters here. Under Unlock-2 on June 29 & 30, guidelines were issued by the government and NMC in which offices have been told to function with only 15% or 15 strength of employees, whichever is higher. But on the contrary, of the 400 employees at Van Bhavan, more than 200 ministerial staff and officers are attending office daily, which is more than 50% of the strength, thereby violating lockdown guidelines. The Van Bhavan entries show that more than 50% staff and officials are present in the office every day. This can also be gauged from the number of vehicles parked on the office premises. Besides, no serious efforts are being taken to daily sanitize the office building. This is despite spurt in Covid-19 cases in Nagpur. Principal chief conservator of forests (HoFF) N Rambabu said, “The late accountant was a dialysis patient and he had stopped coming to the office from June 24. One of the employees who came in contact with the deceased has been put in institutional quarantine. We are taking up sanitizing exercise regularly.” However, on work strength exceeding the prescribed limit, senior forest officials said, “Employees are called depending on the pressing assignments and work load.” The accountant was hospitalized on July 12 and his samples for coronavirus were taken. He died on July 13 and his samples tested positive. On Tuesday when NMC learnt about it, they visited Van Bhavan following which senior officials sent an SMS to all the employees asking them to leave the office. Sources said one of the drivers, who came in contact with the victim, is also being searched by forest officials and NMC. A section of employees said, “No thermal scanning of staff outsourced for cleaning office building as well as toilets and bathrooms is done and no Covid-19 distancing is followed inside office premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/van-bhavan-accountant-dies-of-covid-19-norms-violated/articleshow/76968454.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 15, 2020||Dehradun||Agri growth centres to be set up across state:CM||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat while inaugurating a growth centre in Khyarsi village of Tehri district on Tuesday, said that more such growth centres — for promotion of agri-business — will be set up across the state. He added that the state government has already approved 96 growth centres and is planning to announce more such facilities. The CM said that each growth centre is being developed with a different concept, keeping in mind the interests of people in the particular area and to enable farmers to sell their produce at these centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/agri-growth-centres-to-be-set-up-across-statecm/articleshow/76965457.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NIA lens likely on all smuggling, hawala cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe in the gold smuggling case is likely to include all smuggling cases recorded in the state over the past five years. Sources said that while the agency is specifically probing the recent gold smuggling attempt at Trivandrum airport in a diplomatic bag, it would also stretch the probe into similar incidents in the past as the basic intention is to specifically discover if gold is being used to fund extremist elements. A report prepared by Kerala Police, accessed by TOI, showed that the force had confiscated 178.331kg gold and registered 48 cases from May 25, 2016 till July 2020. Also, police seized over Rs 100 crore in currency that was being transported as hawala money and had registered 305 cases in this regard. Sources said that police had seized them mostly when smugglers accidently showed up during routine checking or when they tried to settle scores by sending a tip to the police. “Police then seized gold and cash under CrPC Section 102 and recorded it. The seized gold/cash was then handed over to the directorate of revenue intelligence or similar central agencies,” said a senior officer. Also, several senior officers said that gold smuggling is not possible without the connivance of the police. “Smuggling is not limited to crossing the airport alone and the chain extends to covering a wide road network even beyond the state borders, before reaching their destination. They also have their method of testing police officers to know if they are pliable and could be of advantage, when they meet them for the first time in the name of a courtesy call. If not for the close association with police officers, the smuggling chain will not function smoothly,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity. Koduvally in Kozhikode has been cited as a major hub for smuggled gold in Kerala. The report said that at least 100kg gold and Rs 1,000 crore-worth hawala transactions are taking place in a year in Koduvally alone. The police report, which will be given to NIA, also hints that many smugglers have extremist links. “It is presumed that the persons engaged in gold smuggling and hawala rackets based in Koduvally have links with extremist elements, including Left-wing extremists,” the report said. Police have also prepared a detailed dossier of persons who are involved in smuggling and hawala transactions based in Koduvally. “The agency, which is dedicated in probing all those cases which are related to national security, will dig into these transactions and links to extremist elements,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-lens-likely-on-all-smuggling-hawala-cases/articleshow/76967735.cms||K P Sai Kiran
July 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: In its new avatar, Pallikaranai marsh ready for visitors||CHENNAI: The Pallikaranai marsh is set to receive birders and nature lovers after an elaborate revamp that includes a 2km long walkway. Chennai district forest officer V Subbiah told nearly 10,000 saplings of native and indigenous species of trees planted on either side of the walkway give the stretch a green look. “The invasive Prosopis juliflora (Seemai karuvel in Tamil) which occupied a large portion of this part of the marshland was removed,” he said. In the second phase, a similar walkway with space for sitting and resting would be laid along the stretch running parallel to the Thoraippakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road. The entire protection work, which is to be completed in five years, was begun last year, he said. The city’s last remaining marshland, an ecologically sensitive wetland which once sprawled over more than 6,500 hectares, has now been reduced to a mere 690-hectare area due to ceaseless, unregulated development. The efforts of a few naturalist-activists and others, aided by the Madras high court’s rulings, have helped stop encroachment to a small extent Eight years ago, a part of the central region was ravaged by a fire that also destroyed nests of resident birds including pheasant tailed jacana, common moorhen, purple swamp hen, white breasted water hen and yellow bittern, said Ranjit Daniels of Care Earth Trust, a Chennai-based biodiversity research organisation. Nature Trust founder K V R K Thirunaranan said migratory birds such as spot-billed pelicans had become resident birds at Pallikaranai and in Perumbakkam. Even painted storks can be sighted during the non-migratory season, he said. The significant rain over the past weekend has led to an increase in the water level. While flamingos have gone away, spot-billed pelicans, Indian shag, spot-billed duck (a resident bird that nests in the marshland) and three species of herons remain. It will be at least a month and half before the first of the migratory birds begin arriving, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/beautified-pallikaranai-marshland-is-ready-to-receive-visitors/articleshow/76968474.cms||P Oppili
July 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Districts bordering Karnataka, TN see spike in Covid-19 cases||The spurt in Covid-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh over the last two days seems to highlight the severe course the pandemic virus is now treading. The state registered 80 deaths in the last two days, including 43 on Tuesday, which accounts for 20 per cent of the toll registered in the state so far. While emphasising that there is no need to panic as most of the deaths are related to severe cases, health experts said the toll is on the higher side as a large number of cases have been reported of late. The caseload, which was 15,252 on July 1, has more than doubled to 33,019 as on July 14. The toll has also increased by 100 per cent. The rise in death numbers also has to do with severe comorbidities, late admission to hospitals, sudden emergence of symptoms in asymptomatic cases leading to death in a short span, increase in positivity rate, and fall in average recovery rate in the state. A study of the official Covid-19 data in the state since July 1 when lockdown norms were eased, reveals that only districts bordering Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are showing high positivity and high toll, pushing up the overall Covid-19 figures. Chittoor and Anantapur districts, which historically and traditionally have more affinity to Chennai and Bangalore, respectively, as also Kadapa and West Godavari, are the worst hit if last fortnight’s data is any indication. After reporting less than 10 deaths a day for nearly 100 days, the toll took an upward trend since July 1. The pattern of Covid-19 spread vis-a-vis the geographical regions in the state shows that the pandemic virus is taking its peak in only those districts that share borders with Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana. Initially, as the pandemic started spreading in AP in late March, the districts bordering Telangana showed both high positivity and death rate. After the viral spread stabilised in Krishna, Kurnool and Guntur districts, which share highways with Telangana, it is now creating havoc in districts bordering Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. All these districts have reported 3,000-plus cases. Even West Godavari, which also shares its border with Telangana, is reporting a high number of cases now, after lying low in the initial days. According to health experts, in every epidemic and pandemic, the causative agent (virus or bacteria) runs its full epidemiological course. In districts where the novel coronavirus was active in the initial months, it is now on a tame note. And in districts where it was tame initially, the virus is rising its ugly head now. Referring to the spurt in death toll, Indian Medical Association (IMA) executive member Dr MV Vijaya Sekhar said most of the deaths relate to severe cases. “There is nothing to panic about. The state government has supplied rapid antigen kits, which will help in early detection and initiation of treatment,” Dr Sekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/districts-bordering-karnataka-tn-see-spike-in-cases/articleshow/76967725.cms||Syed Akbar
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||City wildlife photographer’s zebra image wins him stripes||Nagpur: City wildlife photographer Sarosh Lodhi’s image of two zebras from Masai Mara, a game reserve in Kenya, has created a storm on many social media platforms across the globe. Lodhi was in Masai Mara with three friends in December 2018 for 7 days. At that time, Lodhi’s series of pictures ‘The way I see Mara’ on Instagram had fetched him praise. But, now, an image of two zebras posted by him 18 months after he clicked it has gone viral after he posted it on Twitter on July 8. IFS officer Parveen Kaswan reposted it and soon the image was being ‘wowed’ not just across the country but on international news channels and social forums. Over 1.5 lakh people have already retweeted it.“I was flooded with messages and e-mails from the media and various forums seeking permission to publish the image and write about it,” says Lodhi.It is difficult to say which of the two zebras are facing the camera. Many thought it was a manipulated image but Lodhi convinced everyone that it was an original.“I was just 20 metres away from the animals when they were approaching each other. I was hoping to get a nuzzling image of the two zebras. But as they came close it just turned out to be an optical illusion. Though I still want to keep people guessing, the fact is that the zebra on the left is facing the camera,” says Lodhi.During that seven-day safari, Lodhi clicked his lifetime best images — a hyena carrying its baby cub and a pride of lions hunting a hippopotamus, killing and then sitting on it. But the zebra picture is what has made him a celebrity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-wildlife-photographers-zebra-image-wins-him-stripes/articleshow/76968461.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 15, 2020||Kolhapur||26 cases in Kolhapur, lockdown lifted in Ichalkaranji||Kolhapur: As many as 26 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district till 6pm on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,341. An 83-year-old person from Tarabai park in Kolhapur city was among the four people who succumbed to the infection in the district on Tuesday. Currently, there are 460 active cases in the district. Mayor of Kolhapur city Nilofer Ajrekar has ordered that lockdown be imposed from evening to early morning as many people were still going out of their homes needlessly and many shops kept their premises open even after 7pm. Meanwhile, the lockdown in Ichalkaranji has been lifted. The mill operators have been ordered to ensure the migrant workers returning from their hometowns are quarantined for 14 days at their expense. If the employers do not have quarantine facilities, then the expense of keeping the workers in the government-run facilities will be recovered from the employers. Meanwhile, district collector Daulat Desai has ordered to convert IGM hospital in Ichalkaranji into a dedicated Covid hospital in the wake of the rising number of cases in the textile town. Desai has ordered health authorities to ensure IGM Hospital is used only for Covid-19 patients from the town and rural parts of Shirol and Hatkanangale tehsils. 23 new cases in Sangli Sangli district reported 23 cases and two deaths on Tuesday. The total number of cases has reached 704, of which 306 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/26-cases-in-kolhapur-lockdown-lifted-in-ichalkaranji/articleshow/76966660.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Nun rape accused Bishop tests Covid +ve||Jalandhar: Bishop Franco Mulakkal, who is accused of raping a nun in Kerala, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday evening. Earlier in the day, a court in Kottayam had cancelled bail granted to him and issued non-bailable arrest warrant against him. The Kerala court had cancelled the bail after prosecution brought out evidence that he had not appeared on July 1 on a false pretext that Jalandhar was a containment zone and he could not move out. Prosecution produced records taken from Jalandhar administration to drive home its point that the area where he has been staying was not a containment zone. It is learnt that he was tested on July 6 also, but he tested negative. Now he has sore throat and cough due tow which he gave his sample again on Monday and tested positive. Jalandhar Diocese spokesperson Father Peter told TOI on Tuesday evening that Franco had two-long sessions of discussion with his counsel Mandeep Sachdeva on June 29 and 30 and a couple of days later Sachdeva tested positive. "He has been in home quarantine since July 6 after he had some complaints and advocate Sachdeva tested positive. We are now discussing if he needs to be moved to an isolation facility to stay under medical supervision due to some symptoms but for now he is in his accommodation in the Bishop House," he added. According to Jalandhar Diocese spokesperson, Mulakkal, who was the Jalandhar bishop “had been temporarily removed from pastoral responsibilities”. It is learnt that he is the first to test positive in the Bishop House which also houses other priests and staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nun-rape-accused-bishop-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/76969103.cms||IP Singh
July 15, 2020||Bengaluru||After flak, Karnataka govt finally goes in for hire and purchase scheme||BENGALURU: The state government on Tuesday decided on a combination of purchase and hire of amenities at Covid Care Centres, including the one at the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC). Rajendra Kumar Kataria, the officer in-charge of setting up of CCCs in Bengaluru, said the government decided to purchase seven of the total 21 bedset items and hire the other 14. This was done with the approval of chief minister BS Yediyurappa who intervened after he found that BBMP officials had gone ahead with renting bedsets at CCCs for which the government would have to pay Rs 800 per day. Kataria said the CM gave his nod after being told the daily rent expenditure would come down from Rs 80 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. “There is no point in purchasing some items; we thought it better to rent them. The details will be worked out by BBMP officials,” he added. The government has decided to purchase a cot, two mattresses, pillow, bucket, mug, pedestal fan, vinyl floor – all at a cost of Rs 6,800. The items to be rented include shower cubicle, temporary toilet, TV set, partition and bedsheet. The total rental will be Rs 4.3 crore a month. “A technical committee looked into the purchase. We gave the offer to vendors based on market prices and the deal will be finalised on Wednesday,” said BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar. Four city-based vendors had bagged the contract to supply bedsets on rental basis and they had supplied 6,500 units for the BIEC CCC which has 10,100 beds. These bedsets supplied will be purchased and the rest will be procured afresh. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shiva Kumar on Tuesday said: “They wanted to make money out of beds and pillows too. Would this corruption have been possible without the consent of ministers and officials?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-flak-ktaka-govt-finally-goes-in-for-hire-and-purchase-scheme/articleshow/76968003.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||0 MBBS, 1.5% staff nurse, 2% Ayush MOs join against 3,761 advertised posts||Nagpur: Not a single MBBS doctor has joined from a paltry 16 who were issued appointment letters under the state public health department’s massive recruitment drive to fill up 3,761 different posts in Nagpur division. Similarly, just 10 Ayush medical officers and 38 staff nurse against 80 and 239 appointment orders, respectively, have joined as on July 13. Though 69 positions of physician, 36 anaesthetist too were advertised, the division didn’t receive a single application. As per the department’s records, total 73 health care professionals have accepted the job offers for postings across Nagpur, Wardha, Gondia, Bhandara, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur districts. The posts were advertised on April 16 to consolidate health care workforce in the event of substantial hike in Covid cases. Fear of Covid infection, low pay scale and lack of good employment opportunity are the major reasons for the abysmal response to the drive. The district collectors have now been advised to hold recruitment of health staff at district level, sources said. “Holding the drive at division level opens up the possibility of posting outside a candidates’ home district. Given that the offers not for more than three months, why would anyone join. Only those in dire needs may opt,” they said. Officials said the posts were advertised as per requirement received routed through the district collectors. “Fresh advertisement through the collector would ensure a candidate gets a post within the home district,” officials said. In sharp contrast, the recruitment drive for community health officer (CHO) at health and wellness centres under the National Health Mission has attracted stupendous response because of a long tenure. Against 397 orders issued, 384 have joined duty. Officials said the CHO also undergo training and have to give a bond. “In case they refuse to join after training, they are liable to pay Rs1.14lakh bond surety,” they said. Indian Medical Association Nagpur immediate past president Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala said a number of factors are responsible for the poor response to this drive. “Obviously, no one would want to join if there is no job security. Duties need to be specified and professional must know what will happen in case they get infected. Like the government provided a cover of Rs50lakh to its doctors and paramedics staff, same must be the case with contractual staff. The pay scale is also not attractive. Also, the posting are in remote places where one faces food and accommodation problems,” he said. Dr Jhunjhunwala said the government must at least offer a tenure of six months to one year beside add-on like protective gears, family cover in case of death, and quarantine facilities if found positive etc. He also said that the scope for CHO is much better. “They also get the option of contract renewal after 11-month. Pay scale is also good,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/0-mbbs-1-5-staff-nurse-2-ayush-mos-join-against-3761-advertised-posts/articleshow/76968479.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Government to terminate PwC’s consultancy for Space Park||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State government decided to terminate the consultancy service of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for the proposed Space Park project in Thiruvananthapuram. Sources said Kerala State IT infrastructure Ltd (KSITL) has already served a notice to PwC, which is the first step of termination of contract. The appointment of Swapna Suresh – who is the third accused in the gold smuggling case – as operations manager for the Space Park project was done through PwC. Though PwC sub-contracted the resource from a vendor, Vision Technologies, the government is of the view of that onus of recruiting Swapna was on PwC. “When the project was conceived, PwC was assigned as a consultant. PwC was asked to provide a qualified resource for the existing opening. The department allowed her to work based on the verification reports submitted by the consultants. Now, it has come to our notice that the candidate submitted forged documents to secure the job. There is failure on part of the consultants to ensure that a proper candidate is recruited,” said a senior official in IT department. It is learnt that the chief minister has directed officials to initiate steps to terminate the consultancy. After completing procedural formalities, PwC will be asked to go, said sources. Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday demanded a CBI probe into the appointment of Swapna Suresh in the strategic project. Chennithala wrote a letter to PM Modi, urging him to look into the matter and order a CBI probe. Chennithala said Swapna’s immense clout in the CMO helped her fetch a plum post in project which is a joint venture project of the government and VSSC. Referring to the space conclave organized by the government on July 31 and Feb 1, Chennithala said the government had entrusted Swapna with the coordination of the conclave. “Speculation is rife that Swapna Suresh, masquerading as an official of the government, could have used this as the opportunity to establish relationship with top scientists within and outside the country. It is shocking that a lady who is now the second accused in the anti-national smuggling case with criminal antecedents and facing allegations has been chosen as the programme coordinator for an event involving top space scientists in the country,” Ramesh wrote in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-terminate-pwcs-consultancy-for-space-park/articleshow/76967769.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Gurgaon||First 6 months see 30% drop in crime in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The recovery of illegal weapons has dropped by more than 50% in the first six months of the year in Gurugram as compared to the corresponding period of last year, shows police data. In the same period, crimes have come down by around 30%. According to an estimate, the recovery of one illegal weapon prevents at least three crimes from being committed. Between January and June, Gurugram Police recovered 186 illegal weapons, including 37 country-made pistols. Most of the weapons were recovered from Old Gurugram areas and Manesar. Last year in the same period, 392 illegal weapons were recovered. In this period, snatching has come down by 70%, vehicle theft 50%, murder 45% and attempt to murder 40%, police said. The decline in crime and recovery of illegal weapons, said police, is due to a major crackdown on gangs in the past year, which saw one of the region’s most dreaded gangster, Kaushal, whose gang was wanted in several cases of murder and extortion, being finally arrested. In 2019, nearly 150 gangs, involved in murder, extortion, snatching, vehicle lifting, robberies, theft, ATM theft and stealing of tyres, were busted. At present, no major gang is active in the city. “Crime detection is a continuous process. Our team has been pursuing gangs and criminals and they have managed to neutralise most of them,” said commissioner of police K K Rao. A senior police officer said recovery of illegal weapons helps in the prevention of crimes. “A person acquires an illegal weapon with the intention of committing a crime. Usually, people start with snatching and robbery and then go on to commit more serious crimes like extortion and murder,” a police officer said. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said teams have been making recoveries on a regular basis. “We have been targeting people who possess illegal weapons and its supply chain. Breaking the supply chains is very important, otherwise all efforts go in vain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/first-6-months-see-30-drop-in-crime-in-gurgaon/articleshow/76969128.cms||Bagish Jha
July 15, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Drones to help create awareness on lockdown||MADURAI: The city police has swung into action three public address system-mounted drones to create awareness on lockdown restrictions among public and keep them indoors. The drones were used based on instructions from the city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha on Tuesday. Officials said that the drones were used in places, where public movement was more and at main junctions in the city. There are 54 places in the city that have beeen brought under intensive monitoring based on number of infections reported. All the areas were covered. A police officer said the system is more effective than vehicle-mounted public address system as the latter would take time to cover streets. The drones would be deployed at markets and public crowding areas on Wednesday, as relaxations are restored following the end of the intensive lockdown. Meanwhile, police intensified vehicle checking on Tuesday after tightening check-posts at city borders to further bring down the number of vehicles on the roads. Police personnel allowed vehicles with passes and people, who are exempted from the lockdown restrictions. People, who violated the rules, were taken to task by booking cases against them and levying fine amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drones-to-help-create-awareness-on-lockdown/articleshow/76969106.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||PU likely to give extension to student council till next poll||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University Campus Student Council should get extension till next election is held owing to the pandemic, a suggestion that received an in-principle approval by the syndicate in its meeting on July 13. A committee headed by vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar comprising two syndicate members will review the legalities whether the authority can give extension to the student council or not. The elections for the student body are normally held in September. D P S Randhawa, a syndicate member, said it will not be possible for the authorities to conduct elections during the elections. Considering this situation, the authorities, he said, should allow the existing council to continue so that students’ representation and their issues can be taken care of. He said student council elections started being held again after a long struggle in 1977 and the practice should not be discontinued. He said he will request the dean student welfare office to make a provision of online elections for the next student council. The vice-chancellor was told to take a final call after discussing the issue with members. The members said as per the calendar, the student council tenure is till May 31 but they have to find out how much extension can be given as it is not possible to continue with the present council for another year. S K Tomar, dean student welfare, said the vice-chancellor has constituted the committee and whatever the decision is taken, it will be implemented. On May 30, a joint representation was given by four members of council, president, vice president, secretary and joint secretary to dean student welfare (DSW) for extension of their tenure. In the letter, the council members stated that approximately Rs 7 lakh is still in the council kitty which they want to spend on student development so they should be allowed to continue their tenure till August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-likely-to-give-extension-to-student-council-till-next-poll/articleshow/76968517.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 15, 2020||Kolhapur||6 held for sexually abusing minor girl for three years||Kolhapur: Six people, including two brothers, were arrested by the police for taking objectionable photographs of a minor girl, threatening to make them viral and sexually exploiting her for three years between 2017 and 2020. The arrested accused are two brothers and their friends. Police suspect the involvement of one more person and have launched a manhunt to nab him. All of th suspects have been booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Deputy superintendent of police Prerana Katte told TOI that the girl used to stay in a rented room with her mother when one of the two brothers befriended her. Taking advantage of her naivety, he allegedly took objectionable photographs of the minor girl in his phone. He even threatened to make the photographs viral on social media and raped her several times. Katte said that as per preliminary investigation, both the brothers had raped the girl. At one point, one of the brothers allegedly called his friends and showed the girl’s photographs. The other brother also threatened to make the photographs viral and raped the girl. On July 3, he again perpetrated the crime. The girl shared her ordeal with her mother, following which her mother approached police and lodged a complaint on Monday. Senior police officers, including counselled the girl and her mother. Police have confiscated cell phones of the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-held-for-sexually-abusing-minor-girl-for-three-years/articleshow/76966687.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Thackeray ‘no’ to rly line through Melghat||Nagpur: In a victory of sorts for the greens, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the BJP government at the Centre to work out alternative alignment while upgrading the meter gauge railway line through Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR).In a letter to railway minister Piyush Goyal and environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday, Thackeray said, “Considering the long-term irreversible impacts of gauge conversion on endangered species like tiger and its habitat, it would be appropriate to focus on alternative alignment.”Thackeray further pointed out, “We, as a nation, have been showcasing the achievements of ‘Project Tiger’ to the world and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has himself said that ‘conservation of tigers is not a choice but an imperative’. Hence, I request you to support alternate alignment of the railway line from outside the tiger reserve. This will be in the interest of conservation in general and for protection of tigers in particular.”The BJP government at the Centre wanted the Maharashtra government to reconsider the forest land diversion proposal for upgradation of railway line passing through MTR. Melghat railway line issue was one among other pending infrastructure projects discussed on July 7 during the Group of Infrastructure meeting between highways minister Nitin Gadkari, railway minister Piyush Goyal and environment minister Prakash Javadekar among top officials of departments concerned.In the meeting, railway officials submitted that the Standing Committee of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) on February 25, 2019, returned the proposal to Maharashtra for submissions and comments, which are awaited. To this, the ministers had expressed displeasure against state for non-submission of comments.Taking a cue from the meeting, Thackeray on Tuesday made it clear that the railway line will not pass through the tiger reserve, for which 161 hectares of biodiversity rich forest land needs to be diverted.Of the 176km railway line — Akola-Akot (44km), Akot-Amlakhurd (78km), and Amlakhurd-Khandwa (54km) — 35km falls inside tiger reserve, of which 18km passes through the core area.Thackeray also drew attention of both the ministers that on February 25, in its 53rd meeting the NBWL had rejected the proposal and returned it to the state government. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in their comments had recommended that only feasible mitigation is ‘avoidance’ of gauge conversion and alternate routes or alignments bypassing the tiger reserve should be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thackeray-no-to-rly-line-through-melghat/articleshow/76968489.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||SpiceJet flight brings back 175 passengers from UAE||MOHALI: In continuation to the Vande Bharat Mission of evacuating stranded Indians from various countries, an evacuation flight from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) arrived at the Chandigarh International Airport with 175 Indians on Tuesday. Another flight from Sharjah brought 141 stranded Indians on Monday. With this, a total of 19 flights have arrived so far under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission Phase II. Flights from the US, Ukraine, Auckland in New Zealand, Kuwait, two flights from United Arab Emirates (UAE), Sharjah and four flights from Dubai have so far arrived with approximately 2,400 passengers. The SpiceJet flight from the UAE arrived at 4.39 pm with 175 passenhers. This is the fourth flight connectivity to the UAE. The other Air India flight from Sharjah arrived at 3.16 pm on Monday with 141 passengers. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all the passengers arriving from Sharjah and the UAE have been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts and their passports have also been taken into possession by the administration. The government of India had recently permitted airline operators from the Middle East and Gulf counties to bring back stranded Indians to their country. These foreign airlines will also operate apart from Air India or other Indian-based airline operators to bring back stranded Indians to Chandigarh. The permission was notified by the director, civil aviation, Punjab. Foreign-based airline operators like Qatar Airways, Kuwait Airways, Air Arabia, Jazeera Airways, and SalamAir, so far have been given permission to operate flights to Chandigarh International Airport in Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spicejet-flight-brings-back-175-passengers-from-uae/articleshow/76968523.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||116 jawans tested Covid positive in G’chiroli dist||Nagpur: The Maoist-affected Gadchiroli district is now facing a crisis after 116 jawans of different units tested Covid positive in the last one-and-a-half months starting June 2. The security forces in the tribal district could be one of the worst hit by the pandemic in the state along with Mumbai, Pune and Thane. As on Tuesday, 82 cops from Maharashtra have died due to the pandemic and another 1,212 personnel are recuperating at different Covid treatment centres across the state. In Gadchiroli, the central reserve police force (CRPF) is the worst hit unit with 72 of their personnel so far testing positive. After having arrived from different states like West Bengal, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and so on, the CRPF personnel were kept at different quarantine centres where their samples were collected for testing. Around 18 CRPF personnel were discharged on Tuesday from different hospitals after they tested negative. Also on Tuesday, security forces stationed at Gadchiroli for anti-Maoist operations received a jolt after 42 jawans of the state reserve police force (SRPF) tested positive. The SRPF platoon had reached Gadchiroli from Dhule and were kept at the quarantine centre. According to a senior official, the jawans would be inducted into the operations only after they are declared fit. “We will allow the jawans to recuperate completely and regain their strength before sending them on duty. The jawans, coming from different places, were not allowed to mingle with the local force which has so far saved the district police from contracting the viral infection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/116-jawans-tested-covid-positive-in-gchiroli-dist/articleshow/76968472.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Money laundering an act of financial terrorism: HC||CUTTACK: The offence of money-laundering is nothing but an act of financial terrorism that poses a serious threat not only to the financial system of the country but also to the integrity and sovereignty of a nation, the Orissa high court has said. While refusing to grant bail to a person accused of involvement in money laundering after unauthorized deposit collection through attractive schemes with a rogue mindset by M/s. Fine Indisales Pvt. Ltd, the HC on Monday gave vent to its concern about such offences as they are done in an exotic fashion encompassing a series of actions by the proverbial renting of credibility from the innocent investors. Justice SK Panigrahi said, “This sort of an economic demonology at the hands of M/s. Fine Indisales Pvt. Ltd, its directors and shareholders has been instrumental in making a windfall gain of about Rs 703 crore, as revealed from their own records.” The modus operandi adopted while transferring such prodigious sum of ill-gotten wealth with the singular intention of concealing the original source of funds and to project the tainted money as untainted ex facie constitute the offence of money laundering, he said. Justice Panigrahi said, “The abuse of the financial system, like in the instant case, has great potential to negatively impact a country’s macro economic performance and may also adversely impact its cross-border externalities. Further, such actions by the petitioner can inflict reputational damage of the country in the world of business and commerce both inside the country and abroad. The perpetrators of such deviant schemes, including the petitioner herein, who promise utopia to their unsuspecting investors seem to have entered in a proverbial Faustian bargain and are grossly unmindful of untold miseries of the faceless multitudes who are left high and dry and consigned to the flames of suffering, he said. The offences, such as this, are committed with a deliberate design with an eye on personal profit and often shown to be given scant regard for a sordid residuum left behind to be borne by the unfortunate starry-eyed petty investors. The offenders often target the unsuspecting, rural and economically distressed populations of our state who while hoping for a dreamy return, part with their hard-earned money, the HC said. It quoted an International Monetary Fund estimate, which said laundered money generates about $590 billion to $1.5 trillion per year, which constitutes approximately two to five percent of the world’s gross domestic product. It also quoted the Supreme Court of India saying that the apex court has consistently held that economic offences stifle the delicate economic fabric of a society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/money-laundering-an-act-of-financial-terrorism-hc/articleshow/76967768.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
July 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Woman waits 5 hours for ambulance, dies in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 38-year-old Shivajinagar resident, who wanted to shift his 55-year-old Covid-19 positive mother from a private hospital to a government facility, had to struggle for five hours for an ambulance. He finally found engaged one after coughing up Rs 15,000 only to see his mother breathe her last hours later. “My mother fell ill on July 9,” Jaipardeep Ramesh said. “She complained of breathlessness and her condition suddenly worsened. I called four ambulance services, but they refused to ply. Finally, I took my mother in my own car and drove to four hospitals which refused to admit her. The fifth hospital in Bellandur admitted her around 12am.” The woman was tested for Covid-19 and the result on July 10 confirmed she was positive. Around 11am the next day, Ramesh decided to shift his mother to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) near Wilson Garden as her condition worsened. He asked the private hospital to provide one of the many ambulances parked on the premises, but was told “it is not possible”. “I begged them to help my mother, but they refused saying they were meant for an emergency. Was my mother not an emergency case? Who decides this?” Ramesh said. Finally, one ambulance offered to ply but the driver demanded Rs 15,000. Ramesh paid up and the ambulance left with his mother for RGICD at 4pm where she was admitted 90 minutes later. She breathed her last 12.07am. “The price on ambulances should be capped. What will the poor do? Hospitals need to treat emergency cases first and then charge a price, not before that,” Ramesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-5-hour-wait-rs-15000-ambulance-fare-woman-dies/articleshow/76967754.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 15, 2020||Chennai||For non-vegetarians stuck in veg homes, secret meat-ups are the way out||CHENNAI: Desperate times call for desperate measures, especially for carnivores under lockdown in vegetarian households. From sneakily ordering non-vegetarian food online to subliminal mind bending to convince themselves that lauki is lamb, these meat lovers cannot wait to get back to their own diet. “My husband and I love non-vegetarian food. However, we live in a joint family that prohibits it,” says Apoorva Mehta. “When we have a strong craving for meat, we order food online from a different location and eat the food in our car,” says the 40-year-old arts and science college professor. Apoorva and her husband then run errands before returning to their pure veg homes, so there is enough time for the aroma of the food to disappear. Some vegetarians have been dressing mushrooms, soya chunks, and paneer as meats. “It is so tempting to look at my friends’ social media accounts with posts of meat gravies and biryanis. At my parents all-veg household, I try to rustle up the same flavour and feeling with soya chunks and mushrooms, then trick my mind into believing I am eating actual meat chunks,” says Sai Vignesh, 22, a medical student at Saraswati institute of medical sciences, Delhi. Vignesh, who boards in his college hostel, has been staying with his parents in Chennai since the lockdown began. Eating greens and vegetables on a Sunday afternoon has been upsetting, says HR professional Amritha Karthikeyan. “I usually order my non-vegetarian food online but my family was against it in lockdown for fear of the food not being fresh,” she says. So now it’s spinach Sundays for Amritha, the days of a chicken biriyani brunch a mere memory. While cravings can be controlled by eating natural or artificial meat substitutes, this is a time to prioritize health, says Nihath Tazeen, a clinical nutritionist at Qua Nutrition, Alwarpet. “Now that the lockdown rules are relaxed, going to a friend’s place to eat meat is an option. Meat substitutes might also help extreme cravings. However, in a period where we are fighting a pandemic, it is important to control one’s taste buds,” she says. Adithya Ramesh wouldn’t agree. Although the final-year student at Hindustan University, Chennai, has never really craved for non-vegetarian food, only indulging in the occasional egg or chicken in the form of pizza topping or inside a burger, in the last two months, his meat cravings have shot up. “I just want to bite into a real chicken burger so badly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-non-vegetarians-stuck-in-veg-homes-secret-meat-ups-are-the-way-out/articleshow/76968520.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Admission for class XI in 40 govt schools from July 21 onwards||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department will start centralized online admission process for class XI (science, arts, commerce and skill courses) in 40 government senior secondary schools from July 21. The online prospectus has been made available on the education department’s website and the website of the NIELIT from Tuesday. The last date to submit the online registration form is July 30, 2020. The total number of seats in all the government schools under the four streams is around 12,500. Candidates will have to submit online registration forms along-with the scanned documents as per details mentioned in the prospectus. This time, there will be no need for submitting print-out or hard copy of registration forms. To facilitate students in filling the form and uploading the scanned documents, helpdesks have been set up at 20 government schools, which will function from 9am to 1pm on all working days. However, students can visit these schools after fixing a time slot on the landline number (mentioned in prospectus) of the school. The help desk will function at GMSSS-20B, GMSSS-21, GMSSS-26, GMSSS-27, GMSSS-33, GMSSS-40, GMSSS-44, GMSSS-45, GMSSS-MHC, GSSS-Manimajra, GMHS-24, GHS-38B, GMHS-41A, GMHS-42, GHS-47, GHS-53, GMHS-Dhanas, RC-II, GMHS-Manimajra, GMHS-Karsan and GMHS-Manimajra, from 9am to 1pm. Students can also tale help from the NIELIT Centre, Sector 30 from 10am to 5 pm on all working days. Before visiting the NIELIT Centre, students will have to take a prior appointment on phone: 0172-2650121, 01881257061. They can download prospectus from www.chdeducation.gov.in and www.nielit.gov.in/chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admission-for-class-xi-in-40-govt-schools-from-july-21-onwards/articleshow/76968533.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana plans 1.5km ESZ around Sukhna sanctuary||CHANDIGARH: Haryana is planning to declare an area ranging from 1km to 1.5km as eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) in its portion around the Sukhna Wildlife SanctuaryThe UT administration has already notified leaving 2km to 2.75km radius around the sanctuary as ESZ. The ministry had issued a final notification on the ESZ around the sanctuary for Chandigarh, but Punjab and Haryana have not declared these zones. The UT is pushing for the two to leave a matching area from the lake boundary as a restricted development zone. The forest and wildlife department, Haryana, has sought comments. Sources said the state government will submit a detailed proposal before the ministry soon. In January, the ministry had even asked the Haryana department to submit a proposal. The area comprising 1.5km starting from the edge of the sanctuary in Chandigarh covers at least five Panchkula villages — Saketri, Rampur, Razipura Jajjra, Prem Pura and Majri Jattana. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change had turned down the Punjab government’s proposal to declare only 100-metre-deep ESZ around the area falling under it. Last year, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had written to the government backing the proposal made in 2013. On the other hand, UT chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai had written a letter to the director general of forests and special secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change, opposing the proposal. The letter sent by the ministry to the Punjab government stated, “We advised to consider extending the ESZ to at least 1 km and submit the revised proposal. In this background and keeping in view of the order of the Supreme Court dated November 5, 2019, on the Tata Camelot project, it is requested to provide your specific comments on the issues raised by Chandigarh to expedite the process of publication of ESZ notification.” The UT, in a letter on January 14, stated, “The ESZ has already been notified by the ministry on January 18, 2017. The proposal of Punjab is not in line with that of Chandigarh”. The letter further stated, “It is to reiterate that a similar proposal of the Punjab government sent to the government in 2015 was not accepted. In case only 100m is left, it will have an adverse impact on the sanctuary as well as Sukhna Lake.” The UT had requested the ministry not to accept Punjab’s proposal in the interest of wildlife conservation in Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary as well as for the conservation of Sukhna Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-plans-1-5km-esz-around-sukhna-sanctuary/articleshow/76968542.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Police to step up vigil over human trafficking fears||BHUBANESWAR: The coronavirus pandemic has not only claimed lives and caused economic hardship, but also made humans more vulnerable to organized criminal networks. In view of pay cuts and job loss, the Odisha government has asked its police to initiate steps for preventing human trafficking. The government apprehends that taking advantage of the pandemic traffickers may exploit innocent people. A few days ago, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had advised all states to remain alert and track human trafficking activity during the Covid pandemic. The MHA had told the states to strengthen their intelligence and surveillance against traffickers, identify vulnerable locations and hold regular gram sabhas for keeping the communities aware about the social menace. Though different departments of the state government have been jointly working on the prevention of human trafficking, police have been specifically asked to address the issue. “We have asked police to create a database of traffickers, their gangs and modus operandi of the crime. Since many, especially the migrants, are in financial distress during the pandemic, traffickers are likely to lure them with money and employment offers. But in most cases, migrants only undergo harassment and exploitation. Police should identify their intelligence mechanism in the districts,” a senior home department official said. The police have also been asked to engage the villagers, panchayat leaders, resident welfare associations and community members in combating human trafficking. “Each panchayat may be asked to maintain a register containing all the information of children and women and track their movements to prevent any kind exploitation,” the official said. Police sources said people in the backward districts like Kalahandi, Balangir, Nabarangapur, Rayagada and Nuapada are vulnerable to human trafficking in the form of forced labour. Poor employment opportunities in the areas normally force hundreds of labourers to approach brokers for jobs. “Since government officials and police are busy in the enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines, they lack the time to keep vigil on human traffickers. Though police have anti-human trafficking units (AHTUs) in many districts, the officers, who man the units, are busy in their routine law and order, investigation and other duties. We need dedicated officers to check human trafficking,” said Umi Daniel, director of migration and education with Aide et Action (a voluntary organisation), said. Police sources said at least 2500 trafficked persons, including several women and children, were rescued by them in the last three years. They added that almost all the victims were trafficked for working in brick kilns and factories in other states. In case of children, they were trafficked to Delhi and other major cities to work as domestic help. Subsequently, many of them were sexually abused, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/police-to-step-up-vigil-over-human-trafficking-fears/articleshow/76967789.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Video lessons for Class XII government school students available from today||CHENNAI: Last-minute preparations were underway at a studio setup in Anna Centenary Library, Kotturpuram, to shoot video lessons for Class XII government school students. Government schools across Tamil Nadu have instructed their students to arrive at their respective campuses to get these videos from Wednesday. Computer teachers in their schools will help them in downloading and transferring the video content. As schools remain shut due to the Covid lockdown, there was no clarity on when classes would resume. So the state school education department announced that lessons for Classes II to X will be broadcast through the government’s Kalvi channel and 14 other private television channels soon. For Class XII students, the department planned to create video lessons which students can access through laptops provided to them by the government. Higher secondary school teachers and experts at Tamil Nadu Text Book Corporation (TNTBC) were entrusted with the task of creating video lessons for all subjects. The videos were pushed to a central server and from there to individual schools through labs. Lessons for the first 30 days were made available and will be updated as and when other content is ready, said a senior official from the department. “We are hoping that it will be of great help to our students,” he said. However, a section of teachers and students was not convinced with the idea of handling lessons through TV channels and video lessons. Saravanan, a teacher from Madurai said, “There will be no interaction and students will not get a chance to get their doubts clarified every now and then. So this form of learning could be ineffective.” Also, not all eight lakh government school students have a conducive learning atmosphere in their homes and that is why many stayed back late evening or arrived soon to schools to study in the past, he added. In response, authorities said that students’ future will be affected if they were to wait for normalcy to restart the learning process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/video-lessons-for-class-xii-govt-school-students-available-from-today/articleshow/76968543.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||After 54 years, govt schools record highest pass %age||CHANDIGARH: In a first since 1966, government schools of UT Chandigarh have recorded the overall pass percentage above 90%. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director of school education, confirmed the same. “It is the result of sustained hard work and dedication of principals, teachers and officers of the UT education department and able guidance of seniors. This result has boosted our morale during these difficult days and further inspires us to work harder and make the country proud in PISA as well,” he said. In comparison to the last year, pass percentage of government schools in the UT Chandigarh has improved by 9.81%. The overall pass percentage of UT, Chandigarh stands tall at 91.57% this year, while it was 81.76% last year. This year, 9,601 students appeared in class XII board exams. A total of 765 students have secured above 90% marks. There are 40 Government Model Senior Secondary Schools (GMSSS) in the UT Chandigarh. This year, GMSSS in Sector 16 has given 100% result. Last year, the school had secured third position with 98.70% students passing class XII exams. Besides GMSSS 16, 24 other government schools record result above 90%. These schools include GMSSS Modern Housing complex in Manimajra, which has stood second among government schools with 99.47%. GMSSS Sector 19 has recorded 98.51% as pass percent, GMSSS 32 has recorded 98.45% and GMSSS 21 has recorded 98.20% as pass percentages. Other schools with above 90% pass percentage are GMSSS-8 (93.04%), GGMSSS -18 (97.25%), GGMSSS-20B (94.41%), GMSSS-20D (93.75%), GMSSS-23 (94.74%), GMSSS-26 TM (97.41%), GMSSS-33 (94.72%), GMSSS-35(97.24%), GMSSS-37B (96.34%), GMSSS-37D (95.32%), GMSSS-40 (92.72%), GMSSS-46 (92.91), GMSSS-47(92.98%), GMSSS Sarangpur (91.74%), GSSS MMT (94.10%), GMSSS Kaimbwala (90.91%), GSSS Mauli Jagran (95.56%), GMSSS Raipur Khurd (96.25%), GMSSS Behlana (96.08%) and GMSSS Khuda Alisher (96.30%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-54-yrs-govt-schools-record-highest-pass-age/articleshow/76968536.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Two held, three mausers & seven cartridges seized||Nagpur: A special team of crime branch arrested two persons, Shashank Samudre and Rushab Shahu, and seized three locally-made mausers and seven cartridges. The duo was nabbed near TV tower square, Seminary Hills, on Monday. The car in which the duo was travelling has also been seized. The crime branch team headed by DCP (crime) Gajanan Rajmane averted a certain gang war and murder after nabbing Samudre and Shahu who were set to attack former externee and murder accused Vishal Meshram. Meshram is learnt to have committed the murder of Sumit Dheriya on the victim’s birthday in 2018. The accused was already an externee when he committed the crime. There is an ongoing tussle between Meshram and Samudre, who in the past, has been booked in a case of rioting. It’s learnt that Samudre and Shahu have named one Annu Thakur from whom they had procured the firearms and the cartridges. Thakur was murdered last month. The action against the two goons was taken following a tip-off received by the crime branch team under ACP Sudhir Nandanwar. The team of cops which had rounded up the two goons comprised of assistant sub-inspector Rajesh Lohi, constables Afsar Khan, Dayashankar Bisandre, Himanshu Thakur, Badal Mandre and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-held-three-mausers-seven-cartridges-seized/articleshow/76968509.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Father held for attempt to murder son||Kolhapur: Police have arrested a primary teacher for allegedly attempting to murder his son at his residence on D P Road in Sangli on Monday. According to Rajendra Hindurao Gadekar (57), Pratik (23) was his son from his first wife. He got married after the death of his first wife. Gadekar told police Pratik was an addict and used to harass his family all the time. Police said that Pratik was demanding Rs 3.50 lakh from Gadekar and was also insisting him to transfer the rights of the bungalow, where Gadekar was staying with his family, in his name. On Monday morning, Gadekar aallegedly hit Pratik on the head with an iron rod while he was sleeping in the hall. Later, he took his son to a private hospital in Miraj. The hospital alerted the police considering the nature of injuries. At first, Gadekar told police that two unidentified people had hit Pratik rod but later confessed to the crime.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/father-held-for-attempt-to-murder-son/articleshow/76966696.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||DGP complains of news reports maligning cops||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief Loknath Behera has filed a complaint with Press Council of India against a series of reports allegedly humiliating the police that appeared in newspapers in the state in the last few days. The police chief filed the complaint in the wake of some newspapers reporting alleged links between a couple of police officers and Swapna Suresh, one of the key accused in the case. The complaint from the state police chief was preceded by a letter from IG (crimes) S Sreejith, who said that there is an attempt to derail investigations of the crime branch by maligning the officers in the media. He had also attached two newspaper reports that appeared in two vernacular dailies, to substantiate his claim. “The key to promulgation of such news items is to keep the radar guessing by airing unfounded theories with the support of innuendos. The description of the IG is depicted in a seemingly camouflaged manner (in the news items) giving rise to a sea of speculations,” Sreejith said in his letter. He further said that these set of allegations are foisted in such a manner that all the IGs stationed in the capital, all the IGs in charge of crime branch and all the IGs headquartered in Thiruvananthapuram will fall within the mantle of suspicion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dgp-complains-of-news-reports-maligning-cops/articleshow/76967793.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Aghast by Rs 9L bill estimate, man’s family go on hunt for ventilator bed||Bengaluru: A 67-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient from Koramangala, who suffered from fever and breathlessness and required a ventilator, was rushed to Columbia Asia hospital, Whitefield at about 2.30pm on Monday. However, before he could be admitted, the hospital gave him a bill estimate of a staggering Rs 9 lakh for 10 days of treatment. Aghast, the man’s family frantically searched for a ventilator bed in other hospitals, even as the man’s condition deteriorated. They family finally admitted him in a private hospital near Shivajinagar late in the evening. The patient is now stable, but is still on ventilator. The man’s case is an example of how private hospitals are refusing treatment by blindsiding patients with hefty bill estimates. However, Columbia Asia said the man was not a confirmed Covid patient and, therefore, it was within its rights to give an estimate. “His oxygen saturation level was 70% when he reached the hospital in Whitefield,” said Abdul Bari, the patient’s nephew. “The hospital’s estimate left us shocked. We couldn’t afford it.” The estimate included Rs 2 lakh for laboratory investigations, Rs 1.4 lakh for ventilator, professional fee of Rs 75,000 and Rs 3 lakh for medicines, medical supplies and consumables. Incidentally, private hospitals had offered to treat Covid-19 patients on ventilator for Rs 33,000 per day, but the state government wanted them to reduce it to Rs 25,000. Bari said the hospital gave him an hour to decide on admitting him. “We had a choice,” he said. “We could take him back home and deal with whatever happened or search for an ICU bed in another hospital, which seemed near impossible.” Through multiple contacts, the family finally got through to Dr Taha Maheen, managing trustee at HBS Hospital, Shivajinagar. The patient was admitted there around 7.30pm. “When we left Columbia Asia, my uncle’s saturation level had dropped to 40%,” Bari said. The man’s throat swab samples were taken on Monday at a Koramangala hospital after he spiked a fever and the result is pending. He also suffers from comorbidities — diabetes and hypertension. When contacted, Columbia Asia said the patient was tentatively diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) due to a viral or bacterial cause. “We wish to point out that he was not confirmed Covid positive nor was he referred by the government,” the hospital said. “Any patient in such a situation is given an estimate only. This does not mean a final bill was provided. All patients once confirmed Covid positive are treated in conformity with government rules, which Columbia Asia commits to follow with no exception.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/aghast-by-rs-9l-bill-estimate-mans-family-go-on-hunt-for-ventilator-bed/articleshow/76967765.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal puts onus of providing ‘newer’ Covid drugs on hospitals||KOLKATA: The state government stepped in on Tuesday and directed all hospitals, including Covid facilities, to arrange for the newer drugs for corona treatment and do not pass this ‘burden’ on to the patient party. TOI had reported on Monday that remdisivir and tocilizumab, two drugs used to treat Covid-19, are fast disappearing from drug stores with fresh supplies expected next week. Approved by the Centre, remdisivir is an anti-viral drug that prevents the replication of the virus. Tocilizumab is a repurposed drug originally used to treat patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis. Both drugs can only be administered by doctors based on specific clinical diagnosis. The advisory issued on Tuesday — titled ‘Advisory on Case Management for Covid-19 Patients’ — mentions the experts from the Protocol Monitoring Team have ‘noted certain anomalies in practice which need urgent rectification’. Among other things, it mentions: “Newer drugs that are described in protocol can be used but it is the institution’s responsibility to arrange for those medicines for patients instead of giving the burden on the patient party”. Many patients’ relatives who are undergoing Covid treatment in nursing homes or private hospitals say they are still clueless about procuring these new drugs. The state health department indicated they had received complaints that many hospitals and private nursing homes had prescribed the drugs and asked the relatives to procure them. Some relatives even alleged that they had paid Rs 11,000 for a vial that is priced Rs 5,500. Rajendra Khandelwal, MD of Dhanwantary pharmacy chain, said these drugs are supplied to the Covid hospitals directly as a policy decision by the Centre. “It is not given to the distributors. But many patients are not getting them and we hope the supply will improve by this week.” Sajal Ganguly, secretary of the Bengal Chemists and Druggists Association, said 500 vials had reached the city on Monday and they were sent to the hospitals through super stockists who supply to the hospitals. A health official said that some private hospitals with branches outside Bengal are getting access to the drugs and ferrying them to the city from other states but not all are being able to do it. According to him, at least two private facilities were handing over prescriptions of the new drugs to the relatives. In desperation, some doctors in hospitals and nursing homes are providing the contact numbers of drug suppliers and asking the relatives to procure them as the drugs are not available over-the-counter. There is a crisis across the city, a doctor conceded, wishing not to be named. An official of a private hospital on Bypass treating Covid-19 patients said they directly provide medicines to the patients from their own pharmacy and they do not ask relatives to buy them. “But we can provide them till we have the stock,” the official said. Krishnangshu Ray, medical director of Peerless hospital, said the government needed to improve the supply chain. “Without proper supply, the hospitals cannot provide medicines to patients. I do not know if the government hospitals are prescribing these costly drugs. The drug control authority must look into the crisis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-puts-onus-of-providing-newer-covid-drugs-on-hosps/articleshow/76967782.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata municipal corporation struggles with ten-hour window for Covid-19 cremation||KOLKATA: A 10-hour window to cremate those dying of Covid is proving impossible for Kolkata municipal corporation with only one of the twin furnaces at Dhapa functioning properly. Though the civic body is attempting to operate the other furnace to keep pace with the bodies arriving at the crematorium, it has been unable to bridge a three-day backlog that had happened last month when the furnaces were out of order from June 28 to June 30. Sources said the crematorium was able to handle around 10-12 bodies a night. According to KMC officials, not only are the 25-year-old furnaces meant to cremate unclaimed bodies creaking under the load of dead bodies, the situation has been further compounded by KMC’s inability to cremate Covid bodies during the day when KMC conservancy workers arrive to dump solid municipal waste at Dhapa. Home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who is also the nodal officer for Covid management in Kolkata, called for streamlining of the cremation process at a meeting with KMC officials on Tuesday. He also asked the civic body to increase the number of hearses available to transport dead bodies to the crematorium. The backlog has led to a pile-up of dead bodies in hospital morgues and is also prolonging the pain of families in bereavement. A 45-year-old teacher had to wait for 72 hours to finally learn that her father had cremated. The Ballygunge resident managed to collect the urn containing her father’s ashes from the Pragati Maidan police station three days after her father died in a nursing home in central Kolkata. The octogenarian had tested Covid-19 positive at a local clinic. “The wait seemed never-ending. I spent sleepless nights. All we wanted from KMC authorities was a confirmation that the body had been released from the nursing home and taken over by the KMC for cremation. They finally did so after three days,” recounted the teacher. She isn’t the only one who faced this ordeal. A Dhakuria bank executive lived in anxiety for three days after his septuagenarian mother died of Covid. The body had languished in the mortuary of a private hospital for three days. “For a family in bereavement, this is inhuman. I was shocked beyond words when I was told I could not see my mother. But it was more shocking to watch an insensitive administration that dismissed my pleas for a quick cremation. I was bluntly told it would take time as there was a queue of dead bodies,” Banerjee said. A resident of Aranbina Sarani in north Kolkata, too, complained that calls to the KMC Covid nodal officer for cremation of her mother who died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Alipore on Thursday went unanswered. KMC is reluctant to put any more pressure on the ageing furnaces, fearing they may again suffer a breakdown and increase the backlog. According to Manzar Iqbal, one of the members of the KMC board of administrators in charge of the electrical department, said a new furnace was being built at Dhapa to take the extra load. “We hope to set up a new furnace by the end of this year. Once it is built, we will be able to reduce the present delay in cremation of the Covid-19 patients,” Iqbal said. Calls to Atin Ghosh, member of the KMC board of administrators who handles the civic body’s health department, and nodal officer Manirul Islam Mollah went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-struggles-with-10-hr-window-for-cov-cremation/articleshow/76967791.cms||Saikat Ray
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||State board colleges fume over high CBSE scores||NAGPUR: A spectacular jump in the number of high scorers in CBSE Std XII has left state junior colleges fuming. They now see the ‘perception’ gap widening. The number of students scoring 90% and above in CBSE XII have more than doubled compared to last year. Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) said there is absolutely no level playing field for state board students and now they will approach education minister Varsha Gaikwad over the issue. As many as 1.57 lakh CBSE XII students scored above 90% as compared to 94,299 last year. Further analysis of those scoring 95% and above showed that the number jumped to 38,686 this year compared to 17,693 in 2019. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of VJUCTA, alleged that this reeks of deliberate strategy to inflate marks. He said, “One can understand an organic 10% rise in high scorers considering that syllabus gets updated or coaching/tuition classes refining their teaching methods. But doubling is unheard of. I believe CBSE is purposely being extremely liberal with evaluation and that has led to such inflated numbers.” Now, VJUCTA has decided to take up the issue with state education department. “We will demand an inquiry into this issue because our state board students are getting demoralized. Parents feel that there is something wrong with HSC syllabus and slowly the shift towards CBSE will increase,” said Gavhankar. He added that in HSC evaluation, the process was very strict. “If any student scores more than 90%, then a third person checks that particular paper. The chief moderator gets involved and scans through every answer. And all the time, all three evaluators are looking to cut marks,” said Gavhnakar. Ravindra Fadnavis, secretary of Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal, said this is an alarming situation. “Our HSC students appeared for all papers while their students missed out on a few subjects. Now, how will equalization be done? Apart from this year’s special situation, this trend of highly inflated marks is a serious issue which state government needs to look into,” said Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-board-colleges-fume-over-high-cbse-scores/articleshow/76968524.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 15, 2020||Ludhiana||‘No athletic practice sessions for now’||Ludhiana: In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, Punjab sports department has taken the decision to not resume athletic practice sessions at Guru Nanak Dev Stadium for next few days and given strict instruction to local coaches to give more focus on online training sessions. There are almost 15 training centres in the district which have not been functional for the past four months owing to outbreak of Covid-19 in the country and enforcement of strict lock down across the nation. After receiving instruction, Local sports department officials had held a meeting with local coaches and made them aware about the latest guidelines and asked them to continue their training sessions through digital mode. District sport officer Ravinder Singh said as per the new instruction of higher authorities of state sports department, local coaches are focusing on online training sessions. As a precautionary measure, local sports officials have also taken the decision of not resuming the practice session at Guru Nanak Dev Stadium because several cases of covid-19 have been reported in the city in the past few days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-athletic-practice-sessions-for-now/articleshow/76967773.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Doctor harasses nurse during night round, thrashed in morning||PANCHKULA: A doctor allegedly sexually harassed a staff nurse at General Hospital, Sector 6, and ended up receiving a sound beating and triggering a protest a few hours later. The nurse posted at an isolation ward alleged the doctor from the psychiatric department came for a round in a drunken condition on Monday night. She alleged he tried to harass her and took her to an empty ward. The nurse raised the alarm, prompting others to rush to her rescue. The accused fled in his car. On Tuesday morning, when he reached his office, staff nurses thrashed him and held a protest, leading to the arrival of cops from women police station. Inspector Wamida Hamid, station house officer (SHO), women police station, said, “We have registered a case under Section 354 of the IPC. The accused will be arrested soon.” Haryana State Women Commission took note of the incident and a team went to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/doctor-harasses-nurse-during-night-round-thrashed-in-morning/articleshow/76968550.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu VC: Covid outbreak has changed priorities of varsities||Aurangabad: Pramod Yeole, the vice-chancellor of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), has set up a task force to deal with crisis arising out of Covid-19. Yeole, who will be completing one year in the office on Wednesday, said the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the priorities in the education sector. “We have installed state-of-the-art infrastructure and skilled human resources to upgrade the teaching-learning process during the current pandemic. It is the teaching community, which must first gear up to face emerging challenges, followed by students,” he said. Yeole, in an exclusive interview with ToI, on Tuesday said that the task force would suggest measures to ensure BAMU does not lag behind while adopting the ‘new normal’ in the education sector.“The task force, headed by me, has senior members from different knowledge streams and top officials from the administration. Generating e-content for different courses and facilitating effective teaching-learning process in a virtual manner are some of the key focus areas for the task force,” he said.Yeole said that efforts were on to switch the conduct of different entrance tests and other examinations from conventional to online mode. Under Yeole, BAMU recently reported its best-ever (69) position in the National Institutional Ranking Framework. It was among the top three state universities in Maharashtra.Yeole is credited with initiating an academic audit of all affiliated colleges and revised the MPhil and PhD ordinance incorporating UGC norms.Over 80% results of winter 2019 examination of BAMU were declared in record period. Towards improving linkages, BAMU has signed MoU with Wikimedia for promoting skill development and joined hands with Universities of State of Baden, Germany for knowledge exchange programme. On an administrative front, he introduced e-file tracking system, restructured administrative and examination departments and filled posts of all statutory officers that were vacant for a long time.Notably, BAMU has established corona testing and research laboratories at the main campus in Aurangabad and at sub-campus in Osmanabad through CSR funding.Looking ahead, Yeole said the university needs to give more thrust on research and improving public perception. “With four more years left, concerted efforts will be taken to deliver student-centric, accountable and transparent functioning of the university. BAMU is one of the oldest universities in the country and should figure among top institutions of higher learning in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-vc-covid-outbreak-has-changed-priorities-of-varsities/articleshow/76966709.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar, Cuttack get new DCPs||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Tuesday appointed Uma Shankar Dash and Prateek Singh as the new deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, respectively. This apart, the government has changed the superintendents of police (SPs) of six districts and effected a minor reshuffle in the IPS cadre. This is the first major transfer at the IPS level amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a notification of the home department, outgoing Bhubaneswar DCP Anup Kumar Sahoo has been appointed as the deputy inspector general (intelligence), while the outgoing Cuttack DCP Akhileshvar Singh as the SP of Puri district. Kumar, who was promoted to the rank of DIG on December 31, 2019, and was subsequently appointed as the additional commissioner of police, was holding the DCP’s post as an additional charge. Dash and Prateek are the outgoing SPs of Puri and Kandhamal districts. The twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack has got a new DCP (traffic). Sagarika Nath, who was heading the traffic management in the twin cities, has been appointed as the SP of Sundargarh district. Outgoing Sundargarh SP Soumya Mishra will be the new DCP (traffic) for Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Vinit Agarwala, who was the Nuapada SP, will now head the Kandhamal district police. Outgoing Deogarh SP Rahul Jain is the new SP of Nuapada district. SC Jamadar, who was in the state police headquarters, has been appointed as the SP of Deogarh district. Tapan Kumar Pattnaik, who was the Crime Branch SP, has become the new SP of Gajapati district. DGP-ranked officer Satyajit Mohanty, who was the director (intelligence) and was holding the additional charge as the chief of fire services and home guards, will now only head the fire services directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bhubaneswar-cuttack-get-new-dcps/articleshow/76967804.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 15, 2020||Cuttack||Bhubaneswar, Cuttack get new DCPs||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Tuesday appointed Uma Shankar Dash and Prateek Singh as the new deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, respectively. This apart, the government has changed the superintendents of police (SPs) of six districts and effected a minor reshuffle in the IPS cadre. This is the first major transfer at the IPS level amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a notification of the home department, outgoing Bhubaneswar DCP Anup Kumar Sahoo has been appointed as the deputy inspector general (intelligence), while the outgoing Cuttack DCP Akhileshvar Singh as the SP of Puri district. Kumar, who was promoted to the rank of DIG on December 31, 2019, and was subsequently appointed as the additional commissioner of police, was holding the DCP’s post as an additional charge. Dash and Prateek are the outgoing SPs of Puri and Kandhamal districts. The twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack has got a new DCP (traffic). Sagarika Nath, who was heading the traffic management in the twin cities, has been appointed as the SP of Sundargarh district. Outgoing Sundargarh SP Soumya Mishra will be the new DCP (traffic) for Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Vinit Agarwala, who was the Nuapada SP, will now head the Kandhamal district police. Outgoing Deogarh SP Rahul Jain is the new SP of Nuapada district. SC Jamadar, who was in the state police headquarters, has been appointed as the SP of Deogarh district. Tapan Kumar Pattnaik, who was the Crime Branch SP, has become the new SP of Gajapati district. DGP-ranked officer Satyajit Mohanty, who was the director (intelligence) and was holding the additional charge as the chief of fire services and home guards, will now only head the fire services directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/bhubaneswar-cuttack-get-new-dcps/articleshow/76976141.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 15, 2020||Kolkata||WB Madhyamik, CBSE 10 results today||KOLKATA: Starting Wednesday, a series of results will be published that will put an end to the stressful days being spent by the candidates of both classes X and XII in the wake of the pandemic-induced lockdown. To begin with, the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education will bring out the results of Madhyamik at 10am on Wednesday through a virtual press conference. Next, CBSE Class X results will be announced by the afternoon. Finally, on July 17, Friday, at 3:30pm, the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education will publish the state board results of the Class XII students. The announcement to publish the results of this year's Madhyamik was made by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday. At the state secretariat, the CM also hinted at publishing the HS results by July 17. “Madhyamik examinations were held in entirety before Covid-19 struck. The results will be released tomorrow along with the merit list. I would like to congratulate all students in advance,” Banerjee said. The Madhyamik examinees will be able to access the results from 10:30am on Wednesday. The results will be available online — www.wbbse.org, http://wbresults.nic.in, among several other sites. Students can also send an SMS to 5676750 in the format ‘WB10 Roll Number’ to know the results. This year, around 10,15,888 examinees who took the Madhyamik will receive their marksheets on Wednesday, much later than the usual date. Also, the parents of the candidates will have to collect the mark sheets from schools on July 22 and July 23. “Since there are a number of areas under lockdown and multiple containment zones across the state, a decision has been taken that schools will distribute the marskheets maintaining social distancing but there will be delay of a few days as it has been difficult to send the marksheets to their respective locations,” said a source in the Madhyamik Board. CBSE Class X students will be able to access their results through the following websites — www.cbse.nic.in, www.cbseresults.nic.in and www.results.nic.in. The schools will be able to access their entire results through the newly created IDs for individual institutions. “We hope that there is quick access. During the Class XII CBSE results, there was a trouble while downloading the results,” said a school principal. West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education has decided to publish the results on July 17. The students will be able to get their results from 4pm onwards. All the heads of HS institutions or their authorized representatives have to collect the marksheets and other relevant documents from the respective distribution camps from 2pm on July 31 and thereafter distribute them to the candidates as soon as possible. The students can access the websites http://wbresults.nic.in, www.exametc.com, among others, to know their scores. They can also get their results by SMSing WB12 space to 54242. WBHS has around 8 lakh examinees this. The merit list will not be published this year as exams of several subjects had to be cancelled this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/madhyamik-cbse-x-results-today-hs-on-fri/articleshow/76970287.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Fissures in Youth Cong over ‘illegal appointments’||Nagpur: Even as trouble is brewing in the Congress at the national level with political turmoil in Rajasthan, fissures are emerging in the Maharashtra State Youth Congress (MSYC) too. After recent appointments of regional heads on various state panels, those who were left out have shot e-mails to the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) functionaries in Delhi alleging “favouritism and illegality”. According to them, many deserving candidates who were working at the ground level since the last many years were left out while those who were close to senior functionaries or involved in sycophancy were appointed, including from the city. A couple of MSYC workers told TOI that former party president Rahul Gandhi had laid criteria of elections for appointment to various IYC posts. However, after he stepped down, all guidelines were thrown in the bin. Denying the allegations, a senior IYC leader in Delhi said that only a handful of appointments were made directly as the candidates had worked extremely hard during the Covid-19 pandemic by reaching out to the people risking their lives. “All complaints are only coming from Nagpur and nowhere else. Except for them, all appointments were strictly made as per the laid out procedure,” he said. MSYC president Satyajeet Tambe said the central leadership had always believed in the policy of promoting youths doing extraordinary work. Accordingly, they had rewarded such candidates who worked hard not only during the pandemic, but also during Lok Sabha and assembly polls. “This is the third time that appointments were made in my tenure of nearly two years and we’ve followed all instructions,” he told TOI. An e-mail sent to party high command by the disappointed activists, which has also been forwarded to TOI, claimed that there were repeated violations of rules while selecting candidates. “There were serious lapses in criteria of appointments issued for assembly, districts and state committees. A majority of those selected would be found unfit and their appointments stand illegal if investigated fairly,” the sender mentioned. Agreeing with the contents of the email, MSYC workers said whenever such appointments were made on state committees, the elected and working office-bearers were kept in the dark. “We demand that appointments made on July 11 in breach of guidelines be cancelled immediately. We feel cheated due to injustice meted out to all elected MSYC office-bearers, who participated in Gandhi’s efforts to bring internal democracy in the organization through membership and organizational elections,” they said. The activists made a request to senior functionaries to investigate the entire affair and give due credit to the deserving ones. “As per rules, everyone participates in the poll process by enrolling large number of members and by spending thousands of rupees. But, hardly any of the appointed candidates had done anything,” they added. Queries by activists Were these appointments made as per IYC guidelines by Rahul Gandhi How these appointments fulfil concept of internal democracy What’s the contribution of new appointees in MSYC election process As some of them aren’t MSYC members, what was the urgency to appoint them directly If these unconstitutional appointments are made, why MSYC working president has not been appointed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fissures-in-youth-cong-over-illegal-appointments/articleshow/76968557.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 15, 2020||India||State education minister, 3-time Jat MLA, new Raj Cong chief||JAIPUR: Rajasthan education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, a three-time Jat MLA, replaced Sachin Pilot as Rajasthan PCC chief while two relatively inexperienced Congress members were chosen in place of the sacked Sewa Dal and Youth Congress chiefs in the state on Tuesday. Dotasra, who was a practising lawyer and represents the Laxmangarh constituency in Sikar, had courted controversy recently for the downsizing of a chapter on Maharana Pratap in textbooks as also for dropping the ‘Veer’ prefix for Sawarkar. Dotasra’s first brush with electoral politics was in 2005 when he won as the pradhan of Laxmangarh panchayat samiti in 2005. While he is an experienced hand and was vice-president of the PCC since 2014 till his elevation on Tuesday, the new chiefs of Youth Congress and Seva Dal lack experience in state-level politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/state-education-minister-3-time-jat-mla-new-raj-cong-chief/articleshow/76969776.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Charged NoCs threaten to skew fire safety compliance in city||Ludhiana: Despite the industrial town’s dubious fire safety record, residents are not bothered about getting no objection certificates (NoC) from the fire brigade unless they have to produce it as part of their documents. Under the circumstances, imposition of NoC charges does not augur well for the city. Fire officials have demanded implementation of Fire Safety and Prevention Act to ensure fulfilment of fire safety norms. This year, from January till July 10, almost 702 NoCs were issued. Most of them were taken by private schools, malls, hospitals, commercial buildings and major industrial units. Officials also said most of the 702 NoCs were renewals and very few fresh NoCs were issued. Last year, 1,700 NoCs were issued. According to a survey conducted by Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), the city had over 4 lakh properties around five years back and now, the number has increased exponentially. Of these, over 1.25 lakh properties included industrial units, commercial buildings and mixed land units. MC records stated that at least 65,000 units paid property tax in 2018-19 but no one seemed to be bothered about getting fire NoCs. A fire official said while charging for fire NoCs is a step in the right direction, the fire department should have been given some powers before implementation of the move. In 2017, he said, after a fire and building collapse, a survey of various buildings was conducted. After the survey, at least 55,000 establishments were supposed to get notices. However, they could serve notices to only a few buildings as they did not have the power to either seal the building or take any other action against the owners for not having NoC. Before imposing fee, the government should have implemented the Fire Safety and Prevention Act in the state, which gives requisite powers to the department to act, he said. On implementation, fire station officer S N Sharma said, “We have just received the notification and changes are being made at the portal. We will have to wait for public response.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/charged-nocs-threaten-to-skew-fire-safety-compliance-in-city/articleshow/76967806.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Private hospitals to provide home care in Mohali||MOHALI: The surge in Covid-19 case has spurred the administration to extend home care plan to keep tertiary care facilities vacant and ready for treatment of critical patients. The administration has engaged private hospitals with larger medical infrastructure to extend home care treatment to asymptomatic patients, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. Two private hospitals are extending home care. Many hotels have made rooms available for self-isolation. Dayalan said it has been observed that medical facilities are occupied by patients who can afford treatment in these facilities rather than those who actually require admission to them on emergent medical grounds. To ensure optimum utilisation of health infrastructure and making the facilities available for critical patients, the tertiary care hospitals would extend medical services at home to Covid-19 patients not requiring medical supply of oxygen or need to be put on ventilator. He clarified that for a non-critical patient who takes admission into a hospital just to avoid infecting his family members or children, rooms have been made available in certain hotels and they can avail home care treatment facility from any tertiary care hospital. Similarly, once a critical patient recovers and does not require infrastructure, he would be referred to civil dispensaries, Covid care centers or home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pvt-hospitals-to-provide-home-care-in-mohali/articleshow/76968561.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Nagpur||Teenage boy rescued from bonded labour||NAGPUR: Nagpur city police on Monday rescued a teenage boy who was working for 12 hours a day at Sunder biscuit factory on Koradi road. Cops booked the company owner, manager and a labour contractor under the charges of abduction and unlawful compulsory labour. Acting on a tip-off, a special team formed by labour officer Pavan Chavan raided the factory and rescued the boy. He was made to work in inhuman conditions for long hours at the factory. The boy then lodged a complaint at Koradi police. Subsequently, the Koradi police booked the company owner Vikram Sethiya, manager Jitendra Meshram and labour contractor Santosh Prajapati under Sections 370 (abduction) and 374 (unlawful compulsory labour) of the IPC. No arrests have been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teenage-boy-rescued-from-bonded-labour/articleshow/76968565.cms||---
July 15, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Nadaswaram player sells chappathis for a living||MADURAI: A third-generation nadaswaram artiste has started a chappathi delivery business in his home town Thirupathur in Sivaganga district to make both ends meet. M Prabu Shankar, 38, had followed in the footsteps of his father Mahendran and grandfather to perform at the over 1000-year-old Thiruthalinathar Yoga Bhairavar temple in his hometown. As an accomplished player, Prabu Shankar had visited countries such as Australia, Malaysia and Singapore to showcase his nadaswaram skills and also made a decent earning from them. However, with all temples closed since March 24 and no functions being held, Shankar was rendered jobless. “During the first month of the lockdown, I realised that my savings were depleting, and decided to do something for my daily bread and butter. After discussing with my joint family, we decided that food was the only thing that was going to be in demand for the next few months,” he said. Since idli, dosa and vadas were readily available at even small shops in Thirupathur, he decided to make and sell chappathis at a nominal cost and has been doing so for the past two months. His profit ranges from Rs 500 to Rs 600 a day and on an average he sells about 100 chappathis a day. He buys branded wheat flour, kneads the dough and rolls out the chappathis and his wife Manimala cooks them. His mother makes the vegetable kurma and his father does the shopping for the groceries and vegetables. The food is sold at specific places within Thirupathur and there is good demand for it due to its softness, according to him. There is a sense of fulfillment for him as it brings him the required revenue to take care of the family and he does not have to seek help from outside. “Some people offer me money on seeing me selling chappathis but I tell them that there are thousands out there who need it in this trying times and ask them to identify and give it to them,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nadaswaram-player-sells-chappathis-for-a-living/articleshow/76969132.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
July 15, 2020||Kochi||‘More screen time harms kids’ eyes'||KOCHI: With classes shifting online and children spending more time on digital devices for both study and leisure, their overall screen time has doubled. This could result in digital eye strain, doctors have warned. While eye clinics now see increased footfalls of patients many are not seeking treatment because they want to avoid hospital visits. Computer vision syndrome or digital eye strain happens when people focus their eyes on devices like computers, tablets, e-readers and mobile phones for uninterrupted periods of time and most ophthalmologists advise the 20-20-20 rule to reduce the discomfort. “It is not just students, everyone working using computers and other digital devices have doubled their screen time,” said Dr Anita Jabbar of Eye Vision, Chalakkudy. “For children, outdoor activities are now less. They also use digital devices for leisure surfing once the online classes are over and this could be harmful as the recommended screen time for children below 12 years is less than two hours,” says Dr Anita. World Health Organization (WHO) also does not recommend more than two hours of screen time for those above 12 years, she said. “Eye strain is a common issue. But we don’t have many patients as many are avoiding hospital visits,” said Dr Sasikumar, former president of ophthalmology association. Patients are mostly reporting dryness of eyes and eye strain due to proximity to digital devices and the habit of accessing it without sufficient lighting. “After class hours children need to take a break. They should not go for excessive gaming or leisure surfing after classes,” said Dr Sasikumar, who says it would be better if students use smart televisions instead of tabs or mobiles for classes which would help maintain a six feet distance. “Projecting on screens is an even better option but not all would be privileged to have this at homes,” he said. Too much of screen time would reduce blink rate and increase the strain. Use of anti-glare technology and adjusting brightness levels can also help, he added. “We always advise the 20-20-20 rule. For every 20 minutes of work you should take a break of 20 seconds, and you should view thing 20 feet away and you should blink 20 times. If screen time is unavoidable, let them do it. But children should be asked to go out and play or walk around the house,” said Dr Anita, who recommends a comprehensive eye examination if discomfort or symptoms like headaches persist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-screen-time-harms-kids-eyes/articleshow/76967816.cms||---
