July 16, 2020||India||As Pak's Jadhav deadline nears, India again asks for unimpeded access||Responding to Pakistan's "invite" to seek a review of Kulbhushan Jadhav's sentencing, and also its second consular access offer, India has asked Islamabad to first provide unimpeded and unconditional consular access if it really wants to fulfil the mandate of the ICJ judgment in the case. Ahead of the July 20 deadline which Pakistan has set for the review petition, India has asked for access to be provided in the absence of any Pakistan official and also in a room with no audiovisual recording facility. India is also learnt to have told Pakistan to not insist on the conversation taking place during the meeting only in English. The government wants Pakistan to allow 2 Indian officials to meet Jadhav. While Pakistan has offered consular access for the second time, it continues to deny India any access in private to Jadhav. The government believes that Pakistan's offer of second consular access is meaningless, and only meant to make a pretense of acting in line with ICJ judgment, if the failure to allow the same before Jadhav's alleged confession was recorded is not remedied with private access to Jadhav in line with the ICJ judgment. Pakistan had last week claimed that Jadhav had refused to file a review petition and instead chosen to follow up on his mercy plea. Describing as farcical Pakistan's claim, India had said he had been coerced into not going for a review. Pakistan then stated that the review and reconsideration petition can be filed also by a "legally authorized representative" or a consular officer of the Indian high commission. Islamabad had on May 20 promulgated an ordinance which called for any review petition in the case to be filed within 60 days. India has described the ordinance as a U-turn (since Pakistan had claimed earlier that its laws were already equipped to allow an effective review) and also a violation of the ICJ judgment as it seeks to create only an "illusion of remedy". While India has 5 more days left to seek a review, the government believes that, in the absence of any "remedial" consular access, going for an "inadequate" review under the ordinance could mean playing into the hands of Islamabad. That Pakistan hasn't allowed a lawyer from abroad to represent him has also been a factor for India. India has been emphasising before Pakistan that unlike regular cases of consular access where the degree of involvement of an accused in criminal acts is unknown, Jadhav has already been convicted by a military court on the basis of his alleged confession. This is why it insists that consular access can only be remedial or "private" in his case. The ICJ held Pakistan guilty of violating Article 36 of Vienna Convention by not informing him of his rights after his arrest and by denying India consular access. Following up on that, the government had mentioned earlier Article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) which, as the ICJ held, informs the interpretation of Article 36 of Vienna Convention. Some of the sections of the Article 14 which, according to Indian authorities, cannot be ignored in the Jadhav case include section 3 (b) To have adequate time and facilities for the preparation of his defence and to communicate with counsel of his own choosing and 3 (g) Not to be compelled to testify against himself or to confess guilt. There's also 3 (d) which calls for the accused to be tried in his presence, and to defend himself in person or through legal assistance of his own choosing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-paks-jadhav-deadline-nears-india-again-asks-for-unimpeded-access/articleshow/76987976.cms||Sachin Parashar
July 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai’s fishermen return to sea after four months||Dawn had just broken over Chennai’s skyline, but Kasimedu’s fishing harbour had already come to life. Men were busy setting up their boats — getting the nets ready, packing the ice for a long day in the sea, and most importantly, hoisting the Indian flag to mark their identity. They had packed with them enough food to last till dinner — idli and meenkozhambu found a prominent place in their lunchboxes. Though masks were missing on a few faces, there definitely was a sense of relief on all of them. After all, they had finally been granted permission to venture out into the sea on Tuesday (July 14), after four months of lockdown. “First, it was the lockdown because of the huge number of coronavirus cases in North Madras. And then, the fishing ban was further extended because the breeding season had begun. After 120 days, we could finally venture out and catch fish for export,” says a fisherman. While a few boats returned last morning, some of them have a longer sailing period ahead. “We didn’t get a great catch yesterday,” says a fisherman who had just returned, “We are hoping the situation will improve soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennais-fishermen-return-to-sea-after-four-months/articleshow/76988030.cms||---
July 16, 2020||India||When Mumbai’s iconic red fleet took city on road to recovery||As the pandemic haunted Mumbai, the city’s iconic red fleet – BEST buses – ferried healthcare workers. After lockdown eased, it carried over a million people going to work even as its own staff battled the diseaseIt’s 3 am when Ashish Khilari leaves for the morning shift. He kisses his five-year-old son goodbye and dons his face shield, mask and gloves before stepping out into the pre-dawn darkness on a street in Kalbadevi in the heart of Mumbai’s commercial district. Among the thousands of essential workers commandeered for duty, Khilari, 30, works for a team that literally keeps the wheels of a metropolis moving. The 2,000 drivers and conductors who operate the BEST fleet kept the transport utility running even at the height of the lockdown. At a time when local trains, taxis, autos and ride-hailing services came to a halt, Mumbai’s iconic red buses were on the roads, carrying healthcare and government staff. “We were operating just 1,200 to 1,500 buses during the worst days of the lockdown. Now the fleet has doubled and we have brought out 3,100 buses to ensure the city keeps moving," says Khilari. Gradually scaling up services, BEST has regained nearly a third of its patronage. From transporting 60,000-80,000 essential workers in April and May, ridership rose when offices and shops reopened in June, going up to 2.5 lakh by mid-June. Now, it has touched more than a million, with no compromises on social distancing – not more than 25 seated passengers are allowed and standing commuters are restricted to five. Read AlsoTop institutes will now be graded on gender equalityThe ministry of science and technology will grade higher educational institutions and research institutes that it funds on gender equality from this academic year. While 20 institutes, including some Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and National Institutes of Technology (NITs), have signed upThe recovery has exacted a toll. A section of BEST’s workforce has been infected, landing them in quarantine or hospital. "But we are soldiering on to bring back services for the common man,'' said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade. The effort is as much driven by individual enterprise as by collective drive. Bus inspector Ramchandra Shinde, who retired on May 31, despite being Covid positive and having recovered a few days ahead of retirement, was in his seat for the last four days. Read AlsoMake this the century of women's equality: UN chiefUNITED NATIONS: The 21st century must be the century of women's equality, UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres has said, in a call to transform the world by ensuring equal participation for all. Speaking to faculty and students on Thursday at The New School, a university in New York City, the UN“I wanted to give a message that we will keep running buses against all odds,'' he said. This spirit of service prompted workers to even ignore a strike call by union leaders. Vaidehi Ankolekar, 43, one of 15 women conductors in BEST, said she would keep working despite risk of infection. “It is a responsibility to ensure commuters reach workplaces on time and safely,” she said. Read AlsoAt No. 122, India fares poorly on gender equalityThe data on various dimensions studied for arriving at India’s GDI for 2018 shows that life expectancy at birth for males was 68.2 and for females it was 70.7. Expected years of schooling in case of females was 12.9 and males it was 11.9. Mean years of schooling for males was 8.2 and for females it(This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch BEST buses: When Mumbai’s iconic red fleet took city on road to recovery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/when-mumbais-iconic-red-fleet-took-city-on-road-to-recovery/articleshow/76983485.cms||Somit Sen
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||When Mumbai’s iconic red fleet took city on road to recovery||As the pandemic haunted Mumbai, the city’s iconic red fleet – BEST buses – ferried healthcare workers. After lockdown eased, it carried over a million people going to work even as its own staff battled the diseaseIt’s 3 am when Ashish Khilari leaves for the morning shift. He kisses his five-year-old son goodbye and dons his face shield, mask and gloves before stepping out into the pre-dawn darkness on a street in Kalbadevi in the heart of Mumbai’s commercial district. Among the thousands of essential workers commandeered for duty, Khilari, 30, works for a team that literally keeps the wheels of a metropolis moving. The 2,000 drivers and conductors who operate the BEST fleet kept the transport utility running even at the height of the lockdown. At a time when local trains, taxis, autos and ride-hailing services came to a halt, Mumbai’s iconic red buses were on the roads, carrying healthcare and government staff. “We were operating just 1,200 to 1,500 buses during the worst days of the lockdown. Now the fleet has doubled and we have brought out 3,100 buses to ensure the city keeps moving," says Khilari. Gradually scaling up services, BEST has regained nearly a third of its patronage. From transporting 60,000-80,000 essential workers in April and May, ridership rose when offices and shops reopened in June, going up to 2.5 lakh by mid-June. Now, it has touched more than a million, with no compromises on social distancing – not more than 25 seated passengers are allowed and standing commuters are restricted to five. Read AlsoTop institutes will now be graded on gender equalityThe ministry of science and technology will grade higher educational institutions and research institutes that it funds on gender equality from this academic year. While 20 institutes, including some Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and National Institutes of Technology (NITs), have signed upThe recovery has exacted a toll. A section of BEST’s workforce has been infected, landing them in quarantine or hospital. "But we are soldiering on to bring back services for the common man,'' said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade. The effort is as much driven by individual enterprise as by collective drive. Bus inspector Ramchandra Shinde, who retired on May 31, despite being Covid positive and having recovered a few days ahead of retirement, was in his seat for the last four days. Read AlsoMake this the century of women's equality: UN chiefUNITED NATIONS: The 21st century must be the century of women's equality, UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres has said, in a call to transform the world by ensuring equal participation for all. Speaking to faculty and students on Thursday at The New School, a university in New York City, the UN“I wanted to give a message that we will keep running buses against all odds,'' he said. This spirit of service prompted workers to even ignore a strike call by union leaders. Vaidehi Ankolekar, 43, one of 15 women conductors in BEST, said she would keep working despite risk of infection. “It is a responsibility to ensure commuters reach workplaces on time and safely,” she said. Read AlsoAt No. 122, India fares poorly on gender equalityThe data on various dimensions studied for arriving at India’s GDI for 2018 shows that life expectancy at birth for males was 68.2 and for females it was 70.7. Expected years of schooling in case of females was 12.9 and males it was 11.9. Mean years of schooling for males was 8.2 and for females it(This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch BEST buses: When Mumbai’s iconic red fleet took city on road to recovery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/when-mumbais-iconic-red-fleet-took-city-on-road-to-recovery/articleshow/76983492.cms||Somit Sen
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||Wanted: See-through masks for the hearing impaired||You just cannot step out without a face mask today. A barrier to the spread of COVID-19, the simple fabric face cover has become a part of everyone’s go-to item before they head out. But while it has its benefits, the face mask also has a downside — it’s isolating the hearing impaired. The masks that are currently available have no transparent cut-outs on the mouth, which makes it challenging for them to lip-read and understand others. ‘It’s impossible to understand what others are saying if there is no hearing aid or device’One such person facing challenges posed by the mask is Bandra-based student Mayur Musale, who’s been having hearing disabilities since birth. Says his mother Vaishali, “He had a cochlear implant done at 14, but continues to lip-read and uses the implant just for clarity. Now, he cannot lip-read others due to the masks.” Mayur adds, “I wish there were transparent masks readily available for the hearing impaired. It would make it easier for us to go outdoors. It’s now impossible to understand what others are saying if there is no hearing aid or device.” The face masks also add to the woes of older people with hearing impairment. Explains Rabia Patel, social activist, “The face masks make the going difficult for senior citizens, who don’t like to wear their hearing aid and depend on lip-reading. My mother-in-law, who has gone out a few times recently, was frustrated that she could not understand or communicate with anyone with masks on. Due to this, she is not keen to go out anywhere.” ‘Transparent masks should be freely available’Aziza Tyabji Hydari, director at AURED, an institute for the hearing impaired in Mahalakshmi, talks about how this mask can be crucial for those with a disabling hearing loss. “It’s an issue as the standard masks we get today, muffle speech,” she says, adding, “Out of every 700 kids, there are one or two profoundly deaf children, so the number of those with hearing impairment is huge today. They depend on visual clues for effective communication, so it is imperative to have transparent masks for them as well as for those interacting with them on a regular basis.” Therapist speak: Puts those with hearing impairment at a risk of isolation Audiologist Daiana Martinez wears a face mask for the hearing-impaired.Talking about how the current situation puts those with hearing impairment at an even higher risk of isolation and loneliness, psychologist Dr Seema Hingorrany explains, “It’s all about the expression of the face for them. With the inclusion of a mask, they have to depend on the eyes, which are visible, but not sufficient enough in communicating. I have spoken to a few people with a hearing disability on this issue, and they have expressed feeling stressed and low due to this.” DID YOU KNOW?The National Deaf Children’s Society (NDCS), UK, has called for see-through masks to be made widely available||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wanted-see-through-masks-for-the-hearing-impaired/articleshow/76984813.cms||Ismat Tahseen
July 16, 2020||Kanpur||Teej parties in Kanpur go online||For city-based ladies' clubs, Teej parties have always been a mega affair. Attending Teej parties dressed in vibrant attires and wearing floral ornaments used to be the most awaited thing for most of the ladies of the clubs. And though the Coronavirus scare has gripped the city, the femme brigade here are planning to make Teej celebrations rocking by organising virtual Teej parties this year. Vinti Seth is excited about this Teej (BCCL)GAME FOR SOME FUN Kanchan Gupta, president of a prominent ladies' club, is all set to host a virtual Teej party. “Before the spread of Coronavirus, we used to party almost every week. Now wince we can’t host routine parties, so we are planning to organise virtual parties. In fact, as a trial, we did host a few during the lockdown. And now since Teej festival is approaching, we will be organising a virtual Teej party for the club members. In the virtual party, all the members will be dressed in traditional attire and we will also be playing several online games,” shared Kanchan. Kanchan Gupta says she will dress up for the virtual party (BCCL)ALL ABOUT EXPENSIVE GIFTS Kanchan Singh, president of another women's social club, is also quite excited about this year’s Teej party,” she shares, “Teej party has always been one of the most sought after parties of our club so we are planning to organise a virtual Teej party in a big way. Every year for organising the Teej party we used to shell out a decent amount on venue and décor. But this year we would be saving on those expenses and that's why the managing team has decided to spend a good amount on the gifts which we will be distributing to the winners of the games played during the virtual party.” Simmi Oberoi rehearsing for her digital Teej party (BCCL)FOOD FOR THOUGHT Vinti Seth, who is the president of another ladies’ club, is also all set for organising a virtual Teej party. “Virtual Baisakhi party of our club was a huge success. During that party, all the ladies of the club were dressed in traditional Punjabi style. What added a realistic appeal to it was the delivery of snacks and food packs to the members at their homes.It added more fun to the party. So, this time on Teej we are again planning to deliver some lip-smacking food to all the ladies.” Shivika jain attending a virtual Teej party (BCCL)DANCE WITH ME, VIRTUALLY Keeping the party hatt ke is Simmi Oberoi who is the secretary of a ladies club. Simi too is also planning to have a virtual Teej party. “Our virtual Teej party is going to be really rocking. As it will not be just about games and food, but also about some musical performances,” she shares. PUNCH OF FIVE Attending several Teej parties in the coming days is Kanpurite Shivika Jain. “I will be attending five Teej parties in days to come. I am happy that several ladies' club are organising virtual Teej parties, this will not only keep boredom at bay but also add some fun to our lives,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/teej-parties-in-kanpur-go-online/articleshow/76986627.cms||Sumit Jha
July 16, 2020||India||India gets its first desi pneumonia vaccine||NEW DELHI: India has got its first locally developed pneumonia vaccine, reducing its dependence on imports for immunisation against a disease that contributes to most deaths in children under five years of age. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Tuesday approved Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Conjugate Vaccine developed by Serum Institute of India. The Pune-based company can now manufacture the vaccine in India for use. This vaccine is used for active immunisation against invasive disease and pneumonia caused by “streptococcus pneumonia” in infants. “Having an indigenous pneumococcal vaccine will be a game-changer in our endeavour to reduce child mortality. Pneumonia is the most important cause of child deaths, and pneomococci are responsible for half of serious pneumonias. India’s vaccine is a boon for our country and the world,” says Dr V K Paul, member -health at NITI Aayog. India accounted for the second highest number of deaths in under-five children in 2018 because of pneumonia. According to Unicef, India reported 1,27,000 under five deaths due to pneumonia in 2018. Earlier, the demand of this vaccine was met substantially by licensed importers in the country since the manufacturers were all vaccine companies based outside. The regulatory approval is based on clinical evidence secured by the company after conducting Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials of the vaccine. Serum Institute has conducted these trials in India as well as in Gambia. While immunisation against the disease has improved in India led by government initiatives and awareness programmes, many children — mainly female children — are still left out of the coverage. Experts say a locally made vaccine is likely to make the vaccine more accessible and affordable. India accounted for the second highest number of deaths in under-five children in 2018 because of pneumonia. According to Unicef, India reported 1,27,000 under five deaths due to pneumonia in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-gets-its-first-desi-pneumonia-vaccine/articleshow/76988499.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 16, 2020||India||99 docs died of Covid, 1,300+ affected||MUMBAI: At least 99 doctors have died of Covid-19 and 1,302 were affected in India, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said on Wednesday. The doctors’ body said the case fatality rate stood at a significant 8%. Maharashtra accounted for over 20% of the deaths in doctors, highest among states. IMA said it had created a database to document infections among healthcare workers. According to IMA’s National Covid Registry, 74% deaths were in the 50 years plus age group, while 19% were among 35-50 years. There were seven deaths of doctors younger than 35. IMA’s numbers are limited to private sector and do not reflect the burden of infections among doctors in public sector. Of the 1,302 infected, 586 were private consultants, 566 resident doctors and 150 house surgeons. “If Covid mortality has to be reduced, it has to start with doctors and hospitals,” said IMA president Dr Rajan Sharma. In Mumbai, 1,000-plus healthcare workers have been affected in public and private hospitals. KEM and Sion hospitals have seen over 300 infections each. The city has also seen nine deaths among doctors. IMA president (Maharashtra) Dr Avinash Bhondwe said the state had neglected the safety of private practitioners and left them vulnerable by failing to streamline availability of personal protective equipment (PPE) and ensuring their prices were capped. He said many smaller hospitals were arbitrarily taken over without ensuring they had resources. “Many of these hospitals were unfit to become Covid centres but were coerced,” said Bhondwe, adding that private doctors were not even extended the Centre’s insurance cover. Maharashtra Medical Council president Dr Shivkumar Utture said issues on availability and quality of PPE were unresolved even after four months. “Only fabric used for PPE is checked for standardisation and not the complete kit,” he said, adding it was not enough to call doctors ‘Covid warriors’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/99-private-docs-died-of-covid-1300-affected/articleshow/76988529.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Business||Google to pay RIL Rs 34,000 crore for 7.7% stake in Jio Platforms||UMBAI/NEW DELHI: Mukesh Ambani announced new frontiers of expansion in the digital and telecom space and sealed a mega Rs 33,737 crore ($4.5 billion) deal with Google for a minority stake in Jio Platforms, managing to score a rare distinction of getting the American search giant walk into a company where social media major Facebook is also present. In the process, Ambani — who has raised a massive Rs 2.12 lakh crore (in excess of Reliance Industries net debt of Rs 1.61 lakh crore) over the past few months — also spoke about plans for getting into indigenous 5G technology that pits him against global telecom tech and infrastructure majors such as China’s Huawei, Finland’s Nokia, Sweden’s Ericsson, and Korea’s Samsung. After acquiring the biggest chunk of the telecom subscriber base in India, Asia’s richest man is now seeking to be ready to meet the demand for 5G equipment coincides with Huawei’s global blacklisting — from the US and the UK to Australia, and a possible bar in India too — amid concerns over its links with Chinese PLA. A successful foray into this segment will complete the loop for what was once a staid oil and petrochemicals company. Through Jio, the group will not just offer telecom services and equipment but also handsets for which it intends to use Google’s Android platform. At Reliance Industries Ltd’s 43rd AGM, the Senior Ambani — who addressed shareholders through a video link from his residence Antilia — also said that his group’s aggressive fund-raising would continue as after the series of deals in telecom and digital through Jio Platforms, he would look at roping in international investors in Reliance Retail, which is taking on the e-tail giants such as Amazon and Walmart-led Flipkart through JioMart platform, which is now being offered in beta version but will soon be launched nationally. “In last year’s AGM speech, I had shared my goals of growing our businesses through partnerships and achieving a net debt free balance sheet. I am happy to report that we have fulfilled this promise well ahead of the timelines that we had set ourselves,” he said, while announcing the investments by Google which also saw the Alphabet’s global CEO (and India-born) Sundar Pichai speak about the partnership as he joined in digitally. Google’s is the 13th investor to bet big on Jio Platforms in the past 12 weeks. The investment will give Google a 7.7% stake in Jio (Facebook has 9.9%) and will occupy a seat on its board alongside Facebook. His focus, however, remains on the new-age digital businesses as he called Jio as a “hyper-growth engine” for the company, which will see the maximum action in terms of expansion and new offerings. “The Digital Revolution marks the greatest disruptive transformation in the history of mankind… India must lead this change,” as he spoke about new platforms such as Jio Meet (which has 5 million downloads and taken on the likes of Zoom, Cisco Webex and Microsoft Meet), Jio Glass mixed-reality gear, and Jio TV Plus content aggregator (brings OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon and TV channels and apps to its set-top box users). He said that over the next three years, the company is eyeing to deploy over a billion smart sensors; while connecting with more than 50 million homes and business establishments. On 5G, where the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have also emphasised on indigenous solutions (especially in the wake of troubles with China and Huawei), Ambani said that Jio has designed and developed a complete solution from scratch. “This will enable us to launch a world-class 5G service in India… using 100% home grown technologies and solutions.” Interestingly, Google’s investment pegged Jio’s equity value at Rs 4.36 lakh crore — lower to the equity valuation assigned by Facebook to the Indian company. Facebook had bought a 9.9% stake at a valuation of Rs 4.62 lakh crore. The investment in Jio by Google and Facebook is a rare case of two ‘FANG’ — Facebook, Apple, Netflix and Google — companies investing in the same unit. Google investment comes as part of its $10 billion (Rs 75,000 crore) India-focused digitisation fund. “Through the partnership with Jio we see the chance to have an even greater impact than either company could have alone,” said Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai in a video message. Jio investment will be “the first and the biggest” investment Google will make via the $10 billion fund, Pichai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-to-pay-ril-rs-34000cr-for-7-7-stake-in-jio-platforms/articleshow/76988636.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 16, 2020||India||Filthy loos in govt hospitals irk middle class||The Covid crisis has meant that many from the middle class have seen the inside of a government hospital for the first time in their lives. For many, what they saw confirmed their impression of government hospitals as places with filthy toilets and an all-pervasive stink, but some were pleasantly surprised. Videos of horrible conditions inside government hospitals posted by patients and shared widely on social media added to people’s horror about public facilities. It didn’t help that governments did little to counter these images other than protest weakly about how unfair such portrayal was. As a result, in most states, people scrambled to get beds in private hospitals, which filled up pretty quickly. In Delhi, this resulted in 60% of the beds in the biggest government Covid facility, Lok Nayak Hospital, remaining vacant at the peak of the surge even as people ran around looking for beds and paid exorbitant bills in private facilities. In state like Telangana, where initially only government hospitals were allowed to treat Covid, many got a forced experience of a public facility. But the moment private facilities were allowed to treat Covid patients, people started doing the rounds of private hospitals hoping to find a bed within their paying capacity even as many died in transit between private hospitals. The biggest grouse about Gandhi hospital in Hyderabad, a public facility, was about its toilets. “I used to keep track of when the washrooms were cleaned and used it immediately after cleaning. I constantly lived in the fear that I might catch some infection using the toilet that so many other patients were using,” said a 37-year-old patient, who had been treated in the hospital. Currently over 90% of beds in government hospitals allotted for Covid treatment are lying vacant in Hyderabad, while private hospitals have a wait list of 3-4 days. Even as many complain of not being able to pay for the private hospitals, they are reluctant to avail free treatment in government facilities. However, in Bangalore, Dr Prashant Jain, an orthopaedic surgeon who was Covid positive and spent 12 days in the Trauma Care Centre of Bangalore Medical College & Research Institute (BMCRI) was pleasantly surprised. On June 12, the doctor along with his elderly parents got admitted to the hospital. “That was our first visit to a government hospital as patients. As against the public apprehension of government hospitals and hygiene issues there, the hospital had good facilities. Patient management was very well planned. Those 12 days in hospital, I had quality time with my parents and we had no reason to crib,” said Dr Jain. Expectations about health facilities seem to be as much generational as about class. Older people seem more accepting of government facilities having grown up seeking treatment in them. Karthika S, a 27-year-old who works for an IT firm, had never stepped into a government hospital (GH) before but went to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital when her mother had an upset stomach. She and her mother tested positive for Covid. While she was asymptomatic, her mother was advised admission. “I refused to admit her to a GH, but there were no beds available in the private hospitals,” she said. Her doctor, who also worked for a government hospital, told her that GH doctors had treated more patients than anyone else in the state. “But I was terribly scared. All I could remember from the first visit was the stench. I have also heard of dingy wards and toilets,” she said. Her mother, however, decided to move to a government hospital. “She told me I was born there. She is now undergoing treatment there and is recovering well,” she said. Similarly, 50-year-old Hari Singh’s son took to twitter to complain about Lok Nayak Hospital, about delay in getting oxygen and unclean toilets. Back home after an 18-day stay in the hospital, Hari Singh is quite generous in his praise of the hospital. “We were six in a ward and there were three or four such wards at the end of which was a row of toilets, two each for men and women, and three bathrooms and they were kept quite clean. Our disposable sheets were changed every day. After a few initial problems, we were well looked after,” he said. In contrast, a woman who landed from Spain and was taken to a quarantine facility complained bitterly on twitter that it is unthinkable that there were just three toilets for 40 people. For most middle class, the idea of toilets shared by a large number of people is becoming increasingly unacceptable. There have been more social media posts and videos about cleanliness and filthy toilets in public facilities than about medical care. Governments seem more bothered by criticism about lack of ventilators or ICU beds. “They spend lakhs on equipment. They ought to spend more on cleanliness, especially well-kept toilets. It matters to people. We have been raising this issue for a long time as we are forced to work in these unhygienic conditions,” said a resident doctor in a government hospital. On June 11, an 82-year-old woman in a government hospital in Jalgaon being found dead in a toilet after eight days hit the headlines. For many, it confirmed that toilets don’t get cleaned for days in government hospitals. That may not always be true, but the perception persists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/filthy-loos-in-govt-hospitals-irk-middle-class/articleshow/76988834.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||An open-for-all alternative arts and music concert to raise funds for COVID-19 warriors||An alternative arts and music concert will be held on July 18 and 19 via different social media platforms, which is open for one and all and aims at raising funds for COVID-19 warriors. The event, titled UNRATED, will be a real-time 3D virtual experience for its viewers and is scheduled to begin at 6:30 pm. All the proceeds will be used to provide Coronavirus frontrunners with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, among other essential items. Speaking on this fundraising event, Sidhraj Shah, co-founder of the company responsible for puting it together, said, “Unrated, a fundraising alternative arts and music concert, has a sole objective to reach mission million i.e. raise 1 Million funds for COVID-19 medical health workers. It was imperative for us to spread the word by leveraging the right PR and social media channels. Hence, we partnered with Identify PR Communication to help us achieve mission million and build traction for Unrated.” Speaking on the appointment, Ankita Wagle, the coordinator, said, “We are extremely delighted to work on our this project that focuses purely on lending a helping hand to our COVID- 19 warriors. We are equally excited and are all set to use our endeavour in strategising and innovating PR and digital tools to convey the right message and engage the audience at large.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/an-open-for-all-alternative-arts-and-music-concert-to-raise-funds-for-covid-19-warriors/articleshow/76989029.cms||Pallabi Dey Purkayastha
July 16, 2020||India||De-escalation in Pangong Tso, Depsang still some distance away||NEW DELHI: Military de-escalation in Pangong Tso, Depsang and other areas of eastern Ladakh is still some distance away, with India and China yet to fully agree on modalities and time-lines for the stepwise process that should eventually also lead to de-induction of massive troop and weapon deployment along the unresolved border by the two sides. “Detailed proposals, options and concerns” on troop disengagement and then de-escalation were discussed threadbare in the marathon meeting led by 14 Corps commander Lt General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin. The intensity of the complicated hard-nosed negotiations, compounded by the huge “trust deficit” after the June 15 bloody skirmishes, can be gauged from the fact that the meeting that began in Chushul at 11.30 am on Tuesday finally ended at 2 am on Wednesday. India-China LAC standoff live updatesThe two sides took back each other’s proposals to their politico-military hierarchies for a review and authorisation to finalise a roadmap for phase-II of the proposed de-escalation plan after concrete disengagement is first achieved on the face-off sites, said top government sources. In New Delhi, Army chief General M M Naravane held “internal deliberations” with his top officers on Wednesday morning, which were then followed by a meeting of the high-powered “China Study Group (CSG)”, which included National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and external affairs minister S Jaishankar in the evening. The CSG, an apex policy group of the government in existence since the mid-1970s, also includes the foreign, defence and home secretaries and director of the Intelligence Bureau, among others. It has got activated after the major troop confrontation on LAC in Ladakh in early-May, which is the worst border row with China since the 1962 war. Sources said the meetings on Wednesday discussed the proposed roadmap for the sequential disengagement, de-escalation and de-induction process. “It will be a long haul. The immediate priority is to first properly disengage at Pangong Tso and Depsang, and then follow it with some de-escalation through the thinning out of the large number of forces in the depth areas,” said a source. Read AlsoRajnath Singh to visit Ladakh, Srinagar later this weekDefence minister Rajnath Singh will visit Ladakh and Srinagar later this week to take stock of the situations in both Line of Actual Control and the Line of Control. He will be accompanied by Army Chief General MM Naravane on his visit. While they will visit Ladakh on July 17, both will be inAs reported earlier by TOI, while the temporary no-patrolling disengagement zones between the rival troops have been established at the face-off sites in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the Pangong Tso and Depsang is much more hotly disputed between the two sides. Consequently, the disengagement process is that much harder to finalise in these areas. India wants the over 3,000 People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers on the north bank of Pangong Tso to move 8-km back to their permanent locations at Sirijap-I and II east of the ‘Finger-8’ (mountainous spur) area, where it says the LAC runs north to south. As of now, PLA troops have only moved back from the face-off site at the “base” of ‘Finger-4’ to ‘Finger-5’ and have also not fully vacated the ridge-line that dominates the area. Indian soldiers, in turn, have pulled back westwards towards their Dhan Singh Thapa post between ‘Finger-2’ and ‘Finger-3’. Similarly, the PLA continues to block Indian soldiers from going to their traditional “Patrolling Points” 10, 11, 12 and 13 in the Depsang Plains — a strategically-located table-top plateau to the north of Galwan — after intruding deep into what India considers its territory. India wants “business as usual” to be restored at Depsang, where the perception of LAC widely varies between the two sides, with no blocking of each other’s patrols in the area. The long-term aim, of course, is to gradually de-induct the around 30,000 troops each amassed, along with artillery guns, tanks and other heavy weaponry, by the two sides in the “depth areas” along the 1,597-km long frontier in eastern Ladakh. “The two armies should eventually move their additional forces back to their permanent locations to restore the status quo as it existed in April,” said another source. Watch India-China faceoff: De-escalation in Pangong Tso, Depsang still some distance away||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/de-escalation-in-pangong-tso-depsang-still-some-distance-away/articleshow/76989036.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 16, 2020||India||India, EU to work towards free trade pact||NEW DELHI: A high-level trade and investment dialogue between India and the European Union, set up after the first virtual India-EU summit on Wednesday, is expected to move to a broad-based free trade agreement that has held out promise but has been stalled for the past seven years. The convergence on economic initiatives was significant in the context of sluggish world growth in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and India and EU seeing the need for a closer embrace that includes shared strategic goals. According to an agency report, EU president Ursula von der Leyen said the EU sought an “ambitious” free trade deal with India and the high-level dialogue would help the two sides towards achieving that goal. India and the EU agreed to enhance convergences to ensure a “high level of protection of personal data and privacy, including through possible data adequacy decisions, with a view to facilitating safe and secure cross-border data flows between them”. The reference is important in view of concerns over China’s state-sponsored data theft. The two sides also decided to engage on 5G and AI to foster “their safe and ethical deployment”. Asked about the CAA and J&K, European Council president Charles Michel said, “Regarding the citizenship law, you know that in the European Parliament, this was an important topic. And we raised this issue in our talks. I would like to say that we trust Indian institutions. We understand the Supreme Court will have a role to play to assess this legislation. We took a decision with India to continue a dialogue on human rights in order to exchange best practices and have the best understanding on how to tackle this issue for India and the EU.” Michel added, “We welcome India’s proposal for a connectivity partnership that is open, sustainable and rules based.” During the summit, PM Modi said the partnership was crucial for global peace and stability in the current juncture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-eu-to-work-towards-free-trade-pact/articleshow/76989095.cms||---
July 16, 2020||India||Gehlot tears into Pilot: Impeccable English & personality not enough||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday made a scathing attack on his former deputy Sachin Pilot, accusing him of conspiring with the BJP to defeat Congress candidates during the Rajya Sabha elections held on June 19. Gehlot claimed he had proof that a Rs 20-crore deal was in the making. Stopping short of naming him, Gehlot claimed Pilot was directly involved in horse trading of MLAs and the rebellion in Rajasthan Congress that was being played out for the past three days was originally planned for the RS polls. The CM said some of his party colleagues got “over ambitious” and fell in the BJP trap. “Consider this -- your own deputy CM and PCC chief (posts held by Pilot until Monday) makes a deal, asks for names and mobile numbers of people, is part of the conspiracy and then clarifies that no horse trading took place. How is this possible? What is this clarification about after being part of horse trading?” said Gehlot, reacting to Pilot’s statements to television channels earlier in the day that he never plotted with BJP to try to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan. “The conspiracy against the government would have played out during the Rajya Sabha polls itself had I not been on the guard. We had to keep our MLAs in a hotel for 10 days (prior to the polls). If we had not done that, what’s happening in Manesar now would have happened then. The same people (Pilot loyalists camping in a Manesar hotel) were to be sent at 2 am,” claimed Gehlot. The chief minister said leaders who have been in politics for the past 40 years underwent “ragdai” (rigorous grinding) in Youth Congress and NSUI. He said this is the reason they could survive and later got important posts like CMs and Union ministers. “I had said that he (Pilot) had not gone through that ‘grinding’. It is painful he is unable to understand that he was made a Union minister and PCC chief (at a young age). He would have done well, if he too had gone through the rigours,” said Gehlot. “It is incorrect to say that we do not respect the younger generation (of politicians). Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Ashok Gehlot, all like them. But if the younger politicians promote and take part in horse trading, will it not destroy the country? Can’t the media see that?” asked Gehlot. “Speaking impeccable English and Hindi, giving interesting bytes (to the media) and having a handsome personality are not enough. What matters is, how you feel for the country, what are your commitments and ideologies. Sone ki chhuri pait mein khan ke liye nahi hoti (A golden knife cannot be digested),” said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gehlot-tears-into-pilot-impeccable-english-personality-not-enough/articleshow/76989185.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 16, 2020||India||No religious angle in Palghar lynchings, say chargesheets||MUMBAI: In a key development in the Palghar lynching case, the Maharashtra Police’s CID on Wednesday filed two separate chargesheets totalling around 12,000 pages, naming over 250-plus accused, an official said. The chargesheets say the mob lynching incident was the outcome of rumour-mongering and there was no religious angle to the crime. They signify the end of the investigations into the case in which two sadhus and their driver were lynched near Gadchinchale village. “Chargesheets have been filed before the Palghar sessions court. Each runs into some 6,000-pages and have named 126 accused each,” special public prosecutor Satish Maneshinde said. Police sources said the probe will continue into other related aspects of the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-religious-angle-in-palghar-lynchings-say-chargesheets/articleshow/76989322.cms||---
July 16, 2020||India||Speaker slaps anti-defection notice on Pilot, 18 other MLAs||JAIPUR: In a move to mount pressure on rebel MLAs and indicate its resolve, Congress moved Rajasthan assembly Speaker C P Joshi against Sachin Pilot and his supporters, resulting in the Speaker issuing on Wednesday notices to 19 MLAs who were absent in legislature party meetings held on Monday and Tuesday. Pilot and his band of MLAs were accused of violating the party whip, thereby inviting disqualification from the assembly. The MLAs are accused of conspiring to topple the state government led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in connivance with BJP. The notices issued on Wednesday have to be replied to by July 17 and are likely to set the stage for a politico-legal battle as the rebels are bound to approach courts in the event the Speaker finally disqualifies them and they lose their membership of the assembly. The notices were issued after Congress chief whip in the assembly Mahesh Joshi wrote to the Speaker seeking action in accordance with the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution and the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly Members (Disqualification for Defection) Act, 1989. The notices, which have seen legal eagle and Rajya Sabha MP Abhishek Singhvi being consulted, were to go out on Tuesday but Congress held back its complaint. The path ahead, however, may not be entirely predictable. Though the Speaker has wide powers to interpret anti-party activities to conclude certain actions amount to rebellion and a "voluntary" giving up of membership, there are other considerations too. Disqualified MLAs can seek legal redress that they be allowed to participate in a floor test. They can also argue that a whip applies to actions in the House and not to legislature party meetings. At any rate, their pleas might earn them a stay on any disqualification. The strategy behind disqualification is simple enough: It will reduce the halfway mark in the assembly and make the current support of the Ashok Gehlot government, estimated by Congress sources at a shade over the 100 mark in the 200-seat House, much more secure. The notices, meanwhile, are also intended to pressure some of the rebels to retrace their steps. The reaction of the Pilot camp was not clear as the leader did not address the media as had been expected and BJP also called off its meeting. This led to speculation whether the numbers of BJP and Pilot were not adding up and whether any understanding they were working out has hit a hurdle. Mahesh Joshi, in his five-page letter to the Speaker, said, “Over the last several days, attempts have been made to topple the Congress government in the state through corrupt practices and other illegal means. The MLAs in question have been deliberately conspiring against Congress to destabilise its government and are acting openly against party interests.” Joshi also alleged that the rebel lawmakers wilfully absented themselves from the CLP meeting convened on July 13 and from the second meeting on July 14. “The MLAs gave interviews to select TV channels challenging the government and levelling allegations against the party and the government,” the chief whip said. He said these open challenges to the party leadership were an undeniable expression of a revolt against Congress and indicated that they had voluntarily given up party membership by conspiring against the organisation. Gehlot claims he has the support of at least 104 MLAs in the 200-member assembly. Meanwhile, opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria questioned the notices issued by the Speaker to rebel MLAs and claimed that “party whip is binding on members only for their business in the House. BJP is consulting legal experts”. Watch Rajasthan crisis: Speaker serves anti-defection notice to Pilot, 18 MLAs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/speaker-slaps-anti-defection-notice-on-pilot-18-other-mlas/articleshow/76989365.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 16, 2020||India||I am not joining BJP, rumours spread by rivals to malign me in front of Gandhis: Pilot||NEW DELHI: On a day he and his supporters were slapped with a disqualification notice by the Rajasthan Speaker, Congress leader Sachin Pilot said on Wednesday that he was not joining BJP and the rumours were spread by his rivals to tarnish his image. In comments to the media, Pilot said, “I am not joining BJP. I would like to make it clear that I have no plan to join BJP. The BJP link is an attempt to malign me in the eyes of the Gandhis.” Pilot added that he had also not made any comment against the party. The reference to the Gandhis was intriguing as it seemed to suggest to some that Pilot was keeping a passage open, despite having rejected the conversations Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had with him as inadequate as also the decision to remove him from the post of deputy CM and state party chief. As speculation rose, some Congress leaders felt a rapprochement was not impossible if Pilot's desire to lead the government was discussed, even if not conceded. Others felt it might be too late and CM Ashok Gehlot upped the ante on Wednesday evening by claiming that Pilot's attempts to garner numbers had fallen short. Earlier in the day, Pilot was at pains to stress that “I am still a member of the Congress” and that he only had genuine grievances against Gehlot. The comment though was also seen as intended to offer no room for being charged with "anti-party" activities under the anti-defection law. Three days after he revolted and logged in to a Manesar hotel with his supporting MLAs, Pilot’s invoking of the Gandhi family appeared interesting as Congress has been publicly berating him for betrayal. Pilot said he would decide his future course of action after discussing the issue with his aides. He added he would not compromise with his self-respect. The rebel group was issued a disqualification notice by the Speaker on a complaint by Congress. The contingent skipped two legislature party meetings on successive days, inviting the wrath of the leadership. In what he suggested was the provocation for his revolt, Pilot said he felt humiliated after he was asked to depose by the Special Operations Group probing horse-trading. He claimed Gehlot and “his friends in the AICC” ganged up against him after Rahul stepped down as Congress president following the in 2019 Lok Sabha defeat. He said he was not allowed to work freely in the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-am-not-joining-bjp-rumours-spread-by-rivals-to-malign-me-in-front-of-gandhis-pilot/articleshow/76989389.cms||---
July 16, 2020||India||In a record, India tests 3.2L samples in a day||NEW DELHI: Daily testing to detect Covid-19 increased significantly with more than 3.2 lakh samples tested on Tuesday, the highest so far on a single day. Overall, 1.24 crore samples have been tested for the viral infection so far, according to officials of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In a bid to increase testing, the ICMR has approved a total of 1,223 Covid-19 testing labs in both public (865) and private sector (358). Since last few weeks daily testing has been in the range of 2-2.8 lakh samples every day. Despite the sample size increasing gradually, the positivity rate is largely stable between 9-10%, official say. Official sources say the rise in testing is primarily driven by introduction of rapid antigen testing, which accounts for almost 50% of the total tests. “States like West Bengal, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Ladakh and Meghalaya may need to scale up testing,” a senior official said Testing per million population for India is consistently rising and touched 8,994.7 on Wednesday. Covid-19 pandemic live updatesTesting capacity has also increased substantially from around 1.5 lakh samples per day on May 25 to nearly four lakh per day now. The World Health Organisation (WHO) in its guidance Note on “Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of COVID-19” has advised comprehensive surveillance and testing for suspected cases. According to the document, WHO recommends 140 tests per day per million population as “comprehensive” testing. Read AlsoWorst-case scenario: India to have 35 lakh Covid-19 cases by September 1, finds IISc studyIndia will have 35 lakh Covid cases and Karnataka 2.1 lakh by September 1, says a team of the Indian Institute of Science that has projected a worst-case scenario based on the current national trend. Active cases in the country and the state are likely to be 10 lakh and 71,300, respectively, byIn India, as many as 22 states are doing more than 140 Covid-19 tests per day per million in line with WHO guidance. Among the states and UTs, Goa tops the list with 1,058 tests per day per million people followed by Delhi with 978 and Tamil Nadu with 563. per million population. India registered a record single-day jump of 29,429 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 9,36,181 cases, while the death toll climbed to 24,309 with 582 new fatalities, according to health ministry data. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Watch Covid-19: India tests record 3.2L samples in a day, highest so far||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-record-india-tests-3-2l-samples-in-a-day/articleshow/76989466.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 16, 2020||India||BJP’s Baramulla municipal committee V-P abducted, rescued||SRINAGAR: The Jammu and Kashir police said late Wednesday night it had "rescued" BJP’s Baramulla municipal committee vice-president Mehraj-ud-Din Malla, who had been abducted earlier in the day by unidentified kidnappers while walking to his friend’s home in a nearby village to attend a wedding. IGP (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar confirmed the "rescue" but declined to divulge further details. A police officer said further details would be revealed after Malla had been questioned. Earlier, a senior police officer had said Malla had been bundled into a Santro car by "unknown persons" while walking on a road. Malla had won unopposed from Marazigund (A and B) wards as a BJP candidate. Mehraj-ud-din Malla is a BJP member and has five children and a wife. One of his children, a daughter, had earlier put out a message on social media saying, "… we are told he has been abducted by some unidentified gunmen on the way. We make a fervent appeal to the militants to release our father as he happens to be the only bread-earner in our family." The BJP member’s son had said: "I was in Mandi when my family informed me that my father has been abducted. His friend told us that five people came and bundled him into their car. His mobile was handed over to his friend. I appeal to them to please return my father." J&K BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur, too, had said the same thing about the manner in which Malla had been kidnapped. Malla’s abduction, and subsequent rescue, comes a week after BJP politician Waseem Bari and two members of his family were killed in Bandipora, leading to panic among BJP activists and workers across Kashmir. At least two BJP members from north Kashmir have resigned in the last five days, including Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha president from Baramulla Marouf Bhat on Saturday and BJP vice-president for Kupwara Asif Ahmad on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the J&K police’s security wing issued a security advisory to politicians "who come under their list" to refrain from unnecessary travel and inform the police in advance in case there is an emergency visit or tour. Several terrorist groups, including TRF, Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen and Al Badr, have already warned people affiliated with BJP and asked them to quit the party or face Waseem Bari’s fate. A senior police officer said the advisory was not for any particular politician but for all politicians and party workers who are protected persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjps-baramulla-municipal-committee-v-p-abducted-rescued/articleshow/76989485.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 16, 2020||India||J&K HC asks SASB, govt to take decision on Amarnath Yatra||SRINAGAR: Jammu and Kashmir high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) and the Union Territory administration to take a decision on the annual Amarnath Yatra taking into consideration the safety of all stakeholders including pilgrims, security personnel and locals in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The move follows a petition filed by HC advocate Sachin Sharma to suspend this year’s pilgrimage — scheduled to begin from July 21 to August 3, a shortened duration of 14 days — on account of the lack of preparedness and the apprehended inability of the authorities to deal with the requirements of the pandemic situation. Sharma expressed grave concern and anxiety about the health and well-being of the yatris and J&K citizens in case the yatra was permitted amid the current scenario. He added that because of the Covid-19 scare, no labour was available to facilitate or assist the administration in snow removal or other necessary arrangements. Additionally, the rising number of Covid infections and subsequent mortalities were reason enough to deter this year’s pilgrimage, Sharma plead. “Such considered view shall ensure compliance of all healthcare protocols, standard operating protocols notified by the central government as well as by the Jammu and Kashmir guided by the principles laid down by the Supreme Court that the right to health of every person has to be placed at the highest pedestal; address the concerns of the health of the security personnel, healthcare personnel, priests, the Yatris and of the officials who would be involved in the arrangements and conduct of the Yatra as also the residents of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” the court said. In the decision-making, the SASB shall ensure consideration of the welfare and support of all persons, especially the porters, pithoo/palki service providers, and also the mules and horses used in the yatra, the HC said. The court observed that the pilgrimage from Pahalgam or Ganderbal side is not easy and requires extensive facilitation by both government and non-government organisations. “While J&K is engaged in ensuring proper passage, security, medical facilities, setting up points of stay, lodging toilets, etc., it is also responsible for ensuring continuous supply of power and telecommunication facilities at/near the shrine,” the HC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-hc-asks-sasb-govt-to-take-decision-on-amarnath-yatra/articleshow/76989511.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 16, 2020||India||Pak intruder arrested near LoC in Poonch||JAMMU: A Pakistani man was arrested on Wednesday after entering India across the Line of Control (LoC) in Balakote sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district. The intruder, wearing dark grey clothes, was spotted by locals moving towards Bharoti village and they immediately informed the police. “The apprehended individual was later identified as Abdul Rehman (28), a resident of Nakyal in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). He was caught soon after he crossed to this side,” Poonch SSP Ramesh Angral said, adding that the man would be tested for Covid-19. “He was taken to Balakote police post for questioning. Nothing incriminating was recovered from his possession,” the SSP said. Last year, three Pakistani intruders were arrested in Jammu division in September and October. A Pakistani intruder was arrested on October 7 by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel near the international border at Nawa Pind village of R S Pura. A Pakistani teenager was arrested in Akhnoor sector on October 3 and a Pakistani man was arrested from Chandu Check village of R S Pura on September 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-intruder-arrested-near-loc-in-poonch/articleshow/76989521.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
July 16, 2020||India||Pak arrests govt employee, claims he is RAW agent||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) arrested a government employee on Wednesday, claiming that he was a RAW agent and involved in targeted killings and bombings in the southern port city of Karachi. The suspect, Zafar Khan, officials said, was a member of the Karachi fire brigade. FIA officials alleged Khan had spent 14 months in India where he had received training in the making of bombs and the use of weapons. The FIA also claimed that they had also arrested two members of a money exchange company who were allegedly part of a RAW sleeper cell. "The two suspects were sending money to anti-state elements through hawala and hundi," FIA officials claimed. "Information about others involved has been sent to all airports in the country," the investigators said, adding that laptops, phones and guns were recovered from them. "A case has been registered against the suspects and an investigation is underway," officials added. Similar claims had been made by FIA officials in May this year after they arrested a police special branch assistant sub-inspector. Then, too, they had alleged he had been working for RAW and was a member of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement’s London group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-arrests-govt-employee-claims-he-is-raw-agent/articleshow/76989530.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 16, 2020||India||Like US, India will have a satellite-based lightning detection system, will help check human casualties||NEW DELHI: To better the country’s lightning monitoring system in order to check hundreds of casualties in north India annually, the ministry of earth sciences (MoES) is in talks with Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) for installing a lightning detector on its upcoming geo satellites. Speaking during a webinar ‘Thunderstorms and Lightning’ on Tuesday, MoES secretary M Rajeevan said, “Like the US and European countries, we want to have a lightning detector in geo satellites. For that, talks have been going on with Isro and the agency has agreed in principle. If all goes well, we will have a geo satellite in space with a lightning detector within a year that will give us a lot of real-time information, and our monitoring skills will improve further.” “Earlier, we had a lightning detector installed on a polar satellite. But the disadvantage of it was that a polar satellite doesn’t monitor a place (on earth or sky) continuously for a long time as it comes and goes from one pole to another. On the other hand, a geo satellite due to its placement (in the geostationary orbit at 36,000km altitude) can monitor a place continuously for a long time and therefore the detector installed on it will help us monitor lightning better,” he said. Over 200 deaths due to lightning have been reported from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the last two months. Talking to TOI, Isro chairman K Sivan said, “We had already installed a software in two satellites INSAT-3D and INSAT-3DR to assess the lightning potential area on an experimental basis. It’s not a detection system but it’s a software, which is used to assess such thunderstorm events. We are also working on the MoEF’s request and plan to install a lightning detector in an INSAT-4-series satellite. But that is still in a preliminary stage.” Explaining the role of such a satellite-based lightning detector, a source in the space agency told TOI, “It is a high-speed camera that gets activated during lightning and captures UV rays emanated during lightning. It captures high-resolution images of the lightning from space and generates a lot of data about thunderstorm events.” With the use of satellite detectors, the country can measure all forms of lightning over both land and sea 24x7. The MoES secretary said that “over 2,000 incidents of thunderstorms around the world are reported at a given time. Within a short span, a thunderstorm not only damages or affects property, aviation sector, power systems, rocket launch but also causes a lot of human casualties. Therefore, we need a better monitoring system and an effective information dissemination system to alert people hours before thunderstorm events.” Besides the space-based system, doppler radars are best ground-based systems to monitor thunderstorms, Rajeevan said. “Currently, there are 26 doppler radars operating and over the next two years, it will be expanded to 50, which will significantly improve the network of monitoring,” he said. The webinar, presided over by Union minister Nityanand Rai, was jointly organised by National Institute of Disaster Management in collaboration with the India Meteorological Department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/like-us-india-will-have-a-satellite-based-lightning-detection-system-will-help-check-human-casualties/articleshow/76989538.cms||Surendra Singh
July 16, 2020||India||India could have 35 lakh cases by Sept: IISc study||BENGALURU: India will have 35 lakh Covid-19 cases, and Karnataka 2.1 lakh, by September 1, says a worst-case scenario projection that an IISc team says is based on the current national trend. The Indian Institute of Science projection says active cases in the country, and in the state, are likely to be 10 lakh and 71,300, respectively, by then. In a better-than-the-current-trend scenario, the country may hit a peak of 20 lakh total cases, 4.75 lakh active, and 88,000 deaths by September 1. And, in the same scenario, Karnataka will have 1.2 lakh total cases, 28,700 active cases and 5,460 deaths. The same model also says the country will have 37.4 lakh total cases, 14 lakh active cases and 1.9 lakh deaths by the end of March 2021. For perspective, as of 7 pm Wednesday, India had 9.4 lakh Covid cases, 3.4 lakh active cases and 24,300 deaths. Worst-case scenario projections show Maharashtra may have 6.3 lakh cases, Delhi 2.4 lakh, Tamil Nadu 1.6 lakh and Gujarat 1.8 lakh cases by September, with active cases roughly 35% of the total. The projections by IISc professors Sashikumar G, Deepak S and their team said India would have 1.4 lakh deaths — of them 25,000 from Maharashtra, 9,700 from Delhi, 8,500 from Karnataka, 6,300 from Tamil Nadu and 7,300 from Gujarat — by September. They project that India is likely to have 1.2 crore cases and 5 lakh deaths by November 1 and 2.9 crore cases and 10 lakh deaths by January 1. Karnataka is estimated to have 7.2 lakh cases and 30,400 deaths by November 1, and 10.8 lakh cases and 78,900 deaths by January 1. As per the worse-case scenario, no peak is predicted for India until the end of March 2021, at which time there will be 6.2 crore cases, 82 lakh active cases and 28 lakh deaths. The state-wise projections are computed with the parameters of the national trend to compare the performance of the respective state with the national trend. For example, Kerala, Karnataka, UP (and others) have done better than the national trend, whereas Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, MP (and others) have done worse than the national trend. Watch India could have 35 lakh cases by Sept: IISc study||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-could-have-35-lakh-cases-by-sept-iisc-study/articleshow/76989636.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 16, 2020||India||Zydus Cadila starts human trials of vaccine||AHMEDABAD: Pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila has begun human clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate called ZyCov-D with the first human dosing on Wednesday. “The adaptive phase I & II human clinical trials of its plasmid DNA vaccine has commenced on Wednesday with the first human dosing. The adaptive phase I & II dose escalation study will assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine,” the firm said in a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges. According to Zydus Cadila, human dosing of the vaccine marks a milestone since the launching of the accelerated vaccine development programme for Covid-19 in February. “We look forward to gathering important data on ZyCoV-D in the months ahead,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman, Zydus Cadila. In the trials, the firm will be enrolling over 1,000 subjects across multiple clinical study sites in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/zydus-cadila-starts-human-trials-of-vaccine/articleshow/76989656.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Mayor’s pics without mask in public create flutter on social media||Ludhiana: While city mayor Balkar Sandhu may have been avoiding social interactions in the last couple of days, but his reluctance to wear a mask at public places in the past few days has invited sarcastic remarks from local residents and his political opponents. There have been several occasions where he has been spotted many times not covering his face with either some cloth or mask. On July 11, in view of water accumulation on roads cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had taken a round of the city. During that round, pictures of which were sent by district public relation office, the mayor was not wearing a mask even as the cabinet minister was seen wearing one. After the cabinet minister’s Facebook page was uploaded with pictures, some of the netizens reacted to it. Gaurav Sharma, a local resident, responded to the images by writing “Well done Ashu G. Lekin jaise aapne mask pehna hai waise apne sathiyon ko bhi pehnwa dijiye. Spl. mayor saab (well done Ashu ji. The way you are wearing masks, get your friends to wear the same, especially the mayor).” Another netizen Sonu Kapoor wrote, ‘Good job. But why our mayor is not wearing a mask.” The opposition parties are also criticising the mayor for not wearing mask in those pictures. “Being the first citizen and as a state government representative if they are not following the orders, how can they implement it for others. Even the chief minister was not wearing the same during a recent FB session. They impose a challan of Rs 500 on people and themselves are not serious towards the people of the state. As a leader one has to follow the norms and it shouldn’t be done for just the sake of show,” said Ranjit Singh Dhillon, district president of Shiromani Akali Dal (urban). Even AAP supporters are criticising the mayor on the issue. “They are rule setters and are not sending a good message to people as rule makers are becoming breakers. The mayor should set a good example rather than a bad one. They have collected lakhs of rupees from challans and registered FIRs for those violating the norms related to Covid-19, but are not following those rules themselves,” said Ahbab Grewal, general secretary of AAP. Meanwhile, the FB page of the mayor shows that on many occasions he is not seen covering his mouth and nose with mask or cloth in public. On July 7, during a meeting with Ludhiana Goods Transport Association regarding the NHAI, though the mayor has a cloth piece around his neck, his mouth and face is not covered. On June 7 also, he is not using a mask or cloth to cover his mouth and nose. Though there have been a few instances prior to his appearances without masks, where he was seen wearing one. Meanwhile, repeated attempts to contact the mayor were made, but in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mayors-pics-without-mask-in-public-create-flutter-on-social-media/articleshow/77007918.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 16, 2020||Business||‘Aramco deal has not progressed as planned’||MUMBAI: RIL’s plan to sell stake in its oil-to-chemicals business to Saudi Aramco has “not progressed” as envisaged “due to unforeseen circumstances in the energy market”, said chairman Mukesh Ambani at the company’s annual shareholder meeting. The urgency to conclude the transaction with Saudi Aramco has eased as RIL’s “equity requirements have already been met”. While Ambani didn’t give any new timeline for the completion of the deal with Saudi Aramco, the chairman said RIL has been “approached by global companies for strategic partnerships in the petrochemical business”. He, however, didn’t name any company. Last year, Ambani had announced that Saudi Aramco would acquire a 20% stake in the oil-to-chemicals business, valued at $75 billion including debt, with the deal to be closed by March 2020. “Due to unforeseen circumstances in the energy market and the Covid-19 situation, the deal has not progressed as per the original timeline,” Ambani told shareholders. “Nevertheless, we at Reliance value our over two-decade-long relationship with Saudi Aramco and are committed to a long-term partnership.” RIL has been sourcing crude oil from Saudi Aramco for many years and it recently sold a 2.32% stake in Jio to the Kingdom-managed Public Investment Fund (PIF) for Rs 11,367 crore ($1.5 billion). PIF is managed by Yasir al-Rumayyan, who is also the chairman of Saudi Aramco. RIL will approach the National Company Law Tribunal to spin off the oil-to-chemicals business into a separate subsidiary. The process, expected to be completed by early 2021, is to “facilitate multiple partnership opportunities” in the business. “The strategic partnerships will help us build competitive manufacturing capacity at our existing sites,” said Ambani, adding that this will help RIL “serve the deficit Indian market that still depends on large-scale imports of chemicals”. RIL is not in a hurry to conclude the deal with Saudi Aramco in the petrochemicals business as it has raised more than Rs 2 lakh crore through other routes to pare debt. It has sold shares in its telecom and retail fuel units as well as sold its shares to existing shareholders, raising enough capital to eliminate its net debt. RIL’s deal with Saudi Aramco has slowed due to differences over structure and other issues. The company will, however, continue to pursue a partnership with Saudi Aramco, said Ambani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aramco-deal-has-not-progressed-as-planned/articleshow/76988376.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 16, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19: 58 more test positive, dist tally crosses 700||Prayagraj: With 58 new people testing positive for Covid-19, the tally of corona cases in the Prayagraj district rose to 726 on Wednesday. Meanwhile, city also reported three deaths due to covid infection and the tally of deceased too reached 25. A senior health official said, “As many as 58 patients, between the age group of 22 and 70 years were diagnosed with the disease here on Wednesday. He added that most of them patients, who tested positive for Covid-19 infection, contracted the disease after coming in contact with other patients. Meanwhile, as many as 24 patients have been cured and discharged from the Covid hospitals on Wednesday. With these 24 patients, a total of 440 patients have been cured and discharged so far. Health officials, meanwhile, informed that three patients hailing from Kareli (94 years), Dhoomanganj (55 years) and Colonelganj (70 years) died due to coronavirus infection at SRN hospital here on Wednesday. With more people diagnosed with Covid infection, the number of containments zones has also increased and crossed the 300 marks. There are a total of 330 containment zones including Sadar-city areas (147), Handia (37), Soroan (21), Phulpur (27), Koraon (7), Meja (21), Karchana (18) and Bara (11). Meanwhile, senior health officials have laid their stress to increase sampling at wards and blocks levels. A senior official said “Ground health workers have been asked to conduct door to door campaign in blocks and tehsils and create mass awareness on the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-58-more-test-positive-dist-tally-crosses-700/articleshow/76986863.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Surat||46 donate their plasma in 10 days in Surat||SURAT: Suratis are known for their generosity to help others and the pandemic is no exception. As many as 46 people who have recovered from Covid-19 have donated their plasma in the last 10 days in the city to help other patients who are under treatment. According to sources, 25 people have donated their plasma at the blood bank at New Civil Hospital and 21 people have donated their plasma at the blood bank at SMIMER hospital in the city in the last 10 days. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and New Civil Hospital (NCH) have appealed to those who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward and donate their plasma to help other patients recover from it. “We are collecting plasma from different blood groups for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and we are encouraging people to donate their plasma and help fight the pandemic,” said Dr Mayur Jagar, in- charge of blood bank at the New Civil Hospital. “We have started administering plasma in Covid-19 treatment at the SMIMER and we are hopeful of its good results,’‘ said a doctor involved in the plasma treatment. According to the guideline, a person who has recovered from Covid-19 can donate his or her plasma after 28 days of recovery. Meanwhile, Surat city reported 173 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and four deaths due to the virus. In Surat rural, 82 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday and two Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/46-donate-their-plasma-in-10-days-in-surat/articleshow/76987066.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Erosion of approach road disrupts traffic on Sattarghat overbridge||MOTIHARI: The swollen Gandak on Wednesday eroded the north side approach road to newly constructed Sattarghat road bridge and disrupted traffic on this route. Otherwise, the flood situation in East Champaran has slightly improved as the floodwaters of Bagmati and Lalbakeya rivers and their tributaries spread to some areas in 10 blocks were receding fast on Wednesday. The East Champaran district administration has informed the Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam to repair the Sattarghat road bridge approach road, road construction department (RCD) executive engineer Raj Kishor Prasad said. Video: Portion of #SattarghatBridge on #Gandak river collapses. https://t.co/NnRZF4I9AZ— TOI Patna (@TOIPatna) 1594881553000Chief minister Nitish Kumar had inaugurated the 1,440-metre-long bridge over Gandak river on June 16 this year through videoconferencing. This bridge connects Gopalganj to East Champaran district. CM Nitish had laid the foundation stone for this bridge on April 5, 2012 and it connects the Ram-Janaki circuit and reduces the distance between Motihari and Chhapra by 45 kms. Meanwhile, Burhi Gandak river was flowing above the danger mark at Lalbegiya ghat. Floodwaters of Burhi Gandak river spread to the low-lying areas in 27 villages of 9 panchayats of Banjariya block. Floodwaters also entered the official building of Banjariya block and circle offices in East Champaran. The hilly rivers like Tilawe and Bangari were also in spate and playing havoc in the area since Tuesday. Mani Kumar Verma, the circle officer of Banjariya, said floodwaters had entered Kukurjari, Beladih, Khairi, Sundarpur, Siswaniya, Gobari Jatawa, Janerawa and Ajagarwa and overtopped the Chailaha-Siswaniya road. These villages have been cut off from the district headquarters Motihari. The Banjariya block office is 4km north of Motihari town. As per report by state water resources department, the water level in rivers Bagmati and Lalbakeya was receding. District agriculture officer Chandradeo Prasad said the floodwaters partially damaged the recently transplanted paddy in around 30,000 acres in 14 blocks of East Champaran. Patahi, Dhaka, Ramgarhwa, Sigauli, Narkatiya, Madhuban and Fenehara villages were worst affected with the low-lying areas continued to be waterlogged. Bagmati river had a falling trend at most of the places, except at Benibad and Hayaghat where it maintained its rising trend. However, Burhi Gandak had a rising trend at all places in Samastipur and Khagaria. A report from Sitamarhi said no rainfall in the last 24 hours gave some respite from flood in the district on Wednesday. Major rivers like Bagmati, Lalbakeya, Jhim, Hardi, Lakhadei and Adhwara group registered receding trends, but flowing above the danger mark. The low-lying areas in the town were still reeling under waterlogging and floodwaters of river Lakhadei. The water from Adhwara group of rivers overtopped the Pupri-Choraut road in 3km-stretch near village Bhantawari. (With inputs from S K Singh in Sitamarhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/erosion-of-approach-road-disrupts-traffic-on-sattarghat-overbridge/articleshow/76987281.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
July 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid graph dips on Coast in last 72 hrs, 4 fatalities in DK||Mangaluru/Udupi: The Covid-19 graph of Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi districts on Wednesday took a welcome dip to record 126 cases, the least in the last 72 hours since Monday. The two districts had recorded 131 and 163 cases on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. While DK accounted for 73 cases, Udupi reported 53 fresh cases, taking their tally of positive cases to 2,525 and 1,786, respectively, as on Wednesday. DK also recorded four Covid-19 linked deaths. The four deceased include two men in their early 70’s and two women – one in her early 60’s and other in her late 60’s. Three of the four victims are from Bantwal taluk, and one is from Sullia taluk. While the 60-year-old woman patient from Sullia had diabetes and hypertension, the 68-year-old woman from Bantwal had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery disease, hypertension and diabetes, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. The 73-year-old man from Bantwal suffered from hypertension and pneumonia and the 70-year-old man, also from Bantwal, had acute kidney disease, acute respiratory distress syndrome and ischemic heart disease. The district level expert committee is conducting an audit into these deaths that has seen 57 people die since the outbreak of the pandemic. A state level committee will be in the district on Thursday to probe these deaths, Sindhu said. The 73 cases in DK included 32 whose source of infection is being traced, 23 diagnosed with influenza like illness (ILI), 11 being primary contacts of infected patients, three cases each of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and with international travel history, and one with inter-district travel history. Active cases in DK as on July 15 are at 2,525 and the number of those discharged is 1,089, including the 104 discharged from the Covid-19 hospital and private hospitals on the day. Udupi reported 53 new cases, but also saw the discharge of 22 patients from hospitals. A total 33 of these fresh cases were primary contacts of infected patients, 16 were people with ILI, and two cases each of inter-district and inter-state travel, said district health and family welfare officer Sudhir Chandra Sooda. Udupi as on date has 401 active cases, and 1,382 patients have recovered thus far, stated DC G Jagadeesha in the bulletin. The total positive cases in Udupi is at 1,786, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-graph-dips-on-coast-in-last-72-hrs-4-fatalities-in-dk/articleshow/76987274.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 16, 2020||Surat||11 booked for anti-minority posts on Instagram||SURAT: Police booked handlers of 11 different Instagram accounts for allegedly posting objectionable images against a minority community. The offence was registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for provocation that can cause rioting, promoting enmity between two different groups, deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs, uttering words with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person and others. The accused were also booked under various sections of Information Technology Act. The accused were booked based on complaint by Sarvar Hussain Nagad, a resident of Nanpura. In his complaint, Nagad objected the images and text posted between April 18 and May 1. “The write-up and images are found to be derogatory which could incite communal tension. We have registered the FIR against the Instagram account handlers and started investigation,” said a police officer in cyber crime police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/11-booked-for-anti-minority-posts-on-instagram/articleshow/76987268.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Delivery boys, workers return home||PATNA: The decision of the state government to extend the Covid-19 lockdown till July 31 has compelled many construction workers, employees of retail stores and delivery boys to return to their native places. Bihar Chapter of Builders’ Association of India president Sachin Chandra told this newspaper on Wednesday, “Many builders have complained that skilled workers are heading for their hometowns. They have already been hit by the previous lockdown.” Patna-based builder Gyan Mani also claimed that almost 50% of his workers had decided to return home. “The fear of stricter rules amid the extended lockdown has disrupted the work at construction sites. Although I am trying to convince my workers to stay back, most of them are not willing to do so,” he said. Several employees of groceries and retail stores have also started going back to their hometowns. Dhananjay Singh, Patna head of an online retail store, pointed out, “Keeping in mind the extension of the lockdown, customers are placing multiple orders. At a time like this when we need more staff, many of our delivery boys have gone back to their native places.” Dhananjay, however, thanked the district administration for “encouraging home delivery during the lockdown”. The owner of a grocery near Nahar Khagaul Road, Pintoo Kumar, said, “I have two men — one for delivering groceries and milk to nearby houses and the other one for cleaning the shop. Sadly, both of them stopped coming to work after the lockdown was imposed by the district magistrate last week.” The statewide lockdown has also added to the woes of restaurateurs and hotel owners, who were already reeling from financial crunch amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Anand Singh, the owner of a restaurant on Boring Road, rued, “Despite the fact that we are taking all precautionary measures, people are hardly ordering food online. If the situation prevails, I think I will have to shut my restaurant and look for other business options.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/delivery-boys-workers-return-home/articleshow/76986179.cms||Archi Rani
July 16, 2020||Patna||Patna University centre conducts study on migrants||PATNA: The Centre for Women’s Studies in Patna University has conducted quite a few surveys and webinars focusing on the socio-economic condition of migrants during the Covid-19 pandemic. Recently the centre completed a sponsored study on the health and education scenario in five villages of Chausa block in Buxar district of Bihar. It highlighted the problems faced by the rural people in providing good education and medicare to their family members as well as penetration of the government programmes, their benefits, the number of beneficiaries and the villagers’ extent of reach. Talking about the various initiatives taken by the centre, its director Sunita Roy, who also heads PU’s department of personnel management and industrial relations, told his newspaper, “A detailed telephonic survey of migrant workers staying at quarantine centres in the state was done recently. They raised several questions regarding the resumption of normal activities and the shape of things to come after the end of the pandemic. They also asked how they would cope with their household expenses and health issues without any income.” Roy also said, “In course of the survey, many workers pointed out that the money and the ration they got were not adequate and they were unable to sustain their family members. A majority of them also asserted that they would return to their workplaces if they were called by their employers. Those with no jobs made anxious inquiries about the possibility of their employment in their own home districts.” She added, “The main aim of the centre is to focus on advancing women’s issues before the society. Their status in a patriarchal society requires social change and empowerment through persistent and effective strategies of awareness, empowerment, and advocacy.” The centre has also organized a series of webinars under its ‘Samwaad’ programme and discussed issues like problems faced by women in informal sector, role of self-help groups in mitigating their sufferings, impact of Covid-19 on working women, and the need of implementing the provisions of interstate migrant workers’ regulations. “The research officers and staff of the centre also extended their full help in distribution of food and other essential items among the migrant workers coming to Bihar from other states,” Roy claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-centre-conducts-study-on-migrants/articleshow/76986268.cms||B K Mishra
July 16, 2020||Business||Banks to increase cash handling charges from August 1||CHENNAI: Bank of Maharashtra, Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank and RBL Bank have imposed charges for cash withdrawal or increased minimum balance requirements effective August 1. A SB (savings bank) account holder at Bank of Maharashtra, will now have to maintain a minimum of monthly average balance of Rs 2,000 with branches in metro and urban areas, compared to Rs 1,500 earlier, failing which there is a penalty of maximum of Rs 75 in metro and urban branches, Rs 50 in semi-urban branches and Rs Rs 20 in rural branches per month. For current account holders, a monthly average balance of Rs 5,000 to be maintained, compared to the previous rule of quarterly maintenance. A cash handling fee of Rs 100 on deposits and withdrawals, after three free transactions (each) in a month in both home & non-home branches put together has also been introduced. While deposit for locker has been reduced, the penalty for locker rent arrears has been increased. “The banking industry has undergone a significant digital transformation post Covid-19. As part of our Bank’s digital strategy we have decided to encourage our customers to use alternate / digital channels in the present environment. Services Charges have been primarily revised to encourage digital banking and further reduce P2P contact within the branches. Furthermore, the revised services charges are competitive,” AS Rajeev, MD & CEO, Bank of Maharashtra said. Axis Bank account holders will have to Rs 25 per ECS transaction, which was zero earlier. It has introduced charges for locker access beyond a threshold limit. The private bank has introduced a cash handling fee of Rs 100 per bundle (1,000 notes) on lower denominations notes of Rs 10/Rs 20/Rs 50 only. Praveen Bhatt, head of retail liabilities & direct channels, Axis Bank said, “Reviewing and rationalising fees is an ongoing throughout-the-year activity. This round of charge revisions were focused on encouraging digital way of Banking instead of excessive usage of cash.” For savings and corporate salary account holders at Kotak Mahindra Bank, debit card-ATM charges stand at Rs 20 per cash withdrawal and Rs 8.5 per non-financial transaction, after five free transactions per month. A Rs 25 fee will be levied on every failed transaction at merchant outlets or websites or ATMs, due to insufficient balance. Account holders in Kotak Mahindra Bank will have to pay a penalty if they do not maintain an average minimum balance, depending on the account category. Besides, a cash withdrawal fee of Rs 100 per transaction for every fourth transaction has been introduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-to-increase-cash-handling-charges-from-aug-1/articleshow/76987258.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 16, 2020||Business||Sensex surges 700 pts, ends flat as RIL yo-yos||Mumbai: A late sell-off in RIL after its AGM started pulled the sensex down to a flat close at 36,052 points after rising over 700 points in early trades. Between the start and the end of the AGM, RIL’s stock price fluctuated from a high of Rs 1,970 to a low of Rs 1,798, and finally closed 3.7% lower at Rs 1,846. RIL’s market capitalisation dipped by about Rs 75,000 crore during that period. The index’s gains came on the back of strong buying in software exporters and FMCG majors, while most banks and financials, along with RIL, were the main drags on it. Market players said with most of the positive news was already priced in RIL’s stock and investors were keen to book profits since in less than four months it had given a return of about 140%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-surges-700-pts-ends-flat-as-ril-yo-yos/articleshow/76987629.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kandla Customs find 5kg of charas near Jakhau||Ahmedabad: Eight packets containing 5.8kg of charas were discovered near Jakhau by a preventive team of Kandla Customs on Tuesday. The packets were found at the Siyari Creek in the Abdasa taluka of Kutch during a patrol on Tuesday, officials of the Customs house in Kandla said. Assistant commissioner of customs, Bhuj division, Rakesh Bihari, said, “A preventive team led by senior superintendent Ashok K Rathwa made a seizure of 8 packets of narcotics drugs, believed to be charas, at Siyari Creek near Jakhau during patrolling on July 14.” Sources confirmed that several more packets of charas have been seized by various agencies recently. “It is presumed that a boat carrying these parcels may have capsized, due to which these charas packets are floating to the shores,” said G C Jain, additional commissioner, Customs House, Kandla. The commissioner of customs, Kandla, has launched a drive, Operation Brown Salt, to clamp down on smuggling of narcotic drugs and other contraband in Kutch “As part of the drive, four dedicated teams including superintendents, preventive officers and others have been deployed to increase patrolling in the area. Active assistance of other agencies such as the Coast Guard, BSF and marine police is also taken,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kandla-customs-find-5kg-of-charas-near-jakhau/articleshow/76988490.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Surat||Surat: Twin sisters’ Class X scores too are identical!||SURAT: They have always been a double joy for the Singaraju family of Piplod area, but the similarity of these two identical twin sisters left everybody spellbound when they scored identical marks on Wednesday. When the CBSE Class X results were declared, the duo stunned everybody with their same scores of 477 marks out of 500. What goes to the girls’ credit is the fact that this was achieved without any extra coaching. And that’s not all. Ramita and Rachita also coincidently got 76 marks each in English! “We used to prepare together but had no idea that our marks will be same. We are not only identical in our looks but also have the same likings and are good friends too,” the twins told TOI. Students of Kendriya Vidhyalaya I, Ichhanath, the sisters did not take coaching from any tuition class and were completely dependent on school studies. They were also supported at home by their mother, SS Kumari, a primary school teacher in Vanita Vishram School, and their elder brother Rishabh, an MBBS student in GMERS at Valsad. S V Rao, father is a superintendent in GST, Surat. “They were focused and therefore, secured good results. They were always good at studies and never needed additional coaching,” said Kumari, proud of her daughters’ twin achievements. The sisters now want to take up biology in Class XI and XII as they both want to study medical like their brother. Originally from Andhra Pradesh, the family has been living in Gujarat for many years now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/twin-sisters-class-x-scores-too-are-identical/articleshow/76991266.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 16, 2020||Business||Quarter of Yes Bank issue subscribed on 1st day||Mumbai: A quarter of Yes Bank’s follow-on public offer (FPO) was subscribed to on the first day of the issue. Around 20% of the total first-day bids have come from retail investors with the rest coming from institutions, employees and other investors. The Rs 15,000-crore FPO opened on July 15. On Tuesday, anchor investors committed Rs 4,500 crore to the offer. Of the remaining Rs 10,500 crore available, there were bids for 196 crore shares worth Rs 2,546 crore. The issue will close on July 17. The bank’s share price, which has been falling since the announcement of the issue pricing, fell 2.4% to Rs 20.45 on the BSE. New York-headquartered alternative asset manager Tilden Park has picked up 55% of the anchor portion of Yes Bank’s FPO with an investment of Rs 2,250 crore, while HDFC Life and Singapore-based Akash Prakash’s Amansa Holding have together picked up another 20% of the anchor portion with a Rs 773-crore investment. The investors for the remaining 25% included Jupiter India Fund, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance, ICICI Lombard General Insurance, Reliance General Insurance, RBL Bank, Edelweiss Alternative Investment, Hinduja Leyland Finance and ECL Finance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/quarter-of-yes-bank-issue-subscribed-on-1st-day/articleshow/76988448.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Surge in number of patients needing oxygen support||GAYA: The Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH), the notified treatment centre for Covid patients of the five districts in Magadh division, on Wednesday witnessed a sudden surge in the number of patients needing oxygen support. According to Dr NK Paswan, deputy superintendent-cum-nodal officer of Covid treatment, more than two dozen patients with breathing problems needing oxygen support had been admitted on Wednesday and the number was likely to go up. “This is the biggest single-day surge in the number of suspects. As test reports of the patients admitted on Wednesday are awaited, technically they will be considered as Covid suspects,” said Dr Paswan. Asked about the availability of oxygen in the hospital, Dr Paswan said 30 hospital beds do have piped oxygen supply facility. “Moreover, 322 oxygen cylinders are available in the hospital. One cylinder lasts 6 to 8 hours,” he said. However, hospital insiders fear oxygen shortage as very few beds have direct supply facility and oxygen cylinders, in the absence of regular supply chain, cannot last very long. The issue of spike in the number of positive cases and the strategy to meet the challenge was discussed at a meeting held at the collectorate on Tuesday. District magistrate Abhishek Singh directed the civil surgeon and ANMMCH superintendent to speed up the identification of Covid positive cases by conducting more tests. In view of the estimated surge in the number of positive cases and infrastructural limitations, the DM said asymptomatic patients should be put under home isolation and their health condition should be regularly monitored. Those put under home isolation have to be properly briefed about the dos and don’ts of home isolation, including diet chart and lifestyle. Those needing hospitalisation have to be identified on the basis of their medical records, including comorbidities. Expressing displeasure over the data entry process, the DM said proper monitoring of data being uploaded is required. The data, being uploaded by a private agency must be vetted by an IT expert of the district administration. The DM also said that separate list for symptomatic and asymptomatic patients has to be compiled. According to sources, private operators in several cases entered provisional data as final thereby producing discrepancy in official records. As per statistics officially released on Tuesday evening, altogether 13206 tests have been conducted in the district out of which 467 tested positive. While most of them have been discharged, 142 active cases are present in the district. On Wednesday, the state government released a list which said that another 43 people from Gaya have tested positive. With the addition of these 43 cases, the number of active cases in the district has gone up to 185.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/surge-in-no-of-patients-needing-oxygen-support/articleshow/76986757.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 peaking fast in most areas||Vadodara: Analysis of data on Covid-19 cases in the city has shown that the disease seems to be peaking at different times in different pockets. Details released by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) point out that in 16 of the 34 urban primary health centre (UPHC) areas, the infection is peaking this month. In 15 others, it is likely to peak next month even as three others have already seen a spike and now only stray cases are being reported there. The analysis of data was done over the last week to find out trends in the prevalence of the disease in the city. The areas that were hotbeds under the Navidharti, Warasiya and Jubelibaug UPHCs are now witnessing only stray cases. At the other end, the western parts of the city seem to be either peaking now or, in some cases, may peak in August. “The analysis was possible as now we have a significant number of cases in the city. The areas where we believe the disease has peaked had over 300 cases at one point of time and these came down by 10% or even lesser now,” said VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel. Patel said that within UPHC areas too the trends were different and these were being analysed too. “We are looking to work on the areas of auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and even in areas below it,” said Patel. When asked if there was a possibility of a spike in areas where the numbers were already on a rise, Patel said that this would become clear only as and when cases are reported. Sources said that the health officials were hoping that whenever new areas join the list of those peaking, there are some areas that go out of the list as ones that have already peaked. This will ensure that the medical facilities in the city are not overburdened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-peaking-fast-in-most-areas/articleshow/76986492.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ECR to continue running 22 pairs of special trains||PATNA: Despite the fresh lockdown in Bihar, the movement of 22 pairs of special trains, which originate from different places under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR), will continue. However, all the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the Railway Board will be strictly followed and precautions taken while allowing passengers to board the trains. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, passengers will have to reach the stations at least two hours before the departure of their trains. Besides, those returning to Bihar will have to arrange for their own transportation to reach their destinations easily. “The railways will provide travel kits with sanitizers, masks, hand gloves and disposable linens to passengers at reasonable prices during the journey,” the CPRO said and added that the sudden surge in coronavirus cases had affected the movement of trains from Bihar. Altogether 29,000 passengers travelled to different places by 18 special trains from Bihar on Saturday. Meanwhile, apart from the 22 pairs of special passenger trains already running on different routes, the railways has proposed to run 23 additional pairs of long-distance trains soon. These include the Secunderabad-Patna, Vasco da Gama-Patna, Udhna-Danapur, Surat-Muzaffarpur, Surat-Bhagalpur, Valsad-Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur-Delhi, Asansol-Mumbai, Kamakhya-Delhi, Dibrugarh-Lalgarh, Dibrugarh-Delhi, Porbandar-Muzaffarpur, Indore-Howrah, Agartala-Deoghar, Madhupur-Delhi, Yesvantpur-Bhagalpur, Kolkata-Amritsar, Sealdah-Amritsar, Dibrugarh-Amritsar, Mumbai-Guwahati, Mumbai-Kamakhya and Bhagalpur-Mumbai routes to help people reach their destinations conveniently. A source claimed, “These special trains will run only after getting the MHA’s nod.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-continue-running-22-pairs-of-special-trains/articleshow/76986155.cms||Kumod Verma
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav urges people to skip BJP’s virtual rallies||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav called BJP leaders and workers as ‘special jamaatis’ and alleged that they were spreading coronavirus in Bihar. He asked people to stay away from their virtual rallies. Tejashwi also lashed out at state health minister Mangal Pandey for the deteriorating crisis due to Covid-19 and failing to save even his BJP office from virus infection. His tweet came a day after 24 BJP leaders and workers tested positive for Covid-19. “In random test of 100 BJP state members, 75 were found positive. Imagine if all are tested, then what will be the results. Hence, people of Bihar are requested to keep themselves and their family members away from these ‘special jamatis’, who are spreading virus, and protect the state. Understand the difference of virtual and vulture,” tweeted Tejashwi. Tejashwi also attacked deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and state BJP president for not expressing grief over the death of Dr N K Singh and Dr Ashwani Kumar, who got infected while serving people and died while fighting Covid-19. Tejashwi wrote, “They just do drama of banging plates and showering petals. After their (doctors) death, these people are busy in their virtual rallies.” BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand criticised RJD and Congress leaders for spreading negativity and giving such statements during Covid-19 crisis. He said BJP leaders were well aware of their responsibility towards the society and they themselves had come forward to get tested because they did not want to infect others, unlike RJD and Congress leaders who were running away from Covid testing. Nikhil further said RJD-Congress leaders were the supporters of Tablighi Jamaat and hence they should avoid spreading the virus quietly. “Covid-19 is an epidemic and anyone can get infected with the virus. But Tejashwi has stooped very low and is now making fun of infected people,” Nikhil told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-urges-people-to-skip-bjps-virtual-rallies/articleshow/76987331.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 16, 2020||Surat||Fine for not wearing masks raised to Rs 500 in Surat||SURAT: Next time not wearing face masks in public places will cost dearly to the residents of Surat. Close on the heels of Ahmedabad, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided to raise the penalty amount for not wearing mask from Rs 200 to Rs 500 from Thursday onwards in a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus infection in the city . “The penalty amount for not wearing face masks in public place will attract fine of Rs 500 from Rs 200 charged earlier. The revised penalty will come into effect from Thursday,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner. “The coronavirus infection is spreading at very fast pace in the city and residents will have to change their lifestyle based on SMS (Social distancing, Mask and Sanitisation),” added Pani For the violation of the social distancing and other norms in the shops and establishments, roadside eateries and restaurants, penalty of Rs 5,000 has been fixed by the SMC. A senior officer of SMC’s enforcement department said, “On an average we are collecting Rs 10 lakh in fines for violation of face masks and social distancing norms. About 45% of the fine is collected from people in public places.” “Despite increase in the Covid-19 cases, people are still not following the mandatory rule of wearing masks and many still come out without wearing masks. However, raising the penalty amount is the only option to the change the behaviour of the people in public places and protect the city from the coronavirus infection,” said Pani. “The SMC is collecting an average of Rs 10 lakh in penalty for not wearing masks daily. This means that the residents are still not serious when it comes to their own safety and safety of others,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fine-for-not-wearing-masks-raised-to-rs-500-in-surat/articleshow/76986974.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: 75 fresh infections in Bhopal; Berasia under lockdown||BHOPAL: As the state capital witnesses a surge in coronavirus cases, another area — Berasia — was put under lockdown, on Wednesday, to control the spread of the infection. Bhopal on Wednesday reported 75 fresh infections taking its tally to 3,850 cases. Basai block of Berasia tehsil has been placed under lockdown. Six cases were reported in the area on Tuesday. It is second area after Ibrahimganj (in walled city area) which has been declared a no-go-area due to the increasing number of infections. Meanwhile, A staffer in national health mission (NHM) tested positive on Wednesday. A doctor working in a fever clinic also tested positive. Those who visited the clinic have been advised to get tested. Chunabhatti reported three more positive cases. Gitanjali complex is again seeing a spread in cases. Nearby areas of Nehru Nagar and Kotra Sultanabad also reported new cases. Cases were reported from Koh-e-Fiza, Shahjehanabad and Jehangirabad. Shahpura reported five positive cases and Kolar reported four cases. Misrod and Habibganj reported three each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/75-fresh-infections-in-city-berasia-under-lockdown/articleshow/76987606.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Business||Mukesh Ambani: RIL best partner for Indian startups||BENGALURU: Mukesh Ambani has said that Reliance Industries (RIL) is actively looking to partner with Indian startups to provide them with product development, market access and even scale-up capital. The word startup was mentioned 39 times in his speech during the AGM address, where he also called Jio a startup. “We have a very special place in our heart for startups… whom we consider our brothers-in-arms. I believe that there is no better partner for Indian startups than Jio,” said Ambani. “We are ready to integrate them into our road map and to help them reach their full potential.” He added that the oil-to-telecom conglomerate has already partnered with 20 startups, and wants to with them to “promote ‘Made-in-India’, ‘Made-for-India’ and ‘Made-for-the-World’ products.” RIL has spent $3 billion on acquisitions, primarily for Reliance Jio and Reliance Retail since 2017, according to a Morgan Stanley note in December. RIL may provide an opportunity to small- and mid-sized startups. But it is now a competitor to some of the most valued Indian startups like mobile payments major Paytm, education technology decacorn Byju’s and business-to-business commerce major Udaan, according to experts tracking the space. Reliance Jio’s fund-raise of $20 billion in the last few months is more than the $14.5 billion mobilised by the entire startup ecosystem in 2019, which was a record year. With restrictions on Chinese investments and Jio already cornering capital from Facebook and Google, two US tech giants who may have provided an alternative, some high-valued companies can find the going tough. “There are clearly some businesses that are winner-takes-all, where the top player takes most of the customer mind and market share. For those businesses to compete with Jio and its partners on money will be fairly tough,” said K Ganesh, serial entrepreneur and investor who has backed startups like Bigbasket and Portea. By reaching out to startups, Ambani is also taking a leaf out of the books of other large tech platforms as it looks to provide more services to its 388 million subscribers. Chinese conglomerate Tencent, which owns the ubiquitous messaging platform WeChat, has invested in over 800 startups, mostly in its home market. Some of these companies, like food delivery platform Meituan Dianping and social commerce platform Pinduoduo have leveraged WeChat to now become China’s most valued companies. RIL’s move could potentially help M&A activity among startups, especially deals of $100-200 million, take off further. “One of the biggest issues for startups in India is that local corporates historically haven’t acquired local companies, but the size and scale of RIL’s ambition can change the mentality and start the flywheel of M&As,” added Ganesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ambani-ril-best-partner-for-indian-startups/articleshow/76988420.cms||Madhav Chanchani
July 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Non-availability of spare parts from China further cripples fishing sector in coastal districts||Mangaluru: In what has turned out to be a particularly distressing sequel to the woes of lockdown grappling with which stretched the limited resources of the fishing industry in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada thin, the non-availability of spare parts for boats used for trawling, most of which are imported from China, has now added to the troubles of the sector. Fishermen in the two coastal districts are growing increasingly anxious with each passing day since the longer the wait for the spare parts for the mechanised boats, the longer they will be compelled to defer putting out to sea. In addition to key components in the machines of the boats, the nets that are used for fishing are also mostly imported from China. The collective opinion among the anguished fishermen in the two districts is that there is an urgent need to find an alternative source for all the equipment usually purchased from China. “Any delay in making these arrangements will further dent our fortunes,” they said. Records with the department of fisheries in Dakshina Kannada indicate that there are as many as 1,331 fishing trawlers, Purse Seine boats, 1,500 traditional vessels and 500 row boats in the district. Members of the fishing community voiced their concerns at a recent meeting that was jointly chaired by Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel and Karnataka minister for fisheries Kota Shrinivasa Poojari held at the zilla panchayat office on June 30. Vice-president of the All Karnataka Purse Seine Boat Fishermen’s Association Naveen Bangera said that, nearly 1,000 boats in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts needed spare parts from China. “Currently we have no other source for these key components. The lifespan of the Chinese engines and their spare parts is generally two to four years. The government will now have to start thinking seriously about manufacturing these components in India,” Bangera said. Exodus of workforceThe other problem that the sector is grappling with is the huge void that the exodus of labourers has left in the two districts. Most navigators and crew members are from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, who have returned to their respective states. Owners of the fishing boats are worried since these workers are unlikely to return as long as the Covid-19 crisis lingers. “Even if the labourers return, they will have to remain in quarantine for 14 days, and fishing cannot start without the workers, who are expert repairmen,” said an owner of a fishing boat in Dakshina Kannada. Nearly 40% of the workforce in the fishing sector in Dakshina Kannada is constituted by people from Tamil Nadu and Northeast states such as West Bengal, Assam. “Most of the drivers are from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Among them, drivers from Rameshwaram are much sought after considering their expertise in navigation,” said another boat owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/non-availability-of-spare-parts-from-china-further-cripples-fishing-sector-in-coastal-districts/articleshow/76988008.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Three held for GP member’s murder||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru city police arrested three people in connection with the murder of GP member Yakub, which took place on Friday last week. Personal enmity and financial issues are the reason behind the murder, said police. The arrested accused are Shakir, Haneef and Shakir Ahmed, all residents of Adyar. According to police, the main accused Shakir, who was involved with the sand mafia and had other business interests had financial issues, and personal enmity with Yakub, a GP member backed by the BJP. The investigating officer said they were produced before the court through video conference. They have been remanded in police custody for undergoing testing for Covid-19. They will be again be produced before the court physically, only if they test negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/three-held-for-gp-members-murder/articleshow/76988098.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Demand for used laptops, tablets spikes||MANGALURU: The aggravated economic scenario in the country may have resulted in demand for new automobiles and mobile phonesplummeting, used mobile phones, laptops and even tablets are in huge demand in Mangaluru. With ‘work from home’ becoming the norm among professionals and online classes keeping children engaged at home, many residents of the coastal city are looking for an economic solution to secure an electronic gadget for each member of the household. Consequently, purchase of used smartphones, laptops and tablets has become commonplace in Mangaluru. A visit to Dubai Market in Mangaluru will give one a vague idea of the spurt in demand for used gadgets. In addition to physical commercial spaces, many people have taken to purchase of used gadgets on virtual stores such as Olx, Quikr and Cashify, all of which have registered a spike in the sales of pre-owned electronic items. Ashley Noronha of Ash Computers in Mangaluru, said that most parents were looking at laptops and tablets within a sum of Rs 10,000. “To buy these gadgets first-hand at a showroom will cost them anywhere between Rs 40,000 and Rs 50,000. Moreover, we also offer a six-month or even a one-year warranty for pre-owned laptops and tablets, which is comparable with what is offered with brand new ones,” Noronha said. Citing an example, Nornha said that an advanced Intel i7 laptop, a brand-new version of which would cost Rs 80,000, could be bought for Rs 20,000, if the customer opted for a used model. “Used tablets, iPads and smartphones are available for less than Rs 10,000,” he added. Gururaj KS of Mobile9.Com has been involved in the sale and servicing of laptops for more than a decade. Since the enforcement of the lockdown, the one trait he has noticed among customers is the spike in those approaching him to have their old laptops fixed, where before they preferred to get rid of it and purchase old ones. “Nobody seems to want desktop computers these days. The one difficulty we are facing in repairing systems is the shortage of spare parts from China,” Gururaj said. Another owner of an electronics store said that the few people who were willing to purchase first-hand gadgets were doing so only by opting for EMI payment mode. A parent of a student who is taking online classes said that, given the prevailing economic crisis, it was not prudent to invest in a new laptop, which was why he had purchased a used system for his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/demand-for-used-laptops-tablets-spikes-in-coastal-city/articleshow/76986543.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 16, 2020||Bhopal||Spike in positive cases due to marriages, parties: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday said that the increase in number of positive cases in the state is due to marriage ceremonies and parties and action should be taken to control it both at the government and the individual level. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, he said the that appreciable efforts have been made in the state to control the spread of coronavirus. Social distancing, use of masks and precautions must be continued and the causes behind emergence of positive cases must be eliminated. Chouhan said that the positive cases of coronavirus in Gwalior, Chambal region of the state have emerged due to contact with other neighbouring states including Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Symptoms of the disease were also noticed in citizens in the door-to-door survey during the ‘Kill Corona’ campaign. All arrangements to take samples of patients, their treatment and keeping them in isolation should be ensured to help them recover. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman informed that improvements in contact tracing and other systems have led to better control. A total of 13,908 patients have recovered. The state’s recovery rate is currently 70.8%, higher than the 63.2% national average. Till Tuesday, 11,703 survey teams have conducted health survey of 75% population of the state in the ‘Kill Corona’ campaign. About 93 thousand samples have been taken, out of which 1611 were positive, which is 1.72% of the total samples taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/spike-in-ve-cases-due-to-marriages-parties-cm/articleshow/76987596.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Surat||Security personnel deployed at crematoriums in Surat||SURAT: In a bid to prevent the entry of outsiders, especially relatives of deceased Covid patients, inside crematoriums, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has deployed security personnel at two main crematoriums where such bodies are taken for rites. Sources said that the decision to deploy security was taken after pictures and videos of bodies lined up at the Ashwani Kumar crematorium were posted on the social media a few days ago. Municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani, however, refused to comment on the deployment of security guards. “If we compare the month-wise figures of cremations in the city, it has gone down, except for the marginal increase in the month of June, due to Covid-19 outbreak,” Pani, however, said. On the other hand, trustee of the Kurushetra crematorium in Jehanagirpura, Kamlesh Sailor said, “On an average, we get about 30 bodies, a majority of them being Covid-19 positive or even of suspected cases. We had urged the civic body for deployment of security guards to manage the rush at the crematorium." He further said that they have also asked the authorities to send less than six bodies in one batch to facilitate smooth passage of cremation. “We get about 60 bodies, including Covid and non-Covid deceased. Since we were unable to manage the rush, the civic authorities have deployed security personnel to help us deal with the unwanted rush,” said a trustee of the Ashwani Kumar crematorium, who didn’t want to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/security-personnel-deployed-at-crematoriums/articleshow/76987016.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar BJP chief, kin test Covid positive||BETTIAH: State BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal was also found corona infected on Wednesday. The Paschim Champaran MP confirmed that he himself, his wife and mother, both practising doctors, along with his brother-in-law tested positive. “We are all asymptomatic and have isolated ourselves at home,” he said, adding that his two children and his PA have tested negative. “I, along with my family members and staff members underwent the test,” Jaiswal, also a doctor, said. He returned to Bettiah on Tuesday. “We have sealed the BJP state party headquarters in Patna and every staff member had undergone the Covid test,” he said, adding the BJP is concentrating on virtual intra-party meetings. “Though in home quarantine, I have been participating in several virtual meetings throughout the day,” he said. West Champaran BJP district president Dipendra Sarraf was also tested positive on Wednesday. Sarraf too has recently returned from Patna. “I have put myself in home isolation,” he told this newspaper after getting tested report from the Government Medical College here. If the dreaded virus is indeed airborne as is now feared, physical political activity could well become the fuse for its inflammation and conflagration. That such fears are not imaginary could well be understood from the visibly blatant disregard to social distancing at social and political congregations. At variance with political posturings that parties have taken to the virtual roadmap to the coming Bihar polls, the Bhartiya Yuva Janata Morcha (BYJM) had organised a blood donation camp at Bettiah last Saturday. Jaiswal had inaugurated the event. “I just inaugurated and left immediately,” Jaiswal said. “We keep holding such camps across Bihar. Corona mahamaari mein khoon ki kami naa ho… we held this camp for that,” BYJM district president Dhanranjan Guddu told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-bjp-chief-kin-test-covid-positive/articleshow/76986222.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 16, 2020||Surat||Released, man clicks selfies outside jail; jailed anew||SURAT: A clumsy attempt at expressing his joy at being released from jail landed a 29-year-old man behind bars again, in a matter of minutes after attaining ‘freedom’ from the Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ). The accused was arrested in December 2019 over charges of non-payment of alimony to his former wife. However, the mistake of clicking selfies in the prohibited zone outside the high-security area proved disastrous. Police arrested Sudhakar Sardar on charges of taking pictures in the outer compound of the jail. Out of a legal muddle, the ‘happy’ man, unfortunately, stepped right into the middle of a bigger mess on Monday evening. “After getting released from jail he wanted to share his joys with his kin by taking selfies from the compound of the jail well within the prohibited area. This captured images of jail’s entry as well,” said a police officer at Sachin police station. The compound between the jail’s main enclosure and the outer gate is a prohibited area and clicking photos there is a punishable offence. The accused has been booked under various sections of Prisons Act. The complaint was lodged by Kundansinh Dharge, jailer at LCJ. “The accused was released on parole during lockdown when many prisoners under trial were released by the government due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, Sardar also got an order of his release from jail from a local court,” said the police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/released-man-clicks-selfies-outside-jail-jailed-anew/articleshow/76986935.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 16, 2020||Surat||Surat: Seven from four generations beat Covid-19 together||SURAT: A family that fights Covid together, wins together! And so proves this Surat family comprising four generations under one roof, who have successfully fought off the deadly infection that ensnared seven members, one after the other. Among the seven is a 106-year-old man too! It is indeed a tale of supreme grit and solidarity of the infected family members of real estate developer, Khodidas Goyani (36), who decided to stick together through the trying times in home isolation in Varachha area. From a three-and-a-half-year-old boy to his 106-year-old great grandfather — all returned to normal life on Wednesday after remarkable recovery and thus ending the isolation period. “On June 22, I developed cough and fever. I got myself tested and the report came positive on June 25. I preferred home isolation for treatment. We are a 10-member family. So, everybody else was also screened and six tested positive on July 2,” Goyani told TOI. “It was then that I shared with them my decision to fight off coronavirus, united as a family. We decided on a strict schedule and stayed together in our three BHK home,” he added. Apart from Goyani, the other infected members were his grandfather Govindbhai (106), father Ladhabhai (62), mother Shivkunvarba (60), his three-and-half-year-old son Sanat, besides brother Ashwin (32) and Ashwin’s pregnant wife Kinjal. The remaining three who tested negative were sent to their relatives’ home for safety. “In fact, we did not inform my grandfather that he has tested positive. We simply asked him to take medicines as part of the precautions and follow the routine,” he said. The family strictly followed a regime and guidelines of isolations besides constantly being in touch with their two family doctors who guided them on Ayurvedic medicines. “We had ample faith and we were confident of winning our battle,” said Goyani, who are natives of Rupavati village of Bhavnagar district. “I urge all people not to panic if they test positive for Covid-19. They should have faith and follow doctors’ guidelines religiously. This will help them recover fast,” Goyani added. Talking to TOI, Dr Medha Patel, one of the doctors treating the family, said, “The recovery of seven members of a single family is remarkable, especially looking at their ages and their medical conditions too. But I must congratulate their grit and strict adherence to the guidelines that helped them recover fast.” Watch Gujarat: Seven from four generations beat Covid-19 together in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/7-from-4-generations-beat-covid-together/articleshow/76987295.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Business||Federal Bank Q1 net profit rises 4%||Mumbai: Kochi-based Federal Bank reported a 4% increase in net profit to Rs 401 crore for the quarter ended June 2020, compared to Rs 384 crore in the year-ago period. The bank’s total deposits reached Rs 1.55 lakh crore, registering a year-on-year increase of nearly 17%, while net advances rose over 8% to Rs 1.21 lakh crore as on June 30, 2020. Federal Bank MD & CEO Shyam Srinivasan said the lender had seen a sharp rise in gold loans (36% year-on-year). The bank also gave Rs 1,250-crore worth loans to small business under the government-guaranteed emergency credit scheme. “Our share of sanction has been much more than our market share in loans,” Srinivasan said. He said that although the bank had a capital adequacy ratio of over 14% and capital-raising during the calendar year is not expected, the private lender would seek approval from shareholders for an enabling resolution in its general meeting on Thursday. Srinivasan said the bank’s net non-performing assets (NPAs) had shrunk to 1.22%, which is a 20-quarter low. Gross NPAs, or bad loans, as proportion to gross advances, fell marginally to 2.96% as on June 30, 2020, compared to 2.99% at the end of June 2019. The bank has also entered into a deal with IDBI Bank to acquire a 4% stake in the insurance joint venture for Rs 80 crore. Srinivasan said the share of borrowers who availed of a moratorium on repayment of their loans shrunk from 35% initially to 24%. Total provisioning for the quarter reduced to Rs 395 crore, which includes Covid-19 provisioning of Rs 93 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/federal-bank-q1-net-profit-rises-4/articleshow/76988574.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 16, 2020||Surat||Soon, check bed availability in Surat hospitals online||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will soon be launching an online bed availability system through its portal where patients view how many beds are available in various city hospitals, both, private and government.Gujarat finance secretary Milind Torawane, who is also in-charge of Surat city for Covid crisis management, has stated that there were enough beds to cater to rising cases in the Diamond City. Talking with media persons on Wednesday, Torawane said, “The government and private hospitals have 773 empty beds for the Covid-19 patients. Out that 384 beds are in the private hospitals, 100 in New Civil Hospital (NCH) and 289 in SMC-run SMIMER hospital.” “The SMC authorities are in the process of launching an online system through mobile application and SMC portal to update details of the beds available for Covid-19 patients at government and private hospitals. But it will take some time for the hospitals to collate the data on the beds,” he stated. “Once it is done the patients will be able to find beds available in the particular hospitals,” he added. He urged patients not getting beds to contact on 108 and 104 helpline numbers for the prompt action. The SMC authorities are scaling up healthcare infrastructure, particularly the number of beds in government hospitals and increase the number of Covid care centres to respond to the emergency situation. The stem cell hospital in NCH campus having 795 Covid beds patients will commence operations starting July 20, while the kidney hospital having 800 beds begin from August 15, stated Torawane. “About 707 Covid-19 positive patients are under home isolation and that 93 patients are in the isolation rooms in the hotels,” said Torawane. Head: No shortage Total beds in the city | 2,374 Beds occupied | 1,579 Available beds | 773 Private hospitals | 384 NCH | 100 SMIMER | 289 Beds at community isolation centres | 750 Isolation centre at Samras Hostel | 500||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/soon-check-bed-availability-in-surat-hospitals-online/articleshow/76986874.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: NDA topper wants to be space researchers||PATNA: Navya Nimayak of Notre Dame Academy (NDA) and Alifa Ishteaque of Kedriya Vidyalaya (KV) Bailey Road emerged the best scorers of their schools with 99% marks each in the Class X examination conducted by the CBSE, which declared the results on Wednesday. Born to Gautam Dutt, a judicial officer at Patna civil court, and Sapna Sahay, an accountant at Katihar SP office, Navya wants to pursue her higher studies in astronomy as she is willing to become a space researcher. “I like to watch stars at night since my childhood days. The constellation really fascinates me. I idolise Brain Green, Stephen Hawking and Raghu Mahajan,” she told this newspaper. The girl scored perfect 100 in Hindi, 99 each in mathematics, science and English and 98 in social studies. “I studied nine hours at the start of the session. But I started devoting 12 hours a day three months before the board exam. Solving samples papers and mock tests helped me a lot,” Navya said, adding she would continue her further studies at NDA in science stream (PCM). “The teachers at NDA are supportive and teach very well. I really like the teaching environment of my school,” she said. Alifa, who got 100 each in mathematics and social studies, 99 in Hindi and 98 each in science and English, aims to become a doctor. “I will take science stream (PCB) for higher secondary and prepare for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test,” she said. “My parents support my dream, because they also want me to be a doctor. Now, I will study harder to pursue my ambition. I have the inclination towards medical profession as doctors can save people’s lives. I want to help the society and the country needs good doctors,” Alifa said. She believes that self-study was important to achieve the success. She devoted five hours and more to self-study. Alifa’s father Ishteaque Yusuff, who works at CM secretariat, and mother Ambar Jahan, a homemaker, were on cloud nine over the success of their daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-topper-wants-to-be-space-researchers/articleshow/76986144.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Covid-19 cases double in 15 days||PATNA: Bihar on Wednesday crossed the 20,000-mark of Covid-19 cases and the number has doubled in just 15 days. While the first case was reported on March 22, it had taken 100 days to reach the 10,000-mark on July 1. The coronavirus cases in the state crossed 50 on April 9 and doubled to 100 on April 20. On May 15, the number crossed 1,000-mark and reached 10,000 on July 1. Patna district has reported the maximum cases so far (2,501), followed by Bhagalpur (1,259), Begusarai (1,002), Muzaffarpur (900) and Siwan (856), as on Wednesday. An official of state health department said urban areas were more affected because of commercial activities and congested localities. “Markets were opened and there was huge rush to buy things after the nationwide lockdown. Also, houses in cities are built in proximity and there are more chances of passing on the virus from one building to another,” he said. Former IMA state president Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad cited various reasons for this sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Bihar. “Movement is the main factor. A large number of migrants entered Bihar. Though they were quarantined, it cannot be denied that the virus spread to different places with some of them. Another factor is general movement in the Unlock period. People were moving as if there was no coronavirus. Carelessness on the part of people is also one of the factors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-cases-double-in-15-days-cross-20k-mark/articleshow/76986614.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 16, 2020||Patna||PWC students protest semester fee payment||PATNA: The students of Patna Women’s College are up in arms against the college administration for asking them to pay around 60% of the annual fee by July 31 for the new semester. They insisted that the college should charge only tuition fee for the shutdown period amid the Covid-19 pandemic. PWC, an autonomous college in state, issued a notice regarding the fee payment a few days back. It reads: “As per the decision of the Finance Committee, Patna Women’s College (Autonomous) at a meeting held on 01.06.2020, the fee to be realised from the students of 3rd year (2018-21) for the year 2020-21 will be in two semesters, instead of paying annually in the beginning of the academic year. This change is made due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic crisis. The students have been directed to pay the fee on the given dates for the respective semesters.” The students have been directed to pay the fee between July 14 and July 31. Principal Sr M Rashmi AC told this newspaper on Wednesday that students of self-financing courses have to pay only tuition fee while the other students have to pay the maintenance fee as well. “I don’t know what students understand by maintenance fee, but we have to pay our staff, who maintain the campus, electricity bill and municipality tax. Whatever the college is able to reduce has been reduced,” she said. She added: “I will extend the period for students to pay fees, as I understand their problem. Similarly, I also understand the problem of my 255 teaching and non-teaching staff. They need to be paid.” However, the students have started ‘PWC (PU) students against fees’ campaign on social media sites, demanding concession in the fee or defer it till classes start physically. They also demand more time for payment of fee. One of the students, Deepika Kaushik, said, “Tuition fee is sufficient. Other charges should be cancelled, as we are not availing any of the facilities due to lockdown. Every year we paid the amount asked by the college. But this year is different. Our families are facing difficulties in managing even the living expenses.” A third-year student, Jessica, said, “We have requested the college administration to reduce fee and extend the date of payment as it is difficult to pay almost 60% of the annual fee in first instalment.” Prerna Singh wrote on Twitter while tagging the ministry of human resource department and several other political leaders in Bihar, “Why are we paying Rs80,000 to Patna Women’s College, when the tuition fees is Rs11,000 and we are not availing other facilities (sic).” Nikita, a second-year student, said at a time when people are losing jobs and facing financial crunch while many are struggling to cope up with challenges the Covid- 19 pandemic has brought, the sudden notification from the college shook many students. “Most of the girls’ parents are not able to pay the huge amount in next 14 days. The college needs to understand the problem and give us some more time for the payment,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pwc-students-protest-semester-fee-payment/articleshow/76986248.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 16, 2020||Patna||With 1,320 new cases, Covid tally rises to 20,173 in Bihar||PATNA: Coronavirus continued to spread its tentacles in state, which will be under lockdown again till July 31. With 1,320 fresh cases, the state Covid-19 tally reached 20,173 on Wednesday. The health department also reported 14 more deaths, including 5 in Patna district, taking the official toll to 157. The new Covid-19 cases were reported from across the 38 districts. Patna again had the maximum 242 cases, followed by Bhagalpur (125), West Champaran (93), Siwan (90), Khagaria (80) and Begusarai (75). The number of containment zones in Patna district also increased to 114. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 514 people recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of people recovering from the virus to 13,533 in the state. Lokesh said the state had 67.08% recovery rate. There were 6,481 active cases. The health department reported five deaths from Patna, taking the toll in the district to 23. Two Covid deaths each were reported from Gaya and Munger and one each from Aurangabad, Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Nawada and Saran. Nodal officer for Covid-19 at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said four Covid-19 patients died at his hospital, including two residents of Patna itself. “One was a 72-year-old man from Kankarbagh. He was admitted on July 12 and had medical history of diabetes and hypertension. He died on Tuesday. Another was a 66-year-old man from Mansoorganj in Patna City with medical history of hypertension. He was admitted on Wednesday and died the same day.” A 62-year-old East Champaran native died of cardiac arrest at NMCH on Tuesday. However, his death was officially reported on Wednesday. Four Covid-19 positive people also died at AIIMS-Patna. A 56-year-old woman from Anisabad and a 50-year-old man of Gardanibagh police station area besides a 63-year-old man from Rohtas and another 70-year-old from Muzaffarpur died at AIIMS-Patna, its nodal officer incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. State BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and more than 30 staff members, including security personnel, at Raj Bhavan also tested positive for Covid-19. However, Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan has tested negative. Now only those staff and officials are allowed inside who have tested negative. At least 15 security personnel had earlier tested positive. “First one to be positive for Covid-19 was a BMP jawan, who was posted at one of the gates of Raj Bhavan. After his report came positive, other security personnel, officials and staff were tested,” an official posted there said. Another senior IPS officer said among those who have tested positive was a sergeant major and an inspector looking after the security there. “We have now replaced the security cover there,” said the official. Meanwhile, state health minister Mangal Pandey has advised asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to go for home quarantine and get themselves registered by calling on the toll free number 104. At a meeting held on Wednesday, Pandey instructed the officials concerned to improve isolation facilities and keep tabs on the health of those who were under home isolation. Altogether 922 people have been placed under home isolation across the state so far. Some of the instructions given by the minister for home isolation include isolating oneself in a room with proper ventilation for 10 days, using a separate toilet, washing hands with soap and water, making use of a sanitizer regularly, wearing mask and not coming in contact with children, elderly, and pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/with-1320-new-cases-covid-tally-rises-to-20173-in-bihar/articleshow/76986590.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 16, 2020||Patna||Only 14 out of 41,500 jail inmates found +ve in Bihar||PATNA: While Covid-19 cases across the state are surging, the prisons are still safe with only 14 among the altogether 41,500 inmates lodged in different jails reported positive for the virus so far. There are eight central jails, 32 district jails and 18 sub-jails in state having the sanctioned capacity of around 44,900 inmates. IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra told TOI over phone that ten inmates in Madhubani district jail and three in Kishanganj district jail had been found Covid-19 positive. “One inmate in Purnia central jail also was tested positive. He had picked up a scuffle inside a quarantine centre after which he was arrested and forwarded to jail,” Mishra said. The IG said more prison employees tested Covid-19 positive compared to jail inmates. “Twenty staffers of Madhubani district jail have been tested positive till now. They had all been shifted to Covid-19 care centre in the district. All the inmates and staff of Madhubani jail found infected were asymptomatic,” he said. The IG said a computer operator of Begusarai district jail was the first to be tested Covid-19 positive in prisons and correctional services. “He was found symptomatic during regular screening at the jail entrance after which he was immediately taken to hospital for treatment,” Mishra said, adding it was the first case of Covid-19 reported in state prisons and correctional services. The IG said after the jail staff testing Covid-19 positive in Begusarai, another at Aurangabad district jail was found infected. “He had returned from Delhi. He was directed to undergo test before joining duty,” Mishra said. He said all the prisons have separate quarantine wards for new inmates where they are being kept for at least 14 days before being allowed to mingle with other prisoners. “Our emphasis is on maintaining hygiene along with periodic sanitisation as per protocols of the Centre and the state government,” Mishra said. He said the prisons department had started taking precautions in March itself soon after receiving directions from the home department on Covid-19. “Jails were decongested as per requirement afterwards,” he added. While some of the states had released prisoners on parole looking at the scenario arising out of Covid-19 spread, the state government had decided to release none.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/only-14-out-of-41500-jail-inmates-found-ve/articleshow/76987347.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: As Covid cases spike, people stay away from blood banks||PATNA: In view of the exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state capital, many regular blood donors have stopped visiting the hospitals. Kadamkuan resident Sanjay Kumar Singh, who was a regular donor before the lockdown, has stopped donating blood. “I don’t want to go out and risk the lives of the elderly in my house,” he said. Mohit Shrivastava (28), who has been voluntarily donating blood for years, is now helpless. He said, “The virus has scared all of us. The situation is so bad that even patients in need of urgent medical attention are avoiding crowded places like hospitals.” Consequently, hundreds of patients with blood disorders are having a tough time. Social activist Mukesh Hissariya told this newspaper on Wednesday, “Although the haemoglobinopathies day care centre became functional at the Patna Medical College and Hospital last month, thalassemia patients unable to come to the city are facing acute shortage of blood. However, the situation is much better than the first two months of the lockdown.” Blood bank owners also pointed that very few people were showing up for donating blood. Red Cross Society officials claimed that even though the number of donors had increased during the Unlock period, the condition deteriorated after the government imposed fresh lockdown on July 10. Society’s chairman Dr B B Sinha said, “Several donors have come to us for the noble cause during the last few weeks. After the lockdown, the collection of blood will get disrupted in the coming days.” The employee of a private blood bank near Jagdeopath, Amit Kumar, said, “As of now, we are giving the reserved stocks to serious patients, who suffer from thalassemia, anaemia, bleeding disorders, kidney disease and pregnancy complications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-covid-cases-spike-people-stay-away-from-blood-banks/articleshow/76986703.cms||Archi Rani
July 16, 2020||Business||Reliance Retail to rope in global partners in next few qtrs||NEW DELHI: Reliance Retail, the retail arm of Reliance Industries (RIL), will induct global partners and investors in the next few quarters. “We have received strong interest from strategic and financial investors in Reliance Retail,” Mukesh Ambani, chairman of RIL, said on Wednesday while addressing shareholders at the company’s 43rd annual general meeting held virtually. In addition to grocery, Ambani said, the company will expand JioMart to cover electronics, fashion, pharmaceutical and healthcare. The omni-channel venture, that was rolled out during the lockdown in May to sell essential items such as food and grocery, will focus on connecting farmers and delivering their fresh produce directly to homes. Reliance Retail currently sources over 80% of its fresh fruits and vegetables directly from farmers, according to the company. “We are accelerating the rollout of JioMart,” he said. JioMart, in addition to its partnership with Facebook-owned WhatsApp, is working on a hybrid model — a mix of hyperlocal and inventory-led design — that will, for instance, allow consumers to shop from their neighbourhood stores and will also have support from Reliance Retail outlets in the back-end to fulfil orders from consumers and replenish stocks of store owners on its platform when necessary. “Within a few weeks of launch, we have reached over 2.5 lakh orders a day and the numbers continue to grow each day,” said Ambani. “JioMart is now focused on scaling its geographical reach and delivery capabilities. In the coming years, we will cover many more cities, serve many more customers across India, and expand in many more categories.” Reliance Retail, which has more than two-thirds of its nearly 12,000 stores operating in tier-2, -3 and -4 towns, is India’s largest retail business in terms of revenue. Last year, Reliance Retail’s revenues were Rs 1,62,936 crore and ebitda was Rs 9,654 crore. “In the last five years, our revenues in the retail business have grown eight times and our profits 11 times,” said Ambani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-retail-to-rope-in-global-partners-in-next-few-qtrs/articleshow/76988401.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Patna||No. of containment zones in Patna district goes up to 114||PATNA: In the wake of a steep rise in Covid-19 cases, the number of containment zones in Patna has gone up to 114. With 242 new cases reported on Wednesday, the district has surpassed the 2,500-mark. The containment zones, whose number was only 13 on April 30, have witnessed a massive increase in just 10 weeks. As per the information shared by the district administration, Patna Sadar and Danapur have 38 containment zones each. There are 23 such zones in Patna City, eight in Paliganj and seven in Masaurhi. Approximately 77,027 residents reside in 15,938 houses in these areas. Some prominent areas like Ashok Nagar, P C Colony, Ram Krishna Nagar, Alamganj in Patna City and Doctors’ Colony in Kankarbagh have already been sealed due to the rise in number of corona cases. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi told this newspaper that several measures, including contact tracing, were being taken to curb the spread of the virus. “We are making containment and buffer zones to make residents aware of the areas with positive cases. Sanitization is also being done across the city,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-of-containment-zones-in-patna-district-goes-up-to-114/articleshow/76986661.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mysuru||Laptops run short in Mysuru||Mysuru: Online classes for students and more people working from home (WFH) due to the Covid-19 scare has resulted in shortage of laptops in the city. Laptops with basic configuration laptops are not available in most retail stores for the last one week. The sellers say supply may re-start only after a week and they can’t guarantee the waiting period. Mallikarjun KS of Malnad infotech, Saraswathipuram, said supply of laptops with basic configuration stopped a week ago. “The stocks are empty following huge demand from students for online classes and employees who are now working from home. High-end laptops are only available. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, there have been issues with the supply of laptops even though there is huge demand,” he said Sayed Zabi, who runs Micro clinic at VV Mohalla also echoed similar woes. “Due to Covid-19 and the no supply from China, the city is witnessing a shortage of laptops,” he said. Buyers say most outlets in the city do not have stock and they have to rely on e-commerce firms. “I visited six outlets in the heart of the city in search of a laptop for my child and none of them had one. No dealer is giving any assurance on the waiting period for a new laptop,” said Shivanand Suvarna, a resident of Srirampura, II stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/laptops-run-short-in-mysuru/articleshow/76987490.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Surat||DNH records its first Covid-19 death||Surat: The Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) recorded its first Covid-19 death on Tuesday.A 49-year-old woman, a resident of Bavisafaliya in Silvassa was admitted to Shri Vinoba Bhave Civil Hospital with comorbid conditions on July 10 with a complain of breathlessness. She was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. She tested Covid-19 positive on July 12. The deceased was admitted in the intensive care unit. Her treatment protocol with medicines and injections was followed. She developed an acute kidney failure. The condition of the patient deteriorated on July 14 with the drop in the blood oxygen levels. She was put on the ventilator support. District collector of DNH, Sandeep Kumar Singh told TOI: “DNH has reported its first death due to Coid-19. The woman died of acute kidney failure. We have advised the residents of DNH to immediately report to the civil hospital in case they have any symptoms like cough, cold and fever.”The DNH recorded four fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total cases to 141 on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Union territory of Daman recorded 12 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total cases to 286 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dnh-records-its-first-covid-19-death/articleshow/76986896.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Business||Amazon mandates ‘country of origin’ tag||Bengaluru: Amazon India has now made it mandatory to add ‘country of origin’ for new and existing product listings by Indian sellers from next week. It has set up a deadline of August 10, saying sellers should start reflecting the ‘country of origin’ tag by then. “Starting July 21 we are introducing ‘country of origin’ as a mandatory attribute in addition to a few optional attributes in our category listing templates in accordance with the Legal Metrology Act of 2009. You will be required to provide information for ‘country of origin’ mandatorily for all your new and existing listings,” the e-tailer informed merchants on Wednesday. TOI reported last month that e-tailers like Amazon and Bigbasket had started collecting this data from their sellers and brands. Amazon’s latest move now makes it mandatory in India. “Failure to provide information in the ‘country of origin’ attribute by August 10, 2020 may lead to enforcement action, including suppression of your listing,” the e-tailer said, which has about 6,00,000 sellers in India. This comes a week after the government proposed a timeline for e-tailers to reflect the country of origin for new listings by August 1, while the same for existing listings by October 1. An email sent to Amazon India did not elicit a response. tnn As reported by TOI, e-commerce companies had sought more time to reflect the changes in all products, citing complexities and volume of products online. For instance, Amazon India has 180 million products, while Walmart-owned Flipkart has 150 million. Flipkart, which has been showing ‘country of origin’ for select categories, has now stepped up its effort on the matter following government meetings. For Amazon India, select brands, for example in the food category, had started displaying the country of origin last month. The issue has become one of the most debated topics since the border conflict started between India and China in Ladakh last month. By showing the country of origin, the idea is to help consumers make informed decisions when anti-China sentiment is growing in the country. From smartphones to large appliances and electronic accessories, a large number of such products are imported from China. “I can start listing and it will still take time, but they (Amazon) haven’t told us what happens when a product or its components are made in multiple countries, including China,” a merchant selling on Amazon India said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-mandates-country-of-origin-tag/articleshow/76988437.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||560 cases of protocol breaches in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: On Wednesday, 560 cases of violation of mask and social distancing were registered in the city. In all, Rs 4.24 lakh was collected from general public and pan shops. “We collected some Rs 2.8 lakh from public for not wearing masks and Rs 1.44 lakh from pan shops,” said a senior Ahmedabad municipal corporation (AMC) official. Despite several representations from trade bodies, municipal authorities were adamant that a second wave of Covid disease would be imminent if social distancing and mask norms continued to be violated. “We can’t be complacent this time. We don’t want a second wave of Covid which may turn deadlier. Mask rules will be applied no matter what,” said the AMC official, while referring to the Spanish Flu of 1918-19 where the second wave was deadlier. Of the offences, 96 were registered in areas like Thaltej, Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Gota, Ghatlodiya and Chandlodiya. The maximum offences of 155 were registered in the west zone like Navrangpura, SP Stadium, Naranpura, Chandkheda-Motera and Paldi, while 129 offences were registered in the south zone, which include areas like Maninagar, Daxini Society, Isanpur and surrounding wards. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress raised a strong objection to the high fines of Rs 10,000 on pan shops. “Fines should be deterrent, but not back-breaking for ordinary shop owners who have already suffered financially during lockdown,” said opposition leader Dinesh Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/560-cases-of-protocol-breaches/articleshow/76988476.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hubballi||SSLC evaluators ferried in crowded buses||Hubballi: Travelling to SSLC evaluation centres on the first day of the lockdown was a bitter experience for many teachers in the district. They were promised transport service by the district administration and the teachers were ferried in jam-packed vehicles from different taluks to evaluation centres in Dharwad. A teacher from Hubballi told TOI that she was instructed to board a school bus from Old Bus Stand. “When I went there, the bus was already full. As it was the only bus, we all travelled in it standing. There was no space to follow social distancing. If the situation stays the same, we fear we will all get infected by coronavirus,” she said. Another teacher, who works in Kalaghatgi taluk, said pick up is provided only from the taluk headquarters where they have to reach on their own. “As public transport is withdrawn during the lockdown, we had to hire a goods autorickshaw to reach the taluk headquarters,” he added. He said the department has forced teachers to travel in unsafe conditions. “About 30 teachers travelled in a mini-bus which had only 15 seats. Some had to stand at the door. Now, many of us are thinking to stay away from evaluation,” he said. However, teachers who arrived from Kundagol taluk said they were provided with a NWKRTC bus and travelled in a safe manner. “When some other teachers tried to board the bus in Hubballi, the crew did not allow them citing the need to maintain social distancing,” a teacher said. Despite repeated calls, DDPI Mohan Kumar Hanchate was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sslc-evaluators-ferried-in-crowded-buses/articleshow/76988953.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Indore||Spike in positive cases due to marriages, parties: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday said that the increase in number of positive cases in the state is due to marriage ceremonies and parties and action should be taken to control it both at the government and the individual level. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, he said the that appreciable efforts have been made in the state to control the spread of coronavirus. Social distancing, use of masks and precautions must be continued and the causes behind emergence of positive cases must be eliminated. Chouhan said that the positive cases of coronavirus in Gwalior, Chambal region of the state have emerged due to contact with other neighbouring states including Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Symptoms of the disease were also noticed in citizens in the door-to-door survey during the ‘Kill Corona’ campaign. All arrangements to take samples of patients, their treatment and keeping them in isolation should be ensured to help them recover. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman informed that improvements in contact tracing and other systems have led to better control. A total of 13,908 patients have recovered. The state’s recovery rate is currently 70.8%, higher than the 63.2% national average. Till Tuesday, 11,703 survey teams have conducted health survey of 75% population of the state in the ‘Kill Corona’ campaign. About 93 thousand samples have been taken, out of which 1611 were positive, which is 1.72% of the total samples taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/spike-in-ve-cases-due-to-marriages-parties-cm/articleshow/76995367.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mangaluru||In Udupi, borders sealed to arrest spike of Covid-19 cases||Udupi: The district administration will seal down Udupi borders for 14-days starting July 16 following chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s move to allow districts to devise their own strategies to contain the pandemic. The move comes as a total 8.86% of the international, inter-state and inter-district returnees subjected to test since unlock 1.0 were found Covid positive and 14.2% cases reported in the district were their primary contacts. Comparatively, the positive cases among indigenous population till the nation wide lockdown was in force was just three. Even now, the positivity rate among people who never ventured out of the district but contracted it locally is just 2%. “Closing the district borders to people from outside will prevent an influx of potential fresh positive cases,” deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha told TOI. Incidentally, the district has to its credit the highest testing per lakh of population in the state with 5,166 tests carried out for aforesaid population. Doubling time of cases in the district is 39 days as against 10 days in Dakshina Kannada and Karnataka, DC surmised. If the death rate in Karnataka is 1.80% and1.70% in neighbouring DK district, it is only 0.2% in Udupi, he said adding the district has 390 active cases with 80 patients discharged during the day. Averring it is not possible to control Covid-19 cases spiral with a lockdown, the DC, citing views of experts, said it will work when there are no adequate facilities to treat the affected population. “We have decided to utilise the beds in private hospitals only when occupancy in government facilities touch 70% mark,” DC said. Free treatment is being provided to all without discrimination. Treatment at prices capped by the state is available to those who opt to go directly to private set up, he said. The real big spurt began when the district borders were opened for people during unlock 1.0 and the district received more than 10,000 people from Maharashtra, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/in-udupi-borders-sealed-to-arrest-spike-of-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76986996.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar girls outshine boys in CBSE Class X results||PATNA: Bihar girls outshine boys once again with a pass percentage of 91.76% in the Class X examination of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). In the results declared on Wednesday, boys recorded a pass percentage of 90.17%. The overall pass percentage of the state stood at 90.72%, while for Jharkhand it was marginally less at 90.64%. Both states are part of CBSE’s Patna region and stood at the tenth position among 16 regional centres of the board in the country. The overall pass percentage of the region was recorded at 90.72%, which has slipped by 1.14%, when compared to last year’s 91.86%. Altogether 1,53,788 candidates, including 53,040 girls, appeared for the Class X exam of whome 1,39,509 (including 48,668 girls) succeeded. The pass percentage of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya is 97.27%, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (98.85%) and independents (90.87%) while private pass percentage is at 28.37, which was 47.7 the previous year. According to a press release issued by the Board, altogether 19,508 \are eligible to appear for the compartment exam. “Altogether 28 students of Notre Dame Academy secured above 95% while 90 of them got above 90% and 135 scored above 85%,” said principal Sr Jessy SND. Of 243 students, 236 passed with first division and five with 2nd division. The Delhi Public School registered 100% results, 153 students got above 90%, 114 above 80%and 46 above 70%. A total of 266 students of St Michael’s High School passed the exam while one got compartment. Loyola High School registered 100% results and 50 students got above 90%. Likewise, St Karen’s High School, Baldwin Academy, Bishop Scott Girl’s School, Bishop Scott Boy’s School, International School, The Tribhuvan School, Ishan International School, Gyan Niketan (Girls and Boys schools), Usha Martin World School and Litera Valley School have secured 100% results. Farhat Hasan, principal of International School said, “Our 24 students have secured above 90%, 26 got above 80% and 18 students have secured 70%.” R Roy, principal of DAV Public School, Khagaul said, out of 390 students appeared in Class X, 387 passed the exam and three got compartment. “56 students got above 90%, 106 above 80%, 89 above 70% and 86 above 60%,” he added. DAV BSEB recorded an overall pass percentage of 74.8 while DAV Phulwarisharif got 100% results and DAV Kankerbagh recorded 98.5% as five students got compartment. Mukesh K, principal of Holy Mission Secondary School said, “All our 265 students passed with first division whereas 22 students scored above 90% and 75 above 80%.” MS Ahmed, principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) Danapur Cantt said 26 students got above 90%, 129 above 70% and 182 above 60%. KV, Bailey road registered overall pass percentage at 99.3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-girls-outshine-boys-in-cbse-class-x-results/articleshow/76986115.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: 175 Covid-19 positive children recover after treatment at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital||PIMPRI CHINCHWAd: As many as 175 children with age ranging from mere five days to 12 years have been successfully treated for Covid-19 at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital in Pimpri since the opening of its paediatric ward on April 26. The mothers of these children were allowed to stay at the hospital during the treatment with high-risk consent, hospital officials said, adding that they too were provided with the medication to prevent the possible infection. “Not a single child has died due to coronavirus here,” an official said. Deepali Ambike, head of the paediatrics department at the YCM hospital, told TOI, “We have two separate wards for children. First is the neonatal care ward where infants up to a month-old are treated, while other ward treats children between one-month-old and 12-year-old. Though children come under the high-risk category, they recovered successfully. We had to make sure that their mothers stayed with them as a mother’s care and love are as important as the medicines.” Ambike said most of the children were asymptomatic. The routine vaccination for measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) and bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) for tuberculosis might have given additional immunity to the children, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/175-positive-children-recover-after-treatment-at-ycm-hosp/articleshow/76988485.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 16, 2020||Pune||Lockdown hits milk business in Pune, sales down by 40% in just two days||PUNE: Milk sales in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad dipped by almost two-fifth within a couple of days of the total lockdown. A source from Chitale Dairy said their sales had dropped to 1 lakh litre per day from 1.5 lakh litre in a couple of days. Dairies, and Milk Producers and Processors Welfare Association on Wednesday claimed that shops selling milk were not being allowed to function for more than a few hours in a day. Some dairies supplying milk to shops stated that they had been verbally ordered to home deliver milk instead of selling through shops during the lockdown. Prakash Kutwal, the secretary of Maharashtra Milk Producers and Processors Association, told TOI, “Sales had dropped from approximately 17-18 lakh litres per day in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad in the pre-Covid-19 times to about 10 lakh litres per day before the latest lockdown. Dairies involved in supplying milk to Pune have reported a further drop of around 40% in milk sales during the last couple of days, after the total lockdown began. The current lockdown is very strict. Whatever sales were on during the last few days dropped further. Many dairies and milk shops have reported that they are not being allowed to operate for more than a few hours.” Kutwal said the total lockdown had further affected the milk supply chain. “The order stated that milk supply and its home delivery would continue, but it could not be implemented at the ground level in many cases. The respective police stations impose their own timings. For instance, in Dhankawdi, milk shops are allowed to open for a few hours from 8am till noon,” he said. A source from Urja Milk also claimed that the average milk sales in Pune had dipped by over 30-40% -- from roughly 10 lakh litres per day to about 5 lakh litres. “Though home delivery continues, counter sales have dropped significantly. Local police stations are imposing various rules on the operation timings of such shops. For example, in Hadapsar, such shops are allowed to open a couple of hours in a day — one hour in the morning and one hour in the evening,” the source said. A source from Chitale Dairy said, “Very few shops sell only milk, while the rest sell milk with other items. The latter do not have permission to open. Our sales have dropped to 1 lakh litre per day from 1.5 lakh litre in case of both, cow and full cream milk, in the last couple of days for Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-hits-milk-biz-sales-down-by-40-in-just-two-days/articleshow/76988494.cms||Neha Madaan
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Maximum returnees have come to Pauri, Almora: Report||Dehradun: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday released a survey report prepared by the Rural Development and Migration Commission on those people who have returned to Uttarakhand after the Covid-19 outbreak. The findings of the survey revealed that the maximum number of people have returned to Pauri and Almora – the two districts which reported the maximum migration of locals in the last two decades. The report further says that as many as 2.15 lakh people had returned to the state till June 21. Among the returnees, 80.66% have come back from other states and 0.29% from foreign countries. The remaining 18.11% came back to their native districts from other districts of the state. The report assumes significance in the backdrop of the state government’s attempt to promote reverse migration and provide job opportunities to the returnees. The skill mapping of such people was also done and it was found that 58% of them were working in the private sector. The others who have returned include self-employed people, students, daily wagers, those working in technical sectors, and BPOs. The report adds that the returnees who were previously employed in the private sector can be given jobs in the service sector of the Himalayan state. After releasing the survey, CM Rawat said that the report will play an important role in encouraging reverse migration in the state. He suggested that the report should be considered by all the departments while making projects for such people. The CM also called for setting up a unit to ensure proper co-ordination on the issue. In a bid to motivate reverse migration in the hills, Mukhya Mantri Swarozgar Yojana has also been announced for all those who have returned to the state. An advance budget provision of Rs 15 crore has been made by the state for the project. The project has been divided into two sectors – construction and service. A subsidy ranging from 15% to 25% – in accordance with the project cost – would be given under the scheme. Any person, who has returned to the state during the Covid-19 lockdown, can register under the scheme. One can start a project of up to Rs 10 lakh in the service sector or a project of up to Rs 25 lakh in the construction sector. For projects above Rs 25 lakh, the state government would provide relief through MSME policy. Till last week, more than 15,000 people had registered themselves with the CM Swarozgar Yojana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maximum-returnees-have-come-to-pauri-almora-report/articleshow/76985444.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Zydus vaccine: Human trials start||Ahmedabad: Pharmaceutical and healthcare major Zydus Cadila has begun human clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate called ZyCov-D with the first human dosing on Wednesday. “The adaptive phase I & II human clinical trials of its plasmid DNA vaccine has commenced today with the first human dosing. The adaptive phase I & II dose escalation study will assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine,” the company said in regulatory filing with the stock exchanges. According to Zydus Cadila, human dosing of the vaccine marks a key milestone since the launching of the accelerated vaccine development programme for Covid-19 in February 2020,” the company added. “This is an all important step in our fight against Covid-19. We look forward to the adaptive phase I/II clinical studies and gathering important data on ZyCoV-D in the months ahead,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman, Zydus Cadila. In human clinical trials, the company will be enrolling over 1,000 subjects across multiple clinical study sites in India. The company has already manufactured clinical GMP batches of the vaccine candidate for the clinical trials. Earlier this month, Zydus Cadila had received the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) - Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) approval to start human clinical trials of ZyCoV-D, which is a plasmid DNA vaccine candidate for Covid-19. The company’s vaccine candidate has been indigenously developed at its Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad. Bharat Biotech, which has developed India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, has also begun the first phase human clinical trials of its potential vaccine. Last week, Zydus also received an approval from the regulatory authority of Mexico, the Federal Commission for the Protection against Sanitary Risk (COFEPRIS) for its candidate Desidustat to be tested in the management of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-vaccine-human-trials-start/articleshow/76988483.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Action against 1,000 people for violating restrictions||PUNE: The city police took action against 1,000 people for violating various lockdown rules on Tuesday and during the night intervening Tuesday and Wednesday. According to the police, a majority of offenders were found moving on roads without valid e-passes or even a valid reason. However, the number of persons without masks has been reduced over the last few days. On Tuesday, the police found only 51 persons without masks. The police filed cases against 263 persons for walking on streets without an e-pass. As many as 79 motorcyclists and car drivers were found out on their vehicles without a valid reason. The police seized vehicles belonging to 92 persons for violating lockdown norms. In total, 412 persons were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The police also took action against traffic rules violators in large numbers. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said that the police are taking action to keep a check on the spread of coronavirus in the city. He said that citizens must take all precautions before stepping out of their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-act-against-people-violating-restrictions/articleshow/76988497.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad eateries count losses, shutdown on the menu||HYDERABAD: A month after unlock 2.0 that cleared malls, restaurants and places of worship to open doors to public again, several popular eateries in Hyderabad have gone back sporting the ‘closed’ board. Reason: Negligible footfall. With no patrons and rising overhead costs, owners of these joints have decided to keep their shutters down, at least for another few months, till people are more comfortable stepping out for a meal. Incidentally, on June 8, when the government issued a go-ahead for these places to resume business, many stayed away from doing so fearing poor clientèle. “We opened around mid-June to gauge the market scenario. But within two weeks, we decided to close as walk-ins were zero,” said Shankar Krishnamurthy, owner of Fusion 9. “We’ll keep the Jubilee Hills and Gachibowli outlets shut till the situation improves. It makes no business sense, otherwise,” he added referring to high rentals — of Rs 100 to Rs 120 per square feet —electricity bills and other running costs, as reasons. It’s the same for Amrit Dugar, founder of Morsel & Tisane Co, a luxury tea room in Banjara Hills. In fact, Dugar went back to ‘temporarily closed’ within a week of unlocking. “As against 50 to 60 guests everyday, I just had about 7 or 10 people walk in that entire week. I realised people aren’t ready to eat out just yet,” he said., certain of keeping his eatery closed for another three months. And while some are locking up again, there are others — particularly bars and lounges — that are mulling remodelling themselves to save their coffers from running dry. Among them is Air Live, a club in Jubilee Hills, Air Live. Instead of cocktails, the place might soon be serving coffee and desserts to guests. “It’s a temporary arrangement we are mulling to keep the business running. Once we get permission to serve alcohol again, we’ll revert to the old model,” said co-founder Ayush Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-eateries-count-losses-shutdown-on-the-menu/articleshow/76988503.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
July 16, 2020||Pune||Residents of police colony seek ouster of cop’s brother||PUNE: The Shivajinagar police want eviction of a criminal on records residing with his constable sister at a facility for the men in uniform and their families in violation of norms. The Shivajinagar police have written to the Pune police headquarters with their request. The police have recorded statements of the Shivajinagar Police Colony residents, who said that the criminal, known by his nickname “Chor Mahya”, was residing with his constable sister. The police records related to his earlier crimes, a murder bid, two body offences and five thefts, also mention his address as Shivajinagar Police Colony. Senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of the Shivajinagar police wrote a letter to the police headquarters, which looks after the police quarters allotment and management. A senior officer from the headquarters told TOI, “We are in receipt of the letter. The criminal’s sister is a constable and has a quarter in the police colony. We have sought an explanation from her in this regard.” The criminal, who had recovered from Covid-19, recently threatened a policeman and his family with sharp weapons. He and his friends, who also tested positive in the past, move around without wearing face masks. The police said almost half of the 20 and odd nCoV infections reported in the police colony were due to the criminal and his aides. Inspector Manisha Zende of the Shivajinagar police said, “As of now, there are 12 active cases in the Police Colony. Of them, we can attribute at least six cases to the criminal group.” The police said the criminal and his two aides had barged into the quarter of a policeman two weeks ago and issued threats of dire consequences to him and his family members. “We have registered a noncognisable offence against him following the incident,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-of-police-colony-seek-ouster-of-cops-brother/articleshow/76988504.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||58% of cases from western Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The western parts of the city reported 88 of the 154, or about 58%, of the fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours ending at 5pm on Tuesday. Of the three Covid deaths in the city in this period, two were from the western parts. On Tuesday evening, the West Zone of the AMC, which includes Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna wards, reported 42 cases, the highest among the AMC’s seven zones. It was followed by North West Zone, which reported 31 fresh cases in areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota. The South West Zone reported 15 cases in Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura and Sarkhej areas. Of the three deaths reported on Tuesday all three deaths were at private hospitals. The western parts of the city now also account for 1,604 of 3,213 active cases in the city, or about 50%. The West Zone has 604 active cases, North West Zone 541 and South West Zone 459 while the Central Zone has 258, North Zone 464, East Zone 456, and South Zone has 431. In the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, 168 patients were discharged, of which 36 were from government hospitals and 68 from private hospitals. Five patients at private Covid centres including one from a government Covid centre and 58 in home isolation were also given clean bills of health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/58-of-cases-from-western-city/articleshow/76988500.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 2 trucks collide in Nagaur, 4 killed||JAIPUR: In a road accident in Nagaur’s Ladnun police area, four persons were killed and one injured after two trucks collided with each other on Wednesday morning. After the head-on collision, the heavy vehicles caught fire due to which three persons died on the spot while two others were rescued. Of the two, one succumbed to injuries at the hospital. Sanjay Gupta, ASP Nagaur said “While one vehicle was carrying soda-lime, the other one was full of wheat grain and they collided head on while coming from the opposite direction. Due to the collision, one of the vehicles caught fire spreading to the other one as well. Due to this all the people inside the vehicles caught trapped inside.” Fire tenders were called to the spot which was finally subdued after couple of hours. The collision was so severe that the front cabins of the heavy vehicles were completely crushed and the official said, “The drivers and others were already trapped inside due to collision and could not escape when the vehicles caught fire. While we rescued two persons, one of them also succumbed to the injuries and the other is undergoing treatment at the hospital.” The identity of the deceased is yet to be ascertained and cops have contacted the owners of the vehicles to get the details. While one truck was from Punjab, the other one was from Rajasthan. Elaborating on the cause of the accident, the official said, “At present, it is unclear as to what caused the accident but it is possible that both were travelling at high speed. The front cabins of the vehicles were almost enmeshed into each other and we had to call a crane to separate them out.” The autopsies of the deceased will be done once their families have been informed of the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-trucks-collide-in-nagaur-4-killed/articleshow/76988507.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Pune||Flyer count plummets at airport as shutdown starts||Pune: The passenger flow at the city airport dropped significantly on Tuesday, as the 10-day total lockdown came into effect in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. “On Tuesday, 942 flyers arrived at the airport and 1,476 flyers departed. A 35% reduction was recorded on Tuesday in the arrival of passengers, while a 45% dip was witnessed in the number of departing passengers,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said. Before the 10-day total lockdown was announced, around 1,300 passengers were landing at the city airport and 2,200 flyers were departing every day on an average. “Before the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the airport saw over 25,000 flyers and 170 flight movements daily. When the domestic flight services resumed, the passenger count reduced to 4,000-4,500 per day. After the 10-day lockdown started, there has been a further dip. Many flyers have either rescheduled their trips or cancelled them,” another airport official, requesting anonymity, said. Ashutosh Bhatnagar, a businessman, said, “I had planned to travel from Delhi to Pune on Saturday for an important meeting, but I have postponed it. The sudden lockdown is uncalled for as the virus is set to remain and lockdowns have not really solved the problem. The state governments, including the Maharashtra government, maintained that the number of cases were going up because the number of tests per day has been ramped up.” Airlines’ representatives stressed that the drop in the passenger count would continue during the lockdown phase. “There is uncertainty in the mind of flyers about public and private transport in the city. Such lockdowns shake the confidence of people,” an airline representative said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyer-count-plummets-at-airport-as-shutdown-starts/articleshow/76988515.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 16, 2020||Indore||Covid-19: Second highest single-day jump of 638 cases in MP||BHOPAL: For the fourth time this week, over 500 cases were reported in a single day in Madhya Pradesh — with 638 fresh infections on Wednesday. This is the second highest single-day jump in coronavirus cases in state till now. On Tuesday, 798 cases were reported in the state — making it the largest single-day jump. With these new cases, the state’s Covid tally is now 19,643. In addition, nine deaths were also reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the state’s coronavirus death toll to 682. Alarmingly, 30% of the 19643 cases have only been reported in past 15 days of July — when 6050 people were tested positive. Thus on an average, as many as 403 people have tested positive everyday in July. Of these, 1,610 cases are from Morena and Gwalior alone. Overall, Bhopal has registered highest number of cases between July 1 and July 15 (993) followed by Gwalior (876), Indore (787) and Morena (734). Adding to the worries, 110 deaths have been reported in the first 15 days of July. It is clearly evident from the recent spike that now it is not only Indore and Bhopal but it is other districts too which are reporting more cases. On Wednesday fresh cases were reported from 44 of the 52 districts of the state. Meanwhile, 333 people recovered from coronavirus infection on Wednesday. The number of recoveries in the state is now 13,908. The overall recovery rate has fallen to 70.8% as on July 15 from 76.8% on July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/second-highest-single-day-jump-of-638-cases-in-mp/articleshow/76991038.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Second highest single-day jump of 638 cases in MP||BHOPAL: For the fourth time this week, over 500 cases were reported in a single day in Madhya Pradesh — with 638 fresh infections on Wednesday. This is the second highest single-day jump in coronavirus cases in state till now. On Tuesday, 798 cases were reported in the state — making it the largest single-day jump. With these new cases, the state’s Covid tally is now 19,643. In addition, nine deaths were also reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the state’s coronavirus death toll to 682. Alarmingly, 30% of the 19643 cases have only been reported in past 15 days of July — when 6050 people were tested positive. Thus on an average, as many as 403 people have tested positive everyday in July. Of these, 1,610 cases are from Morena and Gwalior alone. Overall, Bhopal has registered highest number of cases between July 1 and July 15 (993) followed by Gwalior (876), Indore (787) and Morena (734). Adding to the worries, 110 deaths have been reported in the first 15 days of July. It is clearly evident from the recent spike that now it is not only Indore and Bhopal but it is other districts too which are reporting more cases. On Wednesday fresh cases were reported from 44 of the 52 districts of the state. Meanwhile, 333 people recovered from coronavirus infection on Wednesday. The number of recoveries in the state is now 13,908. The overall recovery rate has fallen to 70.8% as on July 15 from 76.8% on July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/second-highest-single-day-jump-of-638-cases-in-mp/articleshow/76987633.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hubballi||5 fatalities in Dharwad, 139 test +ve||Dharwad: Five people who were admitted to KIMS hospital to be treated for Covid-19, succumbed to the disease, stated the bulletin issued by the health commissionerate on Wednesday. With this the total number of Covid deaths in the district has risen to 44. As many as 139 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in thet 24 hours from Tuesday evening to Wednesday evening, taking the total number of positive cases to 1,398 in the district. Of the total cases, 482 patients, including 32 patients on Wednesday, were cured and discharged from the hospital. The total number of active cases is at 872 in the district. As many as 41 people are admitted in the ICU. A 52 year-old woman, 64 year-old man and 51 year-old man died on Tuesday, while a 48 year-old man succumbed to the disease last week on Thursday. A 58 year-old man died on Sunday, stated the bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/5-fatalities-in-dharwad-139-test-ve/articleshow/76986445.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||CBSE Class X results: Girls outperform boys, over 91% students clear exams in U’khand||Dehradun: The CBSE Class X board exam results for academic session 2019-20 were announced on Wednesday. The results brought cheer for the majority of the students in Uttarakhand as the total passing percentage for the Himalayan state was recorded at 91.36%. A total of 44,436 students had appeared for exams this year in the state. Of these, 26,295 were boys and 18,141 were girls. Like previous few years, the girls in Uttarakhand again outshined the boys as their pass percentage was 93.42% while 89.94% boys could clear the exams. The CBSE Dehradun region, which comprises all the 13 districts of Uttarakhand and eight districts of Uttar Pradesh, secured the overall pass percentage of 89.72% this academic session (2019-20). In the last academic session (2018-19), a total of 87.34% students had cleared the CBSE Class X exams. Among the 16 zones of CBSE spread throughout the country, the Dehradun region secured the 11th spot this year. “We are extremely happy with this year's result and I wish all the best to the students for their future endeavours. I will suggest them to choose their subjects wisely in Class XI,” said Ranbeer Singh, regional director of CBSE. As far as institution-wise performance is concerned, the chain of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas got a pass percentage of 98.94%. The Kendriya Vidyalaya branches in CBSE Dehradun region secured 99.56%, followed by Central Tibetans Schools which posted 93.78% pass percentage. The independent CBSE schools secured a pass percentage of 89.09% while the other government institutions got 94.89% pass percentage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cbse-class-x-results-girls-outperform-boys-over-91-students-clear-exams-in-ukhand/articleshow/76985459.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mental well-being helpline opens||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Wednesday launched a psychological counselling helpline called Corona Santvana which can be reached by dialling 1100. The helpline will assist those who face mental health problems because of the Covid-19 situation. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary of forests and environment department who has been specially deputed to handle the Covid crisis in Ahmedabad. Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar and deputy municipal commissioners attended the meeting. Gupta said that two teams of three highly trained and experienced psychiatrists will be available from 9.00am to 9.00pm every day. The specialists will deal with a range of problems such as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, fear, and phobias arising out of the pandemic. Gupta said that each team will consist of a woman doctor specially appointed to take care of women. These teams will be supported by a team of senior doctors from SVP and LG hospitals. The calls, if required, will be forwarded to senior experts. Gupta said this was another unique initiative of the AMC on the lines of Dhanvantri Raths, the Doctor at Doorstep Service, and Sanjivani Vans that have been recommended by the Centre to other states. Depression arising out of illness and death of family members have been reported, Gupta said. Economic difficulties too compromise mental well-being. The AMC’s Corona Santvana will help mitigate these problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mental-well-being-helpline-opens/articleshow/76988498.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Now, locusts destroy groundnut, moong crops in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Locusts on Tuesday attacked the groundnut and moong crops sown in many areas of Jaisalmer and Barmer districts. On Wednesday, locusts were destroyed on 830 hectares using drones and other means in Jaisalmer by the locust control department. Similarly, in Barmer locust were neutralised in 800 hectares area. Looking at the huge swarms crossing over from Pakistan and their breeding season in the coming days, farmers are quite disappointed and worried about the crops sown. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said with regard to the crops sown by farmers, the locust control department and agriculture department have been directed to strengthen their information system, increase their resources and deploy sprayer vehicles so that farmers do not suffer damages. He said there is continuous information about locusts in Jaisalmer and action is being taken to destroy them and there is coordination from the BSF also. Locusts on Tuesday evening attacked Ramgarh and nearby areas in Jaisalmer. Villagers said locusts destroyed the moong crop and vegetables. Farmers set fire to wood to drive away locusts and also beat plates, but everything failed. Locusts were also seen in Lathi area of the district where department teams reached and destroyed them. Locust control department officer Rajesh Kumar said due to dust storm a large number of locusts from Jodhpur area came into Pokharan, Bhaniyana, Lathi and other areas, which were destroyed and similarly, locusts were destroyed in Longewala and Ramgarh area. Two drones and 10 sprayer vehicles were used. Dozens of villages in Ramsar sub division of Barmer were attacked by locusts on Tuesday. Farmers started sowing after good rains, but due to continuous locust attacks farmers are now disappointed over the yields. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said all possible efforts are being made to control locusts. He said till now pesticides have been sprayed on 32,201 hectares in 14 tehsils to control locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/now-locusts-destroy-groundnut-moong-crops-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/76992758.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government fixes cost of antigen test||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has fixed the cost of an antigen test at Rs 450 for private hospitals and private laboratories in Odisha. This facility can be availed free of cost in government hospitals. The health and family welfare department in its notification stated that upper price cap of Rs 450 as specified by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for each Standard Q Covid-19 Ag Kit of the vendor SD Bio Sensor must be adhered to by all the private facilities complying to the prevailing ICMR norms. Earlier, the state government had fixed Rs 2,200 as the price for conducting the RT-PCR test to detect Covid- 19 in private laboratories in Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-fixes-cost-of-antigen-test/articleshow/76987634.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chennai||Parties compete to celebrate Kamaraj anniv||Chennai: With an eye on the 2021 assembly election and a bid to reach out to the nadars, an influential community in the south, political parties in Tamil Nadu, particularly the ruling AIADMK and the DMK vied with each to pay homage to late Congress leader K Kamaraj, hailed as a reformist and visionary. As for the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee, it has vowed to bring back “Kamaraj rule” to the state and help retrieve it from the clutches of the “corrupt forces.”In a statement, CM Edappadi K Palaniswami said he was proud to remember the leader, who symbolised simplicity, selflessness and integrity and who laid great emphasis on education, industries and irrigation. “Like Perunthalaivar Kamarajar, Amma’s government too will continue to take the state on the path of progress,” the CM said. On behalf of the government, ministers K Pandiarajan and MLA S P Shanmuganathan belonging to the nadar community, paid tribute to the leader’s statue on the Marina to mark his 118th birth anniversary. The ruling party is facing flak from the community in the southern districts in the wake of the custodial torture and death of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks in Sathankulam. Party leaders in private felt such tribute to the Congress leader would help assuage community sentiments.DMK president M K Stalin, along with senior leaders, paid floral tributes to a portrait of Kamaraj at the party headquarters Anna Arivalayam in Chennai. The DMK takes credit for Kamaraj’s memorial in Guindy and the Chennai domestic terminal being named after the leader. In a message to partymen on Tuesday, Stalin recalled the mutual respect and admiration shared by late DMK veterans C N Annadurai and M Karunanidhi with Kamaraj. “The Congress leader was instrumental in the first constitutional amendment and protected reservation, thus upholding the social justice principles of the Dravidian movement,” Stalin said. He exhorted partymen to celebrate ‘Kalvi Valarchi Naal’ declared by Karunanidhi to commemorate the birth anniversary of Kamaraj and teach the younger generation about his greatness.The TNCC observed the day as “Tamil Nadu Retrieval Day” and took a pledge to retrieve the state from the clutches of the anti-people and corrupt forces in the state. Former TNCC presidents E V K S Elangovan and S Thirunavukkarasar led the celebrations in TNCC HQ Sathyamurthy Bhavan and Kamarajar Illam in Chennai. “We take a vow on Kamaraj’s birthday to establish good governance for people’s welfare,” the leaders said. Social media on Wednesday was abuzz with posts hailing the leader. Taking to Twitter, AMMK leader TTV Dhinakaran said Kamaraj lit the lives of lakhs of people by increasing the number of government schools in TN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parties-compete-to-celebrate-kamaraj-anniv/articleshow/76988516.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Close banks in Surat Covid hotspots’||AHMEDABAD: In the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in Surat and several bank employees getting infected, bankers have sought temporary closure of their branches in Diamond City hotspots. A representation regarding this was made by Maha Gujarat Bank Employees’ Association (MGBEA) before the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) on Wednesday. Citing the death of a banker due to coronavirus and at least 40 employees of different banks being infected, the MGBEA has also sought that timings of branches in other areas of Surat be curtailed. “Employees should be allowed to go home at 2pm after completion of cash work to reduce the possibility of exposure. Branches may work with reduced staff strength. We request you to close temporarily branches located in areas of Surat where more (coronavirus) cases have surfaced. Staff residing in these areas may be allowed work from home,” said Janak Rawal, general secretary, MGBEA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/close-banks-in-surat-covid-hotspots/articleshow/76988501.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||AIIMS to open OPD only after Covid cases decline||BHUBANESWAR: AIIMS Bhubaneswar that has shut its OPDs since July 10 will wait till Covid-19 shows a downward trend to reopen. Even elective surgeries have been kept on hold. Gitanjali Batmanabane, director of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, said her institution has been focussing on emergency patient services and indoor patient department (IPD) services. “We cannot tell exactly when the OPD services will resume, but we will open it after witnessing a declining trend in Covid-19 cases in the state,” she added. Batmanabane said they shut the OPD after witnessing several positive cases among patients and hospital staff since July 1. “Many of the hospital staff are under quarantine after coming in contact with positive cases. Besides this, several hospital staff are staying in containment zones and they cannot come to the hospital. Keeping all these situations in mind, the institution closed its OPD services,” she added. Sources said around 40 hospital staff, including doctors and nurses, have been infected with Covid-19. Some of them have recovered. Around 60 patients undergoing treatment in the hospital had tested positive for Covid-19 and 300 of the hospital staff were under quarantine. “We are not doing elective surgeries in this situation. We are allowing emergency surgeries only. We will continue IPD services, trauma and emergency services round the clock. Besides, daycare services, radiotherapy, dialysis, telemedicine and tele consultation services will continue,” said Batmanabane. Apart from existing telemedicine services, the hospital has launched an app ‘AIIMS Bhubaneswar Swasthya’ on July 9 to provide online consultation through mobile phone. Patients can register their name and details and consult with doctor about his/her health issues. Even the patient can upload documents in the app so that doctors can see the case history. The app can be downloaded from Google play store. The institution which celebrated it’s 8th foundation day on Wednesday has planned to complete the work of the burn unit on the hospital campus. It is being built at the cost of Rs 14 crore under the CSR scheme of the NTPC. AIIMS is also focussing on completing level-I trauma building in the next one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/aiims-to-open-opd-only-after-covid-cases-decline/articleshow/76987643.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly girl with spastic cerebral palsy and 80%visual impairment scores 76.6% in CBSE Class X||Bareilly: When 15-year-old Kaushiki Agarwal learnt on Wednesday afternoon that she scored 76.6% in the CBSE Class X exams, she had, initially, no words to describe her happiness. Suffering from spastic cerebral palsy since the birth, Kaushiki was expecting over 60% marks despite “studies have always been a challenge” for her as she is 80% visually impaired and has 60% mobility disability. Kaushiki’s father Dr Sandeep Agarwal said, “She is 80% visually impaired, and hence, she has to bring notebooks very close to her eyes to read them. Unlike her internal exams at her school (BBL Public School in Bareilly), Kaushiki did not get question papers in big fonts in the board exams. Her scribe was, however, authorised to read questions to her and she dictated answers to him.” Kaushiki’s family members said due to her sickness, she was unable to complete her notes in the school, and her incomplete notes would be later completed by her parents and her younger sister. “To compensate for the loss, I work hard for long hours daily after school. I take only a small break to watch television,” said Kaushiki, who wishes to become a teacher. She is, however, yet to decide the stream she would opt for Class XII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-girl-with-spastic-cerebral-palsy-and-80visual-impairment-scores-76-6-in-cbse-class-x/articleshow/76984582.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 16, 2020||Pune||PMPML to run 10 buses to 10 zones from Pune railway station||PUNE: PMPML will daily run 10 buses from the Pune railway station to carry passengers arriving in the city by train. “Passengers availing of the bus service will have to pay Rs70 as fare. This is far less than the fare charged by autorickshaws and cabs,” said Anant Waghmare, Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) traffic manager. He said 10 zones covering different locations in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have been created for the purpose. “The buses will ply in these zones,” Waghmare added. The Pune traffic police, meanwhile, said autorickshaw drivers who have received passes to ply during the lockdown should be present at the railway station to ferry passengers. “A total of 640 autorickshaw drivers have been given passes. They should be present at the Pune station and ensure that the passengers are not overcharged,” ACP (traffic) Surendra Deshmukh said. With the Bihar government announcing a total lockdown from July 16 to July 31, the railways has alerted passengers travelling on the Pune-Danapur Express to make arrangements for local transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-run-10-buses-to-ten-zones-from-railway-stn/articleshow/76988519.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Now, locusts destroy groundnut, moong crops in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Locusts on Tuesday attacked the groundnut and moong crops sown in many areas of Jaisalmer and Barmer districts. On Wednesday, locusts were destroyed on 830 hectares using drones and other means in Jaisalmer by the locust control department. Similarly, in Barmer locust were neutralised in 800 hectares area. Looking at the huge swarms crossing over from Pakistan and their breeding season in the coming days, farmers are quite disappointed and worried about the crops sown. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said with regard to the crops sown by farmers, the locust control department and agriculture department have been directed to strengthen their information system, increase their resources and deploy sprayer vehicles so that farmers do not suffer damages. He said there is continuous information about locusts in Jaisalmer and action is being taken to destroy them and there is coordination from the BSF also. Locusts on Tuesday evening attacked Ramgarh and nearby areas in Jaisalmer. Villagers said locusts destroyed the moong crop and vegetables. Farmers set fire to wood to drive away locusts and also beat plates, but everything failed. Locusts were also seen in Lathi area of the district where department teams reached and destroyed them. Locust control department officer Rajesh Kumar said due to dust storm a large number of locusts from Jodhpur area came into Pokharan, Bhaniyana, Lathi and other areas, which were destroyed and similarly, locusts were destroyed in Longewala and Ramgarh area. Two drones and 10 sprayer vehicles were used. Dozens of villages in Ramsar sub division of Barmer were attacked by locusts on Tuesday. Farmers started sowing after good rains, but due to continuous locust attacks farmers are now disappointed over the yields. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said all possible efforts are being made to control locusts. He said till now pesticides have been sprayed on 32,201 hectares in 14 tehsils to control locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-locusts-destroy-groundnut-moong-crops-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/76988517.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Give priority to local architecture in all projects on Kedarnath trek route: PM to Uttarakhand CM||Dehradun: Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the ongoing works at Kedarnath through a video conference with Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and other officials on Wednesday. Modi said that local architecture should be given priority on the 16-km-long trek route leading to the revered shrine and that proper halts on the way should be ensured so that pilgrims, porters and ponies have a comfortable journey. CM Rawat said that the route from Gaurikund to Kedarnath has a spiritual atmosphere and proposed that the chant of “Om Namah Shivay” be played the entire way. Modi also suggested that the trek route should be developed in a way that lets visitors gain knowledge about the traditional, historical and spiritual significance of Kedarnath. Instructing officials to look into the practical problems faced by pilgrims on the long, mountainous trek route, the PM said, “The yatra should be a memorable one for pilgrims”. This is the second review meeting of developments on the Kedarnath route the PM has held in past two months. CM Rawat meanwhile said that the route’s development plan included inscriptions of vedic literature on Kedarnath, manuscripts and other historical and religious facts related to the revered shrine. A detailed presentation at the conference listed different means through which pilgrims would be shown various facts related to the Kedarnath yatra since it started in 1882. Points on the trek route like Gaurikund, Sonprayag are also proposed to be developed along different themes. The CM informed the PM that a masterplan has also been prepared for Badrinath as well and sought time for a detailed presentation. During the session, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said that the work on embankment walls and ghat (paved bank) on Saraswati river is complete. He added that work on the samadhi sthal of Adi Shankaracharya is underway and is expected to be completed soon. About the third project underway at Kedarnath, the Brahma Kamal Vatika, Singh said that land has been identified for it and the development would start as soon as some trials are done. More than 400 people are presently working on the project at Kedarnath, he said, adding that over 3,000 pilgrims have visited the shrine this year, after the Char Dham Yatra was allowed for state residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/give-priority-to-local-architecture-in-all-projects-on-kedarnath-trek-route-pm-to-uttarakhand-cm/articleshow/76985488.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Nightclub hosting party raided, 31 held in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Thirty-one people, including seven women, were arrested for partying at a nightclub in Paschim Vihar on Tuesday night. Police found that the club was not only hosting the party, but also serving hookah and liquor that are banned during the pandemic. The club named “Playgue” was being run in the garb of a restaurant with a takeaway facility. Police officers were tipped off about the party after several cars parked outside led to a snarl on the road. When a police team reached the club, it found that the dance floor was operational and all tables had guests smoking and drinking. Times ViewOf late, Delhi has made positive strides in controlling the speed at which the coronavirus is spreading. Such acts of irresponsible merriment could endanger this progress and even reverse it. Apart from imposing harsh fines, offences like these, which clearly endanger public health, should be treated as criminal acts. Early deterrence is the best way of ensuring others aren’t tempted to go the same way.Police seized four quarters and seven bottles of liquor of different brands, 77 beer bottles and eight hookahs. “We have sealed the club and will conduct a Covid-19 test on all the visitors. If any of them are found positive, they will be booked for additional violations under various sections of IPC,” said a police officer. Police seized four quarters and seven bottles of liquor of different brands, 77 beer bottles and eight hookahsThe club owner, Lavish Khurana, and his brother, Kashish Khurana, were also present at the party. They have been booked under IPC Section 188 (violation of government order), and under various sections of Excise Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act. It was also found that the club did not have a licence to serve liquor. Police officers were tipped off about the party after several cars parked outside led to a snarl on the roadCops also found liquor stocked in the club premises to be served to the customersDuring questioning, one of the visitors told police that the club had formed a WhatsApp group of customers who had visited it earlier. On Monday, a message was posted that the club would open for select members. The music was kept at a low volume to avoid attracting the attention of people in the neighbourhood. Cops also found liquor stocked in the club premises to be served to the customers. Watch Delhi: Nightclub hosting party amid lockdown restriction raided, 31 held||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nightclub-hosting-party-raided-31-held/articleshow/76987793.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Whistleblower surfaces, says Vikas Dubey vowed bloodbath||KANPUR: Rahul Tewari, whose complaint against Vikas Dubey led to the July 2 & 3 police raid at Bikru, surfaced before the media on Wednesday and revealed that he himself had gone underground for fear of retaliation from the gangster and his henchmen. Speaking to the media, Rahul provided details of the incidents leading to the ambush. He said after registering his FIR, the police took him to Vikas, who assaulted him mercilessly. “When Vikas put the barrel of his rifle on my chest and was about to pull the trigger, SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari walked up to the gangster, held his ‘janeu’ (sacred thread) in a gesture of begging, and pleaded: “Panditon pe kalank lag jayega ki ghar bulakar maar diya (It would bring disgrace for Brahmins that they killed a person after calling him to their house),” Rahul said while narrating the July 2 incident. Rahul further told the reporters that the gangster then asked him and the SHO to consume sacred Ganga Jal and asked them to swear that no action will be taken in the case and from then onwards police will not come to his village. “If the police will come, there will be bloodbath in the village,” he had warned. Rahul, who lives in Jadepur Nivada village close to Bikru, wanted to dispose of the agricultural land belonging to his in-laws at nearby Mohini Nivada village. His sisters-in-law (wife’s sisters) opposed the proposed property sale. One of the sisters-in-law, who lives in Bikru, sought the gangster’s intervention to stop Rahul. According to the police investigation, Rahul was threatened and beaten up publicly by Dubey for putting forth his side on July 1. The next day he gave a written complaint to Vinay Tiwari, the then station officer of Chaubeypur. Instead of lodging the case, the SHO went to Vikas Dubey at Bikru village on July 2 noon with Rahul, where Rahul Tiwari was again beaten publicly by Vikas and the SHO too was manhandled for trying to pacify the gangster. After this incident, Rahul’s FIR was lodged on the intervention of deputy superintendent of police Dy SP) Devendra Mishra, who was the Bilhaur circle officer, on July 2 evening. After bringing the matter to the knowledge of his seniors, the CO formed a team comprising 25 policemen, including three police station officers, for a raid on Bikru where the gangster and his men ambushed the police team, killed eight of them and injured five , including a homeguard and a civilian in indiscriminate firing. Watch Kanpur shootout case: Vikas Dubey vowed bloodbath, reveals whistleblower||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/whistleblower-surfaces-says-vikas-dubey-vowed-bloodbath/articleshow/76987895.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 16, 2020||Madurai||Two held for murdering 8-yr-old girl in Tuticorin||TUTICORIN: Two 19-year-old men were arrested by Sathankulam police for murdering an eight-year-old girl on Wednesday. The victim was identified as Muthar of Indira Nagar in Kalvilai village near Megnanapuram. The girl was living with her mother and brother. She often used to go to the house of Mutheeswaran, the main accused, to watch television and went there on Wednesday too around 11.30 am. “The accused was found beating his mentally disturbed father when the girl went to their house. When the youth shouted at her the girl threw a stone at him. In a fit of a rage he held her by her neck when the girl fainted. He placed her in an empty plastic drum and covered it with a lid,” Tuticorin district SP, S Jayakumar said. Jayakumar added that about an hour later, Mutheeswaran sought the help of his friend Nandeeswaran to “dump the arbage piled up” in the house. They took the drum on a moped about 1.5 km away and unloaded the drum from a small bridge over a dry canal at Kalvilai. Mutheeswaran then asked Nandeeswaran to leave. The key accused then hid the body in knee-deep water below the bridge. Meanwhile, the girl’s family and villagers had started searching for her. The people near the bridge who grew suspicious over the movement of the duo checked the bridge only to find a girl’s body. The police sent the body to the Tirunelveli medical college hospital for autopsy. “We picked up the accused who confessed to the crime. The scientific officer who had a look at the body confirmed there was no element of rape,” the SP said and added that a case will be registered under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and will then be altered based on the complaint lodged by the girl’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-held-for-murdering-8-yr-old-girl-in-tuticorin/articleshow/76989085.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Madrassa teacher accused of raping a minor student||RAJKOT: A maulana (teacher) at a madrassa in Dhoro village of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch district was booked on Tuesday night on charges of raping a 19-year-old woman allegedly four times when she was a minor, between 2015 and 2019.The woman, who got married in December 2019, filed the complaint with Nara police station on Tuesday night after her husband encouraged her to report to cops about her childhood ordeal and punish the accused. According to police, the accused, Shamsuddin Hafi Suleman Jat (40), had first raped the survivor in 2015 when she was 14-years-old. “Jat had asked the survivor to wash his clothes. While the survivor was washing clothes, Jat allegedly raped her in the bathroom. At that time, Jat threatened to defame and kill her, if she complained about the incident to anyone,” said an official from Nara police station. After that Jat allegedly raped the survivor five months later and then twice more, with the last assault being in 2019. According to the police, the survivor does not remember the exact dates of the crime. However, she remembers the years in which the crimes were committed. “Jat has been booked for rape, criminal intimidation and under various section of POCSO Act,” said the cop. Meanwhile, police have sent a team of officials to Dhoro village to nab the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/madrassa-teacher-accused-of-raping-a-minor-student/articleshow/76987854.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Pune||Pet walk is essential: Petitioner to HC||PUNE: City-based animal activist and Bombay high court petitioner, Vineeta Tandon, has written to the authorities concerned to direct the police stations to execute the state home department order on implementing the guidelines issued by by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and state animal husbandry department during the lockdown. The state home department, in a notification to Maharashtra police in May this year, had directed them to implement AWBI orders, which made pet dog walks, feeding pet animals, birds and stray animals as essential services that would be allowed during the lockdown period. The order followed a PIL filed by Tandon in May this year to permit dog owners take pets for daily walks during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petitioner-to-hc-pet-walk-is-essential/articleshow/76988523.cms||Neha Madaan
July 16, 2020||Rajkot||Four booked for murder in Nakhatrana village||Rajkot: Four persons including three women were booked on Tuesday night for allegedly strangling a 28-year-old man to death and burying his body in Sukhsal village of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch district. Police said the accused, identified as Nirmala Koli, Valbai Koli, Ramju Koli and Kanji Sodha, had allegedly killed Rajesh Koli. “Both Nirmala and Rajesh were in love and they used to live together. While Nirmala was a divorcee, Rajesh was a widower. Both used to work as labourers in the farm of Kanji Sodha. On July 5, Nirmala and Rajesh entered into an altercation over some issue, following which Nirmala strangled Rajesh with a wire in the farm,” said an official from Nakhatrana police station. “After killing Rajesh, Nirmala told about it to Sodha. Instead of approaching the police, Sodha called Nirmala’s family members. Taking Rajesh’s body in a car, Sodha and the other accused went to Sukhsal village and buried the body on the bank of a pond,” the official said. The body was dug out by stray dogs on July 13. The identity of the deceased was ascertained by Rajesh’s uncle Ramesh Koli (45) on the basis of his cloths and the screw that was fixed in the joint of his knee in an operation after an accident. During questioning of the suspects, Sodha’s daughter Varsha narrated the crime to the police. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-booked-for-murder-in-nakhatrana-village/articleshow/76987949.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Restaurants, hotels stare at uncertain future amid dwindling finance base||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: The 10-day total lockdown has spelled doom for hotels and restaurants which had started earning some revenue from takeaway and delivery services. But now as the local administration has told them to stop operation, restaurateurs are worried about paying salaries to employees and meeting other overheads like rent, bills and taxes. “We called back our staff from their hometowns so that we could run the delivery service. But without any business how can we pay for all these expenses? We have sent letters to the chief minister, deputy chief minister and state excise minister and drawn their attention to the fact that restaurants were being charged at industrial rates and not commercial rates,” said Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association. “The authorities could consider collecting excise duty on pro-rata basis since we haven’t opened restaurants to serve liquor for a few months now. But there has been no response from the government so far,” he added. City restaurant owners said that the lockdown has resulted in their business being down by 95%. “Retaining staff and paying overheads and other expenses is impossible now,” said Ashwin Shetty, partner in an establishment at Baner. “Our staff will not get paid for 10 days since there will be zero income. But the government still expects restaurants to pay the fees for liquor licence for the entire year, even though we expect a minimum 9 months of complete closure,” he added. Moreover, they said the closure of hotels and restaurants has caused inconvenience to those who depend on delivery apps for daily meals. “We paid extra wages to our workers to return to work only to be told to shut again. It’s a doomed situation for the F&B industry,” said Rishu Baweja, director of another establishment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-hotels-stare-at-uncertain-future-amid-dwindling-finance-base/articleshow/76988521.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Erode||One lakh discharged, but Tamil Nadu’s condition still critical||CHENNAI: As cases continue to mount across all districts, the total number of patients discharged in the state crossed one lakh on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu added 5,000 discharges, taking the number of people treated and sent home to 1,02,310, and the recovery rate to 66%. TN, worst hit by the pandemic after Maharashtra, has recorded the lowest death rate among the top five high-incidence states. While Maharashtra has a 55% recovery rate and a case fatality rate of nearly 4%, Delhi has a recovery rate of 82%, with fatality inching close to 3%. “We have managed to keep the fatality low and recovery high throughout the past four months,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “This was achieved through meticulous planning by officials and the hard work of doctors and paramedical staff. We ensure our doctors have all the drugs and equipment to treat complicated cases,” he said. Four out of every five patients have mild or no symptoms and about 20% of them require hospitalisation either because they have symptoms such as breathlessness or because they have comorbid conditions that require monitoring or intensive care. “On an average, even the most severe cases recover within 12 to 13 days,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayananababu. Tamil Nadu’s case tally touched 10,000 on May 15 and the recovery rate touched the 10,000-mark on May 28. The number of days it took for the recovery to reach 25,000 cases from the day the state recorded as many cases was 12. The same pattern followed for the 50,000 and 1 lakh milestones. “This means, by July 28, most people who tested positive until now should be out of hospitals,” he said. Director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam said the state has been following stringent protocols for discharge. All people on home quarantine are monitored by hospitals concerned and respective local bodies. People admitted to Covid care facilities – isolation in non-hospital environment – patients are monitored every day for temperature and oxygen saturation (using pulse oximeter). “Patients in both these groups are discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms provided they show no symptoms for three consecutive days. They are tested prior to discharge,” he said. However, at the time of discharge, the patients are advised home isolation and told to self-monitor their health for a week. Patients with moderate symptoms are hospitalised for oxygen support and other medical interventions. The discharge protocol for such patients is similar (10 days post onset of symptoms). “Although ICMR says no test is required, hospitals in TN are advised to discharge them only after a chest x-ray,” he said. In severe cases, including immunocompromised (HIV patients, transplant recipients, malignancy) patients, the discharge criteria are based on clinical recovery. “The patient has to test negative once by RT-PCR after resolution of symptoms. We ensure all parameters, including blood sugar and pressure, are normal before they are discharged,” he said. But the danger still lurks. Infectious diseases experts warn that increase in cases could push up the fatality rate. “The challenge is to keep active cases low. The bed occupancy should not go beyond 70%. The best way to do this is to test more people and isolate them early,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/1l-discharged-but-tns-condition-still-critical/articleshow/76991307.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chennai||One lakh discharged, but Tamil Nadu’s condition still critical||CHENNAI: As cases continue to mount across all districts, the total number of patients discharged in the state crossed one lakh on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu added 5,000 discharges, taking the number of people treated and sent home to 1,02,310, and the recovery rate to 66%. TN, worst hit by the pandemic after Maharashtra, has recorded the lowest death rate among the top five high-incidence states. While Maharashtra has a 55% recovery rate and a case fatality rate of nearly 4%, Delhi has a recovery rate of 82%, with fatality inching close to 3%. “We have managed to keep the fatality low and recovery high throughout the past four months,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “This was achieved through meticulous planning by officials and the hard work of doctors and paramedical staff. We ensure our doctors have all the drugs and equipment to treat complicated cases,” he said. Four out of every five patients have mild or no symptoms and about 20% of them require hospitalisation either because they have symptoms such as breathlessness or because they have comorbid conditions that require monitoring or intensive care. “On an average, even the most severe cases recover within 12 to 13 days,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayananababu. Tamil Nadu’s case tally touched 10,000 on May 15 and the recovery rate touched the 10,000-mark on May 28. The number of days it took for the recovery to reach 25,000 cases from the day the state recorded as many cases was 12. The same pattern followed for the 50,000 and 1 lakh milestones. “This means, by July 28, most people who tested positive until now should be out of hospitals,” he said. Director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam said the state has been following stringent protocols for discharge. All people on home quarantine are monitored by hospitals concerned and respective local bodies. People admitted to Covid care facilities – isolation in non-hospital environment – patients are monitored every day for temperature and oxygen saturation (using pulse oximeter). “Patients in both these groups are discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms provided they show no symptoms for three consecutive days. They are tested prior to discharge,” he said. However, at the time of discharge, the patients are advised home isolation and told to self-monitor their health for a week. Patients with moderate symptoms are hospitalised for oxygen support and other medical interventions. The discharge protocol for such patients is similar (10 days post onset of symptoms). “Although ICMR says no test is required, hospitals in TN are advised to discharge them only after a chest x-ray,” he said. In severe cases, including immunocompromised (HIV patients, transplant recipients, malignancy) patients, the discharge criteria are based on clinical recovery. “The patient has to test negative once by RT-PCR after resolution of symptoms. We ensure all parameters, including blood sugar and pressure, are normal before they are discharged,” he said. But the danger still lurks. Infectious diseases experts warn that increase in cases could push up the fatality rate. “The challenge is to keep active cases low. The bed occupancy should not go beyond 70%. The best way to do this is to test more people and isolate them early,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1l-discharged-but-tns-condition-still-critical/articleshow/76988524.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Varanasi||STF nabs notorious criminal in UP's Bhadohi||VARANASI: The Special Task Force of UP police on Wednesday arrested a notorious criminal Ramesh Yadav of Jansa area from Carpet City Road in Bhadohi district. According to STF, its Varanasi field unit cops received inputs regarding presence of Ramesh near Carpet City. They raided the place and nabbed him. Police had announced a cash reward of Rs 20,000 on Ramesh, against whom six criminal cases are lodged with Bhadohi, Mirzapur, Mau and Jaunpur police. Following his arrest, he confessed to his involvement in many cases of loot with jewellers in Mirzapur, Varanasi and Jaunpur apart from targeting cash van of a bank for loot. Ramesh is a close associate of dreaded gangster Lalu Yadav of Mau district. Police has kept cash reward of Rs one lakh on Lalu, who had led his gang while executing all the plans of loot in the districts of this region in past one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/stf-nabs-notorious-criminal-in-bhadohi/articleshow/76987584.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Rajkot||Fisherman’s goof in middle name prolongs his stay in Pakistan jail||Rajkot: Resident of Nava Bandar village of Una taluka in Gir Somnath district, Babu Bambhania has been lodged in a Pakistan jail since March 2017. His boat was apprehended after he, along with five other sailors were caught in foreign waters. However, while the other persons were released within six months of arrest, Bambhania is still languishing behind bars as he goofed on his middle name which did not match with documents in Pakistani authorities’ possession. Bhaniben, Bambhania’s illiterate wife is now running from pillar to post to rectify her husband’s error and secure his release. She represented her peculiar case even to the President of India besides the external affairs ministry with the help of local social workers. Bhaniben said, “My husband stated his middle name to be ‘Kisanbhai’ at the time of his arrest, while according to his documents it is “Karsanbhai”. This created confusion with Indian and Pakistani authorities, which led to prolonging his stay in the Karachi jail for the past three years.” She implored Indian authorities to intervene on this technical issue and resolve the impasse. Bambhaniya, along with five others had set sail from Okha port in their boat named Nizamuddin-1, which is registered at Mangrol port. Owner of the boat, Salim Hussain told TOI, “I have prepared a whole file and approached the local politicians for Bambhania’s release. While I am doing my best, other sailors tell me that Bambhania is not responding when the jailor calls out his name. He should have stated his name as in documents to the Pakistani authority.” According to the family, three of his children including two sons and one daughter, are studying while the 17-year-old eldest son is working in the local fish market as a labourer. Bhaniben told TOI, “I am not educated and it’s getting very difficult for me to run the family single-handedly. I am under huge debt for the past three years and can’t wait for my husband to return home.”Ajay Shiyar, a social worker, who is helping the family said, “With the help local politician we are trying to approach Indian embassy in Pakistan and external affairs ministry to solve the technical glitches and expedite his release.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fishermans-goof-in-middle-name-prolongs-his-stay-in-pakistan-jail/articleshow/76988094.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||One lakh discharged, but Tamil Nadu’s condition still critical||CHENNAI: As cases continue to mount across all districts, the total number of patients discharged in the state crossed one lakh on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu added 5,000 discharges, taking the number of people treated and sent home to 1,02,310, and the recovery rate to 66%. TN, worst hit by the pandemic after Maharashtra, has recorded the lowest death rate among the top five high-incidence states. While Maharashtra has a 55% recovery rate and a case fatality rate of nearly 4%, Delhi has a recovery rate of 82%, with fatality inching close to 3%. “We have managed to keep the fatality low and recovery high throughout the past four months,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “This was achieved through meticulous planning by officials and the hard work of doctors and paramedical staff. We ensure our doctors have all the drugs and equipment to treat complicated cases,” he said. Four out of every five patients have mild or no symptoms and about 20% of them require hospitalisation either because they have symptoms such as breathlessness or because they have comorbid conditions that require monitoring or intensive care. “On an average, even the most severe cases recover within 12 to 13 days,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayananababu. Tamil Nadu’s case tally touched 10,000 on May 15 and the recovery rate touched the 10,000-mark on May 28. The number of days it took for the recovery to reach 25,000 cases from the day the state recorded as many cases was 12. The same pattern followed for the 50,000 and 1 lakh milestones. “This means, by July 28, most people who tested positive until now should be out of hospitals,” he said. Director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam said the state has been following stringent protocols for discharge. All people on home quarantine are monitored by hospitals concerned and respective local bodies. People admitted to Covid care facilities – isolation in non-hospital environment – patients are monitored every day for temperature and oxygen saturation (using pulse oximeter). “Patients in both these groups are discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms provided they show no symptoms for three consecutive days. They are tested prior to discharge,” he said. However, at the time of discharge, the patients are advised home isolation and told to self-monitor their health for a week. Patients with moderate symptoms are hospitalised for oxygen support and other medical interventions. The discharge protocol for such patients is similar (10 days post onset of symptoms). “Although ICMR says no test is required, hospitals in TN are advised to discharge them only after a chest x-ray,” he said. In severe cases, including immunocompromised (HIV patients, transplant recipients, malignancy) patients, the discharge criteria are based on clinical recovery. “The patient has to test negative once by RT-PCR after resolution of symptoms. We ensure all parameters, including blood sugar and pressure, are normal before they are discharged,” he said. But the danger still lurks. Infectious diseases experts warn that increase in cases could push up the fatality rate. “The challenge is to keep active cases low. The bed occupancy should not go beyond 70%. The best way to do this is to test more people and isolate them early,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1l-discharged-but-tns-condition-still-critical/articleshow/76991306.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Prabhat was minor, shot in fake encounter by police, says family||KANPUR: The encounter killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and his five aides, already under Supreme Court scrutiny, dragged UP Police in a fresh controversy after the family of Prabhat Mishra alias Kartikeya claimed Prabhat was a minor, had no criminal history and was killed in a fake encounter. Prabhat, an alleged sharpshooter of Dubey was shot by police while being escorted from Faridabad to Kanpur. Displaying his high school certificate by UP board, Prabhat’s sister Himanshi said, “My brother was just 17 when he was shot. He was born on May 27, 2004. He passed high school with first division in 2018. We are sure he was killed in a fake encounter. Even if my brother committed a crime, who are police to decide his fate,” she asked. Police had in a press release immediately after the encounter, stated that Prabhat Mishra’s age was 20. Breaking into sobs before reporters, Himanshi said, “Police killed my brother and planted a firearm on his body. How can one become a criminal by merely visiting a neighbour with criminal antecedents?” Police claim Prabhat was one of accused who opened fire on a police team in Bikru village on July 3 and accompanied Dubey till Faridabad from where he was arrested on night of July 7. A senior criminal lawyer said, “When anyone is arrested, a medico-legal certificate is prepared. In this case, the investigating officer recorded Prabhat’s age as 20. Police have no legal power to arrest a juvenile, so maybe they lied.” Another lawyer told TOI, “When minors are nabbed, police have to produce them before Juvenile Justice Board and then put them in a correction home.” A forensic expert said, it’s pertinent whether police conducted a powder test on his fingers to prove he fired at policemen. Prabhat’s father Rajendra Kumar works in a detergent company and is also wanted by police in Bikru ambush. On July 9, a police team was bringing Prabhat to Kanpur on transit remand, when the tyre of their vehicle punctured near Panki. Taking advantage of the situation, Prabhat punched constable Sunil Kumar and snatched 9 mm pistol from SI Devendra and opened fire at cops, said police. Constables Vikas and Sunil were injured while SI Pravin Tyagi was hit, but was saved by his bulletproof jacket. Police fired in retaliation injuring Prabhat, who was later pronounced dead at Bara Sirohi CHC in Kalyanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/prabhat-was-minor-shot-in-fake-encounter-by-police-says-family/articleshow/76987803.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 16, 2020||Trichy||One lakh discharged, but Tamil Nadu’s condition still critical||CHENNAI: As cases continue to mount across all districts, the total number of patients discharged in the state crossed one lakh on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu added 5,000 discharges, taking the number of people treated and sent home to 1,02,310, and the recovery rate to 66%. TN, worst hit by the pandemic after Maharashtra, has recorded the lowest death rate among the top five high-incidence states. While Maharashtra has a 55% recovery rate and a case fatality rate of nearly 4%, Delhi has a recovery rate of 82%, with fatality inching close to 3%. “We have managed to keep the fatality low and recovery high throughout the past four months,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “This was achieved through meticulous planning by officials and the hard work of doctors and paramedical staff. We ensure our doctors have all the drugs and equipment to treat complicated cases,” he said. Four out of every five patients have mild or no symptoms and about 20% of them require hospitalisation either because they have symptoms such as breathlessness or because they have comorbid conditions that require monitoring or intensive care. “On an average, even the most severe cases recover within 12 to 13 days,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayananababu. Tamil Nadu’s case tally touched 10,000 on May 15 and the recovery rate touched the 10,000-mark on May 28. The number of days it took for the recovery to reach 25,000 cases from the day the state recorded as many cases was 12. The same pattern followed for the 50,000 and 1 lakh milestones. “This means, by July 28, most people who tested positive until now should be out of hospitals,” he said. Director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam said the state has been following stringent protocols for discharge. All people on home quarantine are monitored by hospitals concerned and respective local bodies. People admitted to Covid care facilities – isolation in non-hospital environment – patients are monitored every day for temperature and oxygen saturation (using pulse oximeter). “Patients in both these groups are discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms provided they show no symptoms for three consecutive days. They are tested prior to discharge,” he said. However, at the time of discharge, the patients are advised home isolation and told to self-monitor their health for a week. Patients with moderate symptoms are hospitalised for oxygen support and other medical interventions. The discharge protocol for such patients is similar (10 days post onset of symptoms). “Although ICMR says no test is required, hospitals in TN are advised to discharge them only after a chest x-ray,” he said. In severe cases, including immunocompromised (HIV patients, transplant recipients, malignancy) patients, the discharge criteria are based on clinical recovery. “The patient has to test negative once by RT-PCR after resolution of symptoms. We ensure all parameters, including blood sugar and pressure, are normal before they are discharged,” he said. But the danger still lurks. Infectious diseases experts warn that increase in cases could push up the fatality rate. “The challenge is to keep active cases low. The bed occupancy should not go beyond 70%. The best way to do this is to test more people and isolate them early,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1l-discharged-but-tns-condition-still-critical/articleshow/76991310.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Salem||One lakh discharged, but Tamil Nadu’s condition still critical||CHENNAI: As cases continue to mount across all districts, the total number of patients discharged in the state crossed one lakh on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu added 5,000 discharges, taking the number of people treated and sent home to 1,02,310, and the recovery rate to 66%. TN, worst hit by the pandemic after Maharashtra, has recorded the lowest death rate among the top five high-incidence states. While Maharashtra has a 55% recovery rate and a case fatality rate of nearly 4%, Delhi has a recovery rate of 82%, with fatality inching close to 3%. “We have managed to keep the fatality low and recovery high throughout the past four months,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “This was achieved through meticulous planning by officials and the hard work of doctors and paramedical staff. We ensure our doctors have all the drugs and equipment to treat complicated cases,” he said. Four out of every five patients have mild or no symptoms and about 20% of them require hospitalisation either because they have symptoms such as breathlessness or because they have comorbid conditions that require monitoring or intensive care. “On an average, even the most severe cases recover within 12 to 13 days,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayananababu. Tamil Nadu’s case tally touched 10,000 on May 15 and the recovery rate touched the 10,000-mark on May 28. The number of days it took for the recovery to reach 25,000 cases from the day the state recorded as many cases was 12. The same pattern followed for the 50,000 and 1 lakh milestones. “This means, by July 28, most people who tested positive until now should be out of hospitals,” he said. Director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam said the state has been following stringent protocols for discharge. All people on home quarantine are monitored by hospitals concerned and respective local bodies. People admitted to Covid care facilities – isolation in non-hospital environment – patients are monitored every day for temperature and oxygen saturation (using pulse oximeter). “Patients in both these groups are discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms provided they show no symptoms for three consecutive days. They are tested prior to discharge,” he said. However, at the time of discharge, the patients are advised home isolation and told to self-monitor their health for a week. Patients with moderate symptoms are hospitalised for oxygen support and other medical interventions. The discharge protocol for such patients is similar (10 days post onset of symptoms). “Although ICMR says no test is required, hospitals in TN are advised to discharge them only after a chest x-ray,” he said. In severe cases, including immunocompromised (HIV patients, transplant recipients, malignancy) patients, the discharge criteria are based on clinical recovery. “The patient has to test negative once by RT-PCR after resolution of symptoms. We ensure all parameters, including blood sugar and pressure, are normal before they are discharged,” he said. But the danger still lurks. Infectious diseases experts warn that increase in cases could push up the fatality rate. “The challenge is to keep active cases low. The bed occupancy should not go beyond 70%. The best way to do this is to test more people and isolate them early,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/1l-discharged-but-tns-condition-still-critical/articleshow/76991311.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Trichy||Two held for murdering 8-yr-old girl in Tuticorin||TUTICORIN: Two 19-year-old men were arrested by Sathankulam police for murdering an eight-year-old girl on Wednesday. The victim was identified as Muthar of Indira Nagar in Kalvilai village near Megnanapuram. The girl was living with her mother and brother. She often used to go to the house of Mutheeswaran, the main accused, to watch television and went there on Wednesday too around 11.30 am. “The accused was found beating his mentally disturbed father when the girl went to their house. When the youth shouted at her the girl threw a stone at him. In a fit of a rage he held her by her neck when the girl fainted. He placed her in an empty plastic drum and covered it with a lid,” Tuticorin district SP, S Jayakumar said. Jayakumar added that about an hour later, Mutheeswaran sought the help of his friend Nandeeswaran to “dump the arbage piled up” in the house. They took the drum on a moped about 1.5 km away and unloaded the drum from a small bridge over a dry canal at Kalvilai. Mutheeswaran then asked Nandeeswaran to leave. The key accused then hid the body in knee-deep water below the bridge. Meanwhile, the girl’s family and villagers had started searching for her. The people near the bridge who grew suspicious over the movement of the duo checked the bridge only to find a girl’s body. The police sent the body to the Tirunelveli medical college hospital for autopsy. “We picked up the accused who confessed to the crime. The scientific officer who had a look at the body confirmed there was no element of rape,” the SP said and added that a case will be registered under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and will then be altered based on the complaint lodged by the girl’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-held-for-murdering-8-yr-old-girl-in-tuticorin/articleshow/76995195.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Rajkot||Extramarital affair ends in tragic death of two in Kutch||RAJKOT: After five members of her family hacked her lover to death in Lakadavandh village of Rapar taluka in Kutch district, a woman ended her life on Wednesday afternoon. Police said both Babu Koli (32) and Sita Koli (19) were in love much against the wishes of Sita’s family members who opposed as this was Babu’s extramarital affair. “On Wednesday afternoon, five members of Sita’s family, led by Sita’s father Dharma Koli, allegedly attacked Babu with scythes, crowbar, iron pipes and bats, while he was working in a farm,” said B J Parmar, sub-inspector with Balasar police station. Babu died on the spot. As the news of his murder reached Sita, she hanged herself from the ceiling of her house. Preliminary investigation has revealed that a week ago, when Sita’s family members came to know about her affair with Babu, they held a meeting with Babu’s family. “Both the families reached a compromise in which it was decided that both Sita and Babu would sever their relationship. However, when Sita’s family members came to know that Babu was still in touch with Sita over phone, they decided to kill him,” said Parmar. Police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/after-kin-kills-paramour-woman-ends-life-in-rapar/articleshow/76987980.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha borrowed Rs 5,000 crore in three months||BHUBANESWAR: With the state’s overall revenue collection fallen by around 23% during the first quarter (April-June) of the current financial year, the finance department has borrowed Rs 4,830 crore in the past three months to meet the expenditure. While Rs 3,000 crore has been borrowed from open market (from banks and other financial institutions), it has borrowed Rs 1,830 crore from the Odisha Mineral Bearing Areas Development Corporation (OMBADC) fund, said finance department sources. “Since the Covid management and efforts to generate employment and livelihood opportunities would require huge expenditure, there would be a need to go for more borrowing in the coming months to meet the spending requirements. The revenue collection is unlikely to improve in the subsequent quarters because of the pandemic situation,” said a senior finance department official. Official sources said it had never borrowed such a huge amount in the first quarter in recent years. Though states are allowed to borrow up to 3% of their gross state domestic product (GSDP), the Centre has recently allowed all state’s to borrow upto 5% of the GSDP because of depletion in revenue collection in view of the pandemic. While allowing states to borrow additional 2%, the Centre has set conditions like implementing four reforms in different areas. The state government has been implementing the reforms suggested by the Centre to increase its borrowing limit. A senior IPS officer has been appointed as nodal officer to oversee implementation of specific reforms by various departments to increase the borrowing limit, the official said. In the annual budget for this fiscal, the state government has estimated to borrow Rs 17,878 crore during the year, finance department sources said the actual amount of borrowing could be much more than what has been estimated in the budget because of slash in revenue collection. Total revenue collection during the April-June period is estimated to be around Rs 8,204 crore against Rs 10,645 crore collected during the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Fall in revenue collection has also forced the state government to go for expenditure rationalization measures like ban on launching new schemes/projects, restrictions on government recruitment, reducing expenditure on travel and vehicle and barring establishment expenditures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-borrowed-rs-5k-crore-in-three-months/articleshow/76987698.cms||Sujit Bijoy
July 16, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Kidnapped youth’s sister busts cops’ ransom claim||KANPUR: While Kanpur police grapples with fallout of the Bikru ambush, the botched rescue operation of a kidnapped youth, Sandeep, has put it again in a spot. Another video surfaced on Wednesday evening in which Sandeep's sister, Ruchi, is heard accusing crime branch officials of forcibly recording her statement that ransom was not paid to kidnappers although the family paid the amount at police's behest. Local police had landed in a soup when family members of the kidnapped youth alleged on camera that police made them pay a ransom of Rs 30 lakh to kidnappers, but failed to rescue the captive. On being questioned by the media for backtracking from her earlier statement, the girl said, "Crime branch personnel Dinesh Yadav visited my house on Wednesday and convinced me to change my statement as my brother's life is in danger. Out of fear, I gave the statement as per his advice, which he soon made viral on social media. However, the truth is my parents paid the ransom amount of Rs 30 lakh on the advice of Barra police." The girl went on to add that the day her brother would return, she will provide media with complete details on arrangement of Rs 30 lakh ransom money. Police had earlier even given a statement and accused Ruchi, sister of the victim, of spreading lies with regard to ransom amount. SP South Aparna Gupta also made statements on Twitter about projecting girl's information to be false. To recall, Chaman Singh of Barra area stated the ransom was paid from the amount that he had saved for the marriage of his daughter after selling his house. Police had asked the family to pay the ransom and planned to nab the kidnappers when they came to collect it. The kidnappers, however, managed to collect and flee with the bag full of cash even as cops looked on, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kidnapped-youths-sisterbares-police-claim-on-ransom/articleshow/76987647.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Confusion over exams for BEd, LLB students prevails||AHMEDABAD: There is a confusion at universities in Gujarat for conducting exams for law and BEd courses. While the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) revised guidelines suggest exams are scheduled to be held for the final semester undergraduate students as well as the second and fourth semester post graduate candidates, there is no clarity from the National Council for Teachers’ Education and Bar Council of India for BEd and LLB courses respectively. Many varsities are weighing the option of writing to the two councils for getting clarity in the matter, said sources. Recently, the Nursing Council of India and the Physiotherapy Council clarified that only last year’s examination would be conducted for the students enrolled in the undergraduate programmes. “The state government had earlier issued guidelines that the exams for LLB and BEd courses be held on the lines of PG exams. But the government has not mentioned this in its revised notification,” said a source in the Gujarat University. In case, no announcement is made by the councils or the state government, various universities including Gujarat University are planning to hold exams only for terminal year students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/confusion-over-exams-for-bed-llb-students-prevails/articleshow/76988967.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Skill training of workers from the neighbouring states to be conducted||JAIPUR: On the occasion of World Youth Skills Day, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot announced that the state will also conduct skill training of unemployed youths living in the border/neighbouring states here in Rajasthan. He also asked the collectors and divisional commissioners to bring maximum investment in their districts. He released the vision document and the employment message for the department of skill, employment and entrepreneurship development.  While addressing the officials through a video conference on ‘Saksham Yuva Programme’, Gehlot said, “Due to the efforts of the government in the last one-and-a-half years, Rajasthan is moving fast in IT-based governance. We are also trying to reduce the burden of files in government offices and move towards digitization.” Neeraj K Pawan, secretary, labour department, said, “We will write to those states that they can send their unskilled workers for skill development training in Rajasthan. Workers from Gujarat can come for training to Banswara and Dungarpur, people from Haryana can come to Jhunjhunu, workers from Punjab can come to Ganganagar and the unskilled workers from Uttar Pradesh can come to Bharatpur. They can acquire training in Rajasthan and work in their states.”  “The training will be provided to these workers through RSLDC. This will also ensure providing employment to those who will be training the workers,” he added.  Gehlot further said, “The country was already going through an economic recession. Covid pandemic has broken the economy as industries and businesses are dying. Every state needs investment and in this situation, collectors and divisional commissioners should make efforts to bring maximum investment in their districts and give priority to ensure smooth economic activities following the lockdown.”  “Time has come to recognize the importance of skill development and open training centers so that more and more youths can be connected with it. Our effor will be to promote skill development and entrepreneurship among the youth,” he added. MOS for skill, employment and entrepreneurship Ashok Chandna said under Mukhyamantri Yuva Kaushal Yojana, youth studying in colleges have been linked with employment oriented training. During the programme, Gehlot honoured a young boy, Ramesh, as a skill ambassador and handed over a cheque of Rs 25,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/skill-training-of-workers-from-the-neighbouring-states-to-be-conducted/articleshow/76988522.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Madurai||One lakh discharged, but Tamil Nadu’s condition still critical||CHENNAI: As cases continue to mount across all districts, the total number of patients discharged in the state crossed one lakh on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu added 5,000 discharges, taking the number of people treated and sent home to 1,02,310, and the recovery rate to 66%. TN, worst hit by the pandemic after Maharashtra, has recorded the lowest death rate among the top five high-incidence states. While Maharashtra has a 55% recovery rate and a case fatality rate of nearly 4%, Delhi has a recovery rate of 82%, with fatality inching close to 3%. “We have managed to keep the fatality low and recovery high throughout the past four months,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “This was achieved through meticulous planning by officials and the hard work of doctors and paramedical staff. We ensure our doctors have all the drugs and equipment to treat complicated cases,” he said. Four out of every five patients have mild or no symptoms and about 20% of them require hospitalisation either because they have symptoms such as breathlessness or because they have comorbid conditions that require monitoring or intensive care. “On an average, even the most severe cases recover within 12 to 13 days,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayananababu. Tamil Nadu’s case tally touched 10,000 on May 15 and the recovery rate touched the 10,000-mark on May 28. The number of days it took for the recovery to reach 25,000 cases from the day the state recorded as many cases was 12. The same pattern followed for the 50,000 and 1 lakh milestones. “This means, by July 28, most people who tested positive until now should be out of hospitals,” he said. Director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam said the state has been following stringent protocols for discharge. All people on home quarantine are monitored by hospitals concerned and respective local bodies. People admitted to Covid care facilities – isolation in non-hospital environment – patients are monitored every day for temperature and oxygen saturation (using pulse oximeter). “Patients in both these groups are discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms provided they show no symptoms for three consecutive days. They are tested prior to discharge,” he said. However, at the time of discharge, the patients are advised home isolation and told to self-monitor their health for a week. Patients with moderate symptoms are hospitalised for oxygen support and other medical interventions. The discharge protocol for such patients is similar (10 days post onset of symptoms). “Although ICMR says no test is required, hospitals in TN are advised to discharge them only after a chest x-ray,” he said. In severe cases, including immunocompromised (HIV patients, transplant recipients, malignancy) patients, the discharge criteria are based on clinical recovery. “The patient has to test negative once by RT-PCR after resolution of symptoms. We ensure all parameters, including blood sugar and pressure, are normal before they are discharged,” he said. But the danger still lurks. Infectious diseases experts warn that increase in cases could push up the fatality rate. “The challenge is to keep active cases low. The bed occupancy should not go beyond 70%. The best way to do this is to test more people and isolate them early,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1l-discharged-but-tns-condition-still-critical/articleshow/76991309.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Class X CBSE: Most Ahmedabad schools see 100% success rate||AHMEDABAD: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the Class X results on Wednesday. Students were delighted as most of them scored more than they had expected. The majority of the city’s schools registered a 100% passing percentage and a large number of their students scored distinction. Delhi Public School, Bopal, was one of them. Of the 444 students who took the board exams, 90 scored above 95% and 212 scored above 90%. The school topper, Prachi Jindal, got 99.8%. From St Kabir School, 238 students took the exams and 193 got distinction marks. Scoring 96%, Jay Patel emerged as the school topper. As many as 127 students took the exams from Maharaja Agrasen Vidyalaya. Of them, 50 scored above 90%. Tanvi Jain took the first position with 97.8%. At Divine Child International School, Garima Mehani was the topper with 96.8%. At DCIS, Mehsana, Bhavya Patel grabbed the topper’s slot with 97%. At DPS, Gandhinagar, 272 students took the exams and 79 scored above 90%. Urva Gupta with 99.2% was the topper. Of the 101 students who took the exams from Rachana School, 96 got distinction marks, and 42 scored above 90%. Sagarika Misra with 98.8% was the topper. Of the 126 students who took the exams from Zebar School for Children, 29 scored above 90%. Divyansh Bajaj and Aarya Dixit emerged as toppers with 96.2%. In all, 306 students of Udgam School for Children took the exams and 131 scored above 90%. Yashvi Doctor scored the school’s highest, 99.4%. From Prakash School, of the 120 examinees, 118 got distinction marks, and 55 scored above 90%. Heer Kubadia topped with 98.4%. At Podar International School, Yashvi Bhuva topped with 98%. At Nirman School, Ramansh Shah stood first with 94%. Nirma Vidyavihar’s Nimay Shah scored 96.8% to take the topper’s position. Scoring 93%, Moksha Dave, Priyan Atal, and Siddharth Patolia shared toppers’ spot at Euro School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/class-x-cbse-most-city-schools-see-100-success-rate/articleshow/76987811.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||LRD jawan booked for taking bribe||Vadodara: A middleman was arrested by anti-corruption bureau on Tuesday for accepting a bribe of Rs 4,000 allegedly on behalf of a lok rakshak dal (LRD) constable posted at Varnama police station. The complainant had informed ACB as the constable Himanshu Prajapati kept demanding money for not registering a case of prohibition against him. Cops said that Prajapati had already taken Rs 4,000 from the complainant around four months backto not register a case against him. However, Prajapati asked him to give Rs 4,000 every month to stop harassment and not register any other case against him. ACB sleuths laid the trap and as per the plan the complainant asked Prajapati to come to his house at Kashipura village to take the money. Instead of coming himself, Prajapati sent a man named Ayub alias Bapu Sindhi. ACB nabbed Sindhi who admitted that Prajapati had sent him to collect the cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lrd-jawan-booked-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/76986561.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Pune||Doctors to monitor firms’ preparations in Pune||PUNE: The Khed tehsil administration has appointed a team of doctors for visiting companies in the Chakan and industrial zones. The team will check on the companies’ measures to maintain social distance, manage crowds, etc, to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The team, led by the tehsil health officer, has been visiting industries and checking CCTV footage to see how crowd management is done at canteens during breaks, at parking lots, assembly areas, etc. Khed tehsil is among the worst affected areas in the district. It has recorded 252 cases in total since the outbreak. Five people have succumbed to the virus, 69 have been discharged after recovery, and 178 cases are still active. So far, over 30 industrial employees have tested positive in Chakan industrial area, said tehsil health officer BB Gadve. “Most employees are residents of Khed tehsil. Employees from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, who have tested positive, have been admitted to various hospitals. Regular visits to the companies are helping monitor each set-up closely. If a company has not taken enough measures, we guide them. The concerned primary health centre (PHC) also takes a note of it and ensures a follow-up,” said Gadve. The team undertakes surprise visits at around eight of 10 companies every day. “During a surprise check in June, we had to shut down a firm after seven employees tested positive and 40 others were quarantined. Early intervention limited the spread of Covid-19. Some firms have appointed doctors to check employees after every two/three days. People are thermally scanned at the entrance of many companies in these industrial zones,” said a doctor, who is part of the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-to-monitor-firms-preparations/articleshow/76988525.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 16, 2020||Bhopal||Congress's shadow cabinet to monitor Shivraj Singh Chouhan government||BHOPAL: State Congress will constitute a shadow cabinet with the party’s former ministers and sitting MLAs to keep a watch on the activities of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. PCC media department chief and former minister Jitu Patwari on Wednesday said that 14 ministers in the government are not even MLAs and they very well know that they may not remain in their respective posts after the upcoming assembly bypolls. Congress’s shadow cabinet will watch the movement of files that have accumulated over the past four months and expose corruption of the government, Patwari claimed. “BJP toppled the Congress government through a conspiracy, by luring and purchasing MLAs. For the next 100 days, they could not form the state cabinet. Once the cabinet was formed, they could not distribute departments for another ten days,” Patwari said. “The delay over the allocation of ministries was due to a fight over lucrative departments. Congress party knows that after the distribution of departments, files that accumulated over the past four months will start to move. Now, what do we expect the ministers to do in the next 30 days before the state goes to bypolls? Will they work for the people or indulge in corruption?” Patwari alleged. Patwari claimed that people of the state have understood the reasons behind the delay in cabinet formation and what is happening in the government. “Since Congress party is in the Opposition, we will keep a watch on the government so that corruption can be exposed. A shadow cabinet will be formed with our former ministers and sitting MLAs whose work will be to keep a close eye on the activities of the government departments,” the former minister said. Patwari appealed to the Election Commission (EC) to conduct the upcoming bypolls in 25 assembly seats as early as possible. “The day elections are held; this government will come to an end. Its only motive so far has been to lure Opposition MLAs and continue in office. We strongly appeal to the EC and a delegation of Congress leaders will also meet him to ensure that the bypolls are held soon,” Patwari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-shadow-cabinet-to-monitor-chouhan-govt/articleshow/76987715.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Rogue radio-collared elephant dies, wildlife activists up in arms||Dehradun: A 25-year-old rogue male elephant, which was radio-collared by forest officials on Monday morning, died within 24 hours of the move near Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR). The forest officials have claimed that the jumbo was in an injured state when it was radio-collared, adding that the injuries were of a minor nature. A team of three veterinary doctors along with more than a dozen forest staff had found the elephant in Kumeria-Mohan area, close to CTR in Almora forest division, on Monday morning and had radio-collared it. The pachyderm had trampled a school teacher a couple of months ago and had also caused traffic snarls in Almora and Ramnagar areas. The tusker’s carcass was found on Tuesday morning. The officials involved in tranquilising the jumbo said that it had sustained minor injuries and probably died in an in-fight after being radio-collared. “The tusker had very mild injuries and was given first-aid too. It possibly got into an in-fight with another tusker late on Monday night and got badly bruised. The elephant may have succumbed to its injuries and severe blood loss,” said Dushyant Sharma, veterinary doctor, CTR. Notably, this was the first attempt to radio-collar an elephant by forest officials. The permission to radio-collar elephants was given by the chief wildlife warden in January this year. Meanwhile, wildlife activists have expressed concern over the death and have raised questions over plans of radio-collaring rogue elephants of Rajaji and Haridwar forest divisions in the state to control human-elephant conflict before Kumbh Mela 2021. A wildlife activist from Ramnagar, on condition of anonymity, said, “Why was the elephant not being monitored overnight after it was radio-collared to avoid any in-fight in the first place? And if it was being monitored through radio-collaring technology, then how come the forest officials were not able to track the jumbo and save it from the other tusker?” Activists in the state believe that the elephants in the state are not rogue by nature. Instead, they are charging at people as their habitats are degrading and the corridors dedicated for them are fragmenting rapidly. “The state has always had the presence of elephants but they never attacked people. They are becoming violent only because their habitats have degraded severely and their corridors have fragmented heavily. The unprepared, unconstructed and under-constructed elephant corridors give a clear picture of the state’s concern for its elephants. The state government, along with scientists, should try to get into the root cause of the matter rather than killing innocent elephants,” said Dinesh Pandey, an environmental activist based in Haridwar. Animal rights' activist Gauri Maulekhi added, “These interventions are not really required. The forest department should try to protect the habitats of elephants rather than being overtly adventurous and experimental. Radio-collaring an elephant is an intrusion into a wild animal’s lifestyle and is disturbing for them. It should be discouraged.” Uttarakhand has around 2,026 elephants, according to the state’s latest survey and it has lost a dozen people to jumbo attacks in 2019. This year, five people have been killed by jumbos in the state. The state government has already decided to radio-collar some identified elephants to prevent chances of human-elephant conflict during the upcoming Mahakumbh. An amount of Rs 10 crore will also be released from CAMPA funds for the purpose. However, wildlife activists are of the view that the state government’s first and foremost focus should be on enhancing elephant corridors. “It would be better if the state government can look into its existing elephant corridors as they are in shambles at most of the places. This is the ultimate solution to check human-wildlife conflict incidents,” said Nainital-based veteran wildlife photographer Anup Shah. Meanwhile, CTR director Rahul told TOI, “The collaring was done as per the set protocols and the tusker died in an in-fight. The staff had monitored the jumbo overnight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rogue-radio-collared-elephant-dies-wildlife-activists-up-in-arms/articleshow/76985510.cms||Shivani Azad
July 16, 2020||Allahabad||Rakhis get culinary touch this yr, pizza toppings on sibling bonds||Prayagraj: Fast food appears to be inspiring art as rakhis in shapes of pizza, burger, noodles, paav bhaaji and dosa are in vogue this festival season, if retailers are to be belived. Prayagrah traders claim that rakhis based on fast food and other Indian dishes are in huge demand across the state. These rakhis are made of materials like plastic and silk thread, metal, pearls, plastic and glass beads and sandalwood. They are being sold in most shops, be it small or big, ahead of Rakshabandhan. Jai Saran Gupta, a wholesaler who deals in rakhis in Kothaparcha said, “These rakhis are the current hot favourites. They are being brought from Delhi and Haryana and are priced between Rs 10 and 30.” Available in a range of attractive colours, these rakhis are giving the traditional designs stiff competition this year. “Rakhis featuring fast food brand Maggie are popular among kids. Besides, those with silk threads, beads, peacock feathers or featuring religious symbols like swastika or Ganesha are among the other favourites in the market,” said a local retailer. Handmade silk rakhis from Varanasi are popular too among women in the city. City-based retailer Naveen said, “Every year, women look for different and new patterns. Rakhis shaped like South Indian dishes and other fast food is sure to attract a lot of buyers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rakhis-get-culinary-touch-this-yr-pizza-toppings-on-sibling-bonds/articleshow/76986952.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University extends application submission date till July 31||PRAYAGRAJ: In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, Allahabad University has extended the last date of submission of online application forms for admission in different courses to July 31. The decision was taken during a meeting of the admission committee headed by the officiating vice chancellor Prof R R Tiwari. The application process began on March 25, but as the pandemic hit the country with stronger force, it was discontinued. Before the discontinuation, 29,000 students had already registered themselves and 300 had deposited their fees as well. The admission committee had held a meeting on May 4 following which the application process resumed on May 10 onwards and was supposed to last till June 30. But it was extended till July 15, and and has again been extended till July 31. Director of admission, Prof Prashant Agarwal said, “The number of applicants is low this year as compared to previous years, hence we have extended the last date for for submitting applications till July 31.” “The application process for combined research entrance test (CRET) 2020 will also be announced soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-extends-application-submission-date-till-july-31/articleshow/76986972.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Business||GRID effect: 5 new IT parks to come up in East Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Even as the Telangana government is gearing up to roll out the GRID (Growth in Dispersion) policy to ensure dispersed growth of the IT sector across Hyderabad, five new IT parks are all set to come up in the eastern part of the city. To be spread across 35 acres, these new IT parks are slated to have a total built-up area of 25 lakh sq ft and generate about 30,000 jobs in addition to the 25,000 employees that are already currently working in the NSL IT Park and Genpact in the Uppal area. These new IT parks will come up in the industrial areas of Uppal and Nacharam after five companies applied for conversion of industrial parks to IT parks. These include Hyderabad Distilleries and Wineries Ltd, which has 12.4 acres in IDA-Uppal, Minacto Chem, which has 2.66 acres in IDA-Uppal, Swamy Soaps and Oils Ltd, which has 2 acres in IDA-Uppal, Gokuldas Exports Ltd mini textile park at Nacharam which has 8.93 acres and Bakelite Hylam Ltd that has 8 acres at IDA-Nacharam. Giving away the conversion letters to these companies on Wednesday, IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao said the eastern part of the city already houses companies such as Infosys and Genpact apart from a number of large, medium and small-scale enterprises and with the GRID policy more enterprises and investments will flow into this part of Hyderabad. He said the government will provide assistance to companies coming forward to set up shop on the eastern side of the city, which already has metro services and Shilparamam. The government is now strengthening the road network by constructing a skyway from Uppal to Narapally and a flyover from Amberpet to Ramanthapur, he explained. KTR also pointed out that the government had earlier asked highly polluting companies to move outside the ORR and is now contemplating allocating their land to IT companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/grid-effect-5-new-it-parks-to-come-up-in-east-hyderabad/articleshow/76987855.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts: Students should be wary of US U-turn on F1 visa||HYDERABAD: Welcoming the US government’s U-turn on the decision to send back foreign students, who are only attending online courses, experts are cautioning those concerned to remain wary till the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) makes its next move. The compromise in the Boston federal court regarding the reversal of the decision is not clear. NAAIS executive founder, Sudhanshu Kaushik said, “The judge who heard this case had left it ‘open’. This means, if authorities re-approach the case, they can put in a clause that affects prospective students,” says Kaushik. He added, “If you want to come to the US this fall and have the means to do so, come now.” Immigration attorney Rahul Reddy of Reddy and Neumann PC, also voiced concerns for prospective students. “If they do not have a visa yet, they still might be affected by the order.” Several prospective students speaking to TOI, on the condition of anonymity, said their chances to head to the US were almost nil, considering the US consulate in Hyderabad has not started processing visas. “I wanted to apply for an F1 visa, but before I could, the consulate was shut due to the lockdown. This, coupled with the order, makes it impossible for me to travel,” said one student, who resides in Banjara Hills. Another student from LB Nagar pointed out that the visas for the UK were already being processed and he would look in that direction instead of waiting. “It seems unlikely that the consulate will process any new applications considering the backlog it has to clear. It is better to look at other options,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-students-should-be-wary-of-us-u-turn-on-f1-visa/articleshow/76988536.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||‘Never took tuition, self-study clicked’||JAIPUR: Mrinal Maheshwari of Ryan International School in Jaipur scored 98.8% in CBSE Class X examination. Giving credit of her achievement to parents, Maheshwari said that she wasn’t expecting this good result. “I expected above 90%, but such a good result was a surprise. I worked hard for my set target and performed well in pre-board examinations. I never took any tuition and self-studied with discipline. I think that paid off,” she said. She has decided to take Commerce in Class XI and wants to pursue chartered accountancy. “Science is a bit difficult for me, so made extra efforts in that subject. I completed Science subject early and practised last years’ question papers to understand the pattern which helped me a lot,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/never-took-tuition-self-study-clicked/articleshow/76988533.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Focus & consistency were Kartik Laddhar’s mantra||JAIPUR: Kartik Laddhar, student of Maheshwari Public School in Jawahar Nagar, scored 99.17% in Class X CBSE examination. Kartik said consistency is important with focus to get good results. “I never studied more than four hours in a day. I completed my entire syllabus by January which gave me time to revise it again. I solved at least 10 years’ question papers through which I understood paper pattern. My systematic studies helped me achieve this,” said Laddhar. He has decided to take Science+ Mathematics in Class XI and will be applying for engineering colleges like his elder sister who is currently studying in IIT Bombay. Laddhar’s father is a chartered accountant and mother a home-maker. “I was little nervous about social science subjects. Hence, I completed my syllabus early and then started revising it. It gave me an edge. I made small notes for last-minute preparations. It is better to be positive in examination time and don’t be nervous. This is not the only examination where you can judge your capabilities,” said Laddhar. While giving message to other students, Kartik said to focus on completing the syllabus as well as revision. “Already 30% syllabus is cut, so it is better to prepare whatever time students have. They need to be sure to have some time for revision. I have seen students studying from content they get from various tuitions. Focus on NCERT books and revise. That is enough,” said Kartik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/focus-consistency-were-kartiks-mantra/articleshow/76988530.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Cuttack||CBSE Class X: Boys outshine girls in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the Class X results on Wednesday with Bhubaneswar region, comprising Odisha, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh, recording a pass percentage of 93.02%. The Kendriya Vidyalayas excelled with 99.40 pass percentage followed by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas with 99.23% and 94.26% by independent schools. As many as 98,826 students from 1154 schools appeared for the examination in 321 centres under the Bhubaneswar region. Contrary to the national trend, boys outperformed girls in the state with a pass percentage of 93.21% against that of 92.74% by girls. A total of 36,735 students had appeared for the exam in the state. Schools across the state have registered spectacular performances. While most city schools have recorded 100% pass outs, a number of students have scored above 99%. Gyanadeep Paul of DAV Public School, Unit-8, has secured 496 out of 500 (99.4%) followed by Shreya Mohapatra and Smaran Sivam, who scored 99.2% and 99%, respectively. The school recorded 100 per cent results with 176 of 270 students scoring above 90%. Biswajeet Nayak of DAV Public School, Pokhariput, also secured 99.4% while Tanmaya Mohapatra stood second with 99% and Ayush Pattojoshi third with 98.8%. Ninety-three of the school’s 180 students scored above 90%. Students of ODM Public School, Priya Somadutta Nayak, Ankita Mondal and Ritika Behera scored 99.2% to top the school. While all the 232 students of the school have passed with 60% marks, of whom Ritik Ranjan Rath and Subha Krishna Agnee secured second and third positions with 98.6% and 98.4%, respectively. Besides, eight students scored above 98%, 11 above 97%, 18 more than 96% besides 81 students above 90%. Tanmana Mishra of DAV Public School, Chandrasekharpur, topped with 495 marks (99%) followed by Shubhangi Nayak and Tarun Kumar Dora with 494 (98.8 %). Many students have got 100 marks in subjects like mathematics, science, social science, Odia and Sanskrit. SAI International School continued with the good result, with full pass percentage and 99% of the students scoring above 75%. Sutirth Rath with 98.4% is the school topper followed by Snehal Sujal Mohanty in second with 98.2%. Ankan Mohapatra with 98% at the third place. Students of SAI International Residential School have also scored full pass percentage where Manvi Agarwal and Shradha Agrawal jointly took the top spot with 96.8%. Students of DPS Kalinga have also excelled in the Class X exam with Ananya Samanta scoring 98.8%. Nearly 50% of the students who appeared for the exam scored 90% and above. The Kendriya Vidyalayas in the city have also scored well. Suryadeep Mallick of KV-1 has topped the school with 98.4% marks. Students of KiiT International School also posted cent percent results with Subhomita Chakraborty topping the institute with 98% and 35% of the students scoring above 90%. DAV Public School, IFFCO, in Paradip also got all pass outs with Sangeeta Lagnalabdha Das scoring 97.8% marks. Odisha Adarsha Vidyalayas, the state-run English medium schools, have also fared well in the board exams. A total of 5,430 students from 100 Adarsh Vidyalayas appeared for the exam among whom Sanskriti Khamari of Patharchepa Adarsha Vidyalaya in Balangir has topped with 98.8% marks. Seven Adarsh Vidyalayas have got cent percent pass outs while 295 students of the schools have achieved 90% and above. (EOM)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/cbse-class-x-boys-outshine-girls-in-state/articleshow/76994743.cms||Minati Singha
July 16, 2020||Kochi||TVM region tops CBSE Class X results||Kochi: After securing top position in the CBSE Class XII exams, Trivandrum region, comprising schools in Kerala and Lakshadweep, has retained the spot in Class X exams too with a pass percentage of 99.28%. More than 95% schools in Kerala secured 100% pass in the exam. This year, the overall pass percentage of CBSE Class X exam was 91.46%, a 0.36% rise from the previous year. Chennai (98.95%) and Bengaluru (98.23%) secured second and third places, respectively. Guwahati region scored the least with a pass percentage of 79.12%. Out of the 70,992 students, including 35,475 boys and 35,517 girls, from 1,310 schools who appeared for the exam from 235 exam centres in Trivandrum region, 70,483 students (35,115 boys and 35,368 girls) passed. Girls outshined boys this year too with 99.58% and 98.99% pass, respectively. Even though the marks percentage of most students have increased, teachers said the number of students who got A1 in all subjects has decreased compared to previous year. As many students scored higher marks than previous years, the percentile score for subjects, especially languages French and Malayalam, too became higher making a higher A1 cutoff. “This year the A1 cut-off for French and Malayalam is 99% compared to 95% or 96% in the previous years. Thirty-nine students in our school missed full A1 just because they lost A1 in languages. It will be the same for other schools too,” said Juby Paul, principal of Toc-H Public School, Vyttilla. Meanwhile, in the state/Union territory-wise ranking, Kerala secured fourth position with 99.30% pass after Tamil Nadu (99.61%), Puducherry (99.49%) and Andhra Pradesh (99.44%). Out of the 70,707 students (35,343 boys and 35,364 girls) who had appeared for the exam from Kerala schools, 70,212 students (34,990 boys and 35,222 girls) passed. Girls outshined boys in the state with 99.6% and 99% pass, respectively. A total of 503 students in Trivandrum region were placed in the compartment. They will have to appear in the compartmental exam to be held later in order to pass in the failed subjects. There were no cases of unfair means during exams reported in Trivandrum region. Guwahati and Panchkula topped in unfair means with eight cases each. In the disabled category too, Trivandrum region topped with 99.05% pass. A total of 523 out of 528 students passed the exam. While 23 among them scored between 90%-95% marks, six students scored above 95%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tvm-region-tops-cbse-class-x-results/articleshow/76986518.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CBSE Class X: Boys outshine girls in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the Class X results on Wednesday with Bhubaneswar region, comprising Odisha, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh, recording a pass percentage of 93.02%. The Kendriya Vidyalayas excelled with 99.40 pass percentage followed by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas with 99.23% and 94.26% by independent schools. As many as 98,826 students from 1154 schools appeared for the examination in 321 centres under the Bhubaneswar region. Contrary to the national trend, boys outperformed girls in the state with a pass percentage of 93.21% against that of 92.74% by girls. A total of 36,735 students had appeared for the exam in the state. Schools across the state have registered spectacular performances. While most city schools have recorded 100% pass outs, a number of students have scored above 99%. Gyanadeep Paul of DAV Public School, Unit-8, has secured 496 out of 500 (99.4%) followed by Shreya Mohapatra and Smaran Sivam, who scored 99.2% and 99%, respectively. The school recorded 100 per cent results with 176 of 270 students scoring above 90%. Biswajeet Nayak of DAV Public School, Pokhariput, also secured 99.4% while Tanmaya Mohapatra stood second with 99% and Ayush Pattojoshi third with 98.8%. Ninety-three of the school’s 180 students scored above 90%. Students of ODM Public School, Priya Somadutta Nayak, Ankita Mondal and Ritika Behera scored 99.2% to top the school. While all the 232 students of the school have passed with 60% marks, of whom Ritik Ranjan Rath and Subha Krishna Agnee secured second and third positions with 98.6% and 98.4%, respectively. Besides, eight students scored above 98%, 11 above 97%, 18 more than 96% besides 81 students above 90%. Tanmana Mishra of DAV Public School, Chandrasekharpur, topped with 495 marks (99%) followed by Shubhangi Nayak and Tarun Kumar Dora with 494 (98.8 %). Many students have got 100 marks in subjects like mathematics, science, social science, Odia and Sanskrit. SAI International School continued with the good result, with full pass percentage and 99% of the students scoring above 75%. Sutirth Rath with 98.4% is the school topper followed by Snehal Sujal Mohanty in second with 98.2%. Ankan Mohapatra with 98% at the third place. Students of SAI International Residential School have also scored full pass percentage where Manvi Agarwal and Shradha Agrawal jointly took the top spot with 96.8%. Students of DPS Kalinga have also excelled in the Class X exam with Ananya Samanta scoring 98.8%. Nearly 50% of the students who appeared for the exam scored 90% and above. The Kendriya Vidyalayas in the city have also scored well. Suryadeep Mallick of KV-1 has topped the school with 98.4% marks. Students of KiiT International School also posted cent percent results with Subhomita Chakraborty topping the institute with 98% and 35% of the students scoring above 90%. DAV Public School, IFFCO, in Paradip also got all pass outs with Sangeeta Lagnalabdha Das scoring 97.8% marks. Odisha Adarsha Vidyalayas, the state-run English medium schools, have also fared well in the board exams. A total of 5,430 students from 100 Adarsh Vidyalayas appeared for the exam among whom Sanskriti Khamari of Patharchepa Adarsha Vidyalaya in Balangir has topped with 98.8% marks. Seven Adarsh Vidyalayas have got cent percent pass outs while 295 students of the schools have achieved 90% and above. (EOM)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cbse-class-x-boys-outshine-girls-in-state/articleshow/76987791.cms||Minati Singha
July 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Plasma therapy for critically-ill to be free of cost: CM Naveen Patnaik||BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday said the state will facilitate plasma therapy for the critically-ill Covid patients free of cost. “My government is committed towards providing advanced medical care and treatment to the people infected with Covid-19 in Odisha. For me and my government, life of every person is precious and the state will do everything possible to save lives. Plasma therapy will be made available free of cost to the people,” said Naveen while inaugurating the state’s first plasma bank at SCB Medical College, Cuttack, through video-conference. Odisha, which has reported 77 Covid deaths so far, is the third state after Delhi and Maharashtra to start plasma therapy for the critically-ill. The chief minister said his government would provide the highest standards of medical care and treatment for Covid patients. “No one in Odisha will be deprived of access to latest medical technology. This is a solemn commitment of this government,” Naveen added. While SCB Medical College will be the nodal agency for plasma therapy, three Covid hospitals – SUM Hospital, KIMS Hospital (both in Bhubaneswar) and Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack will facilitate plasma therapy treatment. As the state’s Covid-19 recovery crossed the 10,000 mark on Wednesday, Naveen also lauded the doctors and medical personnel for their hard work in serving the people in these difficult times. “We need to encourage and boost their morale,” he underlined. While congratulating four former patients who have recovered from Covid and volunteered to donate their plasma, Naveen appealed to all eligible Covid survivors to come forward and donate their plasma saying it will go a long way in helping the treatment of serious patients. Chid Bhusan Panda, a paediatrician, Pankaj Kumar Behera, Manoj Kumar Baral and Abinash Rout are the first plasma donors in the state. “Despite being a doctor, I was infected with Covid-19. With the blessings of the almighty and prayer of the people, I have now fully recovered. I have decided to donate my plasma so that other critically-ill persons can recover from Covid,” said the paediatrician. Twelve more recovered patients including Salipur MLA Prasanta Behera have also come forward to donate their plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/plasma-therapy-for-critically-ill-to-be-free-of-cost-cm/articleshow/76987841.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two panels to usher in education reforms||NEW DELHI: Stating that Delhi government wants to take education to the next level, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has said the performance of its schools in the past five years has shown what they can achieve within the existing education system. “Now our aim is to redefine the education system to prepare our students for the challenges of the 21st century world,” the education minister said on Tuesday, convening the first joint meeting of Curriculum Reform and Delhi Education Board Committees. Sisodia announced the constitution of the two committees, which will prepare the scheme and framework for formation of Delhi Education Board and curriculum reforms. Delhi government had announced the plan in the budget 2020-21. “Our Delhi government schools have showcased exemplary performance in Class XII board exam results. This is a reflection of the work that has been done in the last five years,” said Sisodia. The two committees will study global best practices in learning assessment, re-imagine current curricula and assessment practices, and provide a roadmap for an innovative, student-friendly scheme of assessment to be followed by the new board for pre-primary, primary and upper-primary stages. The committees will also suggest appropriate pedagogical practices. Delhi government under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has shown what can be done within the existing system by bringing about massive transformation in the quality of education, Sisodia said. Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School, said special focus should be given to developing students’ agency and encouraging them to take ownership of their learning. “In class, the students should actively engage, think, collaborate and share their ideas. Developing students’ ownership is important to improve the quality of teaching-learning and the overall education system,” she said. Ankur Sarin of IIM Ahmedabad said there should be a balance between the inward-looking mindset and the outward ambition to think beyond Delhi. Wilima Wadhwa, a member of the board committee of Delhi education department and director of ASER (Annual Status of Education Report) Centre, said a proper system of feedback mechanism needed to be established in schools to motivate students to own their learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-panels-to-usher-in-edu-reforms/articleshow/76988582.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||$151bn for fossil fuels, $89bn for green energy in pandemic aid||Nagpur: The G20 nations, which are reportedly responsible for around 80% of global greenhouse gas emissions, have committed $151 billion in support of fossil fuels while dedicating only $89 billion towards clean energy since the beginning of the pandemic. A new research released by 14 worldwide organizations reveals that India has committed around $8.9 billion to fossil fuels and only $1 billion to clean energy. According to it, the biggest fossil policy that the country is investing in is commercial mining of coal. On the other hand, the country’s biggest green policy has been providing free solar power to farmers in Andhra Pradesh. Of the policies committing money to fossil fuels globally, only 20% make this financial support conditional on green requirements, such as setting climate targets or implementing pollution reduction plans. At the same time, $89 billion has been committed to clean energy but 81% of this support is unspecific about the appropriate environmental safeguards. The data further highlights that while committed support for clean energy amounted to $89 billion till now, only $16 billion has been committed to support unconditionally clean energy such as solar or wind. The research will be released on the Energy Policy Tracker, a new website that will provide weekly updates to how much public money governments are spending for polluting or clean energy. With G20 finance ministers due to meet on July 18 and 19, this research stresses that current Covid-19 recovery packages are setting the world on a dangerous course to massively invest in fossil fuels, despite repeated pledges from world leaders that a green recovery is the only possible solution. “Under the guise of Covid-19 recovery spending, governments are pouring huge volumes of public money into the struggling fossil fuel industry, wasting an opportunity to fight the climate crisis, while enriching big polluters,” says Alex Doukas, program director at Oil Change International, adding that fossil fuels were a bad investment even before the pandemic began. Angela Picciariello, senior research officer at Overseas Development Institute, said, “In spite of the great number of clean policies being approved by governments in recent months, the tracking system shows how the fossil fuel industry has continued to aggressively lobby policymakers. This has resulted in some so-called conditional fossil fuel policies that nevertheless lock in dangerous emissions for decades to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/151bn-for-fossil-fuels-89bn-for-green-energy-in-pandemic-aid/articleshow/76988538.cms||Manka Behl
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Asymptomatic patients to now get siddha care||Coimbatore: The district administration has postponed the inauguration of siddha treatment for covid-19 patients to Thursday, due to some technical difficulties. They will begin treating around 20 asymptomatic patients at the Covid care centre at Codissia trade fair complex. The treatment will include administering kabasura kudineer, siddha tablets, a syrup and yoga training for half an hour a day. However, if patients want the supplements being given to allopathic patients, that too will be permitted. The 25-bed facility was set up to treat asymptomatic patients. The siddha treatment was to commence at the facility on Wednesday after a formal inauguration by district collector K Rajamani. The event was postponed by a day after the collector tested positive for the virus. The AYUSH team will depute four doctors – two in as many shifts – for the purpose. A yoga practitioner would also visit the facility once a week and teach them breathing techniques and other exercises. The treatment includes giving hot salt water for gargling to patients, followed by herbal tea, a walk, pranayama for half an hour and then kabasura kudineer and medicines. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/asymptomatic-patients-to-now-get-siddha-care/articleshow/76988540.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar surveillance on four lakh and counting||BHUBANESWAR: In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the capital city has put nearly four lakh people, out of its 10 lakh population, under active surveillance and conducted 34,883 tests since April. About 40% of the population has been covered in six phases. Of the total samples tested, 859 tested positive for Covid-19. The city’s positivity rate stands at 2.3%, which is less than half of the state’s average of 4.21%. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said some people who were not under surveillance like migrant returnees and frontline workers tested positive. “In six phases, we have screened nearly four lakh people. The surveillance will continue in the same localities as well as new areas so that the entire population is covered,” he added. Notably, the state government had on June 16 launched a campaign for door-to-door surveillance of every household, irrespective of the vulnerable pockets in the city. It was aimed at reducing local cases (not quarantined and suspected to have contracted the virus from positive patients) as there was a significant rise in such cases. More than 1,000 people including health workers — Asha and ANM, Mahila Arogya Samiti (MAS) members and anganwadi workers — have been roped in to carry out active surveillance in the city. In April, when the surveillance started, the BMC had trained 350 Anganwadi workers. Jagadish Rath, a pulmonologist in a private hospital, said, “The entire population should be brought under active surveillance. There is noroom for complacency. It can help in the detection of both symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. This apart, people who are already under surveillance and have tested negative, should be screened at regular intervals, especially in vulnerable pockets.” The capital city reported 90 fresh cases on Wednesday, which is the highest single- day surge till date. Among the infected persons, 63 were under quarantine (home and institutional) and 27 are locals. One case each has been reported from Rasulgarh, Nayapalli, Jharpada, Unit-VI, Pokhriput, Hanspal, Pahala and Mancheswar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-surveillance-on-four-lakhand-counting/articleshow/76987876.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||Chaimar gang member wanted by police of three states arrested after encounter||BAREILLY: A member of Chaimar gang — carrying a collective bounty of Rs 70,000 and was wanted by police of three states in cases of dacoity — was arrested after an encounter with a joint team of police and special task force (STF) in Budaun on Tuesday night. A sub-inspector and the criminal sustained injuries during the encounter. Police said when the joint team was checking vehicles at Kurai road bypass in Budaun on Tuesday night, they signalled two people astride a motorcycle to stop, but they opened fire at the team members, injuring sub-inspector Ramendra Singh, who is posted at Budaun kotwali. As the joint team returned fire, said police, one of the accused sustained bullet injuries, while his aide managed to flee. The injured accused, identified as Muvin, a resident of Saidpur under Wazirganj police station of Budaun, was arrested and admitted to the district hospital, along with the SI. Police said Muvin has four cases lodged against him —two in UP's Farukkhabad and one each in Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj and Rajasthan’s Udhyognagar. Farrukhabad police had announced a cash reward of Rs 60,000 on information leading to his arrest, while police in Rajasthan and Uttarakhand had, too, declared a reward of Rs 5,000 each. Budaun senior superintendent of police Ashok Kumar Tripathi said, “The accused is an active member of the Chaimar gang and has dacoity cases lodged against him. Apart from UP, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand police had also announced cash rewards on him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/chaimar-gang-member-wanted-by-policeof-three-states-arrested-after-encounter/articleshow/76984650.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur girl scores 99.6%, says hard work is the key||JAIPUR: With 99.6% marks, Ananya Solanki of Neerja Modi High School in Jaipur, secured the top rank in the state in CBSE Class X examination. “I was sure about good results, but wasn’t expecting to top in the state,” said Ananya with joy. Explaining about the preparation, she said that her daily task helped her out. “In my school, our syllabus was completed by October. I was used to revise whatever is taught in the school. For any problem, my teachers were available for me,” said Ananya. Ananya’s parents are both doctors. Theoretical subjects are not Ananya’s forte which is why she has decided to take Science+ Biology in her Class XII. She said, “I was nervous for my social science paper. I made extra efforts for it. I studied every day. I made small notes for the chapters in social science from NCERT books. Daily revision helped me a lot as the chapters were imprinted in my brain. Got good result for all the hard work.” While giving message to other students, Ananya insisted not to get anxious during examinations. “Nobody taught us how to handle pressure because of the nervousness. I would suggest students not to worry about anything and just focus on their own studies. Just do your best and don’t get nervous about the results. Most students make mistakes in examinations due to this. Be confident,” said Ananya. She further suggests students not to judge their capabilities on the basis of board results. “No one would care about my marks after five years. You cannot judge a student’s capability on the basis of marks. May be that person is a good artist. Academics are not everything to succeed in life,” said Ananya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-girl-scores-99-6-says-hard-work-is-the-key/articleshow/76988537.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: In 15 days, number of Covid-19 patients at home halves, 25,866 people recover||CHENNAI: In the past 15 days, when the number of Covid-19 inpatients in city hospitals and Covid care centres has declined, the number of people in home isolation has also halved. As on July 14, 6,812 patients are in home isolation, 3,908 in Covid care centres and 5,094 in hospitals. Two weeks ago, 11,493 patients were in home isolation, 6,250 in hospitals and 4,867 in care centres. Besides, 25,866 people have recovered in the last 15 days – the most on July 10 (2,869), July 7, (2,853) and July 6 (2,573). Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner, G Prakash said the the number of cases would dip further. "We have been able to cross 13th day post the lockdown with no spike in cases. The numbers should decline soon. Our focus is now to reduce fatalities. We have held discussions to take measures that would ensure patients with strong symptoms get treated even before their test results come," he said. The number of doctors, nurses, screening centres and treatment facilities will be strengthened further. "We will also encourage community participation in flattening the spread by enabling residential welfare association to be part of the disease prevention strategy through awareness and making them stakeholders in the process to enforce self-discipline in their neighbourhoods," said joint commissioner (health) P Madhusudhan Reddy. Epidiomologists, however, say the dip in cases is due to increased testing, strengthening of surveillance and the lockdown effect. The TPR (test positivity rate), a measurable quantity to check the spread, dropped to 8% on Wednesday. P Ganeshkumar, assistant director of National Institute of Epidemiology, said there was no doubt there was a positive trend. "When we increase testing and strengthen surveillance, we do not just identify more cases but also identify them early which limits the spread. But recovery from the infection depends on various factors. However, corporation’s role in setting up screening centres and ensuring that every positive patient gets treatment based on their symptoms within hours of getting their test results has helped," he said. An exclusive team at the control room ensures the patient gets a bed or required treatment immediately, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-15-days-no-of-patients-at-home-halves-25k-recover/articleshow/76988539.cms||Komal Gautham
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lieutenant governor, AAP government in public prosecutor row||NEW DELHI: A fresh round of confrontation seems to have erupted between the AAP government and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal after the elected dispensation rejected Delhi Police’s proposal to appoint its choice of lawyers as special public prosecutors for the northeast Delhi riot and anti-citizenship amendment Act protest cases in the high court. Using his special powers under the Constitution of India, Baijal has called the file from the AAP government, a source said. Delhi Police on July 10 sent a proposal to the AAP government to appoint six senior lawyers, including Tushar Mehta and Aman Lekhi, to represent the prosecution in 85 cases, said a source. But deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is looking after the home department in absence of Satyendar Jain, rejected the proposal, stating Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra and his team was “capable” of representing the state and a separate appointment by the Centre was not required, the source said. While the LG’s office could not be contacted for a comment, the AAP government refused to react on the matter. Sources called it a “deliberate” attempt by the Centre to take control of these cases in both lower courts and the high court. “It is the first time that a team of prosecutors appointed by Delhi Police, which reports to the Centre, will represent the state in both lower and higher courts. The power to appoint the public prosecutors lies with the elected dispensation,” a source said. The LG had “forced” the AAP government to accept Delhi Police’s proposal to appoint 11 public prosecutors to represent the state in lower courts in these cases in May, the source alleged. After Delhi government pointed out “technical irregularities”, the LG had asked Delhi Police to nominate a new team. When the second proposal was also rejected, the LG, using powers under Article 239AA (4) of the Constitution, invoked the provision of “difference of opinion” and referred the matter to the President while allowing Delhi Police to go ahead with its team of public prosecutors in the lower courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lg-aap-govt-in-public-prosecutor-row/articleshow/76987910.cms||Atul Mathur
July 16, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar cops thrash trader, son for not wearing masks||RAJKOT: A garment trader and his son, who were arrested for not wearing masks, are battling severe injuries after being allegedly thrashed by policemen of Kalavad police station of Jamnagar district. Jamnagar superintendent of police (SP) Sharad Singhal has suspended four policemen following a massive outrage over the alleged excesses. Victims Ghanshyam Udesinh (56) and his son Nishant (28) were caught for not wearing masks and not ensuring social distancing among customers in their shop in Kalavad town on Wednesday. Police said the head constable Bharatsinh Kyor and constables — Vasudevsinh Jadeja, Ashoksinh Jadeja and Nikunj Jesadia — rounded up the duo and brought them to the police station. “They first brought Nishant to the police station where he started filming the proceedings on his cellphone. This angered the cops and led to ruckus. After sometime, his father also came there and then four policemen thrashed the duo with sticks,” said KJ Bhoi, inspector with Kalavad police station. The incident triggered widespread protests among the traders who gathered at the police station. They approached the SP who suspended the four cops late in the night. Singhal visited Kalavad and suspended them with immediate effect. Talking to TOI, Singhal said, “An inquiry has been assigned to deputy SP, Jamnagar rural. Under no circumstances, such behaviour will be tolerated in the police department. More stringent sections will be added if the medical report of the victims reveals severe injury.” The four accused cops have been booked under sections 323 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code dealing with physical torture. Meanwhile, the police also lodged a counter complaint against Ghanshyam and Nishant for allegedly vandalizing the police station, breaking a computer set, attacking a cop and obstructing cops from performing their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-thrash-trader-son-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76986535.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Graduate held for aiding Chinese cyber gang dupe bizman of Rs 17 lakh||HYDERABAD: An engineering graduate from Kondapur, who was working with China-based cybercrooks, was arrested on the charges of duping gullible people in the name of online forex trading. The fraudsters have been luring unsuspecting victims through Tinder, Cyberabad cybercrime police said. Based on a complaint from a businessman K Umakanth (who lost Rs 17.5 lakh to the fraudsters) on June 30, cops took up the probe and zeroed in on Mohammed Irfan. With his help, cops arrested K Rajesh Kumar, a BTech graduate from Kondapur, who was providing the key accused, Mike, of China with local bank account numbers. “Rajesh met Mike alias Sean in China when he went there in 2018 on a business purpose. Since then, Rajesh has been helping Mike and his associate Mina by providing them with details of three local bank accounts of his friends. Rajesh collects his commission and transfers money to Mike in Bitcoins,” inspector K Srinivas said. Police believe the accused has duped several others across the country and sought custody of Rajesh to interrogate him. Umakanth met Mina through Tinder a few months ago and began chatting with her using WeChat. After gaining his trust, Mina suggested to Umakanth to invest in forex to make quick profits. Mina also advised Umakanth to talk to her friend Mike who, she said, had good experience in forex trade. As told, Umakanth contacted Mike through WeChat and on his advice, opened an account with an online forex trade website. Subsequently, Umakanth transferred Rs 2.3 lakh into the account of Irfan as an initial trading investment. “Umakanth received good profit in the trading initially. Believing that Mike is good at trading, Umakanth transferred another Rs 15.2 lakh into Irfan’s account. When he did not get returns, Umakanth realised he was taken for a ride. He tried to get his money back but the accused would not answer his calls,” cybercrime ACP Ch Y Srinivasa Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graduate-held-for-aiding-chinese-cyber-gang-dupe-bizman-of-rs-17l/articleshow/76988597.cms||Mahesh Buddi
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Parents, teachers hail HRD ministry’s norms on e-classes||JAIPUR: After a long wait for parents and schools, Union Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry has released guidelines for online classes named ‘Pragyata’. The state government has recently issued guidelines to regularize the online classes for students but with HRD guidelines in places, many important changes could be made regarding it. All the states have been required to come out with their own detailed guidelines by adapting or modifying these guidelines in accordance with their requirements and assessment of the local situation. Sourabh Swami, director of directorate of secondary education, Bikaner said that the government is planning to take necessary steps keeping in mind the HRD guidelines. Parents in the state have welcomed the guidelines. President of Rajasthan Abhibhavak Sangh Sushil Sharma said that this will create pressure on schools. “Online classes have created a burden on parents financially and creating health problems among children according to the recent study by J K Lon Hospital. We wanted some regularization on these classes. Schools have completed more syllabus in online classes than they used do in classroom teaching to justify their fees. Though Rajasthan government has issued the guidelines, but HRD will create more pressure on the schools and government to follow them.” HRD guidelines state that schools must plan keeping in mind the age and class of the children’s and resources available at home. One of the most important features of guidelines is for teachers. It mentions, “School heads should not expect teachers to be engaged in six to eight hours of online teaching in a day. Rather they may be engaged for about two to three hours of online activities per day for the classes they teach.” A private school teacher from Jaipur said, “We are overburdened with work. Half of our school staff is laid off and other half is made to work for seven to eight hours a day. Some classes are set in the evening and some in the morning. I am glad that teachers will be given some rest as well if these guidelines are implemented properly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-teachers-hail-hrd-ministrys-norms-on-e-classes/articleshow/76988549.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kanpur||135 test Covid-19 positive in Jhansi||Jhansi: A corona positive man died, while 135 persons were tested Covid-19 positive here on Wednesday. All the cases have been reported from the existing containment zones. DM Jhansi Andra Vamsi said that the count of total positive cases in the district has gone up to 865 of which 253 have been discharged including 27 on Wednesday. The Covid toll in the district has reached 41. The deceased is a 49-year-old man from Ganesh Madiya in old city. The present case fatality rate is 4.7. The total number of active cases in the district is 571. On Tuesday, 127 positive cases were reported while three persons had died. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/135-test-covid-19-positive-in-jhansi/articleshow/76987939.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kanpur||Another audio goes viral, Dubey aide’s wife detained||Kanpur: A new audio of a call recording between Manu, the wife of slain gangster Vikas D ubey’s aide Sashikant, with her brother went viral on Wednesday. In the conversation, Manu is heard telling her brother in Bhopal that she has already destroyed one SIM card and tells him repeatedly to delete call details from his phone as well. She also tells him that Kallu has been arrested by police. In apparent reference to Sashikant, her brother says he will not take names, but he is safe. On Tuesday, in a call recording with Dubey’s sister-in-law Manu had admitted that Vikas and his men had killed the policemen, and discussed ways to dispose the mobile phones and mislead police. As the audios reveal role of women, police detained Manu for questioning in the case and deferred the decision to get slain Amar Dubey’s wife Khushi out of jail. On Monday, Kanpur police had announced they would request the court to order release of slain Amar Dubey’s wife from jail as no concrete evidence against her were found during investigation. “Going by the conversation in audios, it is proven that the women members helped the criminals, so we have dropped the idea of releasing Amar Dubey’s widow. We will conduct a fresh probe in this regard and consult legal experts and then come to any decision,” said SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu. Amar Dubey was killed in a police encounter in Hamirpur five days after the botched police raid at Bikru village. Khushi was arrested on July 9. Amar and Khushi had got married on June 29. Their marriage was solemnised at Vikas Dubey’s residence as Khushi’s parents were against the wedding. Khushi had shifted to her in-laws place at Bikru village on June 30, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/another-audio-goes-viral-dubey-aides-wife-detained/articleshow/76987931.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||30 new cases in Amt||Amravati: A spike of 30 new cases on Thursday and a death of a 60-year-old man at GMCH, Nagpur took the district’s Covid count to 1,089 and death toll to 37.Though health administration here did not mention the death in its report, GMCH confirmed that the deceased was from Ishabgaon and was referred to it on July 11 after testing positive on July 2 at Best Hospital here.As many as 49 patients got discharge which took the count of recovered patients to 716. As of Thursday, the number of active cases is 336, including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur.Four cases were from Ambikanagar and Badnera each. Surajnagar, Sajiyanagar and Khaparde Bagicha reported their first cases while Rampuri Camp, Namuna, Hanumannagar in Gadgenagar ward and Hanumannagar under Kholapuri Gate, Gopal Nagar, Dattakrupa Colony, Chaprasipura, Hamalpura and Kholapuri Gate added a case each. One case, a male aged 60, also came from rural part, Purnanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/30-new-cases-in-amt/articleshow/77017849.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer: KVS again beats JNV, private schools below par||AJMER: Kendriya Vidylaya Sangathan (KVS) schools have again topped in CBSE Class X exam from Ajmer region with a pass percentage of 99.32. Last year, the pass percentage was slightly better at 99.37 per cent. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya bagged the No. 2 spot in performance with 98.7 per cent. Last year it had scored 98.73 per cent. Independent schools in Ajmer region including those from Rajasthan, Gujarat and Dadar and Nagar Haveli had a pass percentage of 96.90, a slight improvement from last year’s 95.68 per cent. Government schools stood fourth in performance having a pass percentage of 94.82. Private schools came last with 27.54 per cent. In 2019, private schools had a success rate of just 11.86 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/kvs-again-beats-jnv-pvt-schools-below-par/articleshow/76988553.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Stores selling flu medicines without noting buyer’s details||BHUBANESWAR: Amid the grim scenario of surging Covid cases in the state, some pharmacy stores are selling medicines to people with virus symptoms without noting down their phone number, let alone their address. This is a gross violation of the directive of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) asking chemists and druggists to furnish information about people buying medicines for cold, cough, fever and sore throat. An inquiry by this reporter revealed that medicines are being sold over the counter in violation of the government order. The drugs control administration had issued an advisory to medicine shops to keep a record of people purchasing flu medicines as authorities suspect they could be used to suppress symptoms of the novel coronavirus with an intent to skip testing. When approached to suggest a medicine for cough and fever, the salesman of a chemist shop in Jaydev Vihar readily offered tablets of parcetamol composition and a cough syrup from his own side. Another store owner in Baramunda too suggested the names of medicines on his own. When asked to give something for mild fever and cough, he gave Parasafe tablets. Two other stores in Bapujinagar and Patia too were ready to sell without enquiring further. A BMC official said the retail medicine stores have been given a format to furnish the details of such people and submit them to the drug inspectors. The drug inspectors are then required to prepare a list of such people area-wise for Covid test. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Choudhury said, “Drugs inspectors are regularly collecting the formats with details from chemists. The hospitals are also furnishing the details.” On the charges that druggists are ignoring the BMC order, he said, “The civic body will inquire if there is any specific allegation.” The city has more than 400 retail medicine outlets. Chaudhury said since they don’t want a single suspected Covid patient to slip out of their surveillance, they have roped in retail medicine outlets and resident welfare associations to collect the details of people buying such medicines. Drugs controller Mamina Patnaik said, “Keeping a track of patients is the function of the surveillance team of not our department. That is an order issued by individual district collectors and municipal commissioners. I have asked to submit a copy of the same to me by the drugs inspectors to keep a data of whether the medicine stores are actually keeping a record or not.” Patnaik added, “All medicines are not prescription drugs for which action has to be taken. Action will be taken against chemists for selling prescription drugs over the counter.” Utkal Chemists and Druggists Association president P Satyanarayan refuted the allegation that medicine shops are not adhering to norms. “Medicine stores are keeping a record of patients buying cold, cough, fever and flu drugs. All the chemists have been strictly asked not to give medicines for these diseases without prescription.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/some-pharmacy-stores-in-city-selling-flu-medicines-without-noting-down-buyers-details/articleshow/76987901.cms||Pritiman Mohapatra
July 16, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi municipal corporation may scrap fire NOC for hotels below 12 metres||NEW DELHI: In yet another dilution of rules after last year’s blaze at Hotel Arpit Palace, which had claimed 17 lives, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) now wants to relax the fire no objection certificate (NOC) rules for lodging houses below the height of 12 metres. SDMC wants to start an affidavit-based system for complying with fire safety norms. The civic body’s commissioner, in a letter to the standing committee, stated that while buildings with a height of above 12m height would have to submit an NOC from Delhi Fire Service (DFS), other applicants would have to just file an affidavit stating that they had “complied with all fire safety measures.” The affidavit would be required at the time of annual renewal and if any fire incident occurs, the owner of the premises would be fully responsible for it. In the aftermath of the tragedy at the Karol Bagh hotel on February 12, 2019, fire safety regulations were made much more stringent. However, many of these regulations have been watered down during the last one year. A senior official said that because of the height restrictions, the corporation was finding it difficult to issue health trade licences. “No new health trade licences have been issued to units below 12m height as they aren’t given NOC by DFS according to regulations,” he added. The public health department said that DFS stopped giving fire NOC to hotels below a height of 12m after the Arpit hotel case saying such units do not come under the fire department’s mandate. “In our case, fire NOC is mandatory irrespective of the height of the hotel as many people stay there and their safety is crucial. Despite several letters, the fire department stuck to its stand,” the official added. The SDMC commissioner, Delhi Police licensing officer and chief fire officer also held a meeting to resolve the issue, but DFS didn’t budge from its stand. There are around 2,500 guesthouses in the city, most of which are operating from Paharganj and Karol Bagh. Almost 80% of the guesthouses are operating from buildings with a height of less than 12m. “Lack of an NOC can lead to their operations becoming illegal. The changes in grant and renewal of licences have been done for such buildings because of this deadlock,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-may-scrap-fire-noc-for-hotels-below-12m/articleshow/76988156.cms||Paras Singh
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man sent to life in jail for dowry death||KOTA: The additional district judge (ADJ) court in Bhawanimandi of Jhalawar district on Wednesday awarded life term in jail to a 24-year-old man for dowry death besides imposing a fine of Rs 10,000. Shiv Puri, a resident of Chan Ka Kheda village under Dug police station area of Jhalawar district, was sentenced to life in jail for dowry death of his wife identified as Maya Goswami (20), a native of Agar Malwa district in Madhya Pradesh, additional public prosecutor, ADJ court, Lokesh Gupta said. Maya was married to Shiv Puri on February 16, 2016 and soon after that the husband had been harassing, torturing and thrashing Maya for dowry, the APP said. After more than a year of marriage, Maya was brought dead to a local hospital under suspicious condition with marks of strangulation around her neck on January 31, 2017, he added. On a report by her mother, police lodged a case of dowry death under Section 304B against Shiv Puri and initiated an investigation. The mother in the report alleged that her son-in-law had been constantly thrashing, harassing and torturing her daughter for dowry since her marriage, he added. ADJ court judge Dr Prabhat Agarwal, following trial in the matter, held Shiv Puri guilty under Section 304B and convicted him life term in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-sent-to-life-in-jail-for-dowry-death/articleshow/76988580.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Officials to probe role of gold business in cluster outbreak||Coimbatore: Are gold ornaments a source of Covid-19 transmission? This is the question health officials are asking themselves with at least eight jewellery firms, four of them from Selvapuram cluster, in the district reporting many positive cases in the past two weeks. According to them, people or families involved in gold ornament making and jewellery business constitute 10% of the 1,591 coronavirus cases in the district.Gold jewellery associations, however, say manufacture and trade of the yellow metal are not the reasons for the virus spread. Stating most of the cases have a travel history, they say issuance of e-passes and allowing people to travel are to be blamed.Since July 1, the health department has shut down a popular Kerala-based jewellery chain on 100ft Road where 13 employees were infected, a home-based gold ornament making unit in Thudiyalur where four people tested positive, a jewellery designing firm on Sullivan Street where six people contracted the virus and Maruti Gold Factory in Ayyappa Nagar where 19 people tested positive in a single day last week.Health department officials suspect transmission of the virus among goldsmiths is because of their closed and cramped work conditions, and they are passing it on to sales staff and owners of jewellery showrooms and wholesalers during the trade.G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We are looking into if any of the showrooms or factories had bought gold or ornaments from any of the factories in Selvapuram or sent their ornaments for any repair work there.”Another official said the virus could be transmitted during the exchange of product. “Bringing in Bengali labourers without testing them for Covid-19 is another reason for the spread.”While there are 626 registered jewellers in the district, 325 have proper shops. There are more than 25,000 gold ornament manufacturing units that either supply to showrooms or do job work for them.Raghu Ganesh, president, Coimbatore Goldsmiths’ Association, said, “Goldsmiths supply only to shops in the district. They don’t step outside their units. They didn’t get infected because of working in the closed and dense conditions in April and May. It is the wholesalers and retailers, who travel and trade the yellow metal and ornaments.” He said micro, small and medium added gold factories have been shut down as a precautionary measure.Jewellers rejected the assumption that gold could be a source of transmission. “We sanitize every piece of gold ornament that we receive and sell. The metal is heated and melted at high temperatures. So, it can’t have the virus,” said Muthuvenkatram, president, Coimbatore Gold Jewellery Owners’ Association.He said most of the infected people in the sector had a travel history. “The owner of the shop on Sullivan Street had travelled to Andhra Pradesh for work, the wholesaler on Sami Iyer Street was tested positive after he travelled to Bengaluru and back, and another goldsmith in the city was infected after he drove down his mother, who was positive for the virus, from Theni. The issue is not with trading of gold or ornaments, but with the issuance e-passes and allowing people to travel across the border.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-to-probe-role-of-gold-business-in-cluster-outbreak/articleshow/76988585.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Indore||Bhopal child sex racket accused nabbed in Srinagar||BHOPAL: Pyare Mian, who is accused of running a child sex racket in Bhopal, was arrested in Srinagar on Wednesday after managing to board a flight despite a police alert for him and a bounty of Rs 30,000. Bhopal police announced Pyare’s arrest on Wednesday afternoon. He was detained on Tuesday night by Srinagar police on the basis of inputs provided by Bhopal cops, said DIG Irshad Wali. A team has been sent to bring him to Bhopal, where faces charges under POCSO Act and SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered police to take tough action in the case, saying “those who rape children aren’t humans”. The 68-year-old newspaper owner, who has since been stripped of accreditation, is alleged to have raped several minor girls, who were lured to sex parties at his apartments and handed out to high profile clients. Police found child porn in a raid at his dance-bar styled apartment on Tuesday. DIG Wali did not divulge details but said Pyare first fled to Indore on Sunday – soon after police rescued five minors who had allegedly been sexually exploited in his apartment – and then to Mumbai. From there, he took a flight to Delhi and on to Srinagar on Monday, said police. Meanwhile, police teams were raiding suspected hideouts in MP and had completed formalities for a lookout notice so that he couldn’t fly abroad. Police are investigating Pyare Mian’s Kashmir connection as he had allegedly taken his minor victims there and raped them. Pyare’s alleged accomplices – secretary Sweety Vishwakarma, a survivor’s maternal grandmother, his driver Anas and Anas’s brother Ubesh Ahmed -- were produced in court on Wednesday, which remanded them in police custody till July 18. ADG Upendra Jain said investigation has revealed that Pyare had extorted many people and occupied others’ properties. He urged such victims to approach police and file complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/bhopal-child-sex-racket-accused-nabbed-in-srinagar/articleshow/76990689.cms||Sudeept Mishra
July 16, 2020||Kanpur||Markets to open four days a week||KANPUR: In compliance of the state government’s guidelines, the district administration officials at a meeting held with various associations of traders decided to open all markets of the city four days a week from Monday to Thursday. However, shops selling essential commodities would also open on Friday while fruit, vegetable and milk shops and industrial units will open daily. The timing of opening and closing of shops has also been fixed. During working days, markets will be opened from 10 am to 9 pm. The lockdown to begin from 10 pm every Friday will be lifted at 5 am on Monday, said an official of the district administration. According to district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari,during the lockdown period, except for essential commodity shops and banks, all government and private offices and shops would remain closed. UPSRTC buses would operate daily but private vehicles would be not allowed to move on roads during the lockdown period. The use of masks has been made mandatory, he said. Some traders’ associations in the meeting urged the administration to open markets at least for five days in a week but they were told by the officials following surge in number of infected people and rise in death rate it was not possible to open markets for five days in a week. The district magistrate asked the traders to take preventive measures at their shops and commercial units to check coronavirus. Businessmen and traders while welcoming the four-day opening of the market in a row said that by opening markets for four successive days besides attracting customers would also increase the revenue. Following is a new schedule of markets: Monday to Thursday (10 am to 9 pm): All commercial establishments, malls, complexes, shops related to services, departmental stores, all private offices, transport, automobile showrooms, liquor shops, restaurants , sweets and grocery shops, hair salons and beauty parlours. 6 am to 9 pm: All essential commodities shops, including grocery, dry fruit, vegetable and fruit shops, meat shops, bread, biscuit and milk shops (only retail sale shops). Shops to be open on Friday from 6 am to 9 pm: All essential commodities shops, fruit and vegetable shops, milk and bakery shops, meat shops. Home delivery and doorstep delivery would also be allowed in this period. 10 am to 9 pm: All private offices, transport, automobile showrooms, liquor shops, sweet shops, meat shops, restaurants at malls, departmental stores, food shops, salons and beauty parlours. Shops to be opened on Saturday and Sunday from 6 am to 10 a.m. and 5 pm to 8 pm: All essential commodities shops, milk, bakery and meat shops, home delivery and doorstep delivery would be allowed during this period. Medical stores, hospitals, clinics, petrol pumps, gas agencies, CNG pumps and fruit and vegetable shops and markets to open daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/markets-to-open-four-days-a-week/articleshow/76988021.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Amid concerns, KEAM exam to be held today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Braving all odds and cautionary words, KEAM entrance test for admission to professional degrees in the state would be held on Thursday. Over one lakh students are expected to participate in the examination to be held in 342 centres across Kerala, Mumbai, Delhi and UAE. There could be no better time for organising the entrance test, claims government sources despite burgeoning Covid-19 cases in the state. Unlike in the previous years, it would take at least a month for Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) to announce entrance rank list. As per the protocol prescribed by state health department, answer booklets will have to be kept in stack rooms for a minimum of 14 days before evaluation could begin. “We would be conducting the examination by strictly adhering to the Covid protocol. The answer booklets would be collected by not touching them with naked hands. Since it’s an exam that over a lakh students take, there will be no compromise on the health and safety of students, invigilators and officials involved in the process,” said A Geetha, commissioner for entrance examinations. Meanwhile, Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan was the latest to demand the state government to put off the examination, considering the gravity of the pandemic outbreak. Several political leaders, self-financing engineering college managements, parents and students had expressed concern over the government decision to stick to the current schedule. “Considering that Kerala is on the verge of community spread, it is better that the entrance be postponed to a later date. It was for the same reason that the Centre had put off NEET to September,’’ he said. According to sources, CEE would be able to publish the scores only by August 15 and it would take 15 more days to announce the rank list for which students would need to submit their Plus Two marks for Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry papers. Rank list is prepared giving equal weightage to the entrance score as well as the marks scored by these subjects. “The AICTE guidelines say admission to engineering courses should be completed by October 15. But, this date is bound to change as even JEE examination has been rescheduled to September,” the sources said. The government has given instructions to make special arrangements for students from super-spread areas. The office of CEE has informed the students from Poonthura, Manikyavilakam and Puthanpally of the examination centres allotted to them. The government has also taken steps to deploy close to 5,000 youth volunteers for assisting officials and students for the smooth conduct of KEAM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/amidst-simmering-concerns-1-12-lakh-students-to-attend-keam-on-thursday/articleshow/76986565.cms||B S Anilkumar
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||HSC results to be declared at 1pm on Thursday||MUMBAI: The much-awaited HSC (Higher Secondary Certificate, Class XII) results will be announced at 1pm today. Over 15 lakh students who appeared for the exams can check results at www.mahresult.nic.in Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) conducted the exams in February and March. They ended just before the nationwide lockdown but assessment was delayed. The board used postal services to relay answer-sheets from exam centres to examiners and moderators, and back. There were 3.39 lakh students who took the exam from Mumbai division (Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad and Thane). Students can apply online for recounting of scores between July 17-27. Students can request a photocopy of answer-sheets between July 17-August 5 on the board’s website. Once students receive a photocopy of answer-sheets, they can apply for re-evaluation or reassessment. Fees will have to be paid online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hsc-results-to-be-declared-at-1pm-on-thursday/articleshow/76991834.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Amid concerns, KEAM exam to be held today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Braving all odds and cautionary words, KEAM entrance test for admission to professional degrees in the state would be held on Thursday. Over one lakh students are expected to participate in the examination to be held in 342 centres across Kerala, Mumbai, Delhi and UAE. There could be no better time for organising the entrance test, claims government sources despite burgeoning Covid-19 cases in the state. Unlike in the previous years, it would take at least a month for Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) to announce entrance rank list. As per the protocol prescribed by state health department, answer booklets will have to be kept in stack rooms for a minimum of 14 days before evaluation could begin. “We would be conducting the examination by strictly adhering to the Covid protocol. The answer booklets would be collected by not touching them with naked hands. Since it’s an exam that over a lakh students take, there will be no compromise on the health and safety of students, invigilators and officials involved in the process,” said A Geetha, commissioner for entrance examinations. Meanwhile, Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan was the latest to demand the state government to put off the examination, considering the gravity of the pandemic outbreak. Several political leaders, self-financing engineering college managements, parents and students had expressed concern over the government decision to stick to the current schedule. “Considering that Kerala is on the verge of community spread, it is better that the entrance be postponed to a later date. It was for the same reason that the Centre had put off NEET to September,’’ he said. According to sources, CEE would be able to publish the scores only by August 15 and it would take 15 more days to announce the rank list for which students would need to submit their Plus Two marks for Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry papers. Rank list is prepared giving equal weightage to the entrance score as well as the marks scored by these subjects. “The AICTE guidelines say admission to engineering courses should be completed by October 15. But, this date is bound to change as even JEE examination has been rescheduled to September,” the sources said. The government has given instructions to make special arrangements for students from super-spread areas. The office of CEE has informed the students from Poonthura, Manikyavilakam and Puthanpally of the examination centres allotted to them. The government has also taken steps to deploy close to 5,000 youth volunteers for assisting officials and students for the smooth conduct of KEAM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/amidst-simmering-concerns-1-12-lakh-students-to-attend-keam-on-thursday/articleshow/76993338.cms||B S Anilkumar
July 16, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal child sex racket accused nabbed in Srinagar||BHOPAL: Pyare Mian, who is accused of running a child sex racket in Bhopal, was arrested in Srinagar on Wednesday after managing to board a flight despite a police alert for him and a bounty of Rs 30,000. Bhopal police announced Pyare’s arrest on Wednesday afternoon. He was detained on Tuesday night by Srinagar police on the basis of inputs provided by Bhopal cops, said DIG Irshad Wali. A team has been sent to bring him to Bhopal, where faces charges under POCSO Act and SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered police to take tough action in the case, saying “those who rape children aren’t humans”. The 68-year-old newspaper owner, who has since been stripped of accreditation, is alleged to have raped several minor girls, who were lured to sex parties at his apartments and handed out to high profile clients. Police found child porn in a raid at his dance-bar styled apartment on Tuesday. DIG Wali did not divulge details but said Pyare first fled to Indore on Sunday – soon after police rescued five minors who had allegedly been sexually exploited in his apartment – and then to Mumbai. From there, he took a flight to Delhi and on to Srinagar on Monday, said police. Meanwhile, police teams were raiding suspected hideouts in MP and had completed formalities for a lookout notice so that he couldn’t fly abroad. Police are investigating Pyare Mian’s Kashmir connection as he had allegedly taken his minor victims there and raped them. Pyare’s alleged accomplices – secretary Sweety Vishwakarma, a survivor’s maternal grandmother, his driver Anas and Anas’s brother Ubesh Ahmed -- were produced in court on Wednesday, which remanded them in police custody till July 18. ADG Upendra Jain said investigation has revealed that Pyare had extorted many people and occupied others’ properties. He urged such victims to approach police and file complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-child-sex-racket-accused-nabbed-in-srinagar/articleshow/76987934.cms||Sudeept Mishra
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Contagion spreading fast in western districts||COIMBATORE: After northern and southern districts, it seems to be the turn of western districts to record a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases. Salem breached 2,000-mark on Wednesday, while Coimbatore crossed 1,500 cases. Newer clusters are emerging, beds in hospitals and Covid care centres are fast filling up and more streets are getting cordoned off in the region as containment zones, as cases skyrocket fast. The doubling time of cases in Coimbatore has decreased to nine days as on Tuesday, from 13.4 days in mid-June. Health officials say the testing positivity rate in the district has also been steadily increasing. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “The positivity rate has jumped to 4% from 2% in June.” On the sunny side, death rate has come down to 0.7% from 1.1%. But experts say that could be because the number of cases has increased dramatically. “Hence, the number of deaths could appear less in proportion to total cases.” The positivity rate and doubling time is still lower than that of Chennai or Madurai, when they crossed the 1,000 to 2,000-mark. Madurai had a doubling rate of four days when it hit 1,000 cases and the spread was faster there. While the cases appear to have plateaued in Chennai and Madurai, it seems to have begun rising in the western districts. Dr K Kolandaisamy, former director of public health, said, “The numbers indicate that the virus is spreading fast and the cases are going to rise rapidly from this point.” It also presents an opportunity for early intervention in western region, to pull down the climb of the virus. Epidemiologists say stricter containment measures, more intense contact tracing and isolating, and increasing bed strength could avoid a Chennai or Madurai-like situation. “This is the time to increase testing to 1% of the district’s population daily, keep isolating the infected, tracing their contacts and quarantining them. Districts should also ramp up bed and ventilation facilities and staff,” Kolandaisamy said. Coimbatore, Nilgiris and Salem have already begun placing stricter rules within containment zones. Officials have been shutting down textile outlets, gold manufacturing units and shops violating rules. Jayaprakash Muliyil, an epidemiologist with the National Institute of Epidemiology, says the western region should not look at the numbers any more, but simply find an efficient way to treat sick people and prevent deaths. “They should work closely with the private health sector and ensure beds are occupied only by those who need them. Once they do this, they should try making the elderly in the region stay in-doors, take all precautions and not expose themselves to the virus as much as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/contagion-spreading-fast-in-western-districts/articleshow/76988605.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Class X: Delhi’s results lag once again||NEW DELHI: Delhi continued to lag in the second last position among CBSE’s 16 regions in terms of the Class X pass percentage even after recording its highest increase in the pass figure from 80.9% last year to 85.9% now. This increase is due largely to improved performance by Delhi government and government-aided schools when the private schools showed a dip in the success rate. For government schools, the pass percentage jumped substantially from 71.6% last year to 82.6% this year, an increase of 11%. This pass figure is higher than the national average for government schools, which stands at 80.9%. The Delhi government schools rank eighth among the regions, with Thiruvananthapuram logging 100% pass percentage. Government-aided schools also improved to 76.2% pass from 74.1% last year. Of the 1,005 government schools in Delhi, 147 returned full pass results, an increase from 60 last year. Schools with 90% pass percentage also went up to 474 from 226 in 2019. According to Delhi government, the average marks obtained by a student, denoted as average quality index, rose to 265.3 against 259.6 last year. A total of 789 students scored 90% or above in their aggregate this year. The pass percentage of girls increased to 86.6% from 2019’s 74.3%. Comparatively, 78.3% of boys passed against 68.5% last year. The data showed 1,55,665 students appeared for the Class X board exams this year, a drop from 1,66,167 last year. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, congratulated the students, teachers and parents for the performance. He tweeted, “After record breaking result of Class XII, upward graph of Delhi education continues in Class X. Overjoyed that this year, the result improved to 82.6% from 71.6% last year. Compulsory board exam for Class X was introduced in 2018. Since then Delhi government schools have had an upward graph each year.” Even schools with lower performances still recorded improvements. Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Tughlaqabad, where only 39.3% candidates passed last year, saw 68.3% passing this year. Principal Suraj Pal Singh said, “Our teachers put in extra effort, identified the weak children and gave them individual attention.” In the riot-hit areas in northeast Delhi, students couldn’t sit for all exams and were assessed on the average of the best three subjects, depending on the number of tests they had done. But the schools have improved their pass percentage in the area. At Government Girls’ Secondary School, Shiv Vihar, the success figure increased from 61.3% in 2019 to 83.2% now. GBSSS, Tukhmirpur, had 64.5% of its students passing against 40.5% last year. Principal Anupam Kumar Sharma explained, “We focused on the students’ problems areas, namely science and mathematics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/class-x-delhis-results-lag-once-again/articleshow/76990076.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 16, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Contagion spreading fast in western districts||COIMBATORE: After northern and southern districts, it seems to be the turn of western districts to record a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases. Salem breached 2,000-mark on Wednesday, while Coimbatore crossed 1,500 cases. Newer clusters are emerging, beds in hospitals and Covid care centres are fast filling up and more streets are getting cordoned off in the region as containment zones, as cases skyrocket fast. The doubling time of cases in Coimbatore has decreased to nine days as on Tuesday, from 13.4 days in mid-June. Health officials say the testing positivity rate in the district has also been steadily increasing. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “The positivity rate has jumped to 4% from 2% in June.” On the sunny side, death rate has come down to 0.7% from 1.1%. But experts say that could be because the number of cases has increased dramatically. “Hence, the number of deaths could appear less in proportion to total cases.” The positivity rate and doubling time is still lower than that of Chennai or Madurai, when they crossed the 1,000 to 2,000-mark. Madurai had a doubling rate of four days when it hit 1,000 cases and the spread was faster there. While the cases appear to have plateaued in Chennai and Madurai, it seems to have begun rising in the western districts. Dr K Kolandaisamy, former director of public health, said, “The numbers indicate that the virus is spreading fast and the cases are going to rise rapidly from this point.” It also presents an opportunity for early intervention in western region, to pull down the climb of the virus. Epidemiologists say stricter containment measures, more intense contact tracing and isolating, and increasing bed strength could avoid a Chennai or Madurai-like situation. “This is the time to increase testing to 1% of the district’s population daily, keep isolating the infected, tracing their contacts and quarantining them. Districts should also ramp up bed and ventilation facilities and staff,” Kolandaisamy said. Coimbatore, Nilgiris and Salem have already begun placing stricter rules within containment zones. Officials have been shutting down textile outlets, gold manufacturing units and shops violating rules. Jayaprakash Muliyil, an epidemiologist with the National Institute of Epidemiology, says the western region should not look at the numbers any more, but simply find an efficient way to treat sick people and prevent deaths. “They should work closely with the private health sector and ensure beds are occupied only by those who need them. Once they do this, they should try making the elderly in the region stay in-doors, take all precautions and not expose themselves to the virus as much as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/contagion-spreading-fast-in-western-districts/articleshow/76991404.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||Chain snatcher’s plans of making base in Vadodara crashed in lockdown||Vadodara: Crime branch sleuths on Wednesday arrested a 20-year-old chain-snatcher who has 21 offences registered against him. The accused Dharmesh Marwadi’s plan to build a chain snatching gang in Vadodara city after shifting from Surat four months back, crashed after lockdown was imposed in March last week. However, he had recently begun snatching gold chains and stolen two chains.Marwadi was nabbed from New VIP Road after the cops received a tip-off that he was moving around on a stolen motorbike. The police said that 17-year-old boy had accompanied Marwadi when he snatched a gold chain the city.“We intercepted him near Khodiyarnagar and questioned him about the motorbike he was driving. Marwadi admitted to have stolen the bike on July 2 from Wadi area,” said S Bharwad, police sub-inspector, crime branch. Marwadi then admitted to have used the stolen bike to snatch gold chain of a woman on Tarsali Road on July 10. The police have recovered the gold chain and also seized the stolen motorbike along with two mobile phone and another two-wheeler. He has 19 offences, including that of loot, assault and vehicle thefts registered against him at different police stations in Surat. Two other offences have been registered against him in the city recently.“He was detained under Prevention of Anti-Social Act (PASA) some months ago. After getting released, he decided to leave Surat with his family including his wife, brother and mother. Marwadi shifted to the city four months back,” Bharwad told TOI. The police said that Marwadi waited for the lockdown to end and then began doing recce in the city with help of a 17-year-old boy who is a local. The accused had made a gang of three persons in Surat for committing the crimes. “He had just began committing crimes in the city and was probably planning to form a gang here as well. He used to sell off the stolen gold chains to live a leisurely life,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chain-snatchers-plans-of-making-base-in-vadodara-crashed-in-lockdown/articleshow/76986922.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha sees 8 new Covid cases||Wardha: Eight coronavirus infected patients were found in Wardha district on Thursday. The affected patients include a staff nurse (35) and an attendant from Arvi sub-district hospital, a 72-year-old woman from Itwara, a 75-year-old man from Hindnagar, a 37-year-old man from Keshav City, a 30-year-old man and 20-year-old woman from Kakada village in Karanja taluka. Of them, two have been admitted to Sewagram while five patients have been admitted to Sawangi Hospital. A 76-year-old Mahadevpura resident was admitted to Kasturba Hospital on Wednesday evening. Her samples tested positive on Thursday afternoon. The woman died while undergoing treatment for diabetes. After the death, her report turned out to be positive. The deceased was cremated at the local cemetery as per the guidelines of WHO.Out of 22 active patients in the district, 7 patients were discharged on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-sees-8-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77017962.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Catholic ex-priest wants to marry the girl he raped||KOCHI: Fr Robin Vadakkumchery, who was convicted for raping and impregnating a 16-year-old parishioner and then defrocked by the Catholic church, has now sought the Kerala high court’s permission to marry the girl. At the HC, the 52-year-old, who is serving a prison term of 20 years, has sought bail for two months to making the preparations for marriage. An appeal filed by Robin challenging his conviction in February 2019 under the Pocso Act is presently pending before the high court. Prosecution has opposed the petitioner’s bail plea when it came up for admission hearing before Justice Sunil Thomas on Wednesday. It is claimed by the petitioner that the girl and he were in love, that she was a major, and that the alleged sexual intercourse was with her permission. They were planning to get married, the plea said. He has also contended that he had not denied that he was the father of the child born to the girl during trial. As the child was born before their marriage, it was portrayed as rape by police and media and a case was filed to that effect, the petition said. Prosecution submitted that the petitioner had not expressed his wish to marry the girl even at the time of trial. Even when he claims that he was willing to accept that he was the father of the child, it was proved during trial through a DNA test, prosecution said. The girl was not a major at the time of the offence, the court was told. HC will hear the case again on July 24. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Kerala: Catholic ex-priest seeks HC permission to marry the girl he raped||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/catholic-ex-priest-wants-to-marry-the-girl-he-raped/articleshow/76986619.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||T party: CBSE class X students pip national average||HYDERABAD: Telangana students excelled in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 10 board examinations and their pass percentage was ahead of the overall performance of students in the country. While the pass percentage of the state is 99.21%, the nation’s percentage stood at 91.46%, according to the results released on Wednesday. Abhinaya Otikunta, a student of Meridian School, Banjara Hills, secured 494 out of 500 and is probably the top scorer from Telangana. Several others from the city, including Payal Singh from Army Public School Bolarum, Soumyadeep Mahapatra from Delhi Public School, Hyderabad (Khajaguda), Poonam Pai from Jubilee Hills Public School, Mansha Singh from Global Indian International School, Manaswi Chervela from Silver Oaks International School, are among those who secured over 97% marks. “My parents have always instilled the importance of education in me. While preparing for the exams, I used to focus more on conceptual understanding. Regularity in studies proved quite beneficial,” Abhinaya told TOI, adding that she wants to become a doctor and provide free medical services to the underprivileged. Quite a few schools in the city and elsewhere in Telangana secured 100% pass percentage with several of their students securing 100 out of 100 in various subjects. “Of the 63 students who appeared for the class 10 board exam this year, 23 have secured above 90% while 27 students scored above 80%. Apart from this, 13 students have scored above 70%. While two of our students - Apoorv Dubey and Krutarth Doshi, have scored 100 each in Maths. Ten students have made it to perfect 100 scores in information technology,” said Kasturi Chatterjee, principal, Gitanjali Devashray. Of the 28,314 students, who appeared from the state, 28,090 managed to clear the exams. This year too, girls outshone boys by securing 99.51% pass percentage as against 98.87%. Students of both Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNV) and Kendriya Vidyalayas (KV) have done exceedingly well and have scored a cent percent pass percentage. While 2,719 students appeared for exams from KVs in the state, from JNVs, a total of 715 students appeared for the class 10 examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-party-cbse-class-x-students-pip-natl-avg/articleshow/76988612.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Prakasam barrage reaches FRL, 20 gates opened||VIJAYAWADA: With the progress of monsoon, dams on Krishna river have started to receive their first inflows of the year. The Srisailam dam, the first major project on Krishna river, is getting about 55,000 cusec of water from the upstream dams in Karnataka. Srisailam is likely to get more water in the coming weeks, according to irrigation officials. The project, which is shared by both the Telugu states for irrigation and power generation, has a total storage capacity of 215 TMC. The present water level in it stands at 37.66 TMC, which is almost near dead storage level. However, when compared to the corresponding day of the previous year’s storage data, which is 31.5 TMC, Srisailam has six TMC more water this year. Almatti and Narayanpur projects in Karnataka have almost reached their full reservoir level (FRL). Storage in Almatti stands at 94.5 TMC against to its FRL level of 129.7 TMC. Almatti is getting average inflows of 28,000 cusecs whereas the outflows stands at 45,000 cusecs. The officials are releasing the water downstream even though the reservoir is yet to reach its FRL in anticipation of increased inflows in the next few days. When it comes to Narayanapur, the project has reached its FRL level as the present storage stands at 35 TMC against to its maximum capacity of 37.65 TMC. The officials are releasing 47,000 cusec of water to the downstream. Jurala project, which has a capacity of 9.66 TMC of water, has also reached FRL and all the inflows are being released into downstream that are now reaching Srisailam. On the other hand, the Krishna river is also receiving inflows into its downstream projects in Andhra Pradesh from local catchment areas. Pulichintala project is getting about 13,000 cusecs of water as on Wednesday and the Prakasam barrage is receiving about 14,000 cusecs of water, which is likely to increase to 30,000 cusec by Thursday morning, according to district officials. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said the Prakasam barrage has reached its FRL level and all the flood water that is coming into the barrage presently is being discharged into the sea by lifting 20 gates. If the inflows increased to 30,000 cusecs all the gates will be lifted to discharge water, he said, issuing a warning to the low lying areas downstream Prakasam barrage. After many years, water is being discharged into the sea from Prakasam barrage in the month of July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prakasam-barrage-reaches-frl-20-gates-opened/articleshow/76986588.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Glad we studied in Delhi government schools, say Class XII toppers||NEW DELHI: When he was in Class VIII, financial difficulties forced Dwarka resident Deepak Yadav’s father, Lal Dev Yadav, a carpenter in Kirti Nagar, to withdraw him from a private school and admit him in a Delhi government institution. Deepak, a science student who scored 96.2% in CBSE’s Class XII examinations declared on Tuesday, now feels his father should have maybe put him in a government school earlier. “Delhi government schools now provided better education than private schools. Teachers in both are helpful, but government school teachers are better educated and more experienced,” claimed Deepak, who aspires to become an engineer. “I have seen government schools develop in the last few years and though our teachers were always very experienced, their method of teaching has also changed.” He was happy about the CCTV cameras, the swimming pool and the environment in his school. In the Class XII results declared on Tuesday, Delhi’s private schools achieved a pass percentage of 92.2, while government schools topped them with a 98 percentage achievement. Ritu Kumari, a student of the humanities stream in the Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV), Sector 10, Dwarka, logged an aggregate percentage of 97.2%. Kumar, whose father, Nand Kishore, makes a living a vegetable vendor in Najafgarh, dreams of becoming a politician some day. “I studied in a Delhi government school from early childhood, and I found my teachers always very cooperative,” the girl said. “They always pushed me to do better in my studies. In Class XI, I joined RPVV School at sector 10 in Dwarka.” As for scoring a high 97.2% in the board examination, Kumari said, “It was very difficult for me to travel from Najafgarh to Dwarka every day to attend my classes, and there were days when I couldn’t get transport to reach school so ending up walking all the way to my classroom.” Smiling, she said the hardship, however, had paid off in the shape of the success that has brought huge smiles on the faces of her parents. “I have not been a spectacular student from childhood, but I think I have always been honest and hard-working. And I have had a family that has always been supportive of my education,” beamed Ritu, who now wants to pursue a political science degree, if possible in Delhi University’s Hindu College, on her way to realising her dream of becoming a politician. In northeast Delhi’s Nand Nagri, Khusboo, a student of RPVV, Nand Nagri, recalled how she was left alone in the city with her younger brother around the time of her examinations because her parents got stuck in their village in Lakhimpur, UP, after the Covid lockdown was announced. This didn’t stop the humanities students from scoring 96.6% in the final reckoning “I took care of home chores, cooked and looked after my brother who is in Class VIII, all this while studying for my examination. My school provided me constant support and boosted my morale,” said Khusboo, who is interested in fine arts and aspires to become an artist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/glad-we-studied-in-govt-schools-say-xii-toppers/articleshow/76988613.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Madukkarai police station closed as 8 cops test positive for virus||COIMBATORE: The Madukkarai police station was closed for disinfection after eight cops tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The two special sub-inspectors (SSIs) and six constables are undergoing treatment in the ESI hospital, said a senior police officer. “After a constable involved in patrolling on the L&T Bypass tested positive, 55 cops from Madukkarai and KG Chavadi police stations had undergone testing at the Arisipalayam Primary Health Centre (PHC) on June 7. The results were announced on Wednesday,” he said. Health department officials are collecting samples from family members and contacts of the personnel. With this, the number of cops infected by the virus in the rural areas has reached 18 - seven each from Thudiyalur and Madukkarai, two from the Kottur police station and one each from Sulur and Annur. Ten cops of the city police have been tested positive so far. The Ukkadam police station was sanitised after a head constable tested positive on Wednesday. The infected cops were deployed at check posts, markets, shops and involved in vehicle checks to ensure social distancing, superintendent of police (SP) Ara Arularasu said. “So, it is difficult to identify the primary source of infection. I have asked one-third of personnel in stations at Sulur, Madukkarai and Thudiyalur to undergo home quarantine for seven days. Rural armed reserve personnel will share their workload.” As a precautionary measure, the 33 stations outside the city limit will function with only seven personnel. “We will not allow visitors inside the stations. Temporary shelters will be set up in front of the stations to receive complainants. Only those arrested and remanded in judicial custody will be brought inside the stations. An officer will handle the accused till they are lodged in the sub-jail. The cops have also been instructed to issue bail on the spot itself instead of bringing people to the station,” Arularasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/madukkarai-police-station-closed-as-8-cops-test-positive-for-virus/articleshow/76988615.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Salem||Madukkarai police station closed as 8 cops test positive for virus||COIMBATORE: The Madukkarai police station was closed for disinfection after eight cops tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The two special sub-inspectors (SSIs) and six constables are undergoing treatment in the ESI hospital, said a senior police officer. “After a constable involved in patrolling on the L&T Bypass tested positive, 55 cops from Madukkarai and KG Chavadi police stations had undergone testing at the Arisipalayam Primary Health Centre (PHC) on June 7. The results were announced on Wednesday,” he said. Health department officials are collecting samples from family members and contacts of the personnel. With this, the number of cops infected by the virus in the rural areas has reached 18 - seven each from Thudiyalur and Madukkarai, two from the Kottur police station and one each from Sulur and Annur. Ten cops of the city police have been tested positive so far. The Ukkadam police station was sanitised after a head constable tested positive on Wednesday. The infected cops were deployed at check posts, markets, shops and involved in vehicle checks to ensure social distancing, superintendent of police (SP) Ara Arularasu said. “So, it is difficult to identify the primary source of infection. I have asked one-third of personnel in stations at Sulur, Madukkarai and Thudiyalur to undergo home quarantine for seven days. Rural armed reserve personnel will share their workload.” As a precautionary measure, the 33 stations outside the city limit will function with only seven personnel. “We will not allow visitors inside the stations. Temporary shelters will be set up in front of the stations to receive complainants. Only those arrested and remanded in judicial custody will be brought inside the stations. An officer will handle the accused till they are lodged in the sub-jail. The cops have also been instructed to issue bail on the spot itself instead of bringing people to the station,” Arularasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/madukkarai-police-station-closed-as-8-cops-test-positive-for-virus/articleshow/76994885.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||CBSE Class X: More pass, more score higher in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In a U-turn from the upward trend of the past few years, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class X results announced on Wednesday had fewer high scorers. Of the 18.7 lakh students who appeared for the exams, 1.8 lakh scored above 90% and 41,804 above 95%—an 18.1% and 27% dip, respectively, from the previous year. The marked dip did not reflect in several city schools, although some claimed science brought down scores. While the board did not announce a merit list this year, at 99.6%, among the highest scorers in the city were Shaachi Khanna from Delhi Public School, Nerul, and Soumya Mishra from R N Podar School, Santacruz. The city’s top score last year was 99.2%. The country’s overall success rate of 91.5% was marginally higher than the previous year. Pune region, of which Maharashtra, Goa, Daman and Diu, and Dadra Nagar Haveli, are a part, ranked fourth among 16 regions with a success rate of 98.1%. At the top of the table was Thiruvananthapuram with 99.3%. At 98.2%, Maharashtra’s success rate was higher than the national and regional average. Like every year, girls outperformed boys. In the country, girls recorded an overall success rate of 93.3%, higher than the boys’ 90.1%. Transgenders recorded a pass percentage of 79%. The trend was similar at the regional and state level as well. With both ICSE and CBSE Class X students in the city recording better results, all eyes are now on the state board scores expected to be announced at the end of the month. While SSC students have the advantage of numbers, they lose out to their peers while competing for seats at most sought-after colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cbse-class-x-more-pass-more-score-higher-in-city/articleshow/76989961.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 16, 2020||Indore||MP: Neighbours’ weddings turn into Covid pain for Morena and Gwalior||BHOPAL: Weddings and wedding shoppers from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have triggered a surge in Coronavirus cases in MP’s Morena district and Gwalior-Chambal region, which account for nearly a third of the alarming July spike in the state. MP is reeling from an avalanche of cases this month, with 30% of the state’s tally of 19,643 coming in the last 15 days. Morena and Gwalior, which were way down the Covid-19 table so far, are topping the charts this month, not Indore. Things are so bad that Gwalior went under a week’s curfew from Wednesday. In the first 15 days of July, 876 Covid cases were detected in Gwalior and 734 in Morena. These two districts account for 26% of the 6,050 fresh cases reported in July. A month ago, on June 15, there were only 84 active cases in Gwalior and 33 in Morena, which have since shot up to 581 and 429. In Morena alone, more than 75 shopkeepers selling wedding goods like clothes and jewellery have been infected. The administration says weddings across the border are to blame. With Madhya Pradesh opening up its borders in the lockdown, wedding shoppers from neighbouring states that were still under lockdown flocked to markets in Morena and Gwalior. While Dholpur in Rajasthan is only 25km from Morena, Gwalior is an extra 40km away – no more than a 90-minute drive. In Morena alone, more than 75 shopkeepers selling wedding goods like clothes and jewellery have been infected. “This was as per our analysis till July 10. A few more have since been reported but those 75 are among the initial patients after which there was a spurt,” district collector Morena Priyanka Das told TOI. “It was ‘unlock’ in our district while there was a lockdown in nearby Agra, which we were aware of. But there was a spurt in cases in neighbouring Dholpur of Rajasthan between June 21 and June 24, which initially went unnoticed. As shops were closed there, people from Dholpur rushed to Morena’s markets to shop for weddings,” said the collector. Agra is about 100km from Gwalior, a day’s trip easily done. This went undetected initially as the market rush was seen as normal for the wedding season. “Moreover, shopkeepers never ask customers where they are from. The spike in Morena started on June 21, and we imposed restrictions from June 24 but there was a jump on June 26. Infection has probably reached here from neigbouring Dholpur, and is now spreading in the local population,” the collector said, adding that several cases have been detected among shopkeepers selling disposable items for weddings. “But we are not shying away from tests. People are recovering and we have the lowest death rate -- only 5 deaths have been reported so far,” the collector said. In Gwalior, where a weeklong curfew came into force on Wednesday, collector Kauslendra Vikram Singh said, “Marriage and marriage-related shopping have been one of the major factors leading to spurt in the district. People coming from outside and the influx of people at public offices also contributed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/neighbours-weddings-turn-into-covid-pain-for-morena-gwalior/articleshow/76990935.cms||Amarjeet Singh
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||15,000 govt schools get a makeover in AP||AMARAVATI: About 15,000 government schools in the state are fast turning into modern educational institutions under the first phase of Nadu-Nedu programme. Locals are both surprised and delighted by the change as work at a majority of the institutions are nearing completion. YS Jaganmohan Reddy, meanwhile, stamped his approval for the release of funds for Nadu-Nedu scheme on Wednesday at a cabinet meet, which he chaired. The education department has procured the fans, benches, chairs, and green boards through central procurement system by opting for reverse tendering. The department also ensured that washroom fixtures were of high quality. The parents committees, which are supervising the work at the field level, were stunned to see the material supplied by the department. “We did not anticipate that the department will procure world-class fixtures,” said V Mallikharjuna Rao, a parents’ committee chairman in Giddalur mandal. The washrooms in a remote tribal residential school in Seethampet in Srikakulam district is virtually looking like a star hotel. Playgrounds with required amenities have also been set up in ashram schools “The CM is very particular about making the government schools as good learning centres with full infrastructure. Education needs of children from under-privileged sections is top on our government’s agenda,” said school education minister Adimulapu Suresh. The state government is spending close to Rs 4,000 crore for renovation of the schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/15000-govt-schools-get-a-makeover-in-ap/articleshow/76986628.cms||Samdani MN
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Man throttles girlfriend after having sex||Nagpur: Sonu Ganvir, 26, allegedly murdered his 23-year-old girlfriend after having physical relations with her at an abandoned under-construction house at Jawanjal Layout in Abhay Nagar. Ganvir throttled her to death on Thursday for threatening to implicate him in a case if he did not agree to marry her. The body was found on Friday. Though Ajni police are yet to register the case as murder, Ganvir has admitted murdering her, after he was caught by Nagpur police crime branch unit. Police said Ganvir and the victim had been in a relationship for last seven years but they had parted ways around four months ago. Ganvir, who has a crime record, is an autorickshaw driver. After meeting the victim on Friday, the two decided to visit the abandoned place for some privacy. After spending some time together the couple had a fight leading to the murder. Ajni police, which shifted the body to Government Medical College and Hospital for post mortem, would be registering an offence after getting an opinion from forensic experts. Police have so far registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-throttles-girlfriend-after-having-sex/articleshow/77026661.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to Chandigarh in 2 hours by 2023||NEW DELHI: Delhi airport to Chandigarh in flat two hours! The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is promising this will be a reality by June 2023 as it has set tight schedules for the completion of Dwarka Expressway and Urban Extension Road in Delhi, Trans-Haryana and the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressways. Though the length between these two points would be barely 20 km less than the Delhi-Chandigarh link, which is about 260 km, the travel time will be reduced by half as commuters will travel through five expressways. “At permitted speed of 120 kmph on expressways, a car can cover this 240 km in just two hours,” said an NHAI official. Terming the big push for highway networks as “only a trailer”, highways minister, Nitin Gadkari has said the web of expressways in this part of the country including the Delhi-Mumbai one will transform the way people travel on roads. NHAI chairman SS Sandhu said the completion of the projects will result in seamless connectivity across the region. A senior NHAI official said adequate information through signage will be placed right from Dwarka Expressway, the take off point from airport, to guide the commuters till their destinations such as Chandigarh, Amritsar and Katra in Jammu. He added the commuters will need to travel on Dwarka Expressway and a spur from Urban Extension Road to reach the already completed KMP expressway at Bahadurgarh. This will be a 40 km drive. Then after covering about 10 km of KMP expressway they will take the Delhi-Katra expressway for approximately 80 km. Ḥ“Finally they will take the Trans-Haryana Expressway to reach Ambala to head towards Chandigarh. All interchanges have been designed to make the travel smooth,” said another NHAI official. In another development, the NHAI will award the 60 km signal free link between DND flyway in Delhi and Mumbai Expressway at Sohna next month. “We have received bids and the process of evaluation has started. The target is to complete all these projects by middle of 2023,” an NHAI official said. Gadkari is also likely to chair a meeting on finalising a new link from the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway to the Jewar airport in Uttar Pradesh, which is under development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-chandigarh-in-2-hrs-by-2023/articleshow/76988633.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 16, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Neighbours’ weddings turn into Covid pain for Morena and Gwalior||BHOPAL: Weddings and wedding shoppers from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have triggered a surge in Coronavirus cases in MP’s Morena district and Gwalior-Chambal region, which account for nearly a third of the alarming July spike in the state. MP is reeling from an avalanche of cases this month, with 30% of the state’s tally of 19,643 coming in the last 15 days. Morena and Gwalior, which were way down the Covid-19 table so far, are topping the charts this month, not Indore. Things are so bad that Gwalior went under a week’s curfew from Wednesday. In the first 15 days of July, 876 Covid cases were detected in Gwalior and 734 in Morena. These two districts account for 26% of the 6,050 fresh cases reported in July. A month ago, on June 15, there were only 84 active cases in Gwalior and 33 in Morena, which have since shot up to 581 and 429. In Morena alone, more than 75 shopkeepers selling wedding goods like clothes and jewellery have been infected. The administration says weddings across the border are to blame. With Madhya Pradesh opening up its borders in the lockdown, wedding shoppers from neighbouring states that were still under lockdown flocked to markets in Morena and Gwalior. While Dholpur in Rajasthan is only 25km from Morena, Gwalior is an extra 40km away – no more than a 90-minute drive. In Morena alone, more than 75 shopkeepers selling wedding goods like clothes and jewellery have been infected. “This was as per our analysis till July 10. A few more have since been reported but those 75 are among the initial patients after which there was a spurt,” district collector Morena Priyanka Das told TOI. “It was ‘unlock’ in our district while there was a lockdown in nearby Agra, which we were aware of. But there was a spurt in cases in neighbouring Dholpur of Rajasthan between June 21 and June 24, which initially went unnoticed. As shops were closed there, people from Dholpur rushed to Morena’s markets to shop for weddings,” said the collector. Agra is about 100km from Gwalior, a day’s trip easily done. This went undetected initially as the market rush was seen as normal for the wedding season. “Moreover, shopkeepers never ask customers where they are from. The spike in Morena started on June 21, and we imposed restrictions from June 24 but there was a jump on June 26. Infection has probably reached here from neigbouring Dholpur, and is now spreading in the local population,” the collector said, adding that several cases have been detected among shopkeepers selling disposable items for weddings. “But we are not shying away from tests. People are recovering and we have the lowest death rate -- only 5 deaths have been reported so far,” the collector said. In Gwalior, where a weeklong curfew came into force on Wednesday, collector Kauslendra Vikram Singh said, “Marriage and marriage-related shopping have been one of the major factors leading to spurt in the district. People coming from outside and the influx of people at public offices also contributed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/neighbours-weddings-turn-into-covid-pain-for-morena-gwalior/articleshow/76987954.cms||Amarjeet Singh
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Deadline to procure lease deeds for business bodies comes to end||JAIPUR: The deadline to procure lease deeds for commercial establishments, mixed-used institutions and marriage gardens in approved schemes developed on 80 to 200 feet sector roads of Prithvi Raj Nagar (PRN) scheme on relaxed rates was over on Wednesday. Now, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will charge rates as per the land use. Till July 15, the civic body decided to issue lease deeds for these establishments in 271 approved schemes developed on 80 to 200 feet sector roads of PRN scheme. “This is the first time the department will issue lease deeds for commercial establishments. Relaxation was provided to the plot owners. However, not many took advantage of the facility due to many reasons, including cash crunch,” says an official source. Sources said, since not many plot owners turned up, a proposal to extend the deadline of providing relaxation has been mooted. At present, for a 100 square-yard plot, JDA was charging Rs 300 regularisation charge (per square yard), which will include allotment rates. Similarly, for plot size between 101 and 300 square yards, the JDA will charge Rs 480. The agency also charged Rs 720 (per square yard) for plots bigger than 301 square yards and up to 1,000 square yards. Owners having a plot of more than 1,000 square yards will have to give 1.5 times regularisation charges. For regularising a marriage garden in the scheme, which has been developed on a plot size above 2,000 square yards, the JDA has fixed Rs 1,500 (per square yard) regularisation charge. “The official said JDA had approved 506 colonies in PRN scheme, out of which about 271 are developed on 80-feet sector road to 200-feet sector road. Commercial, mixed, institutional and marriage garden leases are issued in those schemes. For future, JDA has also prepared a list of 128 unapproved colonies developed on and above 80-feet road. Relaxation might be given to newly approved colony,” The civic body has set a target to issue lease deeds to all PRN plot holders till November 2020. Residents who fail to procure lease deeds on time will have to pay double development and regularisation rates for their plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deadline-to-procure-lease-deeds-for-biz-bodies-comes-to-end/articleshow/76988622.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Vignan Univ releases results of online exams||Guntur: Vignan’s University has released the results of the recently-conducted online exams for final year BTech and BCA programmes here. Speaking on the occasion, Vignan’s University vice chancellor MYS Prasad said the institution is among the few in the country that have conducted online exams and declared the results during this academic year. He stated that keeping the interests of students in mind, the university planned the online exams much earlier and executed it. He also said the recently released UGC guidelines has asked all universities to complete the exams by the end of September. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vignan-univ-releases-results-of-online-exams/articleshow/76986644.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kochi||Missing ship’s crew returns||Kochi: MV Gulf Sky, the oil tanker that went missing off UAE with an Indian captain and 27 crew members, was hijacked on July 5, UK-based NGO Human Rights at Sea said. Luckily, all except two of the crew members have managed to escape and have reached India. David Hammond, CEO of the NGO, said they got information about the crew’s escape through a WhatsApp message from the vessel’s captain Joginder Singh, on Wednesday morning. No further details are available, the NGO said. Gulf Sky was reportedly operated by Mumbai-based Seven Seas Navigation (India) Pvt Ltd. Its MD Shaikh Shakeel Ahmed told TOI in an email that the crew had returned from Iran. Two of them could not return as their passports are in UAE. On Tuesday, the NGO had said the vessel, bearing Commonwealth of Dominica flag, has been missing for the past eight days. They were tracking it since May 27, after being informed that it had inadequate supplies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/missing-ships-crew-returns/articleshow/76986660.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 3 cooperative inspectors suspended||JAIPUR: Registrar cooperative Muktanand Agrawal on Wednesday said three cooperative inspectors have been suspended at Churu, Bajju (Bikaner) and Kolayat (Bikaner) cooperative societies for irregularities in procurement of groundnuts in 2019. Shortage of 10,835 quintals of groundnuts was found at these three procurement centers during the inspection.  Agrawal informed that a shortage of 942.15 quintals of groundnuts was found after the purchase in Churu. Chief Administrator of KVSS Sandeep Kumar (inspector) was suspended with immediate effect for this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-cooperative-inspectors-suspended/articleshow/76988627.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||HC suspends work for four days||The functioning of the Rajasthan High court has been suspended for four days beginning on Thursday as some Covid-19 cases were reported among the staff in Jaipur and Jodhpour benches. A notification issued by the registrar general said samples of remaining staff were taken and the results would be available only on July 19. Thus, the functioning of courts in Jaipur and Jodhpur will remain suspended from July 16 to 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-suspends-work-for-four-days/articleshow/76988639.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara schools secure 100% results||Vadodara: Majority of schools in the city secured 100% as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared results of Class X on Wednesday. All 154 students of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s VM Public School who had appeared in Class X cleared their exams. “Our student Zeel Vyas has topped with 99.2%,” informed Rajeev Kumar Singhal, principal of the school. Similarly, all 305 students from Delhi Public School (DPS), Vadodara, too cleared their exams. “We have secured 100% results,” said principal A K Sinha, adding that school topper Riya Jalgaonkar secured 98.6 %. A total 208 students of DPS, Harni passed with flying colours. Srushti Selot bagged the highest aggregate score of 97.6 %. From Navrachana School, Sama, 238 students had appeared in the exams. Aadhya Joshi topped the school with 98.8 %, informed Suprabha Menon, principal of the school. At Navrachana International School, Vadodara (NISV), Saanvi Chawla topped with 97.8 %. A total of 65 students from the school had appeared for the board exams, said Theo D’Souza, principal of the school. From Anand Vidya Vihar (AVV), 63 students had appeared and all passed. Student Adisha Shaikh topped the school with 98.2 %. The Nizampura-based New Era Senior Secondary School, too, achieved 100 % results with student Kriday Parmar as school topper with 98.8 % marks, said principal Leena Nair. At Gujarat Public School, Atladara, Mrunal Gandhi topped with 96.5 %. “All our 126 students have cleared their exams,” said Beena Prashant, principal of thje school. From Urmi School, 72 students cleared their Class X. Student Aayush Kumar topped by securing 97%. All 218 students of Bright Day School CBSE unit (Vasna-Bhayli) cleared their exams. Students _ Anchal Pitroda and Manan Patel _ stood first securing 96.2%, said Bhavik Parekh, principal of the school. At the CBSE unit (Harni) of Bright Day School, Kavya Purohit topped securing 96.6%. “All our 242 students have cleared their exams,” said Neeta Sharma, principal of the school. Cygnus World School, too, secured 100% results. “Nishi Shah scored highest 97.20%,” said Kanchan Joshi, principal of the school. A total of 67 students had appeared for the board exams from Vibgyor School this year. Honey Patel topped the school with 97.17%. At Podar International School, Ajwa Farheen Kagzi topped the school with 97 %, informed Shalini Bhatt, principal of the school. From Podar World School (Sherkhi branch), all 35 students cleared their exams. Bhargavi Jaiswal secured 97%. At Green Valley High School, Mitul Patel topped with 92.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-schools-secure-100-results/articleshow/76986893.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Speaker slaps anti-defection notice on Sachin Pilot, 18 other MLAs||JAIPUR: In a bid to mount pressure on Rajasthan’s rebel Congress MLAs led by Sachin Pilot and indicate its resolve, the party moved assembly Speaker C P Joshi against them, resulting in the Speaker issuing on Wednesday notices to the 19 MLAs who were absent in legislature party meetings held on Monday and Tuesday. Pilot and his band of MLAs were accused of violating the party whip, thereby inviting disqualification from the assembly. They were also accused of conspiring to topple the state government led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in connivance with BJP. The notices issued on Wednesday have to be replied to by July 17 and are likely to set the stage for a politico-legal battle as the rebels are bound to approach courts in the event the Speaker finally disqualifies them and they lose their membership of the assembly. Mahesh Joshi sought action in accordance with the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution and the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly Members (Disqualification for Defection) Act, 1989. The notices, which have seen legal eagle and Rajya Sabha MP Abhishek Singhvi being consulted, were to go out on Tuesday but Congress held back its complaint. The path ahead, however, may not be entirely predictable. Though the Speaker has wide powers to interpret anti-party activities to conclude certain actions amount to rebellion and a "voluntary" giving up of membership, there are other considerations too. Disqualified MLAs can seek legal redress that they be allowed to participate in a floor test. They can also argue that a whip applies to actions in the House and not to legislature party meetings. At any rate, their pleas might earn them a stay on any disqualification. The strategy behind disqualification is simple enough: It will reduce the halfway mark in the assembly and make the current support of the Ashok Gehlot government, estimated by Congress sources at a shade over the 100 mark in the 200-seat House, much more secure. The notices, meanwhile, are also intended to pressure some of the rebels to retrace their steps. The reaction of the Pilot camp was not clear as the leader did not address the media as had been expected and BJP also called off its meeting. This led to speculation whether the numbers of BJP and Pilot were not adding up and whether any understanding they were working out has hit a hurdle. Mahesh Joshi, in his five-page letter to the Speaker, said, “Over the last several days, attempts have been made to topple the Congress government in the state through corrupt practices and other illegal means. The MLAs in question have been deliberately conspiring against Congress to destabilise its government and are acting openly against party interests.” Joshi also alleged that the rebel lawmakers wilfully absented themselves from the CLP meeting convened on July 13 and from the second meeting on July 14. “The MLAs gave interviews to select TV channels challenging the government and levelling allegations against the party and the government,” the chief whip said. He said these open challenges to the party leadership were an undeniable expression of a revolt against Congress and indicated that they had voluntarily given up party membership by conspiring against the organisation. Gehlot claims he has the support of at least 104 MLAs in the 200-member assembly. Meanwhile, opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria questioned the notices issued by the Speaker to rebel MLAs and claimed that “party whip is binding on members only for their business in the House. BJP is consulting legal experts”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/speaker-slaps-anti-defection-notice-on-pilot-18-other-mlas/articleshow/76988643.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Retired scientist dies for want of ICU bed with ventilator; probe assured||PUNE: A 61-year-old retired scientist, former in-charge of the Botanical Survey of India (BSI), Pune branch, failed to get admitted to the isolated intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital on the Pune-Ahmednagar road and died hours later at the state-run Sassoon hospital on Wednesday. The Vishrantwadi resident had complained of fever and breathlessness and required a ventilator-supported ICU bed. His family members said they could neither get the bed at the private hospital nor at Sassoon hospital as the available beds were occupied. This is the fourth death in the city in the last few weeks where the relatives had to search futilely for ICU beds in hospitals. Many designated hospitals are currently running at maximum capacity. With the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) adding 800-1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases daily, the stressed health infrastructure and the seeming lack of planning and coordination between the district administration and the designated private hospitals have badly inconvenienced patients and their families. The retired scientist’s brother-in-law, S Madhavan, said, “Precious hours were lost in our anxious search for an ICU bed. He could have survived if he had got admitted in time. He had no underlying medical conditions.” The private hospital on Ahmednagar road said the man was referred to the hospital by a general practitioner for a chest X-ray. “However, he started feeling breathless and required isolation ICU as he was suspected to have contracted Covid-19. We provided oxygen support and administered an injection to stabilize him,” the administration told TOI. “We tried searching for bed in other branches of our hospital as well as in other hospitals. He was referred to Sassoon hospital against the advice of his general practitioner. Our ambulance transferred him with oxygen and medical support,” the administration said. The family was in for a shock at Sassoon hospital as all the ICU beds were occupied there too. “We tried to contact many other private hospitals over the phone. But none had a vacant ICU bed," Madhavan said. The Sassoon medical staff tried to maintain him on basic oxygen support but he succumbed to respiratory complications around 2 am. He tested positive for Covid-19. The Sassoon administration said, “ All 44 ICU beds were full. In fact, there were a few other patients who were also breathless and were being maintained on oxygen support as there were no ICU beds. There is a daily wait for ICU beds. We are hiring medical staff and planning to increase ICU beds. Raising infrastructure is easy but we need a skilled workforce to run it.” Pune city Congress committee spokesperson Ramesh Iyer, a family friend of the patient, criticised the district administration for poor planning and poor utilization of existing resources.“The district administration should create a dedicated helpline and use mass media tools to popularise the helpline number. It must also put a mechanism in place to fix responsibility,” he said. Pune Municipal Corporation additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said ward-level officers have been empowered to file FIRs against erring hospitals. “The ward medical officer concerned will conduct an inquiry and take action.We have given show-cause notices to 25 hospitals for reasons like admission refusal and overcharging,” she said. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram assured probe in the case. “Strict action will be taken against erring hospitals not updating the availability of data on the dashboard software in real time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retired-scientist-dies-for-want-of-icu-bed-collector-assures-probe/articleshow/76988644.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot attacks Sachin Pilot, says ‘you were part of horse trading’||JAIPUR: CM Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday made a scathing attack on his former deputy Sachin Pilot, accusing him of conspiring with the BJP to defeat Congress candidates during the Rajya Sabha elections held on June 19. Gehlot claimed he had proof that a Rs 20-crore deal was in the making. Stopping short of naming him, Gehlot claimed Pilot was directly involved in horse trading of MLAs and the rebellion in Rajasthan Congress that was being played out for the past three days was originally planned for the RS polls. The CM said some of his party colleagues got “over ambitious” and fell in the BJP trap. “Consider this -- your own deputy CM and PCC chief (posts held by Pilot until Monday) makes a deal, asks for names and mobile numbers of people, is part of the conspiracy and then clarifies that no horse trading took place. How is this possible? What is this clarification about after being part of horse trading?” said Gehlot, reacting to Pilot’s statements to television channels earlier in the day that he never plotted with BJP to try to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan.“The conspiracy against the government would have played out during the Rajya Sabha polls itself had I not been on the guard. We had to keep our MLAs in a hotel for 10 days (prior to the polls). If we had not done that, what’s happening in Manesar now would have happened then. The same people (Pilot loyalists camping in a Manesar hotel) were to be sent at 2 am,” claimed Gehlot. The chief minister said leaders who have been in politics for the past 40 years underwent “ragdai” (rigorous grinding) in Youth Congress and NSUI. He said this is the reason they could survive and later got important posts like CMs and Union ministers. “I had said that he (Pilot) had not gone through that ‘grinding’. It is painful he is unable to understand that he was made a Union minister and PCC chief (at a young age). He would have done well, if he too had gone through the rigours,” said Gehlot. “It is incorrect to say that we do not respect the younger generation (of politicians). Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Ashok Gehlot, all like them. But if the younger politicians promote and take part in horse trading, will it not destroy the country? Can’t the media see that?” asked Gehlot. “Speaking impeccable English and Hindi, giving interesting bytes (to the media) and having a handsome personality are not enough. What matters is, how you feel for the country, what are your commitments and ideologies. Sone ki chhuri pait mein khan ke liye nahi hoti (A golden knife cannot be digested),” said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-attacks-pilot-says-you-were-part-of-horse-trading/articleshow/76988661.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||In a spate of suicides, another 4 take their lives in Lakhimpur Kheri||Bareilly: In another spate of suicides, all believed to be linked to family disputes, four persons allegedly took their lives in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday. The district has seen quite a few such cases in the last one month. On June 16, four persons had allegedly killed themselves while a couple allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison on June 20. On Tuesday, a 52-year-old teacher was found dead in his room. Avdhesh Narayan Mishra was a resident of Pratapgarh and used to teach in a college in Gola town. He was found hanging inside his residence in Teacher’s Colony. Mishra used to stay alone in the house while his family lived in Pratapgarh. The family was informed by police about his death. The second incident was also reported from Gola town where Swati Singh (21) ended her life by hanging herself with a rope from the ceiling fan. Swati was pursuing graduation from a private college in Bareilly and had returned home during lockdown. She has not left any suicide note. The third incident was reported from Gandhinagar locality under the jurisdiction of Hyderabad police station in Gola tehsil where Makhanlal (28) was found hanging from a rope inside his room. Makhanlal was unmarried and staying alone in the rented house while his family members live in the village. SHO of Hyderabad police station Suneet Kumar told TOI, “Family disputes have come across as one of the main reason behind suicide cases. Even in this case, Makhanlal had a tiff with his family on Sunday.” The fourth incident was reported from Bela Kalan village under the jurisdiction of Palia police station where Laxmi Devi (24) allegedly committed suicide after having a tiff with her husband. Police have received a complaint from the parents of Laxmi that her husband used to torture her for dowry. SHO Palia Vidyashankar Shukla said that police would be registering an FIR under the section of dowry death against the husband and three other family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-spate-of-suicides-another-4-take-their-lives-in-lakhimpur-kheri/articleshow/76981650.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||85.13% students pass Plus Two exams||Thiruvananthapuram: Girls outperformed boys with a telling margin in Kerala Plus Two higher-secondary examinations whose results were announced in the state capital on Wednesday. The overall pass percentage for the year registered a marginal increase with 85.13% students becoming eligible for higher studies as against 84.33% last year. Continuing with the past trend, 92.29% girl students cleared the examination this time as against 77.22% of their boys’ counterparts. The results were announced by state general education minister C Raveendranath in a virtual news conference on Wednesday. More than 3.75 lakh students appeared for the Plus Two higher-secondary examinations held in two phases amid Covid-19 pandemic. The examinations were held in 2,043 centres amid tight restrictions. The results were announced considering the marks scored by students in their first year as well as second year examinations. A look at stream-wise performance of students shows that 88.62% of students in science stream became eligible for higher studies. Pass percentage in humanities and commerce streams are 77.76% and 84.52 %, respectively. The pass percentage in government, aided and unaided schools are 82.19%, 88.01% and 81.33%, respectively. As many as 18,510 students scored A+ in all subjects. Of this, 14,195 were girls and 4,315 boys. In science stream, 13,037 students scored A + in all subjects, while in humanities division, 1,630 students achieved this feat. In commerce stream, 3,843 students got A+ for all subjects. Ernakulam emerged the top district in the state with 89.02% students clearing the examination. Kasaragod recorded the lowest pass percentage of 78.68%. St Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram, presented the highest number of students in the examination even as it clinched an impressive 95.95% pass. Pass percentage in 15 technical schools that follow higher-secondary syllabus is 87.94 and that of Kalamandalam Art Higher Secondary School is 98.75%. Pass percentage among students who have registered under SCOLE Kerala open school system is 43.48%. Pass percentage in vocational higher-secondary schools following National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF) is 73% and that of old scheme it is 81.8%. Students may apply for revaluation/photocopy/scrutiny of all subjects, except revaluation of physics, chemistry and mathematics of the examination, from Thursday. Plus One results for the year would be announced in July itself, the education minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/85-13-students-pass-plus-two-exams/articleshow/76986698.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Rampur gangster Saleem arrested after encounter||RAMPUR: In a joint effort by the special operations group and police, Saleem, a gangster from Rampur, who was reportedly staying in Delhi, was arrested in an encounter on Tuesday night. During the encounter in UP, Saleem, who was carrying a Rs 25,000 reward, sustained bullet injury to his leg. Police also caught his three aides and recovered weapons and ammunition. Saleem, alias Guddu Phadi, was operating in parts of UP and even Delhi. He was wanted in at least 47 cases of murder and robbery, among other crimes. Cases were registered against him in Rampur and Delhi. Saleem has been staying in Delhi's New Mustafabad area. According to police officials, the encounter took place near the Lalpur dam in Khizarpur under Azeemnagar police station limits. The arrested men riding two bikes allegedly exchanged gunfire with the police when they were asked to stop during a routine check. On Wednesday, Rampur SP Shaghun Gautam said, "Saleem was one of the most wanted men in the district. Over 40 criminal cases were registered against him at various police stations in UP and Delhi. He sustained bullet injury during exchange of fire and was arrested. His three aides were identified as Shahroz Khan, Moni and Shahid Khan."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-gangster-saleem-arrested-after-encounter/articleshow/76985691.cms||Nazar Abbas
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Class X students bring laurels to parents, schools||AMRITSAR/BATHINDA/HISAR: The results of Class X students of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have come as a ray of hope in the gloom-filled pandemic days. Though, the coronavirus did leave its imprint — schools advised students not to come to school to celebrate, as they usually did, and instead, urged them to celebrate from home. Spring Dale Senior School principal Rajiv Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said his school got 100% result, bringing joy to the students, their families and teachers. According to him, Sirjanpreet Kaur topped with 98.2% marks, Gaurang Gupta stood second with a score of 97.3% and the third position was secured by Simran Khosla with a score of 97% marks. The principal of DAV Public School, Neera Sharma, said Harkirat Chadha made the school proud by scoring 98%, and Tanveer Kaur stood second with 97.2 %. Three students, Jyotansh Mohindru ,Tanishdeep Dhanju and Bhavreet Kaur, secured 96.8 % marks got third position in the school. Deputy director, public relations, Khalsa College governing council, Dharmander Singh Ratul said Sharanpreet Kaur from Khalsa College Public School scored 94.4%. Dharmander said Harmandeep Kaur and Tarun Vohra both got 93.4 %, Babli got 93 % , Sarshti got 92.4 %, Ramnik got 92.2 %while Manpreet and Komalpreet got 92 %. Meanwhile in Bathinda, schools are happy with the results students have fetched. St Xavier School in Bathinda is over the moon as 15 students got over 95% marks. Amanveer Kaur topped with 98.4%, followed by Sehajdeep Singh, who got 97.8%, Lioza Garg 97%, Ishanpreet Uppal 96.8%, Gurkeerat Kaur 96.2%, Samika Goyal 96%. Nine other students got marks 95% and 96%. All 275 students of RB DAV Senior Secondary School scored outstanding marks — 33 have scored above 90%. Jaskirat Singh topped with a score of 97.2%. Seven have scored 100 in mathematics, six scored 100 in Punjabi, four scored 99 in social science, two got 98 in English. One each scored 98 in Hindi and science. In Hisar, Jasmine, a student of Vishwas Senior Secondary School, scored 98.8% and Akshita, a student of Jindal Modern School, scored 98%. Muskan of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School in Hansi scored 97.2%, Ajay Singh of Krishna Pranami Public School scored 97%, Puneet of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School in Hansi scored 96.8%, Tejas of Jindal Modern School scored 96.4%, Ujjwal of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School has secured 96.4%, Khushi of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School of Hansi has scored 96.2%, Chirag Chahal of Campus School of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University has secured 96% marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/class-x-students-bring-laurels-to-parents-schools/articleshow/76988671.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||New corporation to track sand mining||VIJAYAWADA: The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to set up a separate corporation to monitor mining and supply of sand. It will be part of the ministry of mines and have no truck with AP Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC). The government had changed the sand policy last year and cancelled mining and supply activity by private contractors. APMDC had been engaged in this activity for the past one year. However, with complaints pouring in, the government decided to create a separate corporation to streamline mining and supply. The new corporation will monitor all sand mines in the state, sand stock points and vehicles transporting sand to avoid smuggling. Briefing media persons after the cabinet meeting, minister for information and publications, Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) said the cabinet has decided to extend YSR Cheyutha to more people. The scheme is intended to extend financial assistance to women from SC, ST, BC and minority communities in the age group of 45 to 60 years. The scheme benefits over 8.21 lakh women in the state. There are around 17.03 lakh applications pending with the government for the benefit. The cabinet also decided to extend the scheme to single, widow and disabled women. It has planned to spend Rs 1,540.89 crore under the scheme per year amounting to Rs 6,163.59 crore in the next four years. The cabinet also cleared the proposal to bring in AP Fish Feed Control Act 2020 to ensure quality feed for the aqua sector. About Rs 17,000 crore worth of fish feed is marketed every year in the state and the farmers are losing heavily due to spurious or poor quality feed, the minister said. The government would open laboratories to check the quality of the feed, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-corporation-to-track-sand-mining/articleshow/76986713.cms||Gopi Dara
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Palace on Wheels to remain off the tracks at least till December||JAIPUR: Every year, this time around, luxury train Palace on Wheels (POW) starts to go through a process of renewal and refurbishment for the first ride of the season that starts in September. But not this year. Officials at RTDC (Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation), which, in partnership with Indian Railways operates the train, are yet to formally cancel the journeys, but the consensus is already there for it till December. “We have not decided as yet. We are keen to start, but there travel advisories for non-essential travel. Resumption of scheduled commercial flights is a big factor given the fact that the majority of travellers in the train are from foreign countries. Also, it all depends on which direction Covid-19 moves,” said a senior official at RTDC. The luxury train is a big draw among foreigners and NRIs who fill up over 90% of its 84-berth capacity. The 8-day journey takes them through the royal heritage of Rajasthan, its deserts, wildlife, bird sanctuary and also the historic Taj Mahal. Of the two major commercial operations of RTDC, Palace On Wheels is a profit making venture, while the hotel business continues to lose money because of changing market dynamics and legacy issues. During the last season, POW had to terminate trips in March and April due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Instead of refunds for the cancelled trips, bookings were made for the current season. “We are not sure when the foreign travel agencies are reopening for business. In India too, General Service Agents managing the booking have not opened. There is a complete lack of clarity now. In this situation, we don’t expect the journeys to start from September,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/palace-on-wheels-to-remain-off-the-tracks-at-least-till-december/articleshow/76988684.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||Heavy showers soak Mumbai, but elude catchment area lakes; orange alert for today||MUMBAI: After overnight rain, several parts of the island city and suburbs woke up to heavy showers on Wednesday morning, but the intensity of rainfall continued to remain low in the catchment areas of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbaikars. Five of the reservoirs are located outside Mumbai, in Thane and Nashik. After the overnight heavy rain, IMD upgraded the warning status from orange (heavy to very heavy rain at a few places likely) to red (extremely heavy rain at isolated places very likely) for Wednesday, and from yellow (heavy rain at isolated places very likely) to orange for Thursday. In the 24-hour period ending 6am on Wednesday, Upper Vaitarna received 6mm rainfall, Bhatsa 9mm, Tansa 11mm, Middle Vaitarna 34mm and Modak Sagar 40mm. Vihar and Tulsi lakes, which are located in the city, received 42mm and 80mm of rainfall, respectively. The total water stock in the lakes on Wednesday was 3.61 lakh million litres, which is 24.9% of the full capacity of the reservoirs. On July 15, 2019, the stock was almost double—6.97 lakh million litres (48.2%). The seven reservoirs should have a total 14.47 lakh million litres by October 1 for the city to go without a water cut for the rest of the year. In the 24-hour period ending 8.30am on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Colaba observatory recorded 122mm of rainfall and the Santacruz observatory, 96.6mm. But later in the day, only parts of the western suburbs received heavy showers. Between 8am and 8.30pm, the Santacruz observatory recorded 81.2mm rainfall and the Colaba station, 39.8mm. With the active monsoon conditions in the city, the total rainfall recorded this month so far was 912mm, against the normal average for July of 840.7mm, according to IMD. Officials said the city was experiencing rain activity under the influence of a low-level cyclonic circulation over north Konkan in the lower tropospheric levels and an east-west shear zone Konkan area. KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said while rainfall intensity may reduce from Thursday, the wet spell is likely to continue. Meanwhile, an NDRF team of 25 commandos has been deployed in Thane till August 31 to help with rescue operations in rain-related disasters. Waterlogging hits traffic movementHeavy rain showers and waterlogging on Wednesday morning disrupted traffic movement in city. Andheri subway was shut for vehicular movement till late afternoon until water drained out. North-bound traffic movement on Khar subway was also shut. On Western Express Highway, traffic congestion was reported near Andheri, Vile Parle and Santacruz. Mumbai Police, on its Twitter handle, reported waterlogging at Dadar TT, Hindmata Junction, Mahim Junction, SV Road near Andheri, Khar Subway, Linking Road in Bandra, Chandivli Junction along with SCLR bridge, Khetwadi, Sion Road No. 24 and Gandhi Market. BEST buses were diverted on 27 routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/heavy-showers-soak-mumbai-but-elude-catchment-area-lakes/articleshow/76988687.cms||Richa Pinto
July 16, 2020||Madurai||Centre has given Rs 672 crore for Covid-19 related work: Tamil Nadu CM||KRISHNAGIRI: The Centre has so far given a sum of Rs 672. 59 crore to the state government for Covid related work in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said. Talking to reporters in Krishnagiri after chairing a meeting with industrialists, farmers and district officials on Wednesday, Palaniswami said that in addition to the Rs 672 crore fund granted to the state, the Centre has spent about Rs 4,394 crore directly under various schemes. This includes, Rs 2,115 crore worth food ration given for guest workers in TN, Rs 915 crore deposited in the bank accounts of 61 lakh people under Jan Dhan Yojana, Rs 181 crore under another welfare scheme, rice and pulses till June accounting for Rs 1,206 crore and Rs 353 crore respectively. In July again, rice, wheat and cereals worth Rs 384 crore, 18 crore and Rs 61 crore respectively were allotted, EPS said. “So far, the state and central governments had together spent about Rs 10,000 crore for Covid related work. Of this, the state’s share accounted for Rs 6,000 crore,’’ EPS said. In June last, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said during a virtual rally that the Centre had given Rs 6,600 crore for Tamil Nadu for Covid. “The Centre has given Rs 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu specifically for buying medical equipment like ventilators and masks to fight Covid,’’ she had said. However, EPS said for works which were directly related to Covid TN had received only Rs 672 crore. Out of this, Rs 46 crore for purchase of medical equipment, Rs 312 crore for immediate relief, Rs 48 crore for allied work and Rs 225 crore under budgetary expenditure, he said. In fact, Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement had raised several eyebrows among the state’s bureacrats who said that the state had not received the sum claimed by the Union finance minister. DMK president M K Stalin had demanded EPS to reveal the funds received from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/centre-has-given-rs-672-cr-for-covid-19-related-work-cm/articleshow/76992514.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Last-mile connectors slowing you down by 6kmph or more||NEW DELHI: At least one-third of the space on roads near busy Delhi Metro stations is occupied by e-rickshaws, cycle rickshaws and other modes of last-mile connectivity, reducing vehicle speed at these points by 6 kmph or more, a study conducted just before the lockdown in March has revealed. Most busy metro stations have become traffic chokepoints in the last few years because the number of e-rickshaws have spiralled in the capital. Approximately one-third of the road space was found being used by such vehicles within 100m of the metro stations in all directions. Times ViewIn the absence of an adequate feeder service, areas outside metro stations are magnets for sundry public transport vehicles. Jams are routine. While the need for these services is not in dispute, Metro authorities and traffic police should proactively intervene with a proper plan to ensure order. The choice for common people shouldn’t be between no last mile service and utter chaos.The research conducted by scientists of CSIR-Central Road Research Institute with funding from Petroleum Conservation Research Association also revealed that while 39% metro commuters reached the stations on foot, 35% used cycle rickshaws or e-rickshaws, 14% private cars or cabs, 2% two wheelers and 10% buses. The survey was carried out at five busy metro stations in west, south and east Delhi, including Karol Bagh, Kailash Colony, Laxmi Nagar, Lajpat Nagar and Inderlok. Traffic volume near these stations was analysed between 7am and 10pm. “Capacity increasing options, like flyovers and road widening, have been observed to shift the problems by a short time or by a short distance due to induced traffic behaviour and involve a lot of constraints. Further, banning of public vehicles can affect the metro ridership inversely and stopping personal vehicles may lead to other congestion issues,” the study observed. The study recommended alternate signal phasing and cycle lengths suitable for vehicles users and pedestrians, on-street parking by segregating types of vehicles, safe pedestrian bays around permanent structures on footpaths, etc. This would not only lead to increased vehicular speed near metro stations, but also help in saving fuel and lowering emissions caused due to traffic congestion. The researchers also pushed for a segregated parking lane for cycle rickshaws and e–rickshaws, both at-grade pedestrian crossings and crossings through metro stations, alternate bus stop locations suiting the traffic and road users, providing bus stop with bays only for roads with less than two carriageways, segregated pick-up and drop-off zone underneath stations for taxis, private vehicles, autos, exploring potential space for utilisation of different kinds of road users, metro commuters, etc. A few of the suggestions, such as segregated parking for non-motorised modes of transport used for last-mile connectivity, bus bays and pick-up and drop-off bays, are already being implemented by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) at 90 stations. Though space outside metro stations at many places is under the jurisdiction of various civic agencies, DMRC has been tasked to prepare plans for multi-modal integration, which would be implemented by different agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/last-mile-connectors-slowing-you-down-by-6kmph-or-more/articleshow/76987994.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 16, 2020||Salem||Centre has given Rs 672 crore for Covid-19 related work: Tamil Nadu CM||KRISHNAGIRI: The Centre has so far given a sum of Rs 672. 59 crore to the state government for Covid related work in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said. Talking to reporters in Krishnagiri after chairing a meeting with industrialists, farmers and district officials on Wednesday, Palaniswami said that in addition to the Rs 672 crore fund granted to the state, the Centre has spent about Rs 4,394 crore directly under various schemes. This includes, Rs 2,115 crore worth food ration given for guest workers in TN, Rs 915 crore deposited in the bank accounts of 61 lakh people under Jan Dhan Yojana, Rs 181 crore under another welfare scheme, rice and pulses till June accounting for Rs 1,206 crore and Rs 353 crore respectively. In July again, rice, wheat and cereals worth Rs 384 crore, 18 crore and Rs 61 crore respectively were allotted, EPS said. “So far, the state and central governments had together spent about Rs 10,000 crore for Covid related work. Of this, the state’s share accounted for Rs 6,000 crore,’’ EPS said. In June last, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said during a virtual rally that the Centre had given Rs 6,600 crore for Tamil Nadu for Covid. “The Centre has given Rs 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu specifically for buying medical equipment like ventilators and masks to fight Covid,’’ she had said. However, EPS said for works which were directly related to Covid TN had received only Rs 672 crore. Out of this, Rs 46 crore for purchase of medical equipment, Rs 312 crore for immediate relief, Rs 48 crore for allied work and Rs 225 crore under budgetary expenditure, he said. In fact, Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement had raised several eyebrows among the state’s bureacrats who said that the state had not received the sum claimed by the Union finance minister. DMK president M K Stalin had demanded EPS to reveal the funds received from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/centre-has-given-rs-672-cr-for-covid-19-related-work-cm/articleshow/76988677.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chennai||BCG vaccine to be given to Tamil Nadu Covid-19 patients above 60 years||CHENNAI: Seniors citizens above the age of 60 are being given anti-tuberculosis shots, usually given to children, as part of a national trial to study the vaccine’s effect in preventing Covid-19, Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar has said. “We do not have any drug or vaccine to cure the disease yet. TN is part of the ICMR study. The Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine will be given to people between 65 and 90 years,” he said. “It is not clear if BCG will block Covid-19, but clinical trials are being done across the globe. We are now initiating the study in the most vulnerable population where fatalities are high,” said National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT) director Dr Manoj V Murhekar. Six high incidence states Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Delhi will be part of the study. In Tamil Nadu, elderly population from Chennai and Tiruvallur will receive the vaccine. Experts suggest that this vaccine, which prevents infant death, helps human immune system to recognize and respond to a variety of infections, including viruses. Certain studies done among adults have shown that BCG vaccinations reduced the incidence of acute upper respiratory tract infections. The team has started administering the live-attenuated vaccine (LAV), which comprises live but weakened TB virus, to thousands of senior citizens as part of the trial since Monday, said deputy director Dr Padmapriyadarsini C, who is also the principal investigator of this study. Doctors and health workers are expected to vaccinate at least 1,200 senior citizens across the country by July- end. “We are planning to conduct camps to screen the elderly. BCG vaccinations cannot be administered to anyone who has a compromised immune system. We have to choose candidates carefully,” added Dr Padmapriyadarsini. For instance, people with immune-compromised conditions such as cancer or HIV/AIDS, those on dialysis, or those who have undergone organ transplant will not be eligible to take the vaccine. Those undergoing treatment for TB or who underwent treatment in the last six months will also not be eligible. Patients given the vaccine will be followed up for at least six months as a part of the study, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bcg-vaccine-to-be-given-to-tn-covid-19-patients-above-60-years/articleshow/76988675.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||School managements, parents, opposition allege goof up in Class X results of BSEH||Chandigarh: The alleged goof ups in the preparation of Class X results of examinations conducted by Board of School Education, Haryana (BSEH) have left the students, parents as well as the managements of the schools fuming. The results were declared last Friday and 65% students were said to have cleared the examinations. It is alleged that the BSEH had showed the students as failed as well as absent in examinations that were not conducted even. As a result, nearly 10,000 students have failed to clear the examinations or their percentile has been affected. The members of Haryana Private Schools Association have sought a probe and reevaluation and release of results after correction. The incident has even given an opportunity for the opposition to take on the Haryana government. Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Selja has questioned the formula introduced by BSEH while preparing the results. She said due to that, the future of thousands of students of the state has become bleak. Selja said she has written to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, requesting him to evaluate the subjects for which examinations could not be held and promote all students of the state to next classes like in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/school-managements-parents-opposition-allege-goof-up-in-class-x-results-of-bseh/articleshow/76988682.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer administration pulls up socks to combat coronavirus spread||JAISALMER: With corona cases continuously on the rise and a spurt in number of deaths as well in Barmer district, the district administration has started taking many efforts to control the infection. The administration has formed committees to get all shops closed after the prescribed time and to stop movement of people. Directions have also been given to collect more number of samples in high-risk areas. Barmer SDM Prashant Sharma said that shops of essential services (barring shops banned under Central and state governments) are to be opened between 10am and 4pm. Issuing orders, he has formed a committee comprising tehsildar Barmer, commissioner municipal council Barmer, development officer panchayat samiti Barmer and SHO police station Barmer, to get all the shops closed after 4pm and to stop movement of people. The committee will ensure compliance of order. Police will penalize the shopkeepers and people found not wearing masks. Sharma has also formed a committee at Krishi Upaj Mandi Barmer, to stop movement of people after 4pm, which will ensure the execution of the order. He has directed municipal council commissioner to get the vegetable market sanitised at 11am every day and the krishi upaj mandi at 5pm. Advisory has been issued to oil companies regarding safety and precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-admn-pulls-up-socks-to-combat-virus-spread/articleshow/76988673.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Erode||Centre has given Rs 672 crore for Covid-19 related work: Tamil Nadu CM||KRISHNAGIRI: The Centre has so far given a sum of Rs 672. 59 crore to the state government for Covid related work in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said. Talking to reporters in Krishnagiri after chairing a meeting with industrialists, farmers and district officials on Wednesday, Palaniswami said that in addition to the Rs 672 crore fund granted to the state, the Centre has spent about Rs 4,394 crore directly under various schemes. This includes, Rs 2,115 crore worth food ration given for guest workers in TN, Rs 915 crore deposited in the bank accounts of 61 lakh people under Jan Dhan Yojana, Rs 181 crore under another welfare scheme, rice and pulses till June accounting for Rs 1,206 crore and Rs 353 crore respectively. In July again, rice, wheat and cereals worth Rs 384 crore, 18 crore and Rs 61 crore respectively were allotted, EPS said. “So far, the state and central governments had together spent about Rs 10,000 crore for Covid related work. Of this, the state’s share accounted for Rs 6,000 crore,’’ EPS said. In June last, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said during a virtual rally that the Centre had given Rs 6,600 crore for Tamil Nadu for Covid. “The Centre has given Rs 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu specifically for buying medical equipment like ventilators and masks to fight Covid,’’ she had said. However, EPS said for works which were directly related to Covid TN had received only Rs 672 crore. Out of this, Rs 46 crore for purchase of medical equipment, Rs 312 crore for immediate relief, Rs 48 crore for allied work and Rs 225 crore under budgetary expenditure, he said. In fact, Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement had raised several eyebrows among the state’s bureacrats who said that the state had not received the sum claimed by the Union finance minister. DMK president M K Stalin had demanded EPS to reveal the funds received from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/centre-has-given-rs-672-cr-for-covid-19-related-work-cm/articleshow/76992515.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Class X students bring laurels to parents, schools||AMRITSAR/BATHINDA/HISAR: The results of Class X students of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have come as a ray of hope in the gloom-filled pandemic days. Though, the coronavirus did leave its imprint — schools advised students not to come to school to celebrate, as they usually did, and instead, urged them to celebrate from home. Spring Dale Senior School principal Rajiv Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said his school got 100% result, bringing joy to the students, their families and teachers. According to him, Sirjanpreet Kaur topped with 98.2% marks, Gaurang Gupta stood second with a score of 97.3% and the third position was secured by Simran Khosla with a score of 97% marks. The principal of DAV Public School, Neera Sharma, said Harkirat Chadha made the school proud by scoring 98%, and Tanveer Kaur stood second with 97.2 %. Three students, Jyotansh Mohindru ,Tanishdeep Dhanju and Bhavreet Kaur, secured 96.8 % marks got third position in the school. Deputy director, public relations, Khalsa College governing council, Dharmander Singh Ratul said Sharanpreet Kaur from Khalsa College Public School scored 94.4%. Dharmander said Harmandeep Kaur and Tarun Vohra both got 93.4 %, Babli got 93 % , Sarshti got 92.4 %, Ramnik got 92.2 %while Manpreet and Komalpreet got 92 %. Meanwhile in Bathinda, schools are happy with the results students have fetched. St Xavier School in Bathinda is over the moon as 15 students got over 95% marks. Amanveer Kaur topped with 98.4%, followed by Sehajdeep Singh, who got 97.8%, Lioza Garg 97%, Ishanpreet Uppal 96.8%, Gurkeerat Kaur 96.2%, Samika Goyal 96%. Nine other students got marks 95% and 96%. All 275 students of RB DAV Senior Secondary School scored outstanding marks — 33 have scored above 90%. Jaskirat Singh topped with a score of 97.2%. Seven have scored 100 in mathematics, six scored 100 in Punjabi, four scored 99 in social science, two got 98 in English. One each scored 98 in Hindi and science. In Hisar, Jasmine, a student of Vishwas Senior Secondary School, scored 98.8% and Akshita, a student of Jindal Modern School, scored 98%. Muskan of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School in Hansi scored 97.2%, Ajay Singh of Krishna Pranami Public School scored 97%, Puneet of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School in Hansi scored 96.8%, Tejas of Jindal Modern School scored 96.4%, Ujjwal of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School has secured 96.4%, Khushi of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School of Hansi has scored 96.2%, Chirag Chahal of Campus School of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University has secured 96% marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/class-x-students-bring-laurels-to-parents-schools/articleshow/76992734.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Class X students bring laurels to parents, schools||AMRITSAR/BATHINDA/HISAR: The results of Class X students of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have come as a ray of hope in the gloom-filled pandemic days. Though, the coronavirus did leave its imprint — schools advised students not to come to school to celebrate, as they usually did, and instead, urged them to celebrate from home. Spring Dale Senior School principal Rajiv Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said his school got 100% result, bringing joy to the students, their families and teachers. According to him, Sirjanpreet Kaur topped with 98.2% marks, Gaurang Gupta stood second with a score of 97.3% and the third position was secured by Simran Khosla with a score of 97% marks. The principal of DAV Public School, Neera Sharma, said Harkirat Chadha made the school proud by scoring 98%, and Tanveer Kaur stood second with 97.2 %. Three students, Jyotansh Mohindru ,Tanishdeep Dhanju and Bhavreet Kaur, secured 96.8 % marks got third position in the school. Deputy director, public relations, Khalsa College governing council, Dharmander Singh Ratul said Sharanpreet Kaur from Khalsa College Public School scored 94.4%. Dharmander said Harmandeep Kaur and Tarun Vohra both got 93.4 %, Babli got 93 % , Sarshti got 92.4 %, Ramnik got 92.2 %while Manpreet and Komalpreet got 92 %. Meanwhile in Bathinda, schools are happy with the results students have fetched. St Xavier School in Bathinda is over the moon as 15 students got over 95% marks. Amanveer Kaur topped with 98.4%, followed by Sehajdeep Singh, who got 97.8%, Lioza Garg 97%, Ishanpreet Uppal 96.8%, Gurkeerat Kaur 96.2%, Samika Goyal 96%. Nine other students got marks 95% and 96%. All 275 students of RB DAV Senior Secondary School scored outstanding marks — 33 have scored above 90%. Jaskirat Singh topped with a score of 97.2%. Seven have scored 100 in mathematics, six scored 100 in Punjabi, four scored 99 in social science, two got 98 in English. One each scored 98 in Hindi and science. In Hisar, Jasmine, a student of Vishwas Senior Secondary School, scored 98.8% and Akshita, a student of Jindal Modern School, scored 98%. Muskan of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School in Hansi scored 97.2%, Ajay Singh of Krishna Pranami Public School scored 97%, Puneet of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School in Hansi scored 96.8%, Tejas of Jindal Modern School scored 96.4%, Ujjwal of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School has secured 96.4%, Khushi of Baba Banda Bahadur Public School of Hansi has scored 96.2%, Chirag Chahal of Campus School of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University has secured 96% marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/class-x-students-bring-laurels-to-parents-schools/articleshow/76992732.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Agra||UP: Hearing on bail plea of Kafeel Khan deferred||AGRA: The hearing on the bail plea of paediatrician Kafeel Khan was deferred to Friday as functioning at Allahabad high court was affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. The sanitization of the High Court premises is being undertaken to tackle the increase in coronavirus cases in Pragyaraj, the order reads. Filing of fresh cases will not be permitted during the two-day period on July 14 and 15, the court has further stated. Khan was booked for his alleged inflammatory remarks at an anti-CAA protest at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 13 last year. He was arrested on January 29 this year from Mumbai and secured a bail on February 10. But, just hours before he was to come out of the jail, the UP government imposed the National Security Act, 1980 against him on February 13. The Uttar Pradesh government had further extended Khan’s detention under the NSA by another three months on May 12, the day his first trimester of NSA was expired. Khan would continue to be detained under NSA till August 12. Khan’s lawyer Irfan Gazi said that the next date of hearing will be confirmed on Friday. “The UP advisory board order of Khan’s detention was challenged in the Allahabad High Court on April 14. And 11 dates had been given since then,” he said. Khan’s elder brother, Adeel Ahmad Khan, asked, “How can a doctor breach national peace? How can the doctor disrupt law & order?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hearing-on-bail-plea-of-kafeel-khan-deferred/articleshow/76985698.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 16, 2020||Trichy||Centre has given Rs 672 crore for Covid-19 related work: Tamil Nadu CM||KRISHNAGIRI: The Centre has so far given a sum of Rs 672. 59 crore to the state government for Covid related work in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said. Talking to reporters in Krishnagiri after chairing a meeting with industrialists, farmers and district officials on Wednesday, Palaniswami said that in addition to the Rs 672 crore fund granted to the state, the Centre has spent about Rs 4,394 crore directly under various schemes. This includes, Rs 2,115 crore worth food ration given for guest workers in TN, Rs 915 crore deposited in the bank accounts of 61 lakh people under Jan Dhan Yojana, Rs 181 crore under another welfare scheme, rice and pulses till June accounting for Rs 1,206 crore and Rs 353 crore respectively. In July again, rice, wheat and cereals worth Rs 384 crore, 18 crore and Rs 61 crore respectively were allotted, EPS said. “So far, the state and central governments had together spent about Rs 10,000 crore for Covid related work. Of this, the state’s share accounted for Rs 6,000 crore,’’ EPS said. In June last, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said during a virtual rally that the Centre had given Rs 6,600 crore for Tamil Nadu for Covid. “The Centre has given Rs 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu specifically for buying medical equipment like ventilators and masks to fight Covid,’’ she had said. However, EPS said for works which were directly related to Covid TN had received only Rs 672 crore. Out of this, Rs 46 crore for purchase of medical equipment, Rs 312 crore for immediate relief, Rs 48 crore for allied work and Rs 225 crore under budgetary expenditure, he said. In fact, Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement had raised several eyebrows among the state’s bureacrats who said that the state had not received the sum claimed by the Union finance minister. DMK president M K Stalin had demanded EPS to reveal the funds received from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/centre-has-given-rs-672-cr-for-covid-19-related-work-cm/articleshow/76992518.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Pass % dips, but more private school students score 90+ in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Private schools in the capital claimed to have improved their results in the CBSE Class X final examinations, with an increase in the number of students scoring 90% and above and that of candidates scoring a perfect 100 in some subjects. However, according to the data of Central Board of Secondary Education, their pass percentage have fallen from 93.2% in 2019 to 90.2% this year. “Question papers were a little different this year, which might have confused them,” said Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells International School. Echoing her, Indian School principal Tania Joshi said “the patterns for the exam were different from the one taught at schools”. However, the pass percentage of government schools have improved to 83.1% this year from 71.97% last year. “We will have to assess the data and comment on the reason,” Joshi said. Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Schools, said the result fluctuated from year to year. “A pass percentage of more than 90% is very credible,” he said, adding that the impact of “some disturbances” in Delhi during the examination couldn’t be discounted. Calling government schools’ improvement significant, Pandey said, “Credit is due to students, teachers, parents and the overall effort of the leadership.” Ameeta Wattal of Springdales School, however, said, “The true success of private schools is we also nurture special students and those with special needs, who then do well in the exams.” The overall number of students scoring 90% and above has fallen from 2,25,143 in 2019 to 1,84,358 in 2020. But private schools have improved their counts. At Bluebells International School, 43.2% of the students are in this group, 4% up from 2019. Seven of its students have scored a perfect 100 in subjects such as maths and Japanese. For Ahlcon International and Ahlcon Public school — 100% success rate in both — the number is 25%, same as last year. At Amity Saket, the count has jumped from 56% in 2019 to 61.4% in 2020. Amity Pushp Vihar and Amity Mayur Vihar have also improved their tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pass-dips-but-more-pvt-school-students-score-90/articleshow/76988701.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 16, 2020||Chennai||Centre has given Rs 672 crore for Covid-19 related work: Tamil Nadu CM||KRISHNAGIRI: The Centre has so far given a sum of Rs 672. 59 crore to the state government for Covid related work in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said. Talking to reporters in Krishnagiri after chairing a meeting with industrialists, farmers and district officials on Wednesday, Palaniswami said that in addition to the Rs 672 crore fund granted to the state, the Centre has spent about Rs 4,394 crore directly under various schemes. This includes, Rs 2,115 crore worth food ration given for guest workers in TN, Rs 915 crore deposited in the bank accounts of 61 lakh people under Jan Dhan Yojana, Rs 181 crore under another welfare scheme, rice and pulses till June accounting for Rs 1,206 crore and Rs 353 crore respectively. In July again, rice, wheat and cereals worth Rs 384 crore, 18 crore and Rs 61 crore respectively were allotted, EPS said. “So far, the state and central governments had together spent about Rs 10,000 crore for Covid related work. Of this, the state’s share accounted for Rs 6,000 crore,’’ EPS said. In June last, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said during a virtual rally that the Centre had given Rs 6,600 crore for Tamil Nadu for Covid. “The Centre has given Rs 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu specifically for buying medical equipment like ventilators and masks to fight Covid,’’ she had said. However, EPS said for works which were directly related to Covid TN had received only Rs 672 crore. Out of this, Rs 46 crore for purchase of medical equipment, Rs 312 crore for immediate relief, Rs 48 crore for allied work and Rs 225 crore under budgetary expenditure, he said. In fact, Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement had raised several eyebrows among the state’s bureacrats who said that the state had not received the sum claimed by the Union finance minister. DMK president M K Stalin had demanded EPS to reveal the funds received from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-has-given-rs-672-cr-for-covid-19-related-work-cm/articleshow/76992516.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Centre has given Rs 672 crore for Covid-19 related work: Tamil Nadu CM||KRISHNAGIRI: The Centre has so far given a sum of Rs 672. 59 crore to the state government for Covid related work in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said. Talking to reporters in Krishnagiri after chairing a meeting with industrialists, farmers and district officials on Wednesday, Palaniswami said that in addition to the Rs 672 crore fund granted to the state, the Centre has spent about Rs 4,394 crore directly under various schemes. This includes, Rs 2,115 crore worth food ration given for guest workers in TN, Rs 915 crore deposited in the bank accounts of 61 lakh people under Jan Dhan Yojana, Rs 181 crore under another welfare scheme, rice and pulses till June accounting for Rs 1,206 crore and Rs 353 crore respectively. In July again, rice, wheat and cereals worth Rs 384 crore, 18 crore and Rs 61 crore respectively were allotted, EPS said. “So far, the state and central governments had together spent about Rs 10,000 crore for Covid related work. Of this, the state’s share accounted for Rs 6,000 crore,’’ EPS said. In June last, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said during a virtual rally that the Centre had given Rs 6,600 crore for Tamil Nadu for Covid. “The Centre has given Rs 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu specifically for buying medical equipment like ventilators and masks to fight Covid,’’ she had said. However, EPS said for works which were directly related to Covid TN had received only Rs 672 crore. Out of this, Rs 46 crore for purchase of medical equipment, Rs 312 crore for immediate relief, Rs 48 crore for allied work and Rs 225 crore under budgetary expenditure, he said. In fact, Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement had raised several eyebrows among the state’s bureacrats who said that the state had not received the sum claimed by the Union finance minister. DMK president M K Stalin had demanded EPS to reveal the funds received from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/centre-has-given-rs-672-cr-for-covid-19-related-work-cm/articleshow/76992513.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur steps on the gas to tackle Covid-19 crisis||JODHPUR/JAIPUR: While the Covid-19 pandemic worsened in Jaipur as its count zoomed past 4,000 mark, prompting the district administration to take a gamut of measures to prevent the spread of the virus, now, amid the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases in Jodhpur, the administration and the police have started two separate campaigns with a view to contain the exponential rise in positive cases in the city. Till June 29, Jodhpur had reported 3,005 Covid-19 cases, but in the next 15 days, it added more than 1,000 new infections to its tally. In 21 days, from June 15 to July 5, Jodhpur had reported 824 new cases, but in next seven days (from July 6 to July 12), it saw another 814 new cases, indicating that more efforts are needed to prevent the spread of the virus. Taking a serious note of the increasing number of cases, district administration has launched a ‘Jeevan Raksha Abhiyan’ with an eye on elderly and co-morbid persons in order to contain the death rate, while the police have launched ‘Har Ghar Dastak Abhiyan’ to monitor the health of corona-infected persons, isolated at their respective homes. “So, with this abhiyan, we have roped in government departments with enhanced activity, we also expect active cooperation from the citizens and social organisations of the city,” said district magistrate Indrajeet Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-steps-on-the-gas-to-tackle-crisis/articleshow/76988693.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Agra||CBSE class 10 results: At 99.4%, Agra district’s top spot holder aspires to become software engineer||Agra: At 99.4%, Agra’s top spot was bagged by Anjali Sharma of Simpkins Schools in the CBSE high school results which were declared on Wednesday afternoon. While the second position was secured by Aditya Gautam of Sumeet Rahul Memorial Senior Secondary school with 98.4% marks, the third position in the district was shared by Ayush Baghel and Raghvendra Sing, students of Shivalik Cambridge school. Both the students secured 98.2%. Around 14,000 students of over 90 schools had appeared in the CBSE class 10th exam. In a majority of the schools, it was seen that girls outperformed boys as most of the students securing above 95% marks were girls. Daughter of a private firm employee Dauji Prasad Sharma and homemaker Archana Sharma, Anjali said, “I was disciplined and I studied hard throughout the year. Thorough revision ahead of the exams helped me in achieving the high score.” Anjali aspires to crack the IIT-JEE exam and become a software engineer in the future. Son of central government officer Ashok Kumar Gautam and housewife Renu Gautam, Aditya said, “This was completely unexpected. I worked hard but I never thought I would be securing 98.4%. I aim to become a civil servant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbse-class-10-results-at-99-4-agra-districts-top-spot-holder-aspires-to-become-software-engineer/articleshow/76985704.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||18 prisons in Maharashtra still overcrowded||MUMBAI: As many as 18 prisons across the state, including Arthur Road and Kalyan jails, are overcrowded though more than 10,000 inmates have been given emergency parole in the last four months. The state government has announced the release of 17,000 prisoners to decongest jails amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to official data, more than 26,000 inmates are currently lodged in 46 of the 50-plus prisons in the state. Pune’s Yerawada jail, which has capacity of 2,449 inmates, has 4,227 inmates; Arthur Road jail houses 1,907 inmates as against its capacity is 804; and Kalyan jail has 1,343 inmates though it can only house 540. “Direct new admission of inmates in jail is prohibited. An inmates first has to be kept in a temporary prison for 14 days before he/she is taken into the prison as a precaution,” said an officer. Around 36 temporary prisons were set up across the in the state during national lockdown. “We are releasing inmates under the emergency parole scheme as recommended by a high-power committee. However, those jailed for heinous crimes and serious economic frauds or terror activities have been excluded from this scheme,” added the officer. Meanwhile, inmates will now be able to communicate to their lawyers via video calls. Entry of visitors and lawyers was stopped in jails since March. Hearing a PIL, the HC has directed the prisons department to install smartphones in jails and arrange lawyer-prisoner meetings through video calls. A source from the prisons department said that dedicated email IDs have been created for each prison. Lawyers can visit the website, www.mahaprisons.gov.in, and send an e-mail listing the inmate’s name, cell or barrack number, and court case number to the jail authorities concerned. After the e-meeting is sanctioned, the lawyer will be allotted a 10-minute time slot to interact with his client. “The process will be time and cost effective,” said an official. The source said each jail can arrange video calls for 300 inmates a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/18-prisons-in-state-still-overcrowded/articleshow/76988754.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 16, 2020||Udaipur||Record 866 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, active numbers continue to surge||JAIPUR: The state reported the highest single-day spike of 866 Covid cases on Wednesday which pushed its overall tally to 26,437. Six persons died during the day which took the toll to 530. On July 7, the state had recorded 716 cases, the second-highest spike so far. In the first 15 days of July, the state has reported 8,423 new infections, which accounts for 32% of the total infections reported in the state since first case was reported on March 3. Besides, in the last one week (July 8 to July 15), the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day. With cases rapidly increasing in the state, the recovery rate has slipped down below 75% as active cases increased to 24%. Since July 4, active cases have been touching new high every day. On Wednesday too, it touched a new high of 6,405. In the past 12 days, the state reported 7,385 new infections with an average of 615 cases per day. On Tuesday, the active cases in Rajasthan were at 5,878, up from 5,788 (Monday), 5,779 (Sunday), 5,376 (Saturday), 5,057 (Friday) and 5,002 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/record-866-covid-cases-in-state-active-numbers-continue-to-surge/articleshow/76991105.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP waives penalty on commercial vehicle tax defaulters||Bareilly: In a major relief for commercial vehicle owners who could not clear their tax dues owing to the lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh transport department has decided to waive the penalty on tax defaulters for the months of March and April.In a circular issued to regional transport authorities, principal secretary of transport department Rajesh Kumar Singh said the move is aimed at encouraging vehicle owners clear their tax dues. To avail of the waiver scheme, owners of commercial vehicles, including public transport, will have to make the payment by August 12.Speaking to TOI, senior assistant regional transport officer (ARTO), Bareilly, RP Singh said, “A notification to the effect was issued by the principal secretary to regional transport authorities (RTOs) on July 14, stating that the penalty on the tax arrears for the months of March and April shall be waived for those vehicles registered under the commercial category. Public transport vehicles (including three-wheelers, taxis, buses, etc) and other vehicles such as goods carriers, etc, involved in commercial activities are eligible to avail of the waiver. The scheme does not apply to private vehicles or roadways buses.” “The move is aimed at providing relief to vehicles users who could not clear the outstanding tax due to the lockdown to check spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government expects that the waiver of tax penalty would encourage vehicles users/motorists to pay their tax dues. However, the vehicle owners will need to make the payment by August 12, 2020, in order to avail of the waiver scheme,” said RP Singh. Officials at the transport department said the percentage of waiver on tax penalty would depend on the estimated outstanding amount that has to be paid by the vehicle owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-waives-penalty-on-commercial-vehicle-tax-defaulters/articleshow/76984854.cms||Maria Khan
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Record 866 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, active numbers continue to surge||JAIPUR: The state reported the highest single-day spike of 866 Covid cases on Wednesday which pushed its overall tally to 26,437. Six persons died during the day which took the toll to 530. On July 7, the state had recorded 716 cases, the second-highest spike so far. In the first 15 days of July, the state has reported 8,423 new infections, which accounts for 32% of the total infections reported in the state since first case was reported on March 3. Besides, in the last one week (July 8 to July 15), the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day. With cases rapidly increasing in the state, the recovery rate has slipped down below 75% as active cases increased to 24%. Since July 4, active cases have been touching new high every day. On Wednesday too, it touched a new high of 6,405. In the past 12 days, the state reported 7,385 new infections with an average of 615 cases per day. On Tuesday, the active cases in Rajasthan were at 5,878, up from 5,788 (Monday), 5,779 (Sunday), 5,376 (Saturday), 5,057 (Friday) and 5,002 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-866-covid-cases-in-state-active-numbers-continue-to-surge/articleshow/76988703.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Agra||Shikohabad MLA, wife test +ve for Covid-19||Agra: Shikohabad MLA Dr Mukesh Verma, 52, and his wife were tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Firozabad had earlier witnessed at least two deaths of city women councillors who had been infected by Covid-19. On Tuesday, the local MLA's wife Dr Kamlesh Verma was found infected. After the positive results, district authorities started contact tracing and sanitising the containment area. According to the district health department, on Wednesday, a total of eight locals were tested corona positive, taking the total tally to 582. The evening bulletin issued by district authorities stated that 502 patients had recovered in the district, while 34 succumbed. Notably, Shikohabad SDM Devender Singh had also tested positive for corona a week ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/shikohabad-mla-wife-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76985711.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur steps on the gas to tackle Covid-19 crisis||JODHPUR/JAIPUR: While the Covid-19 pandemic worsened in Jaipur as its count zoomed past 4,000 mark, prompting the district administration to take a gamut of measures to prevent the spread of the virus, now, amid the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases in Jodhpur, the administration and the police have started two separate campaigns with a view to contain the exponential rise in positive cases in the city. Till June 29, Jodhpur had reported 3,005 Covid-19 cases, but in the next 15 days, it added more than 1,000 new infections to its tally. In 21 days, from June 15 to July 5, Jodhpur had reported 824 new cases, but in next seven days (from July 6 to July 12), it saw another 814 new cases, indicating that more efforts are needed to prevent the spread of the virus. Taking a serious note of the increasing number of cases, district administration has launched a ‘Jeevan Raksha Abhiyan’ with an eye on elderly and co-morbid persons in order to contain the death rate, while the police have launched ‘Har Ghar Dastak Abhiyan’ to monitor the health of corona-infected persons, isolated at their respective homes. “So, with this abhiyan, we have roped in government departments with enhanced activity, we also expect active cooperation from the citizens and social organisations of the city,” said district magistrate Indrajeet Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-steps-on-the-gas-to-tackle-crisis/articleshow/76991491.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ajmer||Record 866 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, active numbers continue to surge||JAIPUR: The state reported the highest single-day spike of 866 Covid cases on Wednesday which pushed its overall tally to 26,437. Six persons died during the day which took the toll to 530. On July 7, the state had recorded 716 cases, the second-highest spike so far. In the first 15 days of July, the state has reported 8,423 new infections, which accounts for 32% of the total infections reported in the state since first case was reported on March 3. Besides, in the last one week (July 8 to July 15), the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day. With cases rapidly increasing in the state, the recovery rate has slipped down below 75% as active cases increased to 24%. Since July 4, active cases have been touching new high every day. On Wednesday too, it touched a new high of 6,405. In the past 12 days, the state reported 7,385 new infections with an average of 615 cases per day. On Tuesday, the active cases in Rajasthan were at 5,878, up from 5,788 (Monday), 5,779 (Sunday), 5,376 (Saturday), 5,057 (Friday) and 5,002 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/record-866-covid-cases-in-state-active-numbers-continue-to-surge/articleshow/76991107.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||JNPC has only one fire tender, factories lack buffer space||VISAKHAPATNAM: Although the Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC) has over 80 pharma units, it lacks enough fire tenders and trained manpower to deal with emergencies. The lacunae was exposed during the recent mishap at the Visakha Solvents Ltd where firefighters failed to douse the flames at the initial stage. Over ten fire and foam tenders, including a few from PSUs, were deployed at Visakha Solvents Ltd to douse the flames and over 100 fire service personnel struggled for over five hours to bring the flames under control, said district fire officer, BVS Ram Prakash. Speaking to TOI, Ram Prakash said JNPC has only one fire tender and the pharma city requires at least two more. The management must also recruit trained manpower to handle fire-tenders in the event of a mishaps. PSUs such as HPCL, NTPL, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and few others have enough fire tenders and they sent their trained manpower. “We suggest that JNPC provide adequate training to its staff and organise mock-drills to mitigate the loss (human and property losses),” he added. While the population of Visakhapatnam city has grown several times over the last few years, the number of fire personnel have remained the same, as per old requirements. Unable to tackle the pressure, fire and emergency service officials in the city had requested the state government to set up 15 new fire stations, including one at Parawada area, but the proposal remained on paper even years after it was submitted. Expressing that pharma companies in JNPC lack proper fire-fighting system, member of AP Chamber of Commerce and Industry Federation B Madhu claimed that in most of the units, managements are not keen on improving or looking into fire and safety regulations. Adequate fire protection tools are not installed and qualified and experienced staff are not recruited to monitor safety and manufacturing process. “The statutory audits are only on paper to comply with rules. Moreover, there is no buffer area between industries in JNPC and in most cases fire engines cannot move in the plant to arrest fire,” Madhu pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jnpc-has-only-one-fire-tender-factories-lack-buffer-space/articleshow/76986761.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Record 866 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, active numbers continue to surge||JAIPUR: The state reported the highest single-day spike of 866 Covid cases on Wednesday which pushed its overall tally to 26,437. Six persons died during the day which took the toll to 530. On July 7, the state had recorded 716 cases, the second-highest spike so far. In the first 15 days of July, the state has reported 8,423 new infections, which accounts for 32% of the total infections reported in the state since first case was reported on March 3. Besides, in the last one week (July 8 to July 15), the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day. With cases rapidly increasing in the state, the recovery rate has slipped down below 75% as active cases increased to 24%. Since July 4, active cases have been touching new high every day. On Wednesday too, it touched a new high of 6,405. In the past 12 days, the state reported 7,385 new infections with an average of 615 cases per day. On Tuesday, the active cases in Rajasthan were at 5,878, up from 5,788 (Monday), 5,779 (Sunday), 5,376 (Saturday), 5,057 (Friday) and 5,002 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/record-866-covid-cases-in-state-active-numbers-continue-to-surge/articleshow/76991106.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Agra||Elderly man dies in Agra, 16 more test +ve for Covid||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: At least one more Covid-19 positive patient died in Agra district on Wednesday. A 68-year-old man passed away during treatment at the SN Medical College. He was a resident of Devri Road and was suffering from diabetes and respiratory distress. So far, 95 Covid-19 deaths have occurred in the district. Also, at least 16 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 1,427 while 12 were discharged. Of the 1,427 cases, 81.71% have been declared "cured and discharged", whereas 168 active cases still remain. Moreover, there were at least 44 cases, including health workers, reported from Meerut, taking the total tally to 1,637, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. In Bareilly, a BJP MLA and two members of his family tested positive on Tuesday night. The MLA, his daughter-in-law and grandchild were shifted to a Covid-19 level-3 hospital on Wednesday. At least 29 fresh cases were reported in the district on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/elderly-man-dies-in-agra-16-more-test-ve-for-covid/articleshow/76985718.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||APSRTC to bear treatment cost of Covid-positive employees, releases dues||VIJAYAWADA: After a number of employees tested positive for Covid-19 after resumption of bus services, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) issued orders to provide medical services to the staff members in the hospitals recognised by the state government. APSRTC vice-chairman and managing director (VC&MD) M T Krishna Babu issued orders in this regard on Wednesday. The APSRTC will bear the expenses of the medical treatment. Workers’ unions of APSRTC, who have been demanding better safety gear for drivers and other staff members, have welcomed the move. On the other hand, the VC&MD also issued orders to clear all the pension due for the month of June of retired employees, former TTD employees and retirement benefits to those who retired before December 2019. As the cash flow had dried up due to suspension of services in the lockdown period, the APSRTC hitherto could not pay the pension and other dues to the retired employees. Krishna Babu issued orders on Wednesday releasing Rs 12 crore to clear the pending dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rtc-to-bear-treatment-cost-of-covid-positive-employees-releases-dues/articleshow/76986773.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University exams from August 10, datesheet on Thursday||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has announced that it will conduct its open book examination (OBE) for the final-semester/term/year students of all undergraduate and postgraduate courses from August 10 to August 31. The decision comes as part of the compliance of the order passed by Delhi high court on July 14. The final datesheets for the undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be available on the official website on July 16 and July 22, respectively. For those students who are not able to appear for OBE, the university will conduct an additional phase of examinations in OBE mode through online/offline/blended mechanism, subject to the prevalent situation of Covid-19 and any further notification/guidelines from University Grants Commission. “The examinations will be conducted after about two weeks from the date of conclusion of the examination in OBE mode remotely. The datesheets for these additional examinations shall be released in due compliance with the standard operating procedure,” DU said in its notice. The students under the PWD category who appear for online OBE and wish to improve their grades, will be given an opportunity to improve their grades. “Students can see their information for their unique paper codes along with the title of the examination papers, etc. Those who have not filled the examination form can fill it through their dashboard. In case of any missing information or ambiguity, the students must inform their respective college to correct any errors in and/or to update their particulars.” Students have been advised to access the examination portal from July 21 to July 26 to verify their particulars. Examination forms can be filled between July 21 and July 24. DU will also conduct OBE mock tests in two phases— from July 27 to July 29 and from August 1 to August 4. Guidelines issued by the varsity on May 30 and June 1 shall be applicable for the rescheduled examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-exams-from-august-10-datesheet-today/articleshow/76988729.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: 86-year-old woman loses Rs 35 lakh in fraud in Hisar||HISAR: A 86-year-old woman and her differently-abled son lost Rs 35 lakhs in a case of fraud in Hisar. Acting on the complaint of Bagwani Devi of Mohalla Sainiyan, HTM police registered a case against Jawaharlal, his wife Aarti, his brother Fateh Singh, all functionary of NATC Society Limited, under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code. In her complaint, she had given the money for depositing in the society, but did not do so. Hisar police have also registered three other cases of frauds. Based on the complaint of Ushampal, a resident of Old Campus of Haryana Agricultural University, HTM police registered a case against unknown person under Section 420 (cheating) and 379 (theft) of Indian Penal Code. The accused allegedly cloned Ushampal’s ATM card and took out Rs 1.8 lakh between June 25 and July 4. In another case, Urban Estate police has registered a case against Amandeep, hospital supervisor, under Section 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code. In his complaint, Dr Karanjit, a doctor of Parivartan Hospital, accused Amandeep of stealing medicines from the hospital for a long time. In the fourth case, Adampur police registered a case on the complaint of Krishna Singh of FGM College against an unknown person under Section 379 (theft) and 420 (cheating) of IPC. According to the complaint, the accused withdrew Rs 88,520 from his bank account through Paytm. Police have started investigation in all the four cases, but no arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/86-yr-old-woman-loses-rs-35l-in-fraud/articleshow/76988719.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Mansa village school pays tribute to Galwan Valley martyrs||MANSA: As a tribute to the Galwan Valley martyrs of Punjab, the government primary school at Atla Kalan village in Mansa got their photos printed on the jacket of the notebooks distributed to the 104 students of the school. The notebooks were given already to 30 students of the school on Wednesday, 74 more students will receive the notebooks on Thursday at their doorsteps. Such notebooks will also be provided to the students of the government school at Birewala Dogra village, the native village of martyr Gurtej Singh. The government schools in the native villages of the martyrs have already been named after them. At the front cover, a bigger picture of martyr Gurtej Singh has been printed, for he belong to the district, whereas the pictures of sepoy Gurtej Singh, Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, Naib Subedar Satnam Singh and sepoy Gurbinder Singh have been printed on the back cover. School headmaster Baljinder Singh told TOI that the idea was that the students must know about the martyrs of Punjab who have laid down their lives for the sovereignty of the nation. “Earlier, the notebooks mostly used to have covers of Bollywood heroes or other pictures depicting nature. Five teachers of the school had contributed money for the cause.” Punjab education department media coordinator Hardeep Singh Sidhu said more schools are expected to follow suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/mansa-village-school-pays-tribute-to-galwan-valley-martyrs/articleshow/76988714.cms||Neel Kamal
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC denies bail to Pinjra Tod activists||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has refused bail to Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita in a case of alleged rioting that took place in northeast Delhi in February this year. “Considering the investigation so far, the nature of offence and the role being ascribed to the applicant, I see no reason at all to grant bail,” said additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat in his order regarding Narwal. The court was hearing their pleas in connection with the rioting case filed against both women. In Narwal’s case, her counsel submitted that the PhD candidate studying in JNU not been named in the FIR and that police had filed a chargesheet indicating that the investigation in the present case was complete. On the other hand, the prosecutor opposed the bail plea against the activists, stating that one Mohd Shahrukh arrested in the case had named Narwal and Kalita among others as having allegedly instigated him and others to indulge in violence. The prosecuter also alleged that a a group of highly qualified ladies including Narwal in a continuous process, directly or indirectly, instigated common Muslim people to protest against the government of India stating that CAA is against them and that by passing the law the Centre may sack Muslims from India. The prosecutor further contended that a chargesheet against 10 persons had been filed on June 6, but the case was still being investigated with respect to the activists. It was also argued that bails of other co-accused had also been rejected. The court observed that the investigation with respect to Narwal was still pending and the chargesheet that had been filed was against other accused. “It may also be mentioned here that the applicant was arrested on May 24 and the chargesheet was filed on June 2, which also points to the claim that the investigation qua the applicant is still pending,” the court stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-denies-bail-to-pinjra-tod-activists/articleshow/76988035.cms||Aamir Khan
July 16, 2020||Business||Travel bubbles likely to help stranded desis||The Union government is likely to announce the creation of travel bubbles with some countries, like Germany and France, and possibly the US and UK, too. This would allow the airlines of India and the other country to fly eligible travellers to and from India. Some foreigners, including diplomats, OCI card-holders and Indians stranded abroad, are expected to be allowed to fly to India on the airlines of countries with which travel bubbles are created. Aviation minister H S Puri has called a press briefing on Thursday afternoon. Whether these announcements are made then remains to be seen. For instance, the India-US bubble will allow Air India and United and Delta to fly passengers from the US to India and out of here as per home ministry norms for eligible travellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/travel-bubbles-likely-to-help-stranded-desis/articleshow/76989712.cms||Saurabh Sinha
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khatar promises skill-based jobs for youth||CHANDIGARH: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khatar on Wednesday reiterated his government’s resolve to provide maximum employment opportunities to the youth of the state through their skill development and said the state government is working with a vision to ensure that no youth remains unemployed. Khattar was speaking after inaugurating the Rozgar Bhawan constructed at a cost of about Rs 9.50 crore in Sector 14, Panchkula, near here. Union minister of state for jal shakti Rattan Lal Kataria, assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, skill development and industrial training minister Mool Chand Sharma and minister of state for employment Anoop Dhanak were also present. The CM also unveiled the Rozgar portal and a call centre of the employment department and launched “Mistri Haryana” app of the skill development and industrial training department. He also felicitated seven private establishments with “Saksham Saathi Award” for engaging more than 5% apprentices under the Apprentice Act 1961. Earlier, the chief minister inaugurated a newly constructed bridge over Roon river on Badyal-Nimbuwala link road. The bridge has been constructed at a cost of Rs 8.23 crore and would benefit 14 villages of Haryana and 12 villages of Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khattar-promises-skill-based-jobs-for-youth/articleshow/76988731.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||Over 800 active, 77 new cases added||Vadodara: The number of live Covid-19 cases crossed 800 in Vadodara city and district with 77 new cases being reported since Tuesday evening, making another worst peak in 24 hours. The number of live cases in the city on Wednesday stood at 803. These included 185 in a serious condition including 41 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 144 on oxygen support. The condition of 618 patients was reported to be stable. As many as 59 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. These included two from home isolation and the remaining from hospitals. The total number of discharged patients now stands at 2,433. These include persons who had died due to co-morbidities, but were Covid-19 positive. The fresh cases reported in the city and district since Tuesday evening include 26 from the north zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 15 from the west zone, 10 from the south zone and seven from the east zone. The total number of cases reported in the city and district now stands at 3,296. VMC has confirmed the deaths of 60 persons so far with Covid-19 being the primary reason for their death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-800-active-77-new-cases-added/articleshow/76986943.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 25 new cases of Covid-19||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The district recorded 25 new cases of Covid -19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 277 cases on Wednesday. The hill district has been witnessing a consistent spike in positive cases in the last one week. Health department officials said 107 patients have been discharged so far, while 169 active cases are being treated at Ooty government headquarters hospital, Coonoor government Lawley hospital and ESI hospital in Coimbatore. Of the 25 new cases, 10 are women. Cases were reported from Ooty, Coonoor, Wellington, Lovedale, Kattery and T.Oranalli, among others. While three cases are linked to the T.Oranalli wedding cluster, two are secondary contacts of the PRO of the private needle manufacturing company. An official said five people who had come for Coonoor GH for treatment tested positive. A 36-year-old man and a 24-year-old man running shops close to the Coonoor GH have also tested positive. Another five cases having travel history to places such as Coimbatore, Thirupathur, Annur and Chengalpet tested positive. According to officials, those five cases will be cross-notified to the respective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-25-new-cases-of-covid-19/articleshow/76988732.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops moot hotels for patients, people seek clarity on insurance cover||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police are planning to rope in some city-based hotels to accommodate non-critical Covid-19 positive patients, where home care treatment facilities will be provided by some tertiary care hospitals.Taking a step in the direction, the police department on Wednesday shared a post on its official Facebook page, asking the owners of such hotels interested in offering rooms to approach the administration at cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in.However, the sharing of this post was followed by a barrage of queries from the residents, who wanted to know whether the payments made to the hotels for treatment would be covered under the medical insurance claims.A city resident Davinder Singh wrote to the police, “If the person has medical insurance, in which Covid-19 treatment is covered by the insurance company including the stay, will the insurance company pay for the hotel bills?”Another person Anant commented on the post, “The tie-up should be made in such a way that the billing is done by the hospital only wherein the health insurer is liable to pay.” Another city resident Deepak Batra suggested to the Ludhiana police that instead of roping in hotels, the administration should contact schools, colleges, other institutions, satsang centres etc, wherein patients can get rooms at nominal charges.Lovish Dhingra commented, “Take the educational institutes and satsang centres under control, as it won’t open in the next few months. These should be reserved for asymptomatic patients.” Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said it has been seen that sometimes a non-critical Covid-19 patient gets admitted to super speciality hospitals just to avoid his co-morbid family members or kids from exposure to the virus. “So, these hospitals remain booked and remain unavailable to critical patients. Therefore, the Ludhiana administration has planned to rope in some hotels. Till Wednesday afternoon, as many as 90 rooms have been offered to the administration.” On being asked about the queries on medical claim, the DCP said, “This idea is in initial stages. Things are in process and before executing, all related aspects will be taken into consideration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-moot-hotels-for-patients-people-seek-clarity-on-insurance-cover/articleshow/76986808.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Earthmovers, loader vehicles engaged in illegal mining seized in Haridwar||Haridwar: Officials seized two earthmovers and loader vehicles which were engaged in illegal mining activities on the banks of Ganga from the Pathri region on Tuesday night. However, those involved in the mining managed to escape the spot. On Tuesday night, a team of the revenue department had conducted a raid in Bishanpur Kundi and Tanda Bhagmal villages of Pathri region and found that illegal mining activities were being conducted in the area. The activities were going on despite a team of anti-mining squad posted in the area. Notably, all types of mining activities are banned in Ganga during monsoon season but illegal miners often conduct these activities under the cover of darkness. SDM Haridwar Chauhan told TOI, “We received information about the illegal mining activities in Ganga and a raid was conducted late on Tuesday night. We have seized two earthmovers and loader vehicles. Officials of our anti-mining team were posted there and it was their responsibility to stop the illegal mining but they didn’t. We have removed the members of the team and an inquiry has also been set up. Strict action will be taken against those who will be found involved in the mining racket.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/earthmovers-loader-vehicles-engaged-in-illegal-mining-seized-in-haridwar/articleshow/76985768.cms||MS Nawaz
July 16, 2020||Shimla||Cyber crime cases spike in Himachal Pradesh, mostly women targeted||SHIMLA: Himachal has recently reported a spurt in cases of cyber crime in the state. In most such cases, miscreants persuaded women to send their nude or semi-nude photos to them, which they later used to blackmail or harass them. In many instances, suspects have also morphed photos of women. Apparently, most women were not aware of the possibility of their photos being misused by suspects. Superintendent of police (SP, law and order) Khushal Sharma said cases of bank fraud have also increased manifold. Conmen are targeting residents by luring them with debit or credit card reactivation, online bookings, free Covid-19 test, jobs abroad, winning lotteries, zero percent interest loans, revival of insurance policies, installation of mobile towers and free recharges, among others. He cited the recent incident of a person in Nurpur, Kangra district being duped of Rs 39.65 lakh. “This was a high order crime in which criminals elicited information from the bank and no information was obtained from the victim,” he said. The SP said the police department has attempted awareness programmes about cyber fraud. During the recent Vidhan Sabha Assurances Committee meeting held on July 10, which was attended by director general of police (DGP) and additional chief secretary (home), the need to create public awareness to prevent cyber crime was highlighted. While the police department has the mandate of registration and investigation of cyber crime cases, the DGP said every resident needs to be educated through information, education and communication (IEC). He has also discussed a state-wide awareness plan with the principal secretary, Information Technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cyber-crime-cases-spike-in-hp-mostly-women-targeted/articleshow/76988736.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||As schools stay shut, bus drivers change job gear||Ludhiana: Amid the tussle between parents and private schools over school fee, school bus drivers have lost their earnings and have no hope of getting their jobs back this year at least. They have either taken to selling vegetables or are working as daily wagers. Drivers of private school buses had been working for transporters. After the imposition of lockdown, they were initially paid half salary for March but with extension of lockdown, operators discontinued salaries. Left helpless and with no signs of schools resuming any time soon, many drivers are now forced to work as daily wagers.Ramesh Kumar, 30 of Guru Amardas Nagar, who has been working as a private school bus driver for the past eight years said, “I used to get Rs 10,000 per month. It was my fixed salary. My elder brother was also a driver with a private bus operator. When lockdown was imposed, we thought it would be for a few days but it kept extending. Initially, we did not get work and in that tough time, the operator helped us by giving ration. My brother is married and has two children. Now, we both work as daily wagers.”Driver-turned-vegetable seller Harminder Singh of Gahaur village said, “For the past 12 years, I have been driving a school bus for a private operator. I was getting a salary of Rs 8,000 per month. There are seven members in my family, including my parents, wife and three children. I could feed them for a few days with the money I had saved. But then there was no hope of schools opening so I decided to sell vegetables.” When asked if he got the ration sent by the government, he said, “Those people would give ration of one week and circulate pictures of us getting ration on social media for an entire month. I did not want to take their help. I started selling vegetables as I wanted to earn for my family. Now, I will not return to my old profession.” Harminder said he earns Rs 300 to Rs 400 daily by selling vegetables. Another school bus driver from BRS Nagar, Sagar Verma, said, “Schools are asking for fee but parents refuse to pay. No one is even bothered about private bus operators and drivers. During lockdown, I worked for 15 days as a daily wager and again for a week as a labourer. The area councillor is helping us but I am worried about my future.” According to Inderjit Singh Ricky, president, private school bus operators’ association, “The situation is getting out of hand. Banks are asking us to pay installments. However, we are not getting a single penny from anywhere. Moreover, the government is not giving aid to us. Most parents of private school students can easily pay fee. Even if they pay 50% on transportation fee, we will be able to survive. The government should think about us also and not just about parents of school students,” he said. Parents on the other hand say they are being heavily burdened and have no respite. “We took pay cuts and are spending more on the internet and smart phones. We are also being asked to pay full school fee and transportation fee. We have bank instalments to pay. Nobody is thinking about us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/as-schools-stay-shut-bus-drivers-change-job-gear/articleshow/76986821.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 16, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh HC restrains Sanawar school from collecting fee||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh high court has restrained Lawrence School, Sanawar, in Solan district, from receiving the balance amount of fee Rs 1,70,800 from students. While hearing the matter on Monday, a division bench of Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsana Rewal Dua passed the restraining orders and also directed the state education secretary and the school headmaster to file their replies or instructions before the next date of hearing on July 20. The petition in HC was moved by Deepak Gupta, a resident of Kachi Ghati in Shimla, who submitted that his son is a student of Class VIII at the Sanawar school. He said in January this year, the school demanded a fee of Rs 636,200 in January, which was payable in two installments. The first installment of Rs 401,700 was paid before February 15, while the second instalment of Rs 2,34,500 was to be paid by July 15. The petitioner submitted that Rs 6,36,200 was to be paid to the school for availing all the facilities provided by it. He said his son joined the school on February 15 and was provided books two days later, just before the classes began on February 18. He said, on March 16, the parents received an e-mail from the school, saying they should take their wards home due to the pandemic. He said he brought his son home on March 17. “There is no expenditure of the school authorities upon the child since March 17,” he said. Gupta submitted that while neither the demand note nor the receipt issued by the school authorities gives a break-up of the amount sought, the receipt executed by the finance manager of school shows that they are charging Rs 69,960 towards the tuition fee for the financial year 2018-19. He said, the director of higher education through a notification issued on May 27 had directed all the private schools that no fee except the tuition fee shall be charged from the parents. Seeking necessary directions from the court to the school for fee waiver for the session 2020-21, he said the school should to refund the amount already received, barring the tuition fee. He also requested the court to declare the demand notice seeking Rs 1,70,800 payment be declared illegal, null and void.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hc-restrains-sanawar-school-from-collecting-fee/articleshow/76988741.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||High court asks police to stick to own guidelines||New Delhi: Delhi high court on Thursday asked Delhi Police to stick to its own guidelines while issuing press releases in cases at the stages of registration of an FIR, arrest and filing of a chargesheet against an accused.Justice Vibhu Bahru also reserved its order on a plea by a Pinjra Tod group member, Devangana Kalitha — arrested in relation to communal violence during the anti-CAA protests — alleging selective leak of evidence against her by the police.The court noted that police have freedom to make a statement to the press and that could not be curbed, but pointed towards police’s guidelines framed in this regard. It wanted to know if it intended to issue any more press statements against Kalitha before filing of the chargesheet.During the hearing, the high court was told by Kalitha’s counsel that by selective leak of information he meant to the media and not to selective persons. Delhi Police maintained that the nature of the case and allegations levelled against the woman were not revealed by the investigating agency first, but it was the members of the group who disclosed the details on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-court-asks-police-to-stick-to-own-guidelines/articleshow/77008176.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Agra||CBSE class 10 result 2020: Mathura boy gets 496 out of 500 marks||Agra: A student of Rajiv International School, Mathura, Anubhav Agarwal, has scored 496 (99.2%) marks out of 500 in CBSE class X results, announced on Wednesday.Sharing his success mantra, he said, “The key factor for my success is consistency and focus. With these two factors, one can surely achieve great things in life,” said Anubhav, who will be opting Physics, Chemistry, and Maths (PCM) for the next two years.Preparing for engineering, Anubhav said, “I would like to add that I want to become a good human being in future - a person who can be of help to others-- and be happy throughout my life.”Anubhav scored 100 out of 100 marks in both English and Social Science. In the remaining three subjects, he scored 99% in mathematics and science and 98% in Hindi.Anubhav gave the credit for his success to his school, coaching centre and his parents, who helped him a lot during his journey. Anubhav’s father, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal is a metallurgical engineer in United States and he lives in a joint family with his grandparents. They shifted to Mathura two years back from Qatar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbse-class-10-result-2020-mathura-boy-gets-496-out-of-500-marks/articleshow/76985799.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Business||AI may send some on leave without pay for up to 5 yrs||NEW DELHI: Cash-strapped Air India has decided to send “redundant” employees among its 13,000-strong permanent workforce on compulsory leave without pay for six months or two years, extendable up to five years. Departmental heads and regional directors have been instructed to make their recommendations by August 15, based on an assessment of each individual in terms of suitability for assigned role, competence, performance and health. Employees voluntarily seeking to go on leave without pay will require approval on a case-by-case basis.The Air India CMD will take a call on lists compiled by departmental heads and regional directors. “No employee availing of the scheme will be permitted to take up jobs in government or other public sector undertakings,” the order says. Employees can avail medical and passage benefits in accordance with company rules during their period of leave without pay under the scheme. Air India's monthly wage bill currently stands at Rs 230 crore. The airline has been delaying payment of flying allowance to crew due to a persistent financial crunch that has worsened because of Covid-induced travel restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ai-may-send-some-on-leave-without-pay-for-up-to-5-yrs/articleshow/76989714.cms||Saurabh Sinha
July 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Complete Satara lockdown from July 17||Kolhapur: The entire Satara district will go under complete lockdown from the night of July 17 to the night of July 22. Partial lockdown will be in force from July 23 to the night of July 26. Satara collector Shekhar Singh formally announced the decision. Covid-19 cases in the district are on the rise and are even being reported from remote villages. Singh said the lockdown will be strictly enforced. Officials said people would have time to prepare for the complete lockdown, when all transactions and movements will be banned. Only milk, newspapers and medicines will be available. All the shops and commercial establishments will be closed from the night of July 17 to the night on July 23. All the hotels, bars, lodges, home delivery services, grocery shops, vegetable markets, petrol pumps, mutton/chicken shops, educational institutions and liquor shops will be shut from the night of July 17. Movements of private vehicles will be prohibited. The collector has also banned morning and evening walks and all social gatherings. Religious places will also be closed. However, people will get some respite from July 23. Vegetable markets, shops selling essential commodities, chicken/mutton shops, agriculture-related operations will be allowed between 9 am and 2 pm. While petrol pumps will be allowed to operate from 9 am to 6 pm, liquor will be available only through home delivery. Satara district recorded 91 new patients between Monday night and Tuesday. The district has 706 active patients. On Tuesday, a 70-year-old man died in the Satara civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/complete-satara-lockdown-from-july-17/articleshow/76966187.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||Budaun girl scores 99.4%, says hard work pays off; Bareilly girl secures 99.2%||Bareilly: As the old adage goes, ‘hard work pays off’, it paid well, but the result surpassed everyone’s expectations, thrilled Sanskriti Gupta thought upon learning that she scored 99.4% in CBSE Class X on Wednesday afternoon. “I knew that I would score good marks, but I had never imagined that I would secure 497 out of 500 marks,” an elated Sanskriti told TOI. “It all happened due to my sincere and regular studies. I never set daily targets, but would study with utmost focus whenever I would like.” A student of Budaun’s Blooming Dale School, Sanskriti had not taken coaching classes. “I believe self-study is the key to success. I studied with full concentration and scored well. I never felt stressed as far as study is concerned. However, it would have not been possible without the guidance of my schoolteachers, who cleared all my doubts. My parents not only supported me, but they would come and check if I needed anything when I was studying late in the night.” She aspires to become a surgeon. Apart from studies, she would actively participate in extra-circular activities at her school, added Sanskriti. Bareilly’s Nandini Agarwal, a student of Shri Gulabrai Montessori School, however, scored 99.2%. She obtained 496 out of 500 marks. Another student of the school, Manashewta Agarwal scored 99%. Manashewta, who has started preparing for NEET exams, said, “I am celebrating the success with my family.” “I always focussed on self-study and even maintained a distance from all social media platforms. However, apart from regular studies, I would take breaks for entertainment,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budaun-girl-scores-99-4-says-hard-work-pays-off-bareilly-girl-secures-99-2/articleshow/76985820.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||PM fund ventilators are being set up: BMC||MUMBAI: The BJP has accused BMC of laying waste 645 ventilators received under the PM Cares Fund. “Ventilators are crucial for critical patients and it is a shame that though these have been provided more than a month ago, they are lying in godowns of various civic hospitals gathering dust,” said BJP leader in the BMC Prabhakar Shinde. In a letter to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, Shinde asked for reasons for delay in the installation. Shinde said he had visited the civic-run Savarkar and Agarwal hospitals in Mulund and found ventilators stacked in godowns. BJP MLA from Mulund Mihir Kotecha criticised BMC for creating jumbo Covid facilities without doctors and nurses and beds lying empty. The BMC, in a press release, denied any wrongdoing saying ventilators were received in phases and are being set up by the respective company’s technical teams. It also said that a medical team has been appointed to ensure the ventilators meet requisite standards. “The empty beds indicate attempts to control the spread of the virus have yielded results. Of the 1,053 ventilator beds, 125 are vacant as there are no critical patients. It would be incorrect to say the ventilators are lying around gathering dust. The civic administration feels that the situation is now under control and these allegations are baseless,” the BMC stated in its release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-pm-fund-ventilators-are-being-set-up/articleshow/76988775.cms||---
July 16, 2020||India||AAP pitches itself as alternative to Congress||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the recent political turmoil in Rajasthan, Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday said that people were looking to it with great hope of being an alternative to the Grand Old Party. Indirectly hitting out at BJP and Congress, MLA and AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that at a time when the country should be fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic in a united way, one party’s MLAs were up for sale with another party readying to buy them. “All political parties should work together right now to reduce the Covid-19 death rate, make a better health infrastructure and increase the recovery rate. Everyone should also work together to ensure that every state has enough beds, ICU infrastructure and ventilators to treat patients,” Chadha said at a press conference. Claiming that Congress was a sinking ship, Chadha said, “In this time of crisis, we have one political party that is selling their MLAs and another party is buying them. On one hand, we have a political party that is trying to save its government, on the other the second party is working day and night to destroy the same. The entire country is witnessing a political drama unfolding in Rajasthan.” “Congress cannot save itself, and in every other state it can be seen selling its votes and MLAs,” Chadha further alleged. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary hit out at Chadha for his remarks. “A few days ago, AAP was abusing BJP and now they are praising the central government. AAP is speaking the language of BJP. It is an undercover ally of BJP,” he claimed. Chadha said people were praising the Kejriwal model of tackling Covid-19 and AAP had to realise its responsibility in this political situation. “In the past five years, the AAP government has worked in power, water, transport, education and other sectors in Delhi. Over the past few months, the CM has fought against Covid-19 on the front line. Discussions on replicating the Delhi model have been taking place everywhere. Not only Indians, but people across the world are talking about the Delhi model of tackling the spread of the virus,” he added. “The people of India are looking at AAP with hope because it is the only alternative left. People also want to know whether AAP has the capability and vision to fulfill their hopes and work accordingly,” said Chadha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aap-pitches-itself-as-alternative-to-cong/articleshow/77011963.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||AAP pitches itself as alternative to Congress||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the recent political turmoil in Rajasthan, Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday said that people were looking to it with great hope of being an alternative to the Grand Old Party. Indirectly hitting out at BJP and Congress, MLA and AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that at a time when the country should be fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic in a united way, one party’s MLAs were up for sale with another party readying to buy them. “All political parties should work together right now to reduce the Covid-19 death rate, make a better health infrastructure and increase the recovery rate. Everyone should also work together to ensure that every state has enough beds, ICU infrastructure and ventilators to treat patients,” Chadha said at a press conference. Claiming that Congress was a sinking ship, Chadha said, “In this time of crisis, we have one political party that is selling their MLAs and another party is buying them. On one hand, we have a political party that is trying to save its government, on the other the second party is working day and night to destroy the same. The entire country is witnessing a political drama unfolding in Rajasthan.” “Congress cannot save itself, and in every other state it can be seen selling its votes and MLAs,” Chadha further alleged. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary hit out at Chadha for his remarks. “A few days ago, AAP was abusing BJP and now they are praising the central government. AAP is speaking the language of BJP. It is an undercover ally of BJP,” he claimed. Chadha said people were praising the Kejriwal model of tackling Covid-19 and AAP had to realise its responsibility in this political situation. “In the past five years, the AAP government has worked in power, water, transport, education and other sectors in Delhi. Over the past few months, the CM has fought against Covid-19 on the front line. Discussions on replicating the Delhi model have been taking place everywhere. Not only Indians, but people across the world are talking about the Delhi model of tackling the spread of the virus,” he added. “The people of India are looking at AAP with hope because it is the only alternative left. People also want to know whether AAP has the capability and vision to fulfill their hopes and work accordingly,” said Chadha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-pitches-itself-as-alternative-to-cong/articleshow/77008225.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Floor test: BJP on wait-&-watch mode||JAIPUR: Rajasthan BJP continues to follow a policy of wait-and-watch in the wake of the rift between CM Ashok Gehlot and Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot. The party held a meeting to discuss their strategy on the current crisis on Tuesday, but haven’t demanded a floor test in the assembly yet. BJP state president Satish Poonia said they will not demand a floor test under the given situation. “We don’t need a floor test. The faction which has drifted from the Congress has to take a call on this. BJP is a responsible party and an opposition. If the situation changes, we will analyse it before demanding a floor test,” said Poonia. Continuing his attack on Gehlot, Poonia said it was a matter of grave concern that the entire Congress government was spending time in a five-star hotel while people were suffering from Covid. “The Gehlot government is only bothered to serve themselves. They are not bothered about people who voted them to power. People are watching and will teach them a lesson soon,” said Poonia. The meeting was attended by Poonia, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore and BJP national joint secretary V Satish. Kataria said they were monitoring the developments and would act as a responsible opposition. “They have involved everyone in their politics of vengeance, even the law enforcement agencies have been acting at their behest. The ill-treatment to BTP MLA Rajkumar Roat signals that the extent they can go to save their government,” said Kataria. Meanwjile, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has predicted that the government would soon collapse due to its own web of lies, corruption and politics of vengeance. On the question of demanding floor test, Shekhawat followed his party line by stating that “Let the time comes, it will happen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/floor-test-bjp-on-wait-watch-mode/articleshow/76988764.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||Traders lock EO of Pilibhit municipal council inside Transport Nagar campus||Pilibhit: Local traders on Wednesday locked a four-member team of Pilibhit Municipal Council, headed by its executive officer (EO) Nisha Mishra, inside Transport Nagar campus in a bid to protest against the raid conducted by her at Transport Nagar to unearth the stock of polythene bags of the prohibited category.The EO had conducted the raid in compliance with the order passed by district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav prohibiting the sale and use of polythene bags with thickness below 50 microns.According to Mishra, she recovered a huge stock of polythene bags during her raid at Vikram Transport Company on Wednesday. The traders and transporters grew aggressive as soon as she started the confiscation procedure. When a transporter, identified as Ria Suri, started shouting at the team, one Anshul Jaiswar, associated with the company, locked the gate of Transport Nagar campus from outside, she added.EO Mishra informed city magistrate Arun Singh who then sent a police team of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, headed by SHO Shri Kant Dwivedi, that managed to rescue the EO and other officials.SHO Dwivedi said that following a written complaint of the EO, police have booked Ria Suri, Anshul Jaiswar, his father and the proprietor of Vikram Transport Company Vikram Jaiswar and one trader Anubhav under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 342 (wrongful confinement), 353 (assaults or use of criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation).He further said that of the four who have been booked, Ria Suri and Anshul Jaiswar were taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/traders-lock-eo-of-pilibhit-municipal-council-inside-transport-nagar-campus/articleshow/76985827.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Meerut||UP: Couple killed for refusing to turn hostile in attempt-to-murder case||MEERUT: A married couple - in their late 30s - was found brutally murdered at their home in a Bijnor village on Wednesday morning. According to sources, Shiv Kumar and Usha were found in a pool of blood with their throats slit. Police sources, in their preliminary investigation, revealed that one Manu Kumar had allegedly shot at Shiv Kumar two years ago and had even gone to jail. He was out on bail a couple of weeks ago and had been putting pressure on the couple ever since to turn hostile in the case. The incident happened in Bishanpura village of Bijnor late on Tuesday and the bodies were found by the couple's neighbour who went to the house to give them milk. Bijnor SP Sanjeev Tyagi said, "The bodies were sent for post-mortem and an FIR has been registered by the deceased's family. As of now, old enmity is said to be the reason behind the murder. In addition, a complaint against Manu Kumar was made by his own family the night before the incident. He was fighting with them and left thereafter. Investigations are on." Fortunately, the deceased's 13-year-old son was away at a relative's place or else he could have been targeted too, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/couple-killed-for-refusing-to-turnhostile-in-attempt-to-murder-case/articleshow/76985828.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||VMC decentralises property tax assessment||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has decided that property tax matters from now will be handled at the wards itself, instead of the headquarters at Khanderao Market. The significant decision aims to provide citizens ease on various issues related to municipal property tax. The civic body already facilitated payment and verification of assessment of property tax at its ward offices. But, if a person had objections to the assessment of his property, and wanted to change its possession or purpose of use besides alterations in the property or for construction of new property, he had to visit the assessment department at Khanderao Market. In an attempt to reduce that burden on the citizens, it has decided to decentralise its assessment department. Citizens will not have to visit the VMC headquarters any more and will be able to do resolve issues related to property tax in the office of the administrative ward where the property is located. The new system will become applicable from the current financial year itself. It has transferred four appellate officers, nine assessment officers, nine head clerks, 11 junior clerks and 20 peons to ward offices to ensure that the new system kicks off smoothly. They will report to the assistant municipal commissioner and other officials at the ward level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-decentralises-property-tax-assessment/articleshow/76986959.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP panel gives hope to 7k Sikh farmer families fighting for land rights they are tilling for 70 years||Bareilly: Nearly 7,000 Sikh families have now pinned their hopes on a committee formed by the UP government to look into their claims on farm lands they have been tilling for the last 70 years. Most of these Sikh families settled in Bijnor, Rampur, Lakhimpur Kheri and Pilibhit soon after the Partition and took up farming.According to locals, when the Sikh settlers came to the terai region, most of the tribes had not taken up farming in an organized manner. The settlers purchased the lands from tribals in some areas, while in some parts they got it from local rulers. “The area was inhospitable. But, due to their knowledge of advanced farming techniques and sheer hard work, the Sikh farmers transformed the region into a lush farming landscape,” a local said.But, a few decades later, tribals in some parts erupted in protests. They wanted their lands back. In the 1980s, the UP government put a ban on the sale of lands by tribals to non-tribals. The state also ordered that holdings of the settlers who had bought land from the tribals will not be regularized. And in some parts, it was also alleged that these farmers had occupied forest lands and turned them into farm fields. The forest department has long been alleging that nearly 9,100-hectare of reserve forest land was encroached by these farmers, including some parts of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR). But the farmers say that the areas were declared forest zones later.Since then, the Sikh farmers were fighting to get the land rights. Several cases are also pending in the court.Among them are 166 Sikh families shifted from a dam built in Pilibhit. Jasbir Singh Virk, SAD’s farmer wing leader of UP, told TOI, “Nearly 166 Sikh farmer families were shifted from Nanak Sagar Dam to Tatarganj in Pilibhit in 1962 when the dam was constructed and they were allotted 2,967 acres of barren forest land by the government at that time. They were not issued any letter then. Farmers worked day and night, survived floods in Sharda River, wild animals and made the land suitable for farming. Now the forest, revenue and Gram Samaj are saying that farmers have to vacate it. We had a meeting with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and he has given us assurance that he will definitely resolve this issue.”He added, “At present, nearly 30% of Sikh families in the terai region, which is close to 7,000 families, are affected and many of them have approached court.”District magistrate (DM) of Lakhimpur Kheri, Shailendra Singh, told TOI, “The committee is formed to provide a report on the status of the land-related issues of these people living around the forest areas after Independence. These people belong to Sikh, Tharu and other communities. In each district, the committee is led by divisional commissioner along with the district magistrate, additional district magistrate, divisional forest officer, irrigation official and district cane officer. The land records will be sought from the revenue and forest department and the orders of the high court and Supreme Court would also be taken into account.”While divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (buffer) Anil Patel told TOI, “There are nearly 4,000 farmers who have encroached reserve forest land in Lakhimpur Kheri. We had served notices on nearly 200 big farmers and started legal proceedings against them. Now, after the formation of the committee, we will wait for the state government’s order before taking any further action.”Harjeet Singh, 67, an affected farmer, told TOI, “We are happy that the government has acknowledged our problems. But they have not said anything about withdrawing all the FIRs registered against our farmer brothers. Many of them had to leave the village or were sent to jail after they refused to vacate the land on which they worked for years to make it fertile.”On June 18, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal tweeted that UP CM Adityanath has assured her that no injustice will be done to the Sikh farmer families facing eviction from their lands in Bijnor, Rampur and Lakhimpur Kheri in the state. Harsimrat had raised the issue of the alleged forceful eviction of the Sikh farmers. “Spoke to UP CM about the forceful eviction of thousands of Sikh farmer families from their land in Bijnor, Rampur, Lakhimpur Kheri and Nanakmatta. Yogi ji has assured no injustice will be done to them,” Harsimrat tweeted.A three-member SAD delegation also met the UP CM and told him about the concerns of the farmers. Two days earlier, on June 16, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said that he will raise the matter before the UP CM. Singh later wrote letters to CM Adityanath and Union Home Minister Amit Shah raising the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-panel-gives-hope-to-7k-sikh-farmer-families-fighting-for-land-rights-they-are-tilling-for-70-years/articleshow/76859291.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||‘Covid-19 has led to students as well as teachers becoming more adaptable & versatile’||Veteran educationist Jagpreet Singh took over as the 11th Headmaster of The Doon School earlier in the month. In a candid conversation with TOI soon after taking charge, Singh, who was previously Headmaster of Punjab Public School, Nabha and vice-principal of Mayo College, Ajmer, spoke on a number of issues like his vision for the premier boarding school, how the school has dealt with the Covid-19 crisis, and why he felt the Corona challenge had actually benefited students and teachers. Some highlights: On the first thoughts on coming to know that he would be joining The Doon School as HeadmasterComing to The Doon School is like coming to the Mecca of education. When one gets the opportunity to head the school, one is definitely excited but at the same time, there is a great deal of responsibility that comes with the job. The school is at the pinnacle of the education world in the country, and so I feel very blessed to have been chosen for this big responsibility. On the roadmap that he would like to put in place in the schoolThere is no roadmap required for this school. Headmasters may come and go but the path laid down by the school’s founders, and previous Headmasters is so comprehensive that one just has to carry the school forward in the same direction. On the experience of working in Mayo College, Ajmer and heading Punjab Public School (PPS), Nabha and the learnings from these institutions that he would like to implement in The Doon SchoolEvery school has its own ethos. Every school teaches you something. One is learning constantly from students, colleagues and the systems that are put in place in the institution. Every day that I spent in both my schools has made me more mature, more definite in my decision making and how to mould children. The life in a public school is nothing but the life around children. In all the 34 years that I have spent in the education field, I have completely focused on how to make children grow, become more responsible and how to make them global leaders. These are my learnings which I would like to share here. On the opportunities and challenges that the Covid-19 situation has brought about for schools and studentsCovid-19 has led to a lot of introspection for everybody. People talk negatively about Covid-19 but I am a little more optimistic in this regard. For instance, the situation has enabled children to spend more quality time with parents, and to understand the roles their mothers and fathers play when they are at home, as also the importance of siblings. Therefore, it has given us a much better social connect. The responsibilities that children have shared at homes – they have learnt gardening, cooking and so many other things -- they would probably have never done this if they would have been in schools. So, they have become socially more responsible. When they come back to school, they will come back with a certain amount of pride as well as social adaptability. They will be much stronger individuals, compared to when they left in March. As far as our school is concerned, we were thankfully very well-prepared to deal with the situation arising out of the pandemic. Teachers have been critical in making this happen. The way they innovated and worked against the odds, it really needs to be appreciated. The Covid-19 situation has also transformed teachers – they are far more equipped now and far more versatile. On continuing with online classes even after schools reopenBlended teaching – face to face as well as online – had been happening in The Doon School for the past 4-5 years, so the infrastructure was already there and teachers were also equipped. But the situation necessitated everything to go online 100%. However, neither the teacher nor the child felt very uncomfortable because they were already attuned to the system and were conditioned for it. I am sure blended classes will carry on in the future as well. In fact, we see so much participative learning happening through the online medium, that not just parents, even grandparents of students are giving feedback. In that sense, during these times, classrooms have reached dining rooms and living rooms. Parents now know and are experiencing for themselves what the teachers are teaching. Also, all the online lessons are archived and students can access the repository to view them again in case they have any doubts. On the preparations done to ensure children are safe when they rejoin schoolWe have put in place detailed protocols to ensure complete safety of students. These standard operating procedures (SOPs) are with every teacher and housemaster. As and when the regulations are updated, we will incorporate them to ensure all safety guidelines are adhered to totally. Also, only a small number of students –around 150 of the total 550 – will be called first, so there will be ample space for social distancing. On resuming sports and extra-curricular activitiesNo close-contact games will be permitted. Students can play games which are solo in nature of course. We will gradually resume sports activities in a phased manner. Having said that, the physical conditioning of students will not be compromised. We will keep on innovating, like having six players in a cricket team and so on. In fact, our physical education department had prepared an online module to keep students as well as their family members fit during the lockdown, and it was much appreciated. On innovations that the school is doing for equipping students to deal with a world that is fast changingThe Doon School is a special school because of many characteristics, one of which is that rote learning has never been encouraged here. The emphasis has always been on developing a child as a free-thinker and to enable him to learn experientially. A child is not just taught here, he is raised -- this is facilitated by teachers and counsellors who aid and support him in every manner possible. That is the school’s ethos and we will continue with this to mould leaders and decision-makers of the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-has-led-to-students-as-well-as-teachers-becoming-more-adaptable-versatile/articleshow/76986921.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan political fiasco & archaic law of political defections||Amidst the ongoing political fiasco in Rajasthan, which culminated in the removal of deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot from his ranks, one cannot help but draw parallels with similar political disorders in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh and look into the law to understand where the lacunae lies. Public projection by rebel MLAs of withdrawing support to the state government is not the first attempt of its kind and certainly not the last. The history of what is now known as ‘political defection’ can be traced to the days of the Montford Reforms, but most conspicuously highlighted by the infamous case of Gaya Lal who crossed the floor of the house several times within a fortnight, which provided the impetus to push for a law on anti-defection. In the wake of the need to curb the evil, a ‘Committee on Defections’ was constituted in 1967 under then Union home minister YB Chavan to study the ills of political defections, which noted that the lure of office played a dominant part in decisions of legislators to defect. The committee recommended that a member should be bound to the party under whose aegis he/she wins the election and therefore such a defector should be barred from holding a ministerial post. Accordingly, through a Constitutional Amendment, the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution was introduced which disqualified MPs and MLAs who voluntarily give up their party memberships or disobey party directives. While the law punished disloyalty to the party, neither did it prohibit renunciation of membership of the legislature, nor post defection ministerial appointment. Even under subsequent constitutional amendments, while post defection ministerial appointments were restricted till such time the remainder term of the member expired or he was re-elected to the House, whichever was earlier, there was no bar to resigning as MLAs or MPs. As a corollary, with reduced strength of supporting members, the council of ministers can be shown to lack the support of the House. There is, therefore, a need to resolve the issue by making suitable amendments to the law to prevent resignations as MPs and MLAs as a means to circumvent the law and prohibit post defection ministerial appointment for at least 5 years so as to discourage the thoughts of changing political allegiance. The author is a practicing advocate in the Supreme Court of India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-political-fiasco-archaic-law-of-political-defections/articleshow/76988783.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Girls crowd the top rung of CBSE ladder||Ludhiana: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday declared the Class X result, which was available on the official website cbse.nic.in. The website, however, did not work properly and several students faced problems in checking their result. The board has also sent results to respective schools and made arrangements to send it via SMS.The exams of the main subjects were held before March 18. As exams of only two optional subjects could not be conducted, the board gave students marks in these based on the average score of the main subjects.In the city, girls again lead the CBSE march. Anhad Gill of Sacred Heart Convent School, who is first in the district, scored 98.6% (aggregate of five main subjects). Her total aggregate score with the best of five subjects, including vocational subject, was 99.4%. Mansa Mahendru, of Sacred Heart Convent School who scored 98.4%, is second in Ludhiana. Three girls share the third position with a score of 98.2%: Pankhuri Dawar of Sacred Heart Convent School, Anusha Jha of DCM Presidency School and Gurleen Kaur of Sant Ishar Singh Ji Memorial School, Rara Sahib.Anhad’s elated father Dr Sandeep Singh Gill of Sarabha Nagar said, “She is very sincere and hard working. We tell her to relax. I want her to be an ethical doctor and serve the nation.” Mansa wants to become an environment engineer, Anuska a software engineer and Gurleen an IAS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/girls-crowd-the-top-rung-of-cbse-ladder/articleshow/76986890.cms||Mehak Jain
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Makeshift trauma facility sees 5.7k cases in 90 days||NEW DELHI: When the AIIMS Trauma Centre was turned into a Covid facility on April 3, it had nearly 250 patients admitted in various wards. All of them were critically ill and at least 50 of these patients were on ventilator support. At a short notice, these patients were transferred to the main hospital. But the problem didn’t end here. While those visiting AIIMS for planned surgeries could wait, patients injured seriously in an accident, fall from height, assault or a sudden deterioration in an existing medical condition couldn’t. The hospital, therefore, turned casualty ward in the main campus into a trauma facility. In the last three months, from April to June, the authorities said as many as 5,746 emergency cases have been attended to in the new trauma facility. Of this, 552 patients underwent major surgery, Dr Rajesh Malhotra, chief of trauma services at AIIMS, told TOI. “In April, when the lockdown was in place, we had 136 road accidents-related trauma cases. As the lockdown got relaxed in May and June, the number of such cases went up progressively to 421 and 681, respectively,” he added. The other emergency cases treated at the newly created trauma facility included fall from height (489 in April, 600 in May and 605 in June) and assault cases (272 in April, 692 in May and 895 in June). Many cases involving medical emergencies, such as gunshot injury, intestinal perforation and collection of fluid and gangrene formation, have also been operated, the doctors said. “In AIIMS Trauma Centre, we had defined areas for triaging – categorising of patients on the basis of severity of symptoms or injuries, state-of-the-art diagnostic services and dedicated operation theatres. We tried to recreate the same in the main hospital with limited resources,” Dr Malhotra said. The reception area in the old OPD block, which was lying unused, he added, was turned into the new triaging area where patients are sorted based on their need for immediate medical or surgical intervention. All the doctors posted in this area were asked to wear Personal Protective Equipment and the patients were screened for fever and other Covid-19 symptoms. A small room nearby was turned into a minor operation theatre, while two existing OTs in the main casualty were upgraded to perform emergency surgeries. MRI, CT scan, X-ray machines and beds for trauma patients were pooled in from various departments, the chief of trauma services said. “Due to the Covid outbreak, departments like dermatology didn’t have enough inpatients. So we turned those wards into trauma wards. Other departments also supported us by earmarking more beds for trauma patients related to their respective specialties,” he added. Due to the Covid outbreak, there was a high risk of the critically-ill and injured patients getting infected from Covid-19 patients or even healthcare workers. “We devised a strategy wherein surgeries had to be conducted at the earliest so the patient didn’t have to remain in the hospital for long. Also, the doctors were advised to avoid unnecessary CT scan or MRI to avoid the risk of infection and decide the course of treatment based on their clinical judgement,” Dr Malhotra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/makeshift-trauma-facility-sees-5-7k-cases-in-90-days/articleshow/77008235.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||5 of district among 8 succumb to Covid-19||TNNLudhiana: Eight persons, including five of Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. Besides, 61 patients from the district tested positive for the disease on the day.The health department officials said a 68-year-old man died at SPS Hospital. Apart from being Covid-19 positive, he had hypertension, diabetes and kidney problems. The second casualty is a 60-year-old Rahon Road resident, who breathed his last at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The patient was suffering from coronary artery disease and had respiratory and kidney issues as well. A 60-year-old Covid-19 positive man of Railway Colony, who was suffering from respiratory problems as well, also died at Rajindra Hospital.The fourth casualty is a 42-year-old resident of Bal Singh Nagar in Basti Jodhewal.A CMCH official said a 35-year-old woman of Ludhiana died at 6.30pm. The patient, who was admitted to the hospital a day before, had breathing problems.The officials said a 65-year-old Amritsar resident, who was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and heart diseases, died at DMCH.A 53-year-old woman of Nawanshahar district, who also had gall bladder cancer, died at Mohandai Oswal Hospital.In the seventh such case, a 61-year-old Jalandhar resident, who had diabetes and kidney disease, died at CMC.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the toll tally of the district now stands at 40 and that of outsiders here at 33. So far, samples of 46,013 suspected patients have been taken.Of the pending reports, 44 came positive. Of them 41 are from Ludhiana district and one each from Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur and Bihar. The Ludhiana cases include six from Jeevan Nagar, five from Field Ganj, three each from Rampura and Rajguru Nagar, two each from Nayi Abadi Khanna, New Manjeet Basti, Harbanspura, Sidhwan Bet, one each from Sarpanch Colony, Dashmesh Nagar, Hargobind Nagar, Ayok Nagar, Kohara Road, Sector 32, Jagraon, Doraha, Jangpur, Dakha, Ferozepura, Baba Jeevan Singh Nagar, Omaxe, New Shivpuri and Rahon Road.Of the 29 positive reports received from private hospitals and laboratory, 20 cases are from Ludhiana, six from Jalandhar, one each from Nawanshahr, Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala. The district cases include three from Nandpur, two each from CMC campus and Sector 32, one each from College Road, Tagore Nagar, Omaxe, Ajeet Nagar Haibowal, Rani Jhansi Road, Chander Nagar, Dholewal, Ghumar Mandi, Partap Singh Waala, New Shimlapuri, Model Town, Tajpur Road and Dhandran Road.To date, 1,569 patients have tested positive in Ludhiana. Besides, 286 from outside the district have tested positive here. The health department officials said 1,210 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Wednesday.Positive casesOf the positive cases, four are healthcare workers and as many are police personnel. Four cops from Dakha police station, including one from outside the district, have also contracted the virus. The police station has witnessed several cases in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-of-district-among-8-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/76986930.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot the new stalwart of Rajasthan politics||JAIPUR: The showdown with Sachin Pilot has placed chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the league of stalwarts of Rajasthan politics —Congress’s Mohanlal Sukhadia, the state’s longest serving CM (1954-71) and BJP’s Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, a three-time CM (between 1977 and 1998). Like Sukhadia and Shekhawat, Gehlot has emerged as not only a mass leader, but also one who can effectively crush rebellion in his own ranks. Like them, he too rose, competing with bigwigs both within his own party and the rival political outfit. If Sukhadia became CM at the age of 38, Gehlot was a Union minister when he was 31. If Shekhawat quelled rebellion to save his coalition government in 1996, Gehlot is poised to do the same now having clipped Pilot within Congress. Read AlsoGehlot tears into Pilot: Impeccable English &amp; personality not enough“Speaking impeccable English and Hindi, giving interesting bytes (to the media) and having a handsome personality are not enough. What matters is, how you feel for the country, what are your commitments and ideologies. Sone ki chhuri pait mein khan ke liye nahi hoti (A golden knife cannot beInterestingly, the legislator who played a key role in the unsuccessful revolt against the Shekhawat-government is among the 19 Congress MLAs in the Pilot camp right now. A seven-term MLA from Churu’s Sardarshahar seat, Bhanwarlal Sharma is an old fox of politics hopping from Congress to BJP to Janata Dal and back to Congress. Sharma, Deependra Singh Shekhawat and Hemaram Chaudhary are senior leaders who have currently sided with Pilot. Sources said Gehlot knows how to win them back if it comes to BJP demanding a floor test in the state assembly. Considering the numbers in Pilot camp, that, however, looks a far cry. Read AlsoCan Sachin Pilot survive outside Congress, BJP in Rajasthan?With Sachin Pilot clarifying on Wednesday that he won't join BJP, the options left before him could be to join a non-BJP party or float his own political outfit—that is in case he decides to leave Congress or the party expels him. Rajasthan, however, since Independence has elected either a CongressPilot is not the only Congressman who has vied with Gehlot for the CM post. Before him, CP Joshi had said he was not Gehlot’s follower but a collaborator. Joshi, the current assembly speaker, was then the PCC chief. In the 2008 state elections, he was a favourite for the CM post owing to his proximity to Rahul Gandhi. Joshi missed the bus, having lost the election by a single vote. Many still believe it was ‘magician’ Gehlot’s tricks. But that was not new for Gehlot, who had survived a similar challenge from Jat stalwart Parasram Maderna in 1998. Read AlsoSpeaker slaps anti-defection notice on Pilot, 18 other MLAsIn a move to mount pressure on rebel MLAs and indicate its resolve, Congress moved Rajasthan assembly Speaker C P Joshi against Sachin Pilot and his supporters, resulting in the Speaker issuing on Wednesday notices to 19 MLAs who were absent in legislature party meetings held on Monday and Tuesday.A quintessential politician, Gehlot has been a trouble-shooter for the Gandhi family too. In 1998-99, when the family faced rebellion within the Congress, Gehlot stood by Sonia Gandhi. From the assembly elections of Punjab, Gujarat, Karnataka in 2017-18 and Maharashtra last year, Gehlot has emerged as one of the chief trouble-shooters for Congress. Time and again, the Congress leadership has believed in Gehlot’s experience and ability in crisis management. His politics of springing up magical surprises in the nick of time got him followers across India and admirers across parties. And the fate that Pilot has met for his risk taking against this survivor of all times, has sent a chilling fear among the state leaders who would now never like to fall out of Gehlot’s favour. Watch Ashok Gehlot the new stalwart of Rajasthan politics||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-the-new-stalwart-of-rajasthan-politics/articleshow/76988792.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 16, 2020||Meerut||Wedding in Bulandshahr called off after groom’s first wife reaches spot with their 7-year-old child||MEERUT: In a dramatic turn of events, a wedding ceremony in Bulandshahr was called off when the groom’s first wife with their seven-year-old child turned up at the venue with a police team. “I got married to Aadil in 2012. But we separated four months later as he was harassing me. A case is already going on in the court and we also have a seven-year-old son. Somebody told me that Aadil was getting married for the second time, that too, when we are not divorced yet,” Rubina said. Rubina, who now lives in Ghaziabad with her parents, rushed to Bulandshahr after listening to the news. Narendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer (SHO) Sayana, said, “The woman and her family approached the police authorities on Tuesday saying that her husband was getting married the second time without getting a divorce. The wedding was called off. However, nobody filed a case in the matter. We will file a case if we get a police complaint in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/wedding-in-bulandshahr-called-off-after-grooms-first-wife-reaches-spot-with-their-7-year-old-child/articleshow/76985852.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Buy goat for Bakri Eid online; SOP out today||MUMBAI: The state government will issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) for Bakri Eid sacrifice on Thursday, Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said on Wednesday. Bakri Eid falls on August 1. Shaikh said that there will be no mandis (cattle markets) in Deonar and people will have to buy the goats online. Also, people will have to offer namaz at home as mosques will remain shut due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Like how people had offered namaz at home on Ramzan Eid, for Eid ul Adha (Bakri Eid) too, they will have to offer prayers at home. Only sacrifice of animals will be allowed, but not in red zones or containment zones,” he said. “Several farmhouses are willing to sell animals online. They will deliver the goats. This are some of the basic guidelines that will be made public on Thursday.’’ On Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had asked muslim leaders to organise low-key Bakri Eid celebrations without violating the social distancing norms. Thackeray had said that for the last four months, people of all faiths have avoided traditional festivities, and suggested that Bakri Eid celebrations too should be observed in the same spirit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/buy-goat-for-bakri-eid-online-sop-out-today/articleshow/76988797.cms||Ahmed Ali
July 16, 2020||India||Less than 2% Covid patients in ICUs, says Union health minister Harsh Vardhan||NEW DELHI: Less than two per cent Covid-19 patients in the country are admitted in ICUs, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said as India’s Covid-19 tally surged to 10.04 lakh on Thursday. Vardhan’s remarks came after he inaugurated the new block of the Rajkumari Amrit Kaur (RAK) OPD at AIIMS. “Gradually we are moving in the direction to win the battle against the pandemic. Less than 2% of the Covid-19 affected patients are admitted in ICUs,” Vardhan said. He added that the lab network has been strengthened significantly from one in January to 1,234 laboratories presently. The health minister said testing capacity would be further enhanced in the coming 12 weeks. He added that the progress in testing was matched with the progressively increasing recovered cases and the steadily increasing gap between recovered and active cases. “This signifies that the measures taken as part of the graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach strategy are showing positive results,” Vardhan said. Vardhan also asked the AIIMS director and other officials to expedite the operationalisation of the Mother and Child Block, Elderly Block and Surgery Block so that people can reap health benefits at the earliest. The minister urged officials and heads of departments to undertake detailed and collective brainstorming sessions to assess and analyse the innovative steps that can be taken for ensuring that all the patients who come to AIIMS get the best quality healthcare. “There must be zero tolerance for poor/substandard quality of care and towards patients’ inconvenience,” he stressed. The minister inspected the OPDs and interacted with patients to take stock of the facilities. Built in an area of approximately 6,300 square metre, the RAK OPD is the largest known OPD in India. The new OPD block also has a SMART lab, built at a cost of Rs 15 crore. The lab connects the various analysers and technologies in a single integrated workflow, the hospital said, adding that the pre-analytics, analytics and post-analytics are all physically connected by a robotic track and are seamlessly integrated by technology. It has a capacity of expansion for up to two lakh tests per day, with a handling capacity of more than 10,000 patients per day. According to a statement issued by AIIMS, the RAK OPD at the south east of the Masjid Moth campus has been designed and built with wide circulation spaces and well-ventilated waiting areas, adequate to accommodate a footfall of 15,000 patients per day. “It has been made to decongest the working space at AIIMS and to provide faster and seamless service to its patients. This will also make room for the expansion of some services like emergency and nuclear medicine in the main hospital,” the hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/less-than-2-covid-patients-in-icus/articleshow/77012604.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Minority panel accuses cops of inaction during NE Delhi riots||New Delhi: A fact-finding panel of the Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC), which was formed to look into February’s communal violence in northeast Delhi, has accused police of “inaction”. It has recommended that an independent high-level committee led by a retired high court judge should ensure registration of FIRs in all cases where complaints had been ignored and review of chargesheets filed by police in the light of allegations of ‘facts’ being left out. This committee should also ensure time-bound payment of compensation to victims, the DMC said. The report, submitted by DMC to LG Anil Baijal and CM Arvind Kejriwal, states that “testimonies of the victims reveal that the violence in northeast Delhi was not spontaneous like a riot. It was planned, organised and targeted”. It says that “both the Committee and Delhi Minorities Commission sought information about FIRs and arrests etc. from the Delhi Police but neither of them got any response”. On the issue of compensation, it pointed out that even four months after the violence, the verification process has not been completed in many cases. Also in many cases, after verification, no compensation or very small amount of interim compensation has been paid. The report says that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of Muslims had been displaced from relief camps. The report also documents 11 mosques, five madrasas, one shrine and one graveyard which were attacked or damaged during the violence. DMC, which is chaired by Dr Zafarul Islam Khan, said the report highlights that “multiple testimonies collected by the fact-finding committee recount police inaction even as violence unfolded or of police not arriving despite repeated calls on the emergency call number”. It also contains testimonies of alleged attacks on women and sexual harassment. The fact-finding panel was led by MR Shamshad, a lawyer of Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minority-panel-accuses-cops-of-inaction-during-ne-riots/articleshow/77008242.cms||Ambika Pandit
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Less than 2% Covid patients in ICUs, says Union health minister Harsh Vardhan||NEW DELHI: Less than two per cent Covid-19 patients in the country are admitted in ICUs, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said as India’s Covid-19 tally surged to 10.04 lakh on Thursday. Vardhan’s remarks came after he inaugurated the new block of the Rajkumari Amrit Kaur (RAK) OPD at AIIMS. “Gradually we are moving in the direction to win the battle against the pandemic. Less than 2% of the Covid-19 affected patients are admitted in ICUs,” Vardhan said. He added that the lab network has been strengthened significantly from one in January to 1,234 laboratories presently. The health minister said testing capacity would be further enhanced in the coming 12 weeks. He added that the progress in testing was matched with the progressively increasing recovered cases and the steadily increasing gap between recovered and active cases. “This signifies that the measures taken as part of the graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach strategy are showing positive results,” Vardhan said. Vardhan also asked the AIIMS director and other officials to expedite the operationalisation of the Mother and Child Block, Elderly Block and Surgery Block so that people can reap health benefits at the earliest. The minister urged officials and heads of departments to undertake detailed and collective brainstorming sessions to assess and analyse the innovative steps that can be taken for ensuring that all the patients who come to AIIMS get the best quality healthcare. “There must be zero tolerance for poor/substandard quality of care and towards patients’ inconvenience,” he stressed. The minister inspected the OPDs and interacted with patients to take stock of the facilities. Built in an area of approximately 6,300 square metre, the RAK OPD is the largest known OPD in India. The new OPD block also has a SMART lab, built at a cost of Rs 15 crore. The lab connects the various analysers and technologies in a single integrated workflow, the hospital said, adding that the pre-analytics, analytics and post-analytics are all physically connected by a robotic track and are seamlessly integrated by technology. It has a capacity of expansion for up to two lakh tests per day, with a handling capacity of more than 10,000 patients per day. According to a statement issued by AIIMS, the RAK OPD at the south east of the Masjid Moth campus has been designed and built with wide circulation spaces and well-ventilated waiting areas, adequate to accommodate a footfall of 15,000 patients per day. “It has been made to decongest the working space at AIIMS and to provide faster and seamless service to its patients. This will also make room for the expansion of some services like emergency and nuclear medicine in the main hospital,” the hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/less-than-2-covid-patients-in-icus/articleshow/77008260.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stigma shrouds bodies of Covid patients||VISAKHAPATNAM: Recently, Dr Pendyala Sriram, district medical surveillance officer of Pedapalli district in Telangana, drove a tractor carrying the body of a Covid-19 positive patient for cremation after the driver backed off in fear. Several such instances across the country highlight rising cases of discrimination and stigma towards the bodies of Covid-19 patients, with vehicle drivers and families refusing to come forward to give the dead a dignified cremation or burial, even though medical experts point out that bodies handed over by hospitals in zipper bags will not cause the spread of the virus. Speaking to TOI, chief medical officer (CMO) of GVMC Dr KSLG Sastry said, “In around 10% of cases the relatives are not coming to cremate the body out of fear and stigma. Also, family members may be staying in remote areas or if the family and relatives are Covid-19 suspects and kept in quarantine, they cannot come forward to give a farewell to the deceased. In such cases, where there is no one to take the body, the hospital where the patient has died is supposed to video-record the proceedings and intimate the families, police and local authorities such as revenue officials. Our staff will then arrange the cremation or burial.” Dispelling the myths and fear among people, special officer for Covid-19 (north-coastal AP) Dr PV Sudhakar said, “It is safe to cremate or bury the dead bodies as per one’s religion or choice if the bodies are wrapped in zipper bags and handed over by the hospital where the patient had died and are directly brought to the crematorium or burial ground. So long one does not come in contact with the body fluids of the dead, the virus will not infect others. “Also, if relatives ask for ashes from the cremated body for immersion in the river, it can be given as it is unlikely that the ashes will contain the virus.” Further, with the number of deaths due to Covid-19 increasing in Visakhapatnam, the district collector has asked for the installation of a new electric crematorium at Gnanapuram. Dr Sudhakar said, “The old electric crematorium has been non-functional for a long time. CSR donation has been sought for its installation and the process would take around a month. AP Medical Services Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) engineers have been asked to look into its construction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ashes-cant-contain-virus-can-be-given-to-relatives-after-cremation-say-docs/articleshow/76986945.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 16, 2020||Chennai||Now, 103-yr-old’s neighbours, relatives lose jobs, seek help||Vellore: On July 1, when the swab results of 103-year-old Hameeda Bee was announced, villagers of Periyavarigam near Ambur in Thirupatthur district in Tamil Nadu shut their doors. It signalled social rejection of not just of Hameeda’s family, but eight others residing on Indra Nagar 1st Street, now barricaded into a containment zone.  When TOI visited these families on Wednesday, there was simmering anger. Hameeda’s daughter Mubarak, granddaughter Shama and great grandson sat in a nervous huddle. Hameeda had returned home on July 12 after treatment for Covid from the Ambur Government Hospital. But it was a far from happy re-union with her family. Fortunately, Hameeda, who is hard of hearing, missed the recriminations or angry demands of her neighbours asking the family to vacate their house. “All eight families, including mine, are daily wage earners at shoe manufacturing companies and tannery units nearby. As soon as Hameeda’s swab results came, we were sent home by our employers. Our street was sealed with steel barricades and we were instructed not to venture out,” said R Vijaya, a neighbour. “It wasn’t just us, but our relatives, living nearby, were also laid off by their employers, fearing they might get infected too,” added Vijaya. Another neighbor Samuel said residents and even relatives living in adjoining streets stopped talking to them. “Even the shopkeepers refused to sell us anything. Now, we are forced to walk at least a kilometre or two, to the main road, to buy groceries and other daily requirements. Fearing stigma, we lie to the shopkeepers when they ask us which street we hail from,” said Samuel. Hameeda’s neighbours say they are running out of money and food. “We want the district administration to immediately arrange jobs for us and supply essential commodities and vegetables, at least to feed our children until normalcy returns,” R Rajeshwari said with tears in her eyes. As per protocols, residents in containment zones cannot venture out. “We have also issued directives to private firms not to recruit workers from containment zones. We have made arrangements to supply groceries to all eight families,” said Thirupatthur collector M P Sivan Arul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-103-yr-olds-neighbours-relatives-lose-jobs-seek-help/articleshow/76988153.cms||Karal Marx
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||15 cops of 12th APSP battalion contract virus||VIJAYAWADA: Fifteen constables belonging to the 12th Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP) battalion in Visakhapatnam posted at Vijayawada airport tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. According to Gannavaram police, 88 constables from the battalion reached the city recently and tests were conducted on all of them. “The results showed that 15 of them were positive,” Gannavaram circle inspector Kagitha Srinivas said. With more test results awaited, police suspect that Covid-19 cases among the battalion could increase. Apart from police personnel, a cook who travelled with the battalion from Visakhapatnam has also tested positive for the virus. All affected personnel have been admitted to a Covid-19 hospital in Vijayawada and Siddhartha Medical College in Pedda Avutupalli village. Police said the primary contacts of the constables have been intimated and asked to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. On June, 23 constables of the third APSP battalion posted at Guntur and Vijayawada Government General Hospitals tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/15-cops-of-12th-apsp-battalion-contract-virus/articleshow/76986961.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mangaluru||CBSE results: Schools in coastal districts register stellar performance||Mangaluru: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 results that were declared on Wednesday displayed the fighting spirit of the students who braved the pandemic and appeared for the exams. While the schools in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi performed well, some schools failed to get 100% results. City’s Mount Carmel Central School secured cent percent results, with Priya Ashok Patil topping the school with 97.6% (488/500). She was followed by Bhoomika Arun and Leora Stana Dsouza with 96%. Of the 110 students who appeared for the exam, 69 have secured distinction and the remaining 41 first class. Little Rock Indian School in Brahmavar, Udupi have also secured cent percent results. Around 65 students have scored 90% and above, 109 students between 80-89%, while 71 students have scored between 60-79%, six have secured second class. Prabhav Shetty topped the school with 97% marks, including a centum in mathematics. Pratham Shetty, Jessica Gonsalves, Shragvi Raviraj, Chrisanne Monis and Rakshith G Maiya have scored more than 95% marks aggregate. Six of the 31 students of Milagres CBSE School secured distinction, 22 first class and the rest second class. Wren John Pereira is the topper with 96% marks followed by Larren Raj Karkada with 94% and Ashil A Shetty with 92% marks. As many as 27students secured above 90% and 88 students passed with distinction at Canara High School CBSE. Eshanya B U topped the class with 97.6%. Sunidhi Hegde topped her class with 97.5% marks at Lourdes Central School. A total of 143 students appeared for the exams and 72 of them secured distinction, 64 first class and the rest second class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cbse-results-schools-in-coastal-districts-register-stellar-performance/articleshow/76987952.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bengaluru||98.2% students pass in Karnataka; science marks a letdown for many||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which recorded the fourth highest pass percentage in the CBSE class 12 exams, was in the ninth spot in the class 10 exams with 98.23% of the students having passed. Region wise, Bengaluru ranked third, with Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai clinching the first and second places. This is the first time that Bengaluru region, which covers the whole of Karnataka, is being considered a separate region. Tamil Nadu was the best-performing state with a pass percentage of 99.61, followed by Telangana, Puducherry, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Mizoram, Goa and Jammu and Kashmir. However, the ninth position doesn’t make the state’s performance any less stellar. Of the 56,226 students who appeared for the exams, 55,230 passed. Karnataka’s pass rate was much higher than the national average of 91.46%, which was a slight improvement from last year’s 91.10%. Students from 871 Karnataka schools wrote the papers at 208 centres. The number of students securing over 90% dipped by 3% nationally. Around 1.8 lakh students (10%) scored in this bracket. Those notching up marks above 95% also dropped by 1%. Close to 42,000 students were among the top-scorers. The board didn’t announce a merit list following cancellation of some papers. Many students in the city were disappointed with science marks. “The general vibe in the city was that science scores were low. While scores for other subjects were high, science brought down the overall percentages of many students,” said Mousumi Dutta, principal, Army Public School, PRTC. Agreed Mamatha Raviprakash, principal, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Vidya Mandir, Bangalore North: “We are unsure about what went wrong. Though our top score is 97, many didn’t fare as well as expected.” The exams were conducted from February 15 to March 20. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, papers scheduled from March 19-31 were cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/98-2-cbse-class-10-students-pass-science-scores-a-letdown-for-many/articleshow/76987844.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: IGI handles 20 million pieces of medical supplies in 3 months||NEW DELHI: Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) in Delhi handled the highest volume of air cargo in the country in the past three months. In June, the airport recorded 1,850 cargo freighter aircraft movement — 1,091 scheduled and 759 non-scheduled — the highest in the country. Between April and June, over 20 million pieces of essential medical supplies, the largest handled by any airport, was handled at IGIA, an official said. The medical kits contained facemasks (10.3 million), gloves (6.2 million), goggles (4.9 million), body suits (1.9 million), shoe covers (1.4 million) and 250 ventilators, among other things. A dedicated team operated 24X7 at cargo terminals and set up a 3,800 sq metre facility within a record time of seven days to handle medical supplies, the official added. “Innovative procedures have been adopted to store the medical import cargos in separate export zones, while strictly following social distancing, sanitisation and safety norms issued by the Centre,” the official said. The major airlines that contributed significantly by ferrying international cargo to Delhi were Air India, Qatar Airways, Cathay Pacific, FedEx, Emirates, Turkish Airlines, etc. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL, said, “During the lockdown, Delhi airport relentlessly worked for timely and smooth supply of medical equipment and relief material to and from Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igi-handles-20-million-pieces-of-medical-supplies-in-3-months/articleshow/76988175.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chennai||Govt didn’t ask coop banks to stop jewel loans: EPS||Chennai: Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday denied that his government had ordered the cooperative banks to stop jewel loans. They were advised not to lend beyond the permitted limit. “We have not asked the cooperative banks to stop giving any loans. It is wrong information,” CM Palaniswami said, while responding to a pointed question from the media at Krishnagiri on stoppage of jewel loans. Opposition leaders including DMK president M K Stalin, AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran and CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan had hit out at the AIADMK government on Tuesday over reports that cooperative banks have stopped jewel loans. “The recent move by the RBI to take control of cooperative banks and that of the state government to stop loans will lead to decay of cooperative banking system and increase the sufferings of the poor,” Stalin said. “During Covid crisis, the poor and the needy as well as the middle class depend on jewel loans to take care of their immediate needs of expenditures. Ordering such loans to be stopped is against anyone’s conscience,” Dhinakaran had said. “There are several people who are suffering without any job and the government must continue to provide jewel loans,” Balakrishnan said. “The cooperative banks have been only advised to lend within their permitted limits. Some banks tend to disburse all the money on their hands as loans. When depositors come and ask for their deposits, it becomes a problem,” the chief minister said, explaining the reason behind the advisory. State food minister R Kamaraj too sought to dismiss reports about jewel loans being stopped. “No one has said that cooperative banks will not give jewel loans to farmers. No such announcements were made. This is false,” Kamaraj said, talking to reporters in Thanjavur. “In some places, the allotment for jewel loans may be over. So, the bank authorities might have said so, when the farmers approached them. If there is requirement for loans, over and above the allotment, the authorities will discuss with the chief minister and facilitate disbursal of such loans,” he added. But, a communication from the general secretary of the TamilNadu Coop Urban Bank Employees’ Federation to members sought to nail the state government. “The office of the registrar of cooperatives has withdrawn the announcement asking co-operative banks to stop disbursal of jewel loans,” A Subramaniyan said in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-didnt-ask-coop-banks-to-stop-jewel-loans-eps/articleshow/76988168.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||Retd govt engineer denied bail||Vadodara: A special ACB (anti-corruption bureau) court denied anticipatory bail to retired government staffer in a disproportionate assets (DA) case on Tuesday. The accused Girishkumar Shah, who retired as an additional assistant engineer of the irrigation department, had sought anticipatory bail on July 7 on the grounds that the ACB had miscalculated his assets and he had purchased and invested in everything through cheques only. He also told the court that looking at his age it would not be desirable to lodge him in jail in the current situation of the pandemic. Shah’s bail was opposed by ACB stating that Shah is already facing another case under the Prevention of Corruption Act as he had demanded a bribe of Rs 43,000 to sanction the bill of Rs 86,000 value. “The accused between 2010-11 and 2018-19 made an investment of over Rs 2 crore while his income from known source during the same period was Rs 1.9 crore. The amount invested in real estate was found to be more than Rs 1.26 crore,” said district GP Anil Desai. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/retd-govt-engineer-denied-bail/articleshow/76986997.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Trichy||Avoid purse seine nets, TN govt tells fishermen||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday requested fishermen not to use banned purse seine nets and abide by the court orders. The request was made at a meeting convened by fisheries minister D Jayakumar with the representatives of fishermen from Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Villupuram. Purse seine nets ruin the ecosystem and also the livelihood of traditional fishermen. “The minister requested the fishermen to not violate the court orders but set out to deep sea availing government support,” an official release said. Chief secretary K Shanmugam and DGP J K Tripathy were present. Maintaining that they would suffer huge loss due to the ban and it would take three to five years to move onto alternative fishing methods, the fishermen requested the government to allow them to use purse siene nets for six months a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/avoid-purse-seine-nets-govt-tells-fishermen/articleshow/76991908.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mysuru||Lockdown helps reduce incidence of dengue in Mysuru||MYSURU: The drastic measures adopted by the government to combat the pandemic may have inconvenienced people, but in addition to curbing the transmission of the novel coronavirus, these preventive steps have helped reduce incidence of vector-borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya in Mysuru district. Concerted awareness drives launched by the district administration, in collaboration with the health department, have to a great extent helped reduce the number of dengue and chikungunya cases in Mysuru. For instance, the number of dengue cases in Mysuru, which soared to 843 in 2017 slumped to 49 the following year, before witnessing a small jump in 2019 (122). However, as on June 30, 2020, Mysuru has recorded just 14 dengue cases Coronavirus may have created fear among people forcing them to stay indoors but on the positive side, it has brought down cases of communicable diseases in the district. Headed by district vector-borne diseases control officer Dr S Chidambara, a team of health department personnel, conducted a fortnight-long larval survey starting June 15, wherein the members inspected 1,66,826 spots across Mysuru to check for breeding of larva. They found larvae to be breeding in 3,509 places. The members of the team also inspected more than four lakh water tanks, and found that larvae were breeding in over 4,000. “Following the spurt in 2017, we held awareness drives regularly to ensure people took all safety measures against dengue. If we look at the number of cases reported in the district, and compare it with figures of other districts where the population is approximately the same, the incidence of dengue and chikungunya in Mysuru is less. On average, the district reported around 20 dengue cases in June, and twice as many in July. But owing to the lockdown, and constant vigilance on our part, the number of cases of dengue has fallen sharply in the district,” Chidambara told TOI. The medical officer also pointed to restrictions on entry of people from other districts and states had helped keep the number of dengue cases in Mysuru low. “Increased movement of people leads to a corresponding rise in the number of communicable diseases,” Dr Chidambara added. The lockdown, having been in force throughout April, and some part of May, had helped greatly bring down the number of dengue cases in Mysuru, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lockdown-helps-reduce-incidence-of-dengue-in-mysuru/articleshow/76986868.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Braving cancer, boy tastes success with 91%||BENGALURU: The success story of Rohit R Iyer, who secured 91% in the CBSE class 10 exams, is not like any other 16-year-old’s. This NPS Yeshwantpur student was fighting a bigger battle — against cancer — when he faced his boards this March. Rohit was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, a form of blood cancer, in November 2019 when he was representing Karnataka at a national table tennis tournament in Uttar Pradesh along with his team. As the event progressed, he experienced unusual fatigue and had to return to Bengaluru to get himself examined. He had to undergo treatment, including multiple chemotherapy sessions, and take medications high in dosage and side-effects. “But as days passed, Rohit began to think about the boards, which were just a month away. While all his friends from school were busy with their books, he was at the peak of the battle with cancer. But Rohit began to channelise every ounce of energy in his body towards exam preparation,” said Ramesh Iyer, his father. “I felt that instead of brooding, I have to be as positive and physically active as possible. I had prepared well for a year and thought I should just give it a go. Initially, I just wanted to get it over with. But then I realised I have to do it well in order to get some satisfaction. Since I experienced side-effects like nausea, extreme fatigue, headache and unbearable body aches, I used to pick up my books whenever I found time. That’s when it dawned on me how much studying every day helps,” recalled Rohit. He travelled from hospital, in between his chemotherapy sessions, to write the papers for three hours. “As I had to take medicines every six hours, I had to finish my papers and quickly return to the hospital not to miss the next dose,” he said. Son of an engineer and a PU college lecturer, Rohit has to undergo radiotherapy for another two weeks. And the warrior in him is ready to take it head on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/braving-cancer-boy-tastes-success-with-91/articleshow/76987932.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 16, 2020||Meerut||Can't understand why IPC, CrPC sections not invoked to ensure social distancing: Allahabad HC||MEERUT: The Allahabad high court has taken a grim view of people not following social distancing norms and walking around without masks in Uttar Pradesh. It has asked the state government why laws meant to curb crowding are not being invoked. This came even as the state’s Covid-19 tally reached 40,000 on Wednesday and the death toll inched towards 1,000. “We would not hesitate in suggesting that incarceration and high fines be thought of,” the division bench of justices Ajit Kumar and Siddhartha Verma said while hearing a petition. “We cannot understand why the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 is not being implemented properly, which clearly envisages action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Also, we cannot understand why Section 144 of the CrPC, which we are told is in force, is not being used,” the court said, adding that when the government went ahead with Unlock-1 and Unlock-2 to revive economic activity, people of the state thought that it gave them freedom to mingle freely and move around. “Somehow, because of the Unlock-2, our people have got a wrong impression that they can now freely mix with each other and move around. Keeping this in mind, we had on June 25 directed the state of Uttar Pradesh through the director general of police to make wearing of masks compulsory. We had also directed that mohalla committees be more cautious and vigilant, and to report persons showing symptoms of influenza. However, in the past few days, we have observed ...that people are not at all bothered about physical distancing norms and also about taking various precautions like wearing masks and washing hands, etc," the bench observed. The court asked the state government to chalk out a plan to ensure that the concept of physical distancing is “implemented in letter and spirit”. It added: “This exercise will have to be undertaken compulsorily as we find that Covid-19 infection is still there and that the people of our state are somehow not getting sensitive to the concept of physical distancing. On the next date fixed, the state may chalk out a plan to see how the concept of physical distancing is implemented in letter and spirit."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cant-understand-why-ipc-crpc-sections-not-invoked-to-ensure-social-distancing-allahabad-hc/articleshow/76985893.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Avoid purse seine nets, TN govt tells fishermen||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday requested fishermen not to use banned purse seine nets and abide by the court orders. The request was made at a meeting convened by fisheries minister D Jayakumar with the representatives of fishermen from Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Villupuram. Purse seine nets ruin the ecosystem and also the livelihood of traditional fishermen. “The minister requested the fishermen to not violate the court orders but set out to deep sea availing government support,” an official release said. Chief secretary K Shanmugam and DGP J K Tripathy were present. Maintaining that they would suffer huge loss due to the ban and it would take three to five years to move onto alternative fishing methods, the fishermen requested the government to allow them to use purse siene nets for six months a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/avoid-purse-seine-nets-govt-tells-fishermen/articleshow/76991904.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chennai||Avoid purse seine nets, TN govt tells fishermen||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday requested fishermen not to use banned purse seine nets and abide by the court orders. The request was made at a meeting convened by fisheries minister D Jayakumar with the representatives of fishermen from Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Villupuram. Purse seine nets ruin the ecosystem and also the livelihood of traditional fishermen. “The minister requested the fishermen to not violate the court orders but set out to deep sea availing government support,” an official release said. Chief secretary K Shanmugam and DGP J K Tripathy were present. Maintaining that they would suffer huge loss due to the ban and it would take three to five years to move onto alternative fishing methods, the fishermen requested the government to allow them to use purse siene nets for six months a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/avoid-purse-seine-nets-govt-tells-fishermen/articleshow/76988162.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Salem||Avoid purse seine nets, TN govt tells fishermen||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday requested fishermen not to use banned purse seine nets and abide by the court orders. The request was made at a meeting convened by fisheries minister D Jayakumar with the representatives of fishermen from Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Villupuram. Purse seine nets ruin the ecosystem and also the livelihood of traditional fishermen. “The minister requested the fishermen to not violate the court orders but set out to deep sea availing government support,” an official release said. Chief secretary K Shanmugam and DGP J K Tripathy were present. Maintaining that they would suffer huge loss due to the ban and it would take three to five years to move onto alternative fishing methods, the fishermen requested the government to allow them to use purse siene nets for six months a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/avoid-purse-seine-nets-govt-tells-fishermen/articleshow/76991909.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mangaluru||UT Khader seeks clarity on ‘free treatment’ to Covid patients with Aadhaar Card||Mangaluru: Former health minister U T Khader demanded clarity on the decision announced by district in-charge minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari on facilitating free treatment for Covid-19 patients in private medical college hospitals in DK district. The minister on Saturday had announced that patients with Aadhaar cards could avail this free treatment in medical college hospitals. The present government rules stipulate free treatment only for referred patients. Khader, also Mangaluru MLA, told reporters on Wednesday that many patients, without fully understanding the announcement, approached private hospitals in hope of getting free treatment. Besides, with many infants and children too affected by the pandemic, Khader said the administration must reconsider the stand of allowing free treatment only to patients with Aadhaar cards or accept Aadhaar cards of their dependents. The minister or the administration must clarify if this free treatment was for patients referred to private medical college hospitals or for all. In many instances, people with comorbidities are turning up positive for the virus while under treatment or when brought in for emergencies, he said, adding there is no clarity on even if such patients are eligible for the free treatment that the minister announced. All these issues must be thought through, he said. Effort should be made to ensure cash flow into hands of people through MGNREG scheme and the schemes implemented in urban areas, he said. Salary for government employees and ASHA workers should be paid on time. Private shops and establishments must pay their workers full if not fixed salary. The state government must provide treatment to media personnel affected by the pandemic in private hospitals, a facility extended to police personnel, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ut-khader-seeks-clarity-on-free-treatment-to-covid-patients-with-aadhaar-card/articleshow/76986338.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Erode||Avoid purse seine nets, TN govt tells fishermen||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday requested fishermen not to use banned purse seine nets and abide by the court orders. The request was made at a meeting convened by fisheries minister D Jayakumar with the representatives of fishermen from Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Villupuram. Purse seine nets ruin the ecosystem and also the livelihood of traditional fishermen. “The minister requested the fishermen to not violate the court orders but set out to deep sea availing government support,” an official release said. Chief secretary K Shanmugam and DGP J K Tripathy were present. Maintaining that they would suffer huge loss due to the ban and it would take three to five years to move onto alternative fishing methods, the fishermen requested the government to allow them to use purse siene nets for six months a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/avoid-purse-seine-nets-govt-tells-fishermen/articleshow/76991907.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Madurai||Avoid purse seine nets, TN govt tells fishermen||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday requested fishermen not to use banned purse seine nets and abide by the court orders. The request was made at a meeting convened by fisheries minister D Jayakumar with the representatives of fishermen from Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Villupuram. Purse seine nets ruin the ecosystem and also the livelihood of traditional fishermen. “The minister requested the fishermen to not violate the court orders but set out to deep sea availing government support,” an official release said. Chief secretary K Shanmugam and DGP J K Tripathy were present. Maintaining that they would suffer huge loss due to the ban and it would take three to five years to move onto alternative fishing methods, the fishermen requested the government to allow them to use purse siene nets for six months a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/avoid-purse-seine-nets-govt-tells-fishermen/articleshow/76991906.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Evaluators have a tough time reaching centres||BENGALURU: Several teachers who set out for evaluation of SSLC exam papers on Wednesday found themselves stranded because of the lockdown that brought the city to a standstill. Deputy chiefs of all evaluation centres were asked to report on the day, while the others have to start from Thursday. A teacher who was allotted a centre in Devanahalli was seen waiting for over two hours at Majestic bus stand to get a ride. “I have been waiting here for a bus since 8.30am. I do not know how to reach the centre. We were told that transport would be arranged for us. But there was no further message or coordination on this for Wednesday,” the teacher said. The husband of another teacher spotted outside the evaluation centre at Kamala Memorial Educational Institution, Basavanagudi, said he had come on a two-wheeler from Kengeri, covering a distance of 20km, to drop his wife. “I had other engagements. But since this was more important and we didn’t have any other means of transport, I borrowed a two-wheeler from my friend and brought my wife here,” the man said. According to the standard operating procedure circulated for evaluation of SSLC papers, teachers were supposed to be picked up and dropped back home. However, many said they had to manage on their own. “We understand the need to conduct evaluation, but the government should also be empathetic towards our problems,” said another teacher. “We are hiring private school buses to ferry evaluators from Thursday. The route officers and routes are fixed. But on Wednesday, the deputy chiefs had to manage on their own,” said an official. Around 7,000 teachers will participate in the evaluation process across 29 centres. Around 8.4 lakh children wrote the SSLC exams held amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, much to the disapproval of many stakeholders. Fake Twitter accountPrimary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar has filed a complaint against a fake Twitter account in his name. Recently, a message stating 26 grace marks would be awarded for II PU English paper was circulated through this account. As per the complaint, the message created confusion among students and necessary action has been sought against the offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/evaluators-had-a-tough-time-reaching-centres/articleshow/76987943.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 16, 2020||Mysuru||Aggrieved Jenu Kuruba community members write to PM Modi seeking justice||Mysuru: Determined to retain their rights to forage food using traditional means in the forests, members of the Jenu Kuruba tribe, a community listed under the specially privileged tribal groups (SPTG) category, from the Old Mysore region have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention on the subject. Along with Koragas, Jenu Kuruba community is the only other tribal community of Karnataka to find a place on the SPTG list of 32. The two communities in the state have been designated as such owing to their impoverished condition and declining numbers. While the Koragas, native to Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts, are around 20,000 in number, the population of Jenu Kuruba community is estimated to be around one lakh. The members of the latter community are spread across Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Kodgu districts. Director of the Hunsur-based NGO Development Through Education (DEED) S Srikanth, who has been spearheading efforts to secure the rights of tribal communities, pointed out that the Jenu Kurubas lived either in or close to the Nagarahole and Bandipur tiger reserves, adding that their subsistence depended on the produce collected from forests. “Since most of them were told to vacate their homes in the forest, they have not been allowed to collect minor forest produce (MFP), which is vital to their livelihood. Members of the Jenu Kuruba tribe have been displaced from Jammas, their traditional hamlets, and they have not been rehabilitated following their eviction,” Srikanth told TOI. He said that the members of the Jenu Kuruba community had recourse to the law, and were seeking their rights under the protection of the Constitution. “We have written to both PM Modi and chief minister BS Yediyurappa, requesting them to permit the Jenu Kurubas to live in the forest. The jungle is the common property of both the government and the tribes. They should be allowed to collect uncultivated produce in the woods,” Srikanth added. Vijaykumar, a tribal leader in HD Kote, said that the government must honour the provisions of the Recognition of Forest Rights Act, 2006 and safeguard the rights of the Jenu Kuruba community. The legislation in question states that the individual or a community that has claim on land or can claim tenure of forest land, shall be granted forest rights on all lands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/aggrieved-jenu-kuruba-community-members-write-to-pm-modi-seeking-justice/articleshow/76988145.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Covid-19 superspreaders put Ernakulam on the edge||KOCHI: Four superspreaders at Aluva and Keezhmad together infected more than 60 people in the municipality limit and neighbouring panchayats, said health officials. In Chellanam, almost all the infected persons are superspreaders as the cases are closely interlinked to each other. A building contractor who attended an engagement ceremony at Keezhmad infected around 28 people in his panchayat and neighbouring panchayats. The other one who runs a coconut oil mill infected nearly 20 people in his house and company. A mediaperson infected around eight people in his house and relative’s house. The fourth person, a Karumalloor native who visited both Aluva and Maradu markets infected around eight people in his family. “Almost all the cases in Aluva region are linked to the Aluva market. Around 60 cases, reported so far are closely linked to the market alone. Five members of a family who tested positive on Tuesday at Rayamangalam are also associated with Aluva as a male member in the family works with Aluva KSEB office. He infected his father who died on Saturday night. The case is similar to the one at Thoppumpady where a person who runs a shop in Ernakulam Market infected his father, who died later. At Chellanam, almost all the infected persons are superspreaders as their cases are closely interlinked to each other,” said the health official. Officials suspect headload workers, who usually speak loudly during their work, and autorickshaw drivers who always sit together in small confined areas might have spread the infection. “We expect many more cases from Aluva area as headload workers and autorickshaw drivers travelled the length and breadth of Aluva and neighbouring panchayats,” said the official. Superspreaders are those who infect many persons who come in contact with them knowingly or unknowingly. “The infected person who is asymptomatic and more mobile might infect others without their knowledge. Traders, bus conductors, doctors and others come in contact with many people daily as part of their job. The infected person can spread the infection in five to 10 days of incubation period of the virus. With all the activities resumed in a staggered manner, more superspreaders will be reported,” said Dr Vijayakumar K, former HOD of community medicine department at Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. As more cases are reported from Keezhmad, the panchayat authorities have approached the district collector demanding to conduct random tests across the local body. “The source of infection of four persons in the panchayat could not be identified so far. As the panchayat has been declared as a containment zone, many people are unable to go to work outside. This annoys many and it has become a major issue. Even those who did not step out of their houses are infected in the panchayat. A person who stepped out only once to go to the bank has been tested positive,” said Keezhmad panchayat health standing committee chairperson Abilash Asokan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/superspreaders-put-ernakulam-on-the-edge/articleshow/76986994.cms||T C Sreemol
July 16, 2020||Indore||Indore: Rise in Covid-19 cases raises concern, lockdown fears||INDORE: A sudden rise in Covid-19 cases and positivity rate during last fortnight has raised the fears that city may witness another lockdown. The hike came to light after authorities launched an extensive door-to-door survey to identify suspected cases. Concerned officials say that carelessness on part of residents is largely the reason for worsening of situation. To keep the situation under control, district crisis management committee is contemplating to enforce the lockdown once gain for around a week. The district had reported first four cases of Covid-19 on March 26 and by Tuesday, it had become state’s worst-affected district with 5496 cases including 278 deaths. On April 16, Indore had reported maximum 248 cases in a single day. Just a day ago, the district reported highest positivity rate of 33.59 per cent. A week-wise analysis of Covid-19 cases reported in Indore showed that after witnessing a considerable decline in cases in the month of June, there was a sudden rise in cases in last fortnight. As per health department data, Indore reported 201 cases at positivity rate of around 13 per cent within first fortnight of reporting first four Covid-19 cases. In the next month, the district reported around 1500 cases at positivity rate of around 14 per cent. Around 1800 new cases were reported in next four weeks but positivity rate dropped to around 6 per cent. In the following month, 1100 cases were reported at positivity rate of around 2.25 per cent while in the last fortnight, Indore reported 720 cases at the positivity rate of 3.12 per cent. For now, district administration, health department, IMC and the police are taking several steps like door-to-door survey for identification of suspected patients, putting close contacts of positive patients into quarantine facilities, generating public awareness, slapping spot fines, putting lockdown violators into temporary jail and increasing sampling and testing capacities to check spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rise-in-covid-cases-raises-concern-lockdown-fears/articleshow/76988172.cms||Sagar Choukse
July 16, 2020||Indore||Jewellers feel the heat as artisans not ready to return||Indore: A skilled jewellery artisan Arup Das (45) and his wife are happy doing farming on a small chuck of their ancestral land at Midnapore in West Bengal to support their family of five after cutting ties of 15 years with a jewellery store in Sarafa Indore. Das along with other artisans working at jewellery stores in Sarafa had left for their hometown in lockdown and now has no plans to return to Indore. Das said, “I reached my village after a lot of struggle and spending Rs 5,000. My owners were good but now I am not going back because my family wants me to stay with them. I will do some odd jobs but stay close to them.” It’s not just Das but many artisans like him who went back home after falling low on money and work in lockdown, are reluctant to return. Sadanand Guchai, a third generation artisan from Medinapore said, “I had a team of 12 artisans under me, all from my village but no one is ready to go back now. There are not many job opportunities in villages but families are not allowing them to go. But I will go because I have worked in Indore for 20 years and my owners are still taking care of my requirements.” Guchai had left Indore along with 162 artisans by hiring a private bus that charged them Rs 1.40 lakh. Guchai said, in his village about 80 per cent male members work as artisans in different cities of India. Though he wishes his children to stay away from the ancestral artisan work and take up different jobs. Reluctance of skilled artisans to get back to work in cities, have added to worries of jewellers already baffled by poor trade sentiments and drop in business amid Covid-19 enforced lockdown. Jewellers have started contacting their family members, head of village and contractors to convince them back to work. Many are offering increased remuneration and perks.  Madhya Pradesh Sarafa Association secretary Santosh Saraf said, “Artisans play a vital role in our industry, even in machine made jewellery, 80 per cent is handwork by artisans. Without skilled workers, we cannot think of this industry. The shortage of artisans will affect the production and designs.” According to Sarafa association around 20,000 artisans from West Bengal are engaged at different levels of jewellery making, finishing and crafting. Indore, Bhopal, Ratlam, Gwalior and Jabalpur are the main markets for gold ornaments in the state. Another jeweller Anil Ranka said, “We are regularly holding talks with our artisans. We also did webinars with large contractors to convince artisans.” Jewellers said artisans will take time to plan a trip back as they have left the place after a lot of struggle and pain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/jewellers-feel-the-heat-as-artisans-not-ready-to-return/articleshow/76988179.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
July 16, 2020||Goa||Pollution body to propose one nod for waste mgmt||Panaji: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has decided to propose to the Union government that pollution boards be empowered to grant ‘common’ authorisation, along with consent, under provisions of the hazardous waste (HW) management rules, biomedical waste management rules, plastic waste management rules and solid waste management rules which are notified under the Environment Protection Act (EPA). This would enable the boards to issue ‘one permission’ under the said EPA, including water and air pollution as well all types of waste management rules. GSPCB will also recommend that the water and air acts be combined, as presently, based on the directives of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), combined consent is granted under the Water Act, Air Act and HW rules. Meanwhile, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has sought comments from boards across the country regarding amendment of the water and air acts, the water and air rules and the EPA Act and rules. A senior officer said the ministry has proposed that the provision of the water and air acts should form ‘chapters’ in the EPA Act and accordingly, each board should be constituted under the provision of the said EPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-body-to-propose-one-nod-for-waste-mgmt/articleshow/76988810.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Rajkot||Screening must for outsiders in Amreli||RAJKOT: Those travelling from Mumbai, Surat and Ahmedabad will have to undergo health screening at different check posts in Amreli district.The notification issued on Wednesday by district magistrate will remain effective till July 31. “During our recent analysis, it was found that most of the Covid-19 positive cases in Amreli were from people who had travelled from Mumbai, Surat or Ahmedabad,” said an official from the health department of the Amreli district administration. According to the notification, all the passengers of state transport buses plying between Krushnanagar and Savarkundala via Palitana and Jesar, Krushnanagar and Savarkundala via Palitana and Jesar, Khedbramha and Savarkundala via Gariadhar and Liliya will have to get themselves screened at Vanda primary health centre of Savarkundala taluka. The passengers of ST buses operating between Krushnanagar and Jafrabad via Bhavnagar and Rajula and Krushnanagar and Una via Bhavnagar and Rajula will have to get themselves tested at Dungar primary health centre. No passenger will be allowed to de-board the bus till the completion of the screening process, stated the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/screening-must-for-outsiders-in-amreli/articleshow/76988169.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kochi||Ekm tops with 89.02 pass percentage||Kochi: Ernakulam has secured the top spot in district-wise ranking of Kerala higher secondary examinations 2020 with a pass percentage of 89.02. A total of 31,700 students out of the registered 31,856 students appeared in the exams this year and 28,220 among them became eligible for higher studies. Students from 202 schools in the district appeared for the exam. As many as 1,909 students in the district secured A+ in all subjects. Three exams were conducted amid high security measures during the lockdown in May. In the technical school category, the district secured 90.85% pass. Of the 427 registered students, 426 appeared for the exam and 387 students became eligible for higher studies. As many as 21 students secured full A+. In the open school category, 2,401 students of the 2,452 registered students appeared for the exam and 1,243 of them became eligible for higher studies. The pass percentage in open school category is 51.77 and nine students in the district secured A+ in all subjects. Double valuation was done for the answer scripts of physics, chemistry and mathematics. The tabulations of all subjects were done online. Those students who registered and appeared for the HSE 2020 March (both regular and compartmental) and failed to obtain sufficient grade for higher studies in any subject can apply for the SAY examination. The notification for the examination will be issued shortly. Students can apply for revaluation/photocopy/scrutiny of all subjects except revaluation of physics, chemistry and mathematics from July 16 onwards. The notification of the same is available on the Higher Secondary Education portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-tops-with-89-02-pass-percentage/articleshow/76987050.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||SDRF team starts search op for 4 mising trekkers||Dehradun: The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams have launched a search operation to find the four trekkers, who have been missing since July 14. These trekkers were on the Kedarnath-Vasuki Tal route. The teams started the search on Kedarnath-Vasuki Tal route and Sonprayag Mon Kutiya–Vasuki Tal route on Wednesday. The search operation was carried out under tough weather conditions. However, the SDRF teams have so far not been able to find the missing trekkers. The four missing trekkers — Himanshu Gurung, Harsh Bhandari, Mohit Bhatt and Jagdish Bisht — are from Dehradun and Nainital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sdrf-team-starts-search-op-for-4-mising-trekkers/articleshow/76985926.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 16, 2020||Chennai||Veteran Communist leader Sankaraiah turns 99, tells cadres to work hard||CHENNAI: Having sent the largest contingent of four MPs to the Lok Sabha in 2019, Tamil Nadu had offered a glimmer of hope for the Communist parties beyond Kerala. Veteran Communist leader N Sankaraiah, who turned 99 on Wednesday, appealed to party cadres to continue their hard work and sent condolences to the families of those who have died of Covid-19. “I have retired from politics. I am not well,” Sankaraiah told TOI, amid answering phone calls since morning from leaders wanting to wish him on his birthday. “You take care of your health and thanks for calling me on my birthday,” Sankaraiah remembered to add. A video recording of his address to cadres was played out at the CPM office on Wednesday. In the eight-minute speech, the veteran leader recalled CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s letter to party cadres a few days back and wanted them to work hard. “Several thousands have died in the last few months due to coronavirus. My condolences to their family members. Our party members have done very good work and it must continue,” said Sankaraiah. “Yechury, former CPM general secretary Prakash Karat, state secretary K Balakrishnan, party’s central committee and politburo member G Ramakrishnan, DMK president M K Stalin, MDMK chief Vaiko and several others called and wished him. He was excited to receive so many calls and his advice to all was to take care of their health and protect them from the Covid-19,” his son Narasimhan said. Sankaraiah usually starts his day around 6.30am and goes through all newspapers and turns on the radio to hear music and listen to the day's news. “Recently, he gets up a little late and hears news on the radio followed by music. It is only in the afternoon he reads newspapers and attends calls,” said Narasimhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veteran-communist-leader-sankaraiah-turns-99-tells-cadres-to-work-hard/articleshow/76988176.cms||B Sivakumar
July 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Covid-19 lays siege to collectorate, 20 infected||VISAKHAPATNAM: Twenty employees at the district collectorate, including the collector’s personal and security guards at the camp office, attenders and drivers of joint collectors, have tested positive for Covid-19. Two employees at the office of revenue divisional officer (RDO) have also tested positive. The RDO office is in the premises of the collectorate. The collectorate has been partially closed down for the next week and the number of employees reduced. Only those below 55-years of age will now attend duties. Meanwhile, medical authorities have swung into action and begun identifying primary and secondary contacts of the patients. Confirming the news, district collector V Vinaychand told TOI that around 20 employees have tested positive at the collectorate, which has more than 300 employees. “The regular duties of employees of various sections in the collectorate have been affected to some extent,” he said. A senior employee at the collectorate said, “most of the attenders and lower-rung employees visit different sections to deliver files. This has given more scope for the infection to spread.” He added that all positive patients and their primary and secondary have been quarantined and one of the joint collectors has quarantined himself at his camp office and is conducting reviews of his departments through video-conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-lays-siege-to-collectorate-20-infected/articleshow/76987007.cms||Siva G
July 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Veteran Communist leader Sankaraiah turns 99, tells cadres to work hard||CHENNAI: Having sent the largest contingent of four MPs to the Lok Sabha in 2019, Tamil Nadu had offered a glimmer of hope for the Communist parties beyond Kerala. Veteran Communist leader N Sankaraiah, who turned 99 on Wednesday, appealed to party cadres to continue their hard work and sent condolences to the families of those who have died of Covid-19. “I have retired from politics. I am not well,” Sankaraiah told TOI, amid answering phone calls since morning from leaders wanting to wish him on his birthday. “You take care of your health and thanks for calling me on my birthday,” Sankaraiah remembered to add. A video recording of his address to cadres was played out at the CPM office on Wednesday. In the eight-minute speech, the veteran leader recalled CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s letter to party cadres a few days back and wanted them to work hard. “Several thousands have died in the last few months due to coronavirus. My condolences to their family members. Our party members have done very good work and it must continue,” said Sankaraiah. “Yechury, former CPM general secretary Prakash Karat, state secretary K Balakrishnan, party’s central committee and politburo member G Ramakrishnan, DMK president M K Stalin, MDMK chief Vaiko and several others called and wished him. He was excited to receive so many calls and his advice to all was to take care of their health and protect them from the Covid-19,” his son Narasimhan said. Sankaraiah usually starts his day around 6.30am and goes through all newspapers and turns on the radio to hear music and listen to the day's news. “Recently, he gets up a little late and hears news on the radio followed by music. It is only in the afternoon he reads newspapers and attends calls,” said Narasimhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/veteran-communist-leader-sankaraiah-turns-99-tells-cadres-to-work-hard/articleshow/76994710.cms||B Sivakumar
July 16, 2020||Madurai||Veteran Communist leader Sankaraiah turns 99, tells cadres to work hard||CHENNAI: Having sent the largest contingent of four MPs to the Lok Sabha in 2019, Tamil Nadu had offered a glimmer of hope for the Communist parties beyond Kerala. Veteran Communist leader N Sankaraiah, who turned 99 on Wednesday, appealed to party cadres to continue their hard work and sent condolences to the families of those who have died of Covid-19. “I have retired from politics. I am not well,” Sankaraiah told TOI, amid answering phone calls since morning from leaders wanting to wish him on his birthday. “You take care of your health and thanks for calling me on my birthday,” Sankaraiah remembered to add. A video recording of his address to cadres was played out at the CPM office on Wednesday. In the eight-minute speech, the veteran leader recalled CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s letter to party cadres a few days back and wanted them to work hard. “Several thousands have died in the last few months due to coronavirus. My condolences to their family members. Our party members have done very good work and it must continue,” said Sankaraiah. “Yechury, former CPM general secretary Prakash Karat, state secretary K Balakrishnan, party’s central committee and politburo member G Ramakrishnan, DMK president M K Stalin, MDMK chief Vaiko and several others called and wished him. He was excited to receive so many calls and his advice to all was to take care of their health and protect them from the Covid-19,” his son Narasimhan said. Sankaraiah usually starts his day around 6.30am and goes through all newspapers and turns on the radio to hear music and listen to the day's news. “Recently, he gets up a little late and hears news on the radio followed by music. It is only in the afternoon he reads newspapers and attends calls,” said Narasimhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/veteran-communist-leader-sankaraiah-turns-99-tells-cadres-to-work-hard/articleshow/76994711.cms||B Sivakumar
July 16, 2020||Bhopal||Indore: Rise in Covid-19 cases raises concern, lockdown fears||INDORE: A sudden rise in Covid-19 cases and positivity rate during last fortnight has raised the fears that city may witness another lockdown. The hike came to light after authorities launched an extensive door-to-door survey to identify suspected cases. Concerned officials say that carelessness on part of residents is largely the reason for worsening of situation. To keep the situation under control, district crisis management committee is contemplating to enforce the lockdown once gain for around a week. The district had reported first four cases of Covid-19 on March 26 and by Tuesday, it had become state’s worst-affected district with 5496 cases including 278 deaths. On April 16, Indore had reported maximum 248 cases in a single day. Just a day ago, the district reported highest positivity rate of 33.59 per cent. A week-wise analysis of Covid-19 cases reported in Indore showed that after witnessing a considerable decline in cases in the month of June, there was a sudden rise in cases in last fortnight. As per health department data, Indore reported 201 cases at positivity rate of around 13 per cent within first fortnight of reporting first four Covid-19 cases. In the next month, the district reported around 1500 cases at positivity rate of around 14 per cent. Around 1800 new cases were reported in next four weeks but positivity rate dropped to around 6 per cent. In the following month, 1100 cases were reported at positivity rate of around 2.25 per cent while in the last fortnight, Indore reported 720 cases at the positivity rate of 3.12 per cent. For now, district administration, health department, IMC and the police are taking several steps like door-to-door survey for identification of suspected patients, putting close contacts of positive patients into quarantine facilities, generating public awareness, slapping spot fines, putting lockdown violators into temporary jail and increasing sampling and testing capacities to check spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rise-in-covid-cases-raises-concern-lockdown-fears/articleshow/76994414.cms||Sagar Choukse
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: School told to pay disabled teacher Rs 1 lakh for ‘torture’||NEW DELHI: A differently-abled teacher who allegedly faced mental and physical torture during her employment at a Delhi school has been awarded Rs 1 lakh in damages. A Delhi court censured the school for its “callous and heartless approach” at a time when she was pregnant. In 2013, Dr Anuradha Goswami was reportedly made to stand for long hours and teach, only to be unceremoniously terminated later. “She deserves a suitable amount for being made to suffer mental torture, agony and harassment,” said additional district judge Naresh Kumar Laka in his order of July 10. The school and its principal were directed to pay the damages. The court noted that teaching was a noble profession, where teachers ought to be respected and given all sorts of basic facilities. “Providing a chair in the classroom or examination hall and a reliever will not cause any prejudice to the profession of teaching and rather make the atmosphere more suitable for teachers as well as students,” the order stated. Goswami had filed a civil suit against Glory Public School, its principal and a couple of its staffers, claiming Rs 10 lakh in damages. Details submitted in court show that she was holding a PhD in philosophy (Hindi) when she was employed by the school on July 1, 2013. She was initially asked to conduct 34 classes, which she took up, in a week. However, when she got pregnant, she requested some leniency in her work profile. According to her, the school authorities and the principal compelled her to quit services. When Goswami didn’t resign, the school, she claimed, subjected her to harassment by assigning her additional work and allocating her classes on higher floors. The defendants argued that Goswami’s suit wasn’t maintainable as the damages claimed were “exorbitant” and not supported by any documents. The question of terminating her services hardly arose, as her appointment was for a temporary period and could be cancelled at any time, it was contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/school-told-to-pay-disabled-teacher-rs-1l-for-torture/articleshow/77008309.cms||Aamir Khan
July 16, 2020||India||To cut lightning toll, govt eyes sat-based system||NEW DELHI: To better the country’s lightning monitoring system in order to check hundreds of casualties annually, the ministry of earth sciences is in talks with Isro for installing a lightning detector on its upcoming geo satellites. Speaking during a webinar ‘Thunderstorms and Lightning’ on Tuesday, MoES secretary M Rajeevan said, “Like the US and European countries, we want to have a lightning detector in geo satellites. For that, talks have been going on with Isro and the agency has agreed in principle”. Talking to TOI, Isro chairman K Sivan said, “We had already installed a software in two satellites INSAT-3D and INSAT-3DR to assess the lightning potential area on an experimental basis. It’s not a detection system but it’s a software, which is used to assess such thunderstorm events. We are also working on the MoEF’s request and plan to install a lightning detector in an INSAT-4 series satellite. But that is still in a preliminary stage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-cut-lightning-toll-govt-eyes-sat-based-system/articleshow/76989740.cms||Surendra Singh
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Sonu Punjaban convicted in prostitution case in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Geeta Arora alias Sonu Punjaban has been convicted in a case of kidnapping and prostitution of a minor girl by a city court. Punjaban, who once ruled the dark underbelly of flesh trade in Delhi, was arrested in the case in December 2017 by a team led by DCP (Crime Branch), Bhisham Singh. The team relentlessly pursued the case and achieved the conviction in less than three years, an official said. Punjaban is currently in judicial custody in Tihar and the quantum of sentence is yet to be announced. The case pertains to a 16-year-old girl who was trafficked by Punjaban and her gang. Six people, including Punjaban, have been arrested till now. An FIR under sections of rape, kidnap and POCSO Act was registered by family members of the teenager in Najafgarh, following which a hunt was launched to nab Punjaban. Police found that she had five such criminal cases registered against her. Cases under IT Act were also registered against her. The teen in question was repeatedly sold to different places in Delhi, UP and Haryana where she was raped by different men. An officer said that she somehow managed to escape and reached home. However, she was suffering from depression and was in constant fear for her life. Police recorded the teenager’s statement and a team was formed to track down Punjaban. The accused was later arrested from her hideout in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sonu-punjaban-convicted-in-prostitution-case/articleshow/77008304.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Tomato prices go north after supplies dry up||VIJAYAWADA: The soaring prices of vegetables have become cause for concern again. Due to supply shortfall, fine quality ungraded tomatoes are being sold for Rs 38 a kg at Madanapalle market and Rs 46 a kg in rythu bazaars. The retail price of tomato has shot up to Rs 65 a kg. With Covid-19 cases are increasing, people are reluctant to come to the markets. Taking advantage of the situation, retail vegetable sellers and street vendors have doubled the price of vegetables. The price of green chilies touched Rs 60 a kg in open markets while rythu bazaars are selling the same at Rs 30 a kg. “Many middle-class families are struggling. We are afraid of coming out of our houses with many of our neighbors contracting Covid-19. The cost of vegetables and essential commodities doubled after lockdown and government should focus on controlling the prices. Social distancing should be maintained at rythu bazaars,” said K Ravi Kumar, a teacher at a private school. Meanwhile, farmers cultivating okra and tindra are facing a tough time with a sudden fall in price. Okra is being sold at Rs 20/kg in retail markets and wholesale traders are paying only Rs 5 per kilogram. “We had a good crop this year. But the sudden fall in price hit us. Wholesalers were not offering a good price. We are destroying the crop to avoid harvesting costs,” said Mogili Naganna, a farmer from Thotlavalluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tomato-prices-go-north-after-supplies-dry-up/articleshow/76987079.cms||Venu Lanka
July 16, 2020||Kochi||Rise seen in students scoring 90% & above||Kochi: Most of the CBSE schools in Ernakulam have recorded 100% pass in the Class X board examinations and the number of students scoring 90% and above has increased compared to last years. All the seven schools under the Kochi Kendra of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan recorded 100% pass and more than 80% students bagged distinction. Bhavan’s Elamakkara has most number of students (36) securing A1 in all subjects, followed by Bhavan’s Adarsh Vidyalaya (23), BVM Girinagar (20), Bhavan’s Munshi Vidyashram, Thiruvankulam (17), Bhavan’s Varuna Vidyalaya (13), BVM Eroor (10) and Bhavan’s Newsprint Vidyalaya (8). While Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Tripunithura, bagged 114 distinctions and 18 full A1, Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Vaduthala, bagged 120 distinctions and 22 full A1. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Kannamaly, bagged 76 distinctions. When Rajagiri Public School recorded 100% pass with 20 full A1, Rajagiri Christu Jayanthi Public School bagged 100% pass, 175 distinctions and 27 full A1. In Toc H Public School, 148 out of 173 students secured distinction including 17 full A1. Global Public School, Thiruvaniyur, bagged 89 distinctions and 12 full A1. Assisi Vidyanikethan Public School has 137 distinctions and 11 full A1. Greets Public School bagged centum pass with 46 distinctions, which includes two full A1. The Choice School recorded 27 full A1 and Vidyodaya School, Thevakkal, bagged 123 distinctions with 23 full A1. St Peter’s Sr Sec School, Kolencherry, has 13 students with full A1 and Saraswathi Vidyanikethan Public School secured 35 distinctions with 12 full A1. There are 88 distinctions with eight full A1 at Gregorian Public School. Viswajyothi CMI Public School got 134 distinctions and 13 full A1. While Mar Thoma Public School, Edachira, has 49 distinctions and 4 full A1, SBOA Public Sr Sec School bagged 65 distinctions and 3 full A1. The Delta Study Centre secured 29 distinctions with 4 full A1 and Sri Sri Ravishankar Vidya Mandir, Kochi, bagged 29 distinctions with 2 full A1. While Nava Nirman Public School,Vazhakkala, secured 50 distinctions and seven full A1, Rajashree SMM School got 47 distinctions with nine full A1. Kendriya Vidyalaya, INS Dronacharya, bagged eight full A1 and Guardian Angels’ Public School scored 24 distinctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rise-seen-in-students-scoring-90-above/articleshow/76987105.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Goa||Online engg exams to begin from August 3||Panaji: The final year exam for engineering students will be held from August 3 onwards in online mode, Goa University said on Wednesday. GU has said that for students of BE of the academic year 2019-20, the VIII semester-end examination will be held in two sessions in morning and afternoon starting from August 3. “The question papers shall be sent to the students through any of the following modes: Google Classroom, Moodle, email, Whatsapp, etc. The question paper shall be made available to the students at 10am for the morning session and the students shall upload their answersheets by 2pm,” the GU circular reads. For afternoon session, the paper will be made available at 2pm and students have to upload their answersheets by 6pm. “Students shall write down the answers and should sign each and every page with date and then upload the scanned copy/photograph of the answersheets in Pdf format. The college shall retain the soft copies of the uploaded answer sheets for record,” GU has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-engg-exams-to-begin-from-august-3/articleshow/76988815.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Pune||Traders soften stand, keep shutters down||Pune: Shops and markets across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad remained closed on Tuesday, the first day of the 10-day total lockdown, with the traders’ federation softening its stand and agreeing to cooperate with the authorities “one last time”. Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) members said the district authorities, during a meeting on Monday, said he lockdown would not be extended. The federation had objected to the 10-day lockdown and sought the administration’s permission to keep all shops open. After a two-hour meeting with officials from the district administration, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations and police, the FTAP members agreed to cooperate for the lockdown. Through a voice note, FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka appealed to the traders to keep their shutters down. “Offcer on special duty at the divisonal commissioner office/commissionerate Saurabh Rao said he understands our problems but the authorities were forced to announce the lockdown due to the rising Covid-19 cases. During the meeting, he assured us that this will be the last lockdown and it won’t be extended. He said we will not hear even the ‘L’ of the word ‘lockdown’ again,” Ranka said. Rao, however, told TOI that he has not given any such assurances to the traders. “I cannot make such an assurance simply because I am not the appropriate authority to make any such commitment. It is for the state government to take a decision on the lockdown. We met the traders on Monday and requested them to cooperate with us for the 10-day lockdown. We told them that they have cooperated with us so far and that their support was solicited for this lockdown too,” Rao said. In a 14-minute-long voice note, Ranka said the FTAP has informed the officials that the traders would not cooperate with the authorities if any lockdown was announced after July 19. “We questioned them on the need for announcing a lockdown after the state government launchedthe ‘Mission Begin Again. We also asked them whether they think that the traders are causing or spreading Covid-19,” he said. Ranka said the traders were incurring heavy losses since the lockdown was imposed following the outbreak of Covid-19. “The government employees get salaries, albeit with some deductions. But no one is going to pay for the traders’ losses. We are paying full salaries to employees.” Ranka, however, appealed to the trader members to follow all guidelines, once the relaxations were granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-soften-stand-keep-shutters-down/articleshow/76968339.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 16, 2020||Bareilly||Victim of July 4 bludgeoning dies, cops add homicide to FIR against 3 accused, search on||Pilibhit: Cops at Neuria police station on Wednesday added Section 304 (culpable homicide) of IPC to the FIR against three people from village Neuria Colony, which was registered on July 5. The three accused had allegedly bludgeoned a 33-year-old villager, Gautam Mandal, of the same village, on the night of July 4, after barging into his house. The attack had left Mandal with critical spinal and other orthopedic injuries. He was first taken to Pilibhit district government hospital, from where he was referred to a private hospital in Bareilly, where he died in the ICU on Monday night. The July 5 FIR had been lodged against Madhav Mandal, his brother Kishor and their colleague Prabhash, under appropriate IPC sections. Neuria SHO Kheem Singh Jalal said police added Section 304 to the FIR soon after they received the victim’s autopsy report on Wednesday, adding that the accused will be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/victim-of-july-4-bludgeoning-dies-cops-add-homicide-to-fir-against-3-accused-search-on/articleshow/76985932.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpurians wake up to overflowing Ambazari Lake and waterlogged streets||Nagpur: An overflowing Ambazari Lake has become a benchmark of sorts for heavy rainfall in the city. On Wednesday, Nagpurians woke up to flooded streets after a heavy overnight rainfall which caused waterlogging in several low-lying areas of the city and an overflowing Ambazari Lake. Firemen rescued a senior citizen from drowning in a nullah in north Nagpur. Two trees were also uprooted due to the rain. Sources said the lake usually overflows in August-September every year and last overflowed on September 16, 2019. On Wednesday, the lake started overflowing early morning when the water crossed the overflow point of 31m. Every monsoon, the Ambazari Lake overflow point turns into a picnic spot when the lake water spills over. An otherwise buzzing overflow point wore a relatively desolate look with many preferring to stay indoors this year due to the coronavirus scare. Similarly, the Gorewada reservoir too was alarmingly filled close to the brim. The lake’s overflow height is 315.65m. According to sources in OCW, the water level has already crossed 313.69m, which is 1.96m below the overflow point. Due to Tuesday night’s heavy downpour around lake’s catchment area there is an increase of 74m water level in the lake. The fire department rescued 67-year-old Murli Kotangale, a resident of Siddarth Nagar who fell in an open nullah near Powergrid Colony in North Nagpur. Kotangale fell down while he was returning home on Tuesday night. He lost balance and fell down. On hearing his screams, residents informed corporator Manoj Sangole who along with fire department officials from nearby Sugat Nagar station reached the spot and rescued the senior citizen. Along with firemen from nine fire stations, emergency teams from 10 zonal officials were on their toes attending calls of water gushing into homes in several low lying areas. Waterlogging was reported in Prasad Nagar, Jaitala, Samta Nagar and many other areas in north, east, west and south Nagpur. Even underbridges including Mankapur, Narendra Nagar, Mahedibagh and Kamptee road were flooded with knee deep water disrupting smooth movement of vehicular traffic. Trees were uprooted in Babadeep Singh Nagar, near busy Krida Chowk in Hanuman Nagar and another in front of Hotel Centre Point on Central Bazaar road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurians-wake-up-to-overflowing-ambazari-lake-and-waterlogged-streets/articleshow/76988193.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Rein in pvt hosps looting Covid patients: Cong to guv||Hyderabad: The Congress on Wednesday sought the intervention of governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to stop private hospitals from charging exorbitant rates for treatment of Covid-19 patients. All India Congress Committee (AICC) member and TPCC general secretary MA Faheem urged the governor to ensure that private hospitals should display in public domain the number of available beds and the cost of coronavirus treatment. In a letter to the governor, Faheem said the governor should use her good offices to ensure that the state government should bear the cost of treatment of the poor and middle class people affected by coronavirus in private hospitals. “Covid-19 treatment should also be taken up in all the local area hospitals, constituency, mandal and town headquarters. This would be an effective way to check the further spread of coronavirus,” he said. Thanking the Governor for holding a meeting with the chief secretary to discuss measures taken to combat coronavirus spread, he said it has instilled much needed confidence among people in these trying circumstances that they have a platform in the form of the Governor’s office to raise their concerns and submit their grievances. Referring to the statement made by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in the Assembly that every Covid-19 patient would be treated by the government, Faheem said the TRS government has failed to do so. The coronavirus situation has reached alarming levels in Telangana especially Greater Hyderabad. The poor and middle class people are scared to go for treatment to government hospitals. The state government has failed to rein in the private hospitals which are charging exorbitant amounts for covid-19 treatment. A majority of poor and middle class people have either lost employment or have not got salaries, and are not in a position to afford expensive treatment, Faheem said. In such a situation, please intervene and ensure that private hospitals are made accountable and offer treatment to COVID-19 patients at a reasonable price. Your timely intervention may save a large number of lives,” he added. Ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rein-in-pvt-hosps-looting-covid-patients-cong-to-guv/articleshow/76988184.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Goa||In a first, online admissions to first year begin||Panaji: On Wednesday, admissions to first year general stream degree programmes began online through a centralised portal of the directorate of higher education (DHE). This is the very first time centralised admissions are taking place to colleges across Goa, launched in view of the pandemic. With the Class XII state board results declared around 15 days ago, students were eager to begin the admission process. Though the admission is taking place in a centralised manner, colleges were flooded with calls from students with different queries while filling the admission forms. Students reported facing some glitches during the online admission process, feedback of which was provided by students and colleges to the DHE. By afternoon, many of the technical issues were fixed. “The online admission process is on till July 23 and this is only the first round of admissions. There will be a second, third, fourth or more rounds later. There is no need for students to panic. Any issues that are there are being fixed in the shortest time possible,” said director of higher education Prasad Lolayekar. Colleges were seen assisting students from villages which act as feeder areas for their institutes. Some institute heads of rural colleges even filled up the forms themselves based on requests from students. “Colleges had already made their prospectus available online immediately after the Class XII results were announced. I knew which college I wanted to join and I had done my background research on the subject combinations I want. That made the admission process easier for me. Only at the end of completing the process, the portal simply said ‘process is complete’. If students would get a confirmation email too, we could keep the record with us,” said a student. Some students said that the photographs to be uploaded had to be a certain size for which they needed external help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-online-admissions-to-first-year-begin/articleshow/76988813.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Sikh body slams banned Khalistan outfit over ‘referendum’||NEW DELHI: The US-based pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), which is a banned outfit, has asked Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee to facilitate the registration of Sikh voters at two city-based gurdwaras for a referendum in November on the secession of Punjab from India. A large number of Sikhs in Delhi and many journalists have been receiving calls from US-based numbers playing a prerecorded message of SFJ’s legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannun giving the details of the voter registration process and urging them to make “Referendum 2020” successful. On Thursday, DSGMC passed a resolution saying it had nothing to do with “Referendum 2020” and it “ opposed” the propaganda. “SFJ on social media has given the impression that DSGMC is supporting Referendum 2020, which is objectionable. We are a religious body and have nothing to do with it,” the resolution read. JAGO, a political outfit led by former DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK, protested outside Pakistan high commission alleging that it was the instigator of Khalistan movement. Later, Gopal Chawla, a Khalistani activist, issued a video statement threatening GK for leading the protest. “SFJ is trying to create communal disturbance in the country. They have the backing of Pakistan spy agency ISI, which is instigating the Khalistan and Referendum 2020 movement in Delhi,” said Manjit Singh GK. Pannun was declared a terrorist along with eight others under the UAPA. In a statement, the MHA had said these individuals were involved in acts of terrorism from foreign soil and trying to revive militancy in Punjab. Indian World Forum, an organisation working to promote art, culture and commerce among the country’s diaspora, also sent a complaint to Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava against a 44-second video appeal by Pannun to hold a voter registration camp at the two gurdwaras on Sunday. In his letter to police, Indian World Forum secretary general Puneet Singh Chandhok said, “Pannun has appealed to all Indians, in particular the Sikhs, to overthrow the Indian administration in Delhi and liberate the state of Punjab from Indian occupation by virtue of promoting Khalistan and Referendum 2020 and holding voter registration camps on July 19 at Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib and Gurdwara Bangla Sahib.” Manjinder Sirsa, DSGMC president, said his organisation was opposed to any such attempt of dividing the country. “SFJ are misleading Sikhs and the youth of the country. We are very clear on our stand. We are not associated with any movement that talks about breaking the country,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sikh-body-slams-banned-khalistan-outfit-over-referendum/articleshow/77008322.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Rajkot||Fish exporters wary of Covid-19 traces||RAJKOT: The fish exporters of Gujarat are apprehensive about their future trade prospects with China following detection of Covid-19 traces in a frozen fish consignment from Ecuador that landed in the neighbouring country recently. Following this China has suspended import from few companies of Ecuador. To ensure that Gujarat exporters don’t face similar situation, the All India Sea Food Exporters Association (AISFEA) has approached Marin Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) urging them to issue guidelines for fish exports before Beijing takes any adverse step against Indian exporters. Every year frozen fish worth Rs 5,000 crore is exported from Veraval out of which China’s share is around Rs 3,000 crore. Jagdish Fofandi president of AISFEA told TOI, “If any traces of Covid-19 are found in our packaging China will reject the cargo and other countries will also follow the same. So, we have asked MPEDA to issue guidelines regarding this.” A Veraval-based exporter Thomas Kenny said, “China is checking coronavirus traces on packaging however it’s not proved yet that frozen fish is able to carry the pathogen. However if this suspicion spreads we are unsure how the new season of fishing in India will start from August.” B G Chudasama head of department of harvest and post harvest technology of College of Fisheries set up by Junagadh Agriculture University (JAU) said, “There is very less possibility that the virus can survive in frozen fish. But even if these are rumours it can have big impact on fishing industry in Veraval.” The fish exporters and fishermen are already reeling under recession since because of excessive rain last year followed by the conoravirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/firsh-exporters-wary-of-covid-19-traces/articleshow/76988227.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Youths bridge gap between fear and fact||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to present only facts about the pandemic, a group of enthusiastic youths, mainly students of various educational institutions, have started a website www.CovidWire.in. Five of the 70 contributors are from Vijayawada and Mangalagiri. Active participants of the website said the spread of unverified forward messages across social media platforms drove them to start a website to give authentic data and facts about the pandemic.  “During the initial days of the pandemic, we felt that a lot of crucial data and information remain in complex and inaccessible formats for a large section of the Indian public, creating a gap between those who can access and consume this information and those who cannot. With CovidWire, we aim to bridge this gap,” Sarigama Yerra, a research scholar at IIIT Hyderabad, from Vijayawada. The website has around 80 active members, including researchers, architecture students, housewives, doctors, lawyers, data analysts and designers. — Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/youths-bridge-gap-between-fear-and-fact/articleshow/76987123.cms||Venu Lanka
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat doctor accused of rape, held||AHMEDABAD: A journalist lodged a complaint of rape against an orthopadic surgeon, Dr Kanu Patel of Gujarat Hospital in Vastral. Based on the complaint, Women’s police station (East) detained him on Tuesday and sent him for a pre-arrest Covid test. The woman stated in the FIR that 27 days ago she had gone to Dr Kanu Patel at Gujarat Hospital Vastral. “Patel told her he would take her to a good psychiatrist and took her to a hotel,” said a police source. The complainant alleged that the other doctor, who was to treat her for psychiatric troubles, did not turn up. “The complainant alleged that Dr Kanu Patel raped her there,” said a police official. The victim approached ACP Mini Joseph of the women’s cell and told her what had happened to her. “We have registered an FIR for rape and have detained Dr Kanu Patel, a resident of Vrindavan Palm on Vastral Ring Road,” Joseph said. Police sources said they have taken the statement of the doctor, who has denied the charge. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-accused-of-rape-held/articleshow/76988191.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Goa||Girls top CBSE Class X exams, Priyanka hits 99%, Juliet 98.6%||Panaji: A student of Navy Children’s School, Chicalim, Priyanka Singh, had among the topmost scores in the state at the Class X results of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared on Wednesday. Priyanka scored 99%, leaving even herself pleasantly surprised. “I was expecting may be 95%, but I scored 99%,” said a joyous Priyanka, whose dream is to become a doctor. Priyanka’s father Manoj Kumar Singh is in the Navy, while her mother Lalita is a homemaker. “She was working very hard and we were expecting her to do well. But she did better than we expected. We knew she would score 92% or more. But she scored 99%. We are very happy, she has made me proud,” said her father Manoj. He said Priyanka’s next aim is to appear for the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) after her Class XII and get a score which will enable her to get into one of the topmost medical colleges in India. “Our school result is excellent. Priyanka has scored a full 100 in mathematics and science and 99 in English and Hindi, 97 in social studies,” said her school principal Anupama Mehra. At the Class X CBSE results declared on Wednesday, girls outperformed boys. Besides Priyanka, some of other best scorers from the state were also girls. Juliet Varghese from King’s School, Margao, secured 98.6%. Similarly, Ojaswi Phaldesai from Vidya Vikas Academy, Margao, topped her school with 98.40%. Janhavi Vivek Walke from Kendriya Vidyalaya INS Mandovi, Verem, also had a score as high as 98.2%. The Class X exam was cleared by 99.4% girls from Goa, as compared to 97.7% boys. At the Class X CBSE results declared on Wednesday, girls outperformed boys. Juliet Varghese ( L) from King’s School, Margao, secured 98.6%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/girls-top-cbse-class-x-exams-priyanka-hits-99-juliet-98-6/articleshow/76988817.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Goa||Mhadei: SC says OK to physical hearing||Keri: In the cases filed by Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka in the Mhadei water dispute matter, the Supreme Court on Wednesday has agreed for physical hearing, and adjourned the case to August 24 for fixing further date of hearing. The apex court had scheduled for a virtual hearing on July 15. When the hearing began on Wednesday before the bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, Justice Indu Malhotra and Justice K M Joseph, the senior counsel representing Goainsisted on conducting a physical hearing as the bench has to thoroughly peruse a number of documents. Earlier, the Goa government in a letter written on July 11 had requested the court for a physical hearing rather than virtual in the Mhadei matter. When TOI contacted advocate general Devidas Pangam, he said, “Today, the court has adjourned to fix the further date of hearing. We have requested for the physical hearing since the matter involved is regarding the special leave petitions filed by the three states for the enhancement of the allocation of water of the Kalasa-Bhandura nullahs.” Karnataka has filed a counter affidavit to the special leave petition filed by Goa on September 19, 2019. It has challenged Goa's assessment of the water availability of the Mhadei basin and requirement of water for maintaining environmental flow. The three states have challenged the award given by Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal on August 14, 2018 pertaining to the allocation of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mhadei-sc-says-ok-to-physical-hearing/articleshow/76988818.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Environmental clearance not must at demolition stage: Telangana govt to HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed both the state and central governments to clarify whether a prior environmental clearance (EC) was obtained for clearing or preparing the ground for taking up a huge construction project such as the new secretariat complex. It also said a new project like the secretariat may require a prior EC. The state government counsel, however, said no EC was required at this stage as only demolition works were being taken up at the old secretariar complex. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave them a day’s time to file a reply and posted the case to Thursday for further hearing of a PIL filed by prof. PL Vishweshwar Rao of Telangana Jana Samithi and Cheruku Sudhakar of Telangana Inti Party, challenging the demolition of the old secretariat building.  The state-level authority, constituted by the Centre, gets the impact of construction of the new complex assessed by its experts before taking a decision on the state government’s application. The judges sought to know from AG BS Prasad whether any such exercise was undertaken by the government. The AG replied that the government was of the opinion that only clearance from the local authorities was required now that only demolition of the blocks was taken up. “The mandate of the rules is to dispose of the construction and demolition waste in a responsible manner and we are following that. We will think of relevant rules pertaining to the new construction when we reach that stage. We are still at the stage of clearing the ground and this needs no EC,” the AG said. He further said: “We are merely securing the land.” At this point, the judges, however, told the AG that securing the land meant buying it. “That is not the case here. The words ‘securing the land,’ used in the rules do not apply in the current context,” the judges said. “We are at the stage of preparing the ground for a new project, which is the first step, and hence may need a prior EC,” the judges said. They asked assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao to ascertain from the Centre the stand of the MoEF on the matter. Petitioners’ counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar said the Centre had issued a notification in 2006 for constituting the SEIAA and a prior clearance was a must from the authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ec-not-must-at-demolition-stage-govt-to-hc/articleshow/76988199.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Goa||Cabinet okays changes toID, contract labour acts||Panaji: The cabinet on Wednesday gave the approval for two amendments to be moved during the coming state legislative assembly session which would bring in labour reforms and reduce compliances for the industrial sector. The cabinet has assented to amending the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 and the Industrial Disputes (ID) Act, 1947. The Union ministry of Labour has emphasized on the need to bring in labour reforms, especially the amendment in both these acts. The Goa government has already passed ordinances to implement the reforms. By amending the Contract Labour Act, industrial units and contractors employing up to 50 workers will no longer need to register or obtain a licence while hiring contract labour. The amendment increased the limit from the existing 20 workers to 50 workmen. The amendment also permits compounding of offences so that disagreements can be settled out of the court with the government acting as a mediator. The cleared Industrial Disputes Act amendment bill will give workers just a year to lodge a complaint about industrial disputes, from the present three-year time limit. The amendment also enhances retrenchment compensation and closure compensation by increasing it from 15 days per year of service to 45 days for each year of service rendered. Many states have already brought the relevant amendments suggested by the Centre to improve ease of doing business for the private sector. A new section 36C will be introduced in the Industrial Disputes Act which will give the state the power to exempt new industries from provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. “This will help more industries to set up in the state,” said the cabinet note. The finance and law departments have vetted the amendments and have cleared the moves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-okays-changes-toid-contract-labour-acts/articleshow/76988819.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Secretariat demolition: Disposal of debris a new worry for govt||HYDERABAD: With over 10 lakh tonnes of debris expected to be generated from the demolition of the old secretariat buildings, the state government is looking at various methods for disposal of the construction and demolition waste. The government has reportedly consulted an agency that has experience in disposing of the waste. Senior officials of the roads and buildings department reportedly proposed that a part of the debris could be utilised to level the entire 25-acre land since part of the land parcel is uneven, especially towards blocks that were earlier held by AP. The government is also scouting for a suitable land and pits for dumping the debris outside Hyderabad. Currently, the entire debris is being dumped on the same secretariat premises. Of the 10 blocks in the secretariat apart from the stone building, two mosques and a temple, the R&B department has completed about 80% demolition of G,C,D and H blocks. The stone building was completely pulled down. Officials said despite having over one crore population, the city does not have proper construction and demolition (C&D) plants. The GHMC had proposed two plants for disposal and recycling of C&D waste. One plant was proposed at Fatullaguda and another at Jeedimetla. But only the Jeedimetla plant is functional, which can recycle 500 tonnes of waste a day. “To dispose of the debris, Rs 366 per tonne is charged by the plant contractor. If anyone gets the waste to the plant directly, Rs 91 will be charged for recycling it. But, the government has not approached the plant yet,” a GHMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disposal-of-debris-a-new-worry-for-govt/articleshow/76988214.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 16, 2020||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal lauds Delhi model, but says fight far from over||NEW DELHI: Though Delhi was now better placed in terms of active Covid-19 cases compared with June, the battle against the novel coronavirus was far from over. This was stated on Wednesday by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who also applauded the support of the Centre and non-government and private organisations. He added that Delhi government would have “failed” if it had fought the battle alone. Kejriwal reiterated that there was no scope of being complacent and the viral infection could surge again if basic rules of social distancing, wearing face masks and frequently sanitising hands were not followed. Based on the formula given by the Centre, Kejriwal said his government had estimated 2.25 lakh cases of Covid-19 by July 15, including the 1.34 lakh active ones, and a requirement of 34,000 hospital beds. However, currently there were just 18,600 active cases with only 4,100 patients requiring hospitalisation. “This happened because of the three principles of Delhi government — teamwork and collective effort, correcting lapses when pointed out, and not losing hope,” said Kejriwal, adding that the “Delhi Model” was recently praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Elaborating upon the “Delhi Model” and the three principles, Kejriwal said his government took support of the Centre, other organisations and all political parties. Thanking BJP and Congress for their cooperation, the CM said his government realised that the fight against the pandemic could not be won alone. Explaining the second principle, Kejriwal said his government never denounced critics for their views and improved things after somebody flagged loopholes in the system. “The third principle was that we did not accept defeat. Had we accepted defeat, there would have been a surge in the numbers of deaths,” he added. “The city’s largest Covid-19 hospital with 2,000 beds, Lok Nayak, came under severe criticism in June. We worked on all the mistakes being pointed out and corrected them. The hospital is now being appreciated by everyone,” Kejriwal said. The CM added that aggressive testing, adequate health infrastructure, home isolation and convalescent plasma therapy helped improve the situation. The government scaled up testing from 5,000 to 23,000 per day. It was because of the home isolation policy that people came forward in large numbers to undergo tests. “In other states, Covid-positive patients are sent to hospitals and quarantined. Probably that’s why people fear to come out and get themselves tested. We introduced home isolation where people could easily recover in the comfort of their homes,” Kejriwal said. Currently, there are 15,500 beds for coronavirus patients, while the number of ICU beds have increased from 300 on June 1 to 2,100 on July 15. Of these, about 1,000 are still unoccupied. “The situation is under control, but we will continue our efforts to fight the virus. The death rate has reduced from 100 in the first week of June to 35 now. We have to reduce the deaths further. Earlier, ambulances took two hours to arrive, but their response time has reduced to half an hour today,” said Kejriwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-lauds-delhi-model-but-says-fight-far-from-over/articleshow/76988218.cms||Atul Mathur
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad gets 18mm of rain in one hour||AHMEDABAD: Heavy rains lashed several part of the city late on Wednesday evening. Between 7pm and 8pm, the city received an average 17.70mm of rain with Gota and Bodakdev receiving more than 25mm. The rains continued into the night. The AMC control room said that almost all parts of the city received rainfall between 7pm and 8pm. Officials said that in the 14 hours ending at 8am on Wednesday, the city received 18.26mm of rain, which 17.70mm was received in the last hour. The city reported waterlogging at some places, such as at Manav Mandir Crossroads and AEC Crossroads. The city has received 325.68mm or 40% of its average annual rainfall of 798mm so far this monsoon. The weathermen have forecast rains or thundershowers for Thursday. The maximum temperature on Wednesday was 35.8 degrees celsius which was 2.5 degrees above normal while the minimum temperature was 27.8 degrees celsius, 1.9 degrees above normal. Officials said that since the rate of flow from the Narmada canal into the Sabarmati was 827 cusecs, irrigation authorities opened gates 23 and 24 and released 1,432 cusecs downstream with 815 cusecs going to the Fatehwadi canal. Officials said as the intensity of the rain reduced after 8pm, the waterlogging cleared in the next hour. Officials said that the AMC control room did not receive any complaint of waterlogging or fallen trees from any part of the city. Officials said according to IMD officials, the city and district have had more rainfall than normal so far this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-gets-18mm-of-rain-in-one-hour/articleshow/76988212.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Trichy||Corpn staff test Covid positive, employees seek closure of office||Trichy: After a few employees of Trichy corporation in the civic body’s main office tested positive for Covid-19, the office staff have sought the closure of the office situated on Bharathidasan Road for a few days to disinfect the campus. Six office staff, who do not attend fieldwork, testing positive in a week has evoked a safety concern among other employees. On July 10, two junior assistants working in the general section of Trichy Corporation tested positive. Subsequently, 30 of their colleagues gave their swabs at various urban primary health centres (UPHCs) for RT-PCR test. Of them, a junior assistant in the same department tested positive on July 14. On Wednesday, two office staffs in the general section and one employee in the engineering section also tested positive, indicating the spread of Covid-19 in the main office. Though one of the office staff who tested positive on Wednesday gave his swab on July 10, he continued to work at the main office until the test result came. Similarly, one of the women tested positive in the main office was involved in the task to hand over documents and letters to various departments within the office. The woman showed Covid-19 symptoms for the past few days. One of the three Covid-19 positive office employees was screening the visitors entering the main office. “We feel uneasy to go to office after knowing six of our colleagues have tested positive. The office can be closed for two days to initiate complete disinfection,” an employee said. Even commercial establishments do close once their staff tests positive. “The employees might have visited other places for personal work, where they might have contracted the infection,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-staff-test-covid-positive-employees-seek-closure-of-office/articleshow/76988832.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 16, 2020||Goa||Approval for land conversion fee hike, new categories||Panaji: The cabinet on Wednesday gave its consent to the proposal for increasing land conversion fees, as provided under the land revenue code. It also approved the inclusion of new categories of land use, for which the appropriate conversion fees have been proposed. In his budget speech for 2020-21, chief minister Pramod Sawant had proposed a fee hike under the land revenue code. This fee was last revised in 2016. The revenue department has also proposed the rationalization of categories of land on which conversion fees will be charged. Complying with the budget proposal, an official said the department proposed a hike in the conversion fees as well as included new categories of land use The law department, while vetting the new fees, told the government that the new land categories shall be included by carrying out an amendment to section 32 of the land revenue code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/approval-for-land-conversion-fee-hike-new-categories/articleshow/76988826.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana inches closer to 40,000 Covid-19 cases, sees 11 new deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana health authorities on Wednesday announced a WhatsApp number for people to lodge grievances against private hospitals and labs, even as the state registered 11 deaths and 1,597 new cases of Covid-19. With the latest numbers, the total count of novel coronavirus cases now stands at 39,347 and the death toll at 386. So far, 25,999 patients have been discharged from hospitals. In another development, the drug control administration on Wednesday issued instructions to wholesale and retail medical shops keep adequate stocks antibiotics, paracetamol, multivitamins, and oseltamivir among others for home isolation patients. “Those sent to home isolation rely on medical stores and these be stored in stores as a precautionary measure in the wake of the escalation of Covid-19 outbreak and increasing number of patients, day by day,” an official statement from the DCA read. A state-level advisory board has approved tablet favipiravir for mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 while injections remdesivir and tocilizumab have been approved for severe cases and patients on ventilator support. Among districts, Ranga Reddy, Medchal, and Nizamabad saw a continued surge. Four persons have died of Covid19 in Nizamabad district in the state on Wednesday taking the toll to 14 in the district so far. Nizamabad district medical and health officer Dr M Sudarshanam urged people to take measures to prevent the spread of Covid19. He also urged that no functions and gatherings should be held. “There should be voluntary adherence to lockdown norms,” he said. Govt grievance redressal number: 9154170960||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-inches-closer-to-40k-cases-sees-11-new-deaths/articleshow/76988196.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||New Airport police station dome develops hole||Ahmedabad: Earlier, it used to be difficult for airport passengers to contact the police as it came under the jurisdiction of Sadarnagar police station which was far from the airport. Hence, a new police station was built about four years ago in the airport premises. In this police station a fibre dome was set up to build the inspector’s cabin and investigation room, and some portions were also built of concrete. But the first rain in the city has left the airport police station drenched as one dome developed a big hole. Sources said sometimes during rain the police officials there have to get away from their chairs to find shelter. “The station needs urgent repairs,” said a police official. “ Sometime even the complainants who come there have to struggle to find a shed to stand under,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-airport-police-station-dome-develops-hole/articleshow/76988231.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Non-Covid patients’ treatment takes a hit||AMARAVATI: Non-covid-19 patients are struggling to get medical aid in many government hospitals. There have been instances of patients coming to government hospitals — from primary health centres (PHC) to the Government General Hospital (GGH) — and being turned away. Except in a few specialties, many government hospitals are not admitting non-Covid-19 patients. With private hospitals too reluctant to admit patients, people with conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, orthopedic are struggling to get help. For instance, GGH, Guntur has been divided into two separate blocks. While the old block has been turned into a Covid-19 care centre, the super-specialty block has been converted into a non-Covid-19 hospital. All patients coming for services in the non-Covid block are also being asked to undergo screening for Covid-19. The Covid-19 testing counter was set up in the super-specialty wing which was supposed to extend services to non-Covid-19 patients. “With the Covid-19 positive cases are going up by each day, we are advising people to get tested for Covid-19 before getting help for other ailments because getting treatment for Covid-19 is important if tested positive,” said a senior general physician. However, patients from remote places in the district to the GGHs are being made to return without receiving medical assistance. “My child has been suffering from fits and diarrhoea for the last three days. The doctors at PHC referred him to GGH. With no help here, I have rushed to a private hospital,” said Nageswaramma, mother of three-year old from Rentachintala in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/non-covid-patients-treatment-takes-a-hit/articleshow/76987198.cms||Samdani MN
July 16, 2020||Goa||Amendment to panchayat rules approved||Panaji: The state government at a cabinet meeting on Wednesday approved the amendment to the Goa Panchayat (gram sabha meeting) Rules, 2020. The amended rule 17 entails that a brief record of the proceedings of every meeting of the gram sabha shall be kept in Hindi, English, Konkani and Marathi in a bound book. Besides, a copy of the proceedings shall be sent to the block development officer concerned within seven days from the date of the meeting. Under the old Goa Panchayat (gram sabha meeting) Rules, there is a provision to send the copy of the proceedings to the director of panchayat within seven days from the date of the meeting. There are 191 panchayats in the state and the work load of the panchayats has increased three-fold times due to economic development and implementation of various schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amendment-to-panchayat-rules-approved/articleshow/76988828.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Antigen testing in rural areas surge amid rise in cases||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district registered 152 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, including 62 from the rural areas and 90 from the city limits, taking the total number of cases to 9,228. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the rural areas registered 134 cases while the city reported 115. At present, the district has 3,505 active Covid cases. Aurangabad zilla parishad CEO Mangesh Gondavale said that antigen tests, among other things, will be implemented across the district. “We have started antigen test in three talukas since the beginning of the current lockdown. These tests will be carried out in all talukas of Aurangabad district soon. We have supplied 500 kits for antigen test for every taluka,” Gondavale said. On the other hand, ZP authorities said that the lockdown in Aurangabad city has brought down the total number of cases which were proportionate with the new cases in rural areas. Downplaying the fears associated with surge in new confirmed cases, Gondavale said that the rural parts of the district had only 809 active cases by the end of Tuesday. “There is sufficient availability of beds in rural parts of the district with only around 32% beds being occupied so far. There is no need of any panic or fear,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/antigen-testing-in-rural-areas-surge-amid-rise-in-cases/articleshow/76985965.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Shutters down at wholesale markets in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Wholesale markets in the city have been closed till further notice, in view of the continued rise in Covid-19 cases. Krishna district reported 108 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Of the 2,852 cases, 1,960 have been discharged so far while 807 cases are under treatment. The death toll stands at 85. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and city police closed Rajiv Gandhi wholesale market, Gollapudi grocery market, Iron yard and Main bazaar at One Town, among other markets, amid fears that sellers and customers might be prone to contracting the virus. Residents welcomed the decision, stating, “Covid-19 cases are increasing every day. In spite of this, people have been ignoring social distancing in public places and at markets. It is better to close down the markets at such a time. This can control the spread of the virus,” said Donepudi Shankar, city secretary of the CPI. Meanwhile, the closure of wholesale markets has retail traders worried about shortage of stocks and the district administration has been requested to permit bulk sales. “Most of the retailers in the city don’t have proper godowns and buy stocks regularly from wholesale markets. Closing these markets for a long time will causea shortage of stocks and affect sales,” said G Karthik, who runs a retail store at Durgapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shutters-down-at-wholesale-markets/articleshow/76987252.cms||Venu Lanka
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Cab unions hike fare, West Bengal says illegal move may attract penalty||KOLKATA: Taxi operators in the city on Wednesday declared unilateral fare revision from August 1, demanding passengers will have to pay Rs 50 for the first 2 km and for every subsequent kilometre, the charge will be Rs 25. The current approved fare is Rs 30 for the first 2 km and Rs 15 for every subsequent km. Calling the move absurd, the transport department said if passengers were charged the “revised” rates, it might attract heavy penalty for permit violation. “The fare cannot be unilaterally decided by taxi operators. Fare revision falls under the purview of the government. Private operators can never decide fare on their own. Government decides fare revision after assessing a lot of factors, including affordability of commuters. If taxi fare become unaffordable, the trade will suffer a bigger crisis. Government thus strikes a balance and help the survival of trade as well,” said a transport department official. But taxi operators claimed their were “forced to do this as the government remained unresponsive”. “The diesel price has been increasing. Operation costs have also gone up manifold because of a spike in insurance, road tax, permit fees, CF fees. We wrote to the transport minister and the principal secretary of transport several times, demanding fare revision. As we received no response, we decided to revise fare,” said Bimal Guha., president of Bengal Taxi Association (BTA) in presence of two more associations, Calcutta Taxi Association and West Bengal Drivers Welfare Association. According to them, most cab operators charged more than metered fare. “Some are fleecing commuters, and we don’t want that. A formalisation is needed. No cabby can charge above what we fixed on Wednesday,” said Sanjb Roy of BTA. Pointed out permit violation, taxi operators said motor vehicle inspectors and police can penalise a driver if a passenger lodges a complaint. “We are requesting commuters to pay us revised fare and in many cases, they give more ,” said a taxi operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cab-unions-hike-fare-state-says-illegal-move-may-attract-penalty/articleshow/76988234.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Rapid antigen tests could be a game changer for Vid||Nagpur: Since some of the districts in Vidarbha started using rapid antigen tests, there has been a spike in positive patients, adding to the region’s count too. But experts told TOI that this could prove to be a long term game-changer policy in management of Covid-19.Vidarbha region recorded 1401 Covid-19 cases between June 25 and July 5 (10 days) when widespread use of Rapid antigen tests was not in practice. From July 6 to July 15 (next 10 days) – many districts, especially – Buldhana, Washim, Amravati and Yavatmal – started use of these tests. Number of cases reported in this period surged to 2440 – nearly double.“As per our policy, we are ensuring ‘more tests’ with the use of rapid antigen test kits. But mere increase in number of tests is not the only benefit,” said Dr Shrikant Shinde, expert on community medicine. “Rapid antigen test is point-of-care test. Means, it can be conducted where the patients are present right there in the field. So, they ensure early detection of infection and quick containment,” said Dr Shinde. In fact, districts like Buldhana, Akola, Amravati and Washim are conducting rapid antigen tests at various tehsil and villages. Hence, patients are being reported at an early stage from these villages. Detection of Covid-19 patients at asymptomatic or mild symptomatic stage ensures better treatment and recovery. Contact tracing of such patients also becomes easy.The surge in number of cases may be more due to the effective use of Rapid antigen tests, but most of these patients are asymptomatic and have all chances of recovery. Case fatality rate can be controlled effectively in next week or two. In fact, fatality rate of Vidarbha has already started moving downwards. It was 3.28% on July 1 and 2.80% on July 15.In Washim, the district administration has launched a WhatsApp number and appealed to residents to come forward and get tested. Many residents having travel or contact history or having symptoms appeared for the tests. As rapid antigen test results are given within an hour, they got results immediately.“Four such residents have tested positive in Washim. They are under treatment now. It’s good that we got these patients at early stage,” said district collector Hrishikesh Modak. Reporting early is the key for better treatment and early recovery, he said.In Akola too, many patients reported to the GMCH in critical condition and hence deaths were more, said resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse. “We are also doing rapid antigen tests in rural parts of the district now,” he added.The number of cases in Vidarbha are still less than the projected figure. So, more rapid tests can bring better containment of Covid-19 in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rapid-antigen-tests-could-be-a-game-changer-for-vid/articleshow/76987178.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Town Hall roof overhang collapses||Ahmedabad: A portion of the concrete overhang of the roof of the town hall near Ellisbridge collapsed on Wednesday. No one was injured in the incident. Officials said the town hall was recently given a facelift, but the structure was not repaired. On Wednesday, the overhang on the side of the main gate collapsed. The officials said the area was barricaded. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said he was unaware about how this happened. “This is technical issue and I am not aware of how it happened.” Officials said that in 2017, soon after the hall was renovated, water leaked from the ceiling and there was an uproar. The contractor was told to carry out repairs. A senior officer said that the AMC should inquire into what repairs were done and if this was covered under that, he should be made to redo the repairs and a penalty should also be imposed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/town-hall-roof-overhang-collapses/articleshow/76988240.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Just 3.6% who tested negative via antigen referred to RT-PCR in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Between June 30 and July 9, a total of 1,20,660 rapid antigen tests were conducted in Delhi out of which 1,13,062 people tested negative for the novel coronavirus. Among them, only 4,055 persons (3.59%) were tested using RT-PCR, which is considered the gold standard for Covid-19 testing. “Not all persons testing negative for Covid-19 through rapid antigen tests are required to be referred for RT-PCR tests. Only those persons who carry symptoms but test negative for the coronavirus through rapid antigen tests are administered RT-PCR tests to make early detection of the infection. This is done to prevent the infection from spreading to other persons,” said an official adding that all such symptomatic persons have been tested. According to official data accessed by TOI, only 7,598 persons tested through rapid antigen kits were found positive and they were shifted into either home isolation, or to government facilities. On June 23, Indian Council for Medical Research had advised all concerned “to ensure that all symptomatic negative patients should be essentially referred to a real-time RT-PCR test for Covid-19.” On June 30, 10,043 persons were tested through antigen kits, 9,844 on July 1, 13,588 on July 2, 13,263 on July 3 and the number dropped to 8,552 on July 5 before rising again to 12,832 on July 9. While the number of those testing positive between June 30 and July 9 ranged between 500 and 1,000, most of those tested were found to be negative and did not show Covid symptoms. The number of symptomatic people found negative through antigen tests but positive when tested by RT-PCR is also low. On June 30, 225 such persons (2.4%) were found positive, 456 (3.59%) on July 3, 502 (3.89%) on July 6 and 560 (4.62%) on July 9. Testing has been ramped up in Delhi with all the districts setting up additional locations for antigen testing. In all the 11 districts, around 1,000 to 1,500 rapid antigen tests are being conducted every day besides RT-PCR tests. On Tuesday, the capital conducted more than 15,400 rapid antigen tests, which give the result within 15 to 30 minutes. Delhi has conducted 7.13 lakh tests, of which over 3 lakh were done using antigen kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-3-6-who-tested-negative-via-antigen-referred-to-rt-pcr/articleshow/76988239.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 16, 2020||Goa||Cost of vehicle to decide motor tax||Panaji: In a bid to remove the ambiguity in the calculation of tax to be paid on a motor vehicle during its registration, The Goa MV Tax (amendment) Bill, 2020 has proposed to define the term “cost of vehicle” in the act. “The taxation rate of the vehicle depends on the cost of the vehicle. There are instances noticed wherein vehicle dealers manipulate the invoice cost of the vehicles to benefit the customer, causing loss of revenue. Inclusion of the expression ‘cost of vehicle’ will remove the difficulty,” the note for cabinet reads. The council of ministers approved of the proposal on Wednesday at the cabinet meet. “Discount offered by the manufacturer or dealer shall not be deducted from the cost of the motor vehicle,” the note states. This may be one of the amendments that may be moved in the forthcoming one-day assembly session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cost-of-vehicle-to-decide-motor-tax/articleshow/76988830.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Rape accused tests positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra's Beed||AURANGABAD: A 30-year-old rape accused, who was in Beed rural police’s custody since the last five days, tested positive for Covid-19. As a result, Majalgaon police station’s 14 policemen have been sent to institutional quarantine and seven for home quarantine. Authorities said that their swabs will be sent for testing later this week. The police station was sanitised and all policemen who were directly and indirectly in touch with the suspect were identified. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “After the suspect tested positive for Covid-19, 21 policemen have been quarantined. We have issued a demo video to policemen about the guidelines to be followed and precautions to be taken while handling any suspect/ accused during the current pandemic.” Police said that accused was booked on the charges of making a married woman flee with him to Pune and raping her multiple times while being on the run. After the offence was registered, he surrendered before the police on July 9 and remanded to five-day police custody. On completion of his custody period, he was sent to judicial custody. Following the due process, he underwent a swab test for Covid on Tuesday, the reports of which arrived on Wednesday, confirming the infection. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rape-accused-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-beed/articleshow/76985985.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Six tractor drivers get memos for refusing to carry Covid victim’s body||HYDERABAD: The Peddapalli municipal authorities have issued a memo to six contract drivers over their refusal to transport a body of a Covid-19 patient, forcing a doctor to drive the tractor himself to do the final rites. Narrating the sequence of events, municipal commissioner Ch Tirupathi told TOI that he could convince one of the drivers on July 12 to take the body to the cremation ground. But, after he got a call from someone, he chose not to drive the tractor. Quoting the drivers, the officials said none of them was willing to drive the tractor to transport a Covid patient body. They were worried that the owners would ask them to vacate the houses where they reside if they get to know that they drove a vehicle with a Covid patient body in it.  “The drivers later regretted for their action in not cooperating at a critical time. They assured to carry out the duties assigned to them henceforth,” the commissioner said. Dr Pendyala Sriram, who was appreciated for his gesture, chose to drive the tractor when a municipal driver refused to drive the vehicle with the body on that day. According to sources, the doctor explained to his superiors on the circumstances which prompted him to drive the tractor. He also intended to demonstrate to the driver that there was no harm if one used a PPE kit and protocol to carry out the job. Meanwhile, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu has appreciated Dr Sriram for his effort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-tractor-drivers-get-memos-for-refusing-to-carry-covid-victims-body/articleshow/76988207.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Operation Muskan: Three test Covid positive among rescued street kids||HYDERABAD: Of the 1,193 street children and child labourers rescued by the Andhra Pradesh’s Crime Investigation Department (CID), three are found to be positive from the 423 Covid-19 tests conducted so far. The state government launched Operation Muskan to save street kids and reunite them with their parents. “Operation Muskan has been launched across the state. Of the 1,193 kids rescued, 1,035 were reunited with their parents. This is one of the largest operations in the country to rescue kids from the streets in a pandemic situation,” said CID additional director general of police PV Sunil Kumar. Police booked cases against persons, who employed these children. Police booked cases and issued show-cause notices in three instances. Around 21 children are from other states. “We have conducted Covid-19 tests and three of them tested positive. Two in Prakasam and one in Vizianagaram,” said Sunil Kumar. Other children will also be tested for the virus. Majority of the kids were rescued from Prakasam, Krishna, West Godavari, Kadapa and Kurnool. Meanwhile, 158 of the 159 girls were either sent home or to shelters run by NGOs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/op-muskan-three-test-covid-ve-among-rescued-street-kids/articleshow/76988220.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Support grows for Mundhe, Joshi starts awareness drive||Nagpur: Amid the intermittent war of words between municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and elected representatives over handling of the Covid situation in the city, many organizations have come forward in support of the former.Braving rains, Nagpur Vikas Parishad (NVP) members on Wednesday staged demonstration at RBI Square to show solidarity with the municipal commissioner.Earlier, mayor Sandip Joshi launched an awareness drive by visiting market places to urge shopkeepers and people to strictly follow Covid guidelines to prevent the need to reimpose complete lockdown as warned by Mundhe.Under the banner of NVP, a group of citizens led by Vedprakash Arya (vice-president of state NCP), Bhola Baisware, Kamlesh Chaudhary and Dilip Jaiswal raised slogans against Joshi and BJP corporators accusing them of not allowing Mundhe to work as they feared the official will expose scams perpetrated by them in the NMC.“Mundhe and his team has succeeded in containing spread of Covid-19 in city. The municipal commissioner has readied five state-of-the-art hospitals, quarantine centres and a Covid care centre at a cost of Rs2 crore out of the total grant of Rs5.25 crore for containing the pandemic,” said the NVP leaders.“Mundhe has accomplished cleaning of three rivers by spending just Rs37 lakh as against annual expenditure of Rs1.02 crore. He had also ensured food to all migrants without spending NMC’s money and taking help of NGOs. All this has upset the mayor and BJP corporators and hence they are targeting Mundhe,” said the leaders. “If they (Joshi and BJP corporators) continue to target Mundhe, NVP will start an agitation across the city,” they said.Later, NVP delegation met Mundhe and submitted a memorandum declaring full support.A couple of days ago, a large number of people led by Congress corporator Kamlesh Chaudhary had gathered at NMC head office and extended support to Mundhe. After a few politicians had demanded transfer of Mundhe from city, through an online petition signed by 1.23 lakh people, CM Uddhav Thackeray was urged not to transfer him from NMC.Meanwhile, Joshi accompanied by MLC Girish Vyas, BJP corporators including Dayashankar Tiwari inspected Mahal, Itwari and Gandhibagh markets. After witnessing rush in some shops, Joshi directed officials to levy fine on the violators. He also interacted with shopkeepers as well as people and urged them to follow guidelines like Covid distancing, wearing mask properly, allowing only five persons at a time in a shop etc. He said the administration will be left with no option but to reimpose full lockdown if people don’t follow the rules. Joshi will continue the drive and cover other markets till July 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/support-grows-for-mundhe-joshi-starts-awareness-drive/articleshow/76987361.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||New sectt to have ‘modern’ mosque||Hyderabad: The state government on Wednesday informed the high court that it would construct a beautiful modern mosque in the new secretariat in lieu of the old mosque in the old secretariat complex that was already demolished. State’s special counsel Harender Pershad told this to Justice A Abhishek Reddy who was hearing a writ petition filed by M Zakeer Hussain Javid representing two mosques that were built inside the secretariat. The judge directed the state counsel to file the assurance in the form of a memo. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-sectt-to-have-modern-mosque/articleshow/76988244.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Low positivity rate in 2nd test, but q-centre infections not ruled out||Nagpur: Allaying concerns of many citizens, the public health department data regarding number of suspects found positive in first and second tests shows that most were already carrying the Covid-19 virus when they were placed in institutional quarantine centres in the city.The district administration and health authorities had faced severe flak from suspects, who alleged they were “deliberately kept and forced to use common facilities to inflate numbers of positive cases”. Though nodal officers at these centres had tried to convince suspects that the incubation period ranges between 2 to 14 days, the explanation hasn’t changed the mind of the latter.As on July 11, around 11,810 high risk suspects were quarantined at different places in the city and outside since March 5. Of these, total 1,248 persons were found positive. Among those testing positive, 1,021 tested positive in the first test done soon after admission. There were 227 suspects who tested negative at first but turned positive in the second sampling, which is done before completion of 14-day isolation period.Nagpur district had reported 2,234 positive cases as on July 11. This means 55.88% cases came from quarantine centres. The total positive cases are just 10.56% of total admissions at quarantine centres. First-test cases amount for 8.64% while second-test cases are 1.9% of the total admissions.Besides the 11,810 admissions, the district administration had quarantined another 320 suspects at the now shut Lonara College and Chinchbhuvan’s Prozone Palms. As data of first and second is not available, TOI excluded them in the analysis. Health officials believe those testing positive in second sampling are the ones who failed to maintain Covid distancing during their stay at centres, though it can’t be proved epidemiologically if they contracted the infection before or after admission.A top health official said either way it is difficult to say what makes a sample test negative first and positive later. “It is true the virus is not detectable in first sampling because of low viral load. By the time second one is done, a suspect has come in contact with other high risk persons, even as there is likelihood that the viral load increased enough to be detected,” the official said.Dr Meena Mishra, professor and head of the department of microbiology at AIIMS, Nagpur, said suspects are kept at quarantine centres only when they fulfil certain conditions. “Swabs are tested using RT-PCR for detecting RNA material to confirm presence of virus. But there are many factors which govern the results. In this test, sometimes a person tests negative because of early phase of infection or because the viral load is less,” she said. Dr Mishra attributed the second test positive cases to lack of awareness and casual approach. “After testing negative in first test, people feel nothing is going to happen to them and they forget to follow distancing guidelines,” she said.InfogfxQuarantine centre —— total admissions ———————— 1st test +ve —————2nd test +ve———— total VNIT —————— 2033————— ———————— 211————————- 35——————— 246MLA hostel ————— 2153 ———————————— 124————————- 20———————- 144Vanamati ————— 591 ——————————— 44 ———————— 0—————————44Ravi Bhavan ————435 ———————— ———19—————————9——————— —— 28 Symbiosis ——————— 1872 ———————— ———79 ————————— 41———————— 120Pvt Hotels ———————— NA ———————— — -17—————————-1 ————————- 18Pachpaoli Police Qts——— 2856———————— ——426 ————————-59———————— 485RPTS —————— ——— 785———————————- 36 ———————— 5——————————-41NU hostel ———————663———————— ————- 20———————- 30 —————————-50Raj Nagar PWD Qts——— 186—————— —————— 38———————— 20—————————- 58Morris college hostel—— 236—————— ————— 7 ———————— 7 —————————— 14Total ———————- 11,810—————————- 1,021———————— 227—————————- 1,248||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/low-positivity-rate-in-2nd-test-but-q-centre-infections-not-ruled-out/articleshow/76987207.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 16, 2020||Aurangabad||RTO steps in as pvt ambulances overcharge during pandemic||Aurangabad: The Regional Transport Office (RTO), Aurangabad, on Wednesday announced revised rates for private ambulance services as they were found to be charging patients and their relatives exorbitant fares amid the coronavirus pandemic. The new rate chart has taken many by surprise as private operators have already been charging more than the revised fares with scant regard for the earlier rates fixed in 2013. A relative of an old patient said she had to pay Rs 1,200 to an ambulance operator for a journey of hardly 5km. “My mother-in-law has been operated upon for certain liver ailment and needs regular hospital follow-up. I had no option but to pay as per the whims of ambulance operators as follow-up cannot be skipped.” The RTO authorities said ambulance operators found overcharging would face suspension of permits. “The new rates for private ambulance have been decided by taking into account all factors. These rates have been fixed in a rational manner and it is obligatory upon ambulance operators to follow the new rate chart,” deputy regional transport officer Sanjay Metrewar said. As per official record, Aurangabad district has around 350 registered private ambulances. When contacted, private ambulance operators said they were not taken into confidence while deciding the new fares. “We have to pay heavy taxes every year and undertake maintenance, besides giving salaries to drivers. We oppose the new fares,” said Arjun Ghuge, a private ambulance operator. BOX- Type of vehicle/Up to 25 km or 2 hr/ Further journey Jeep/Rs 600/Rs 10 per km Van/Rs 600/ Rs 8 per km Mini-bus/ Rs 800/ Rs 25 per km Cardiac ambulance/Rs 1,500/ Rs 25 per km||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rto-steps-in-as-pvt-ambulances-overcharge-during-pandemic/articleshow/76985998.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Call me ‘sir’, not ‘my lord’: Chief Justice of Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: Members of the district judiciary in West Bengal as well as registry staff of such courts will no longer have to address the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court as ‘My Lord’ or ‘Lordship’. A simple ‘Sir’ will suffice. This was announced in a letter sent from the high court registrar-general via e-mail to all district judges and chief judges on Tuesday. According to the letter, the decision has been taken by the Chief Justice himself. “It is the kind desire of the Hon’ble Chief Justice that henceforth, officers of the district judiciary, including members of registry would address the Hon’ble Chief Justice as ‘Sir’ instead of ‘My Lord’ or ‘Lordship’, in conformity with the applicable judicial and administrative precedents,” the letter stated. Some legal experts in Kolkata feels this has set in motion the procedure to do away with a practice dating back to the British Raj. “In 2014, then Chief Justice of India H L Dattu had observed: When did we say it is compulsory? You can address us in a dignified manner.... Don’t address us as ‘Lordship’. Since then, changes have taken place in some HCs. This is a move in the right direction,” said a senior member of the judiciary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/call-me-sir-not-my-lord-chief-justice-of-calcutta-hc/articleshow/76988254.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Count crosses 1.16 lakh, active cases down by 857 in a day||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 1,647 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to over 1.16 lakh. The death toll from the disease, meanwhile, climbed to 3,487, authorities said. A total of 41 fatalities have been recorded in the past 24 hours, according to the Delhi health department bulletin. Wednesday was the fifth consecutive day when fresh cases have been reported in the range of 1,000-2,000. The number of active cases currently stands at 17,807, down from 18,664 on Tuesday. Of all active cases, 9,943 patients are under home isolation. Only 4,021 are admitted in hospitals while 2,029 and 167 others are recuperating at dedicated Covid Care Centres and Covid health centres, respectively. “Nearly 74% of Covid beds are lying vacant in hospitals. But we have to continue to keep them reserved for such patients because the cases can rise anytime. The situation in the city has improved significantly but there is no scope for any complacency,” a senior official said, adding that 613 (56%) of 1,103 ventilator beds in city hospitals were lying vacant on Wednesday. According to the bulletin, the number of rapid antigen tests conducted on Wednesday stood at 15,964 while RT-PCR, CBNAAT& True NAAT tests figures were 6,564, all of them adding to 22,528. Delhi has so far conducted 7,36,436 tests, which comes to 38,759 tests per million people. In many cases, it’s been seen that administering plasma therapy has helped reduce the risk of complications in patients. Therefore, the state government is pushing for more people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma to save the lives of others. All Covid hospitals have been directed to obtain feedback of patients and their willingness to donate plasma at the time of discharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/count-crosses-1-16l-active-cases-down-by-857-in-a-day/articleshow/76988246.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana police, Maoists trade fire at 2 locations; top naxal escapes||HYDERABAD: After a hiatus, suspected Maoists and Telangana police teams exchanged fire at two different locations in interior forest areas of Bhadradri Kothagudem and KB-Asifabad districts in the last 24 hours. A policeman suffered a bullet injury in the Kothagudem incident, while an alleged Maoist sympathiser, Anantha Rao, was arrested in Asifabad late on Wednesday night.  Immediately, both sides opened fire on each other. The five Telangana Maoist State Committee (TMSC) members — Mailarepu Adellu alias Bhaskar, Varghesh, Mangu, Ajay and Ramu —gave a slip to police and escaped under the cover of darkness. It was the second such incident in Asifabad, where police teams came face to face with the rebels in the last three days, but it was only on Tuesday night an exchange of fire took place and none suffered injuries. On both occasions, the Maoists escaped unhurt. “A Maoist dalam members in olive green military fatigues carrying an AK-47 and SLR weapons fired upon a police party. We retaliated and they fled under the cover of darkness from the scene. Combing operations are on to catch the Maoists,’’ Asifabad in-charge superintendent of police Vishnu S Warrier said. Incidentally, a similar exchange of fire took place in Kothagudem district, which share border with Chhattisgarh, on Wednesday morning. A policeman suffered a bullet injury, but he was out of danger. Police recovered an abandoned weapon, 13 kit bags belonging to Maoist cadre from the scene of the encounter. Officials were yet to ascertain whether the Maoists suffered any damage. Officials in both Asifabad and Chhattisgarh said intense combing was being done in both districts with nearly 500 policemen each. In case of Asifabad, the Maoists reportedly came to replenish their food stocks, arranged by sympathisers who also gave them shelter. On the other hand in Kothagudem, superintendent of police Sunil Dutt said that they got specific information that Maoists had crossed into Telangana from the neighbouring Chhattisgarh. Officials said that during the monsoon, when the water levels in the Godavari along the borders rise, the Maoists make an attempt to enter the state to make their presence felt by meeting villagers as it is difficult for security forces to keep a tab on them. All public representatives, including MLAs and ministers, have been asked not to visit interior areas in the districts without prior information to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-maoists-trade-fire-at-2-locations-top-naxal-escapes/articleshow/76988228.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Sena MLC for extension of Marathwada devp board||Aurangabad: Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve has written a letter to chief minister Udhhav Thackeray, demanding extension for the Marathwada Development Board. While the already extended term of the statutory body expired in April, different political leaders from the region and social groups have demanded further extension for the Board. In a letter addressed to the CM, Danve, a first-time MLC, has sought the need for the revival of the Board to overcome developmental backlog. Stating that the statutory body would help in identifying areas of focus for the all-round development, Danve said the revival of Board would serve to the aspirations of the masses from Marathwada. With mounting pressure for extension to Marathwada Development Board that was formed in the year 1994 by a Presidential Order, all eyes are now on the state government on whether it concedes to the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sena-mlc-for-extension-of-marathwada-devp-board/articleshow/76986014.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Goa||Chapoli dam full in July for 1st time||Poinguinim: Persistent rain caused the Chapoli dam—the lifeline of the Canacona taluka—to overflow on Wednesday morning, almost a month in advance. Assistant engineer at the Canacona irrigation department, Azad Vernekar, said this was the first time since its commissioning in the year 2000 that the reservoir had reached its full storage capacity of 38.75 RL (reduced level) in July. Over the past four years, it is reported to have reached maximum capacity only between August 7 and 24. Excess water from the dam has begun flowing into the Gulem rivulet, which empties into the Devbag-Palolem river. By Wednesday, rainfall in Canacona crossed 2,008mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chapoli-dam-full-in-july-for-1st-time/articleshow/76988870.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Airlines to refund travel agents for cancelled flights||VISAKHAPATNAM: Here’s some good news for fliers who had booked their tickets through travel agents for flights during the lockdown period and were waiting for their refunds. Most airlines, including Air India and IndiGo, have decided to give full refunds for flights that got cancelled. However, airlines will not deposit the refund amount directly in their bank accounts. The amount will, instead, be credited to the login ids of travel agents through whom they booked the tickets, which they can later utilise. “The refund process has not started yet. Once it begins, passengers have to wait for a while before they can utilise the amount. We are requesting the passengers to cooperate with us for some more time,” K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh, told TOI. Several fliers were left in the lurch after airlines decided to give credit vouchers in the name of passengers for flights those got cancelled during the lockdown. The credit voucher was issued either in the name/s of the passenger/s concerned, or in the name of the travel agents through whom the tickets were purchased. The passengers were left with only one choice — to travel again on the same flight within the validity period of the credit voucher to utilise the amount. The travel agents said this was no solution as many may decide not to fly again in the near future, in which case the amount would go waste. A travel agent said he can now utilise the refund amount to purchase tickets for ‘new’ passengers. “The amount paid by the passenger can be refunded to ‘old clients’. Else, we have the return the money from our own pocket now and wait for new customers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/airlines-to-refund-travel-agents-for-cancelled-flights/articleshow/76987267.cms||Arpit Basu
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Muslims urged to observe ‘black day’||Hyderabad: The Action Committee Bazyabi Masjid Secretariat urged Muslims to observe ‘black day’ on Friday against demolition of the mosques at secretariat. A JAC headed by Mohammed Mushtaq Malik, president, Tahreek Muslim Shabban was formed to urge the government to rebuild the mosques at the old secretariat . — Omer bin Taher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muslims-urged-to-observe-black-day/articleshow/76988262.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Central Kolkata traders impose self-lockdown||KOLKATA: The fear of contracting the novel coronavirus has led some traders in the central business district of the city to choose caution over commerce by imposing self-lockdown. Around 200 businessmen in Burrabazar’s Noormal Lohia Lane behind Nandaram Market, Jamunalal Bajaj Street and Canning Street on Tuesday downed their shutters for an “indefinite” period due to the “prevailing danger of coronavirus”. The decision was prompted by a spurt in Covid-19 cases and a few deaths in the area. Businessmen in Esplanade, New Market and other parts of the city have also closed their shops for the time being. “Jaan hai to jahan hai (saving one’s life is the biggest priority),” said Tarkesh Rai, owner of Shree Gopal Textiles on Noormal Lohia Lane. A handwritten poster is pasted on his shop’s shutter that announced the establishment would remain closed for “uncertain period” and requested customers to contact over phone. “Nobody is following any safety guideline or wearing masks. I want to do business but not at the cost of my or my family’s lives,” said Rai, who will review his decision early in August. Soon after Unlock 1.0 in June, the business district witnessed a rush of activities to salvage losses during lockdown. Only after a spurt of cases was reported, market associations started devising safety rules. “But virus has spread to various places from crowded markets. We have shut down as nobody took any initiative,” Many other shops may shut soon,” said Mohammad Hoaroon Haque, a wholesaler on Synagogue Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/central-kolkata-traders-impose-self-lockdown/articleshow/76988273.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Not all pregnant women need to take Covid test: Delhi government to HC||NEW DELHI: Pregnant women are not required to undergo Covid-19 tests when they go to a hospital for obstetrical care (childbirth), the state government informed Delhi high court on Wednesday. Only those coming from hotspots or those who are suspected to have come in contact with a Covid-positive person are tested for the viral infection, the Aam Aadmi Party government further informed a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan in an affidavit. It said said that only suspected cases of Covid-19 are tested and there can’t be any delay in providing care to pregnant women for want of testing. Taking note of the affidavit, the high court disposed of a PIL since a clear set of guidelines have been put in place by the state government. “Enough and adequate steps have been taken to expedite testing and in certain cases testing is also not required,” the bench said but asked Delhi government to ensure that time taken from when a healthcare provider decides to go for Covid-testing of a pregnant woman, sample collection and declaration of results doesn’t exceed 24 hours. It also asked the government to disseminate the latest guidelines on testing of pregnant women to all hospitals in the national capital. The high court was hearing a plea seeking expeditious testing and speedy declaration of results of pregnant women going to hospitals for childbirth. Earlier, the high court had pulled up Delhi government for not clarifying whether every pregnant woman who goes to a hospital for delivery or urgent treatment is required to undergo Covid-19 test, symptomatic or not. Watch Not all pregnant women required to undergo Covid test, says Delhi government to HC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-all-pregnant-women-need-to-take-covid-test-govt-to-hc/articleshow/76988258.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Village sarpanch booked as Covid cases mount||Kolhapur: A complaint has registered against the sarpanch of Punwadi village in Jawli tehsil and three others — under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act — after the village emerged as a Covid hotspot with 45 patients currently under treatment. Officials said throat swab samples of 250 Punwadi residents have been collected. More than 100 reports are still awaited and number of positive patients may increase. The complaint was registered hours after a team of officials, led by additional district collector Manisha Awale, visited Punwadi village to review the situation on Monday. The officials were shocked to find so many positive cases in a village with a small population of just 600 individuals. Punwadi gramsewak Dadaseb Yadav registered the complaint against sarpanch Prakash Dagdu Parte, Tukaram Dagdu Parte (the sarpanch’s brother), Jyoti Tukaram Parte and Nitin Prakash Parte. The complaint has been lodged with the Medha police station. Police officials said Tukaram, Jyoti and Nitin had come to Punwadi in the last week of June. Though they had been asked to quarantine themselves at home, they violated the rules and openly moved around the village. Later, one of them tested positive. The complaint has registered under IPC section 188 (disobeying public order) and 269 (negligent acts likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). They have also been booked for offences under sections of Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/village-sarpanch-booked-as-covid-cases-mount/articleshow/76986030.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Seniors fight off virus, kin don’t want them back||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 frightens people, there is no doubt about that. But it seems, some families are so unnerved by the thought of having corona patients at home, even if recovered, that they are refusing to allow even elderly relatives to return home from hospital. A 73-year-old from west Delhi, for instance, asked the Lok Nayak Hospital staff after recovering from Covid to contact his two sons to come and take him home. Despite repeated requests from the hospital, the two brothers did not comply. Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital, confirmed this incident to TOI. “We hoped the sons would take the man home, but they didn’t,” Kumar said. After waiting for over 10 days, the hospital shifted the person to a government Covid care facility in Narela where he is currently staying in a space separately created for him. The septuagenarian developed fever on June 22 and was taken to a government testing centre by his kin. Two days later, the test results returned positive. When his condition deteriorated, given his vulnerability, he was brought to Lok Nayak Hospital on June 26. “He is a positive person and bravely fought the infection,” a hospital official said. “He recovered in the first week of July, and requested the hospital staff to contact his sons so that he could be taken home.” The family’s reluctance left the father emotionally shocked. The case underlined the bias against those who have recovered from Covid-19. “The sons said that they did not have space at home. We informed them that he was fully recovered and did not need isolation and also that he wouldn’t infect others, but they said they would not let him enter the house and asked the hospital to send him somewhere for at least a month more,” said a hospital official. The father was desperate to meet his sons. “We requested them to come and meet their father, but they did not come even for that,” the official claimed. “The elder son said the younger son would take him home, while the younger said the elder would do it.” Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi government’s largest Covid health facility, did not share the personal details of the person. The hospital, however, informed police on Tuesday night and has submitted the patient’s address to them. Another hospital official confided that there were at least three other cases of elderly patients being let down by their kin and of a family that refused to accept the body of a 65-year-old, requesting the hospital itself to cremate the body. “Many families do not care enough to talk to the elderly patients on phone while they are in hospital,” a hospital employee alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/seniors-fight-off-virus-kin-dont-want-them-back/articleshow/76988268.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Doon-B’luru-Hyd flight begins||Dehradun: The direct flight service between Dehradun, Bengaluru and Hyderabad commenced on Wednesday. The flight, operated by Air India, will run twice a week, on Wednesdays and Saturdays. It will depart from Hyderbad at 7 am, reaching Doon at 9.15 am. The flight will depart from Dehradun at 10.15 am and land at Bengaluru at 12.45 pm. It will depart from Bengaluru at 2 pm and reach Hyderbad at 3 pm. Hailing the starting of the flight service, CM Rawat said that the service will largely benefit people of the state since Hyderabad and Bengaluru are prominent IT centres and many people from Uttarakhand are working there. It will also aid tourism, the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-bluru-hyd-flight-begins/articleshow/76986022.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Liquor mafia capitalises on job losses to set up illegal trade||VIJAYAWADA: As Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) sleuths continue to crack down on illegal liquor sales across the state, cops identified that most of the people who entered the business had lost their jobs during the lockdown. Cops said that majority of them happen to be youths who have completed education in engineering and even MBA graduates and are now finding the sale of branded liquor as a quick means to earn money. “With regulated liquor sales in Andhra Pradesh, the demand for better brands of liquor produce is naturally on a high. These youths are roped in by belt shop racketeers who sell their stock in bulk for a marginally higher cost. They then take the risk of illegally transporting them to the state to make great profits,” a senior SEB official told TOI. Recently, on July 7, around six youths were caught near Veerulapadu mandal. They are engineering graduates who got their offer letters from big MNCs and later withdrawn. Speaking to TOI, 22-year-old Praveen (name changed) said that he was first introduced to the business by his college senior in Hyderabad who gave him the stock to sell it in Vijayawada. “The person had his friends and mutual friends as customers who were willing to shell out almost 100% cost of the branded liquor’s price. I was promised 20% commission for each bottle,” Praveen told TOI. Eventually, cases were booked against them under the AP Excise Act by the district police. Cops cite another instance where they found daily wage workers predominantly indulging in this business as they had lost regular livelihoods during the pandemic. Explaining the modus operandi, cops said the accused used to bring in around 10 to 20 bottles in their bags while travelling on their bikes. The produce would then be sold on referral basis among tipplers in urban areas in Krishna district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/liquor-mafia-capitalises-on-job-losses-to-set-up-illegal-trade/articleshow/76987278.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||3 women held for trafficking, minor girl rescued||PITHORAGARH: A 14-year-old girl was rescued from three women running an interstate human trafficking gang by Champawat police. The girl has been handed over to an NGO. The police had found out that the accused women — Rajkumari (Udham singh Nagar resident), Kanchan (Udham singh Nagar resident), Sonam Dube (Champawat resident) — were involved in trafficking activities and thus, laid a trap to nab them red-handed, said SP Champawat Lokeswar Singh. A police team pretended to be a Delhi-based family and contacted the accused women. The officials, under cover, asked the traffickers to send them a girl with whom they can marry their boy. The accused agreed to arrange a girl for Rs 4 lakh. On Tuesday, accused Rajkumari told under-cover officials that they were bringing the girl and asked them to reach a dharamshala (inn) in Tanakpur. “The under-cover police team reached the inn at Tanakpur and engaged the accused in deal-related conversation. Meanwhile, another police team reached the spot and nabbed the three accused. A case has been lodged against all the accused under sections 370, 363, 366 , 420, 120B of the Indian Penal Code. The minor girl was handed over to READS NGO, a social organisation,” added SP Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-women-held-for-trafficking-minor-girl-rescued/articleshow/76986031.cms||Prem Punetha
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||HC notice to Telangana govt on diet bills in Niloufer||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has issued notices to the government and its health authorities asking them to specify their stand on a petition that charged them with inaction even in the midst of allegations of swallowing money meant for children and infants at the Niloufer Children’s Hospital. The PIL was filed by Dr P Bhagavantha Rao of Osmangunj, charging diet contractor K Suresh Babu with resorting to several misdeeds and misuse of public money. His counsel B Vivekananda told the court that the contractor has been sending inflated bills for the diet supplied to the hospital. He said the misappropriated money is to the tune of Rs 3 crore. The contract is for supplying high-protein diet to 1,000 patients in the hospital daily, he said and added that large-scale irregularities were taking place in the name of diet. Despite coming to a prima facie conclusion in its inquiry, the state government has not taken any action against the contractor. In addition to this, the same contractor was given the work of supplying diet to Gandhi Hospital and also to TB Hospital at Erragadda, Vivekananda said. The bench sought replies from the authorities within two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-t-on-diet-bills-in-niloufer/articleshow/76988271.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Gold smuggling racket: Search on in places linked to Sivasankar||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Customs sleuths continued detailed search on Wednesday in connection with gathering evidence against senior IAS officer and former principal secretary of chief minister M Sivasankar whose friends have been arrested in the gold smuggling case. The customs continued its search in Heather towers, where Sivasankar was using an apartment. Sivasankar, who was summoned for questioning at the customs office here, was interrogated for about nine hours on Tuesday, under section 108 of the customs act. As per the act, any gazetted officer of customs has the power to summon any person whose attendance he considers necessary either to give evidence or to produce a document or any other thing in any inquiry which such officer is making in connection with the smuggling of any goods. The interrogation that began at 5pm on Tuesday went on till 2am on Wednesday, after which he returned to his residence. Sources said that though Sivasankar said that he had known Swapna Suresh, one of the prime accused in the smuggling case, closely, he had no clue that she was involved in gold smuggling. He is also learnt to have stated that he has not given any help in assuring her a job in KSITL or in any other illegal activities. Meanwhile, customs sources said that no clean chit has been given to Sivasankar and it is clear that he shared a close relationship with the accused. Also, the customs are yet to gain a clarity on Sivasankar’s role in helping Swapna lease an apartment next to where he resided. The messages from Sivasankar, asking chief minister’s IT fellow Arun Balachandran, to book an apartment for Swapna in the same apartment complex he resided, was also handed over to customs. In this apartment, the key accused are believed to have met and conspired in smuggling the gold and fixing the deal. Later in the day, the government is learnt to have removed Arun Balachandran as the director of high power digital advisory committee of the state government. He had joined the government as chief minister's IT fellow and later had moved to the new post. The customs sleuths have also confiscated Sivasankar’s mobile phone for further examination, it is reliably learnt. It is also learnt that the customs have found that several of Sivasankar’s statements were contradictory, and on its basis Swapna and Sarith will be interrogated again. Sivasankar would be summoned again for further interrogation, sources said. The National Investigation Agency also has joined the search along with customs in connection with the probe in the capital. The NIA team that turned up in private vehicles to the office of KSITL at Statue conducted a search for about two hours. Swapna had worked under Sivasankar in KSIT||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/search-on-in-places-linked-to-sivasankar/articleshow/76987276.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Amaravati land scam probe: SIT arrests two, including retired tehsildar||VIJAYAWADA: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing alleged insider trading into Amaravati land purchases arrested a retired revenue officer and a realtor under Thullur police station limits on Wednesday. The accused was identified as Anne Sudheer Babu (63), a retired tehsildar of Thullur mandal and another real estate businessman Gummadi Suresh (53). According to SIT officials, Babu had allegedly misused his post and tampered land records of assigned lands and registered them in Suresh’s name during his tenure as tehsildar between 2014 to 2017. The SIT has so far arrested five persons during its probe, including the arrest of the deputy collector of the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amaravati-land-scam-probe-sit-arrests-two-including-retired-tehsildar/articleshow/76987292.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Washing firms start with clean slate to save business from drying up||NEW DELHI: With people wary of venturing out of their homes during the pandemic, dry cleaners in the capital have started offering free pickup from homes and delivery afterwards — and at lowered charges too. This has tempted some people to give their clothes for cleaning to them, but their number is still negligible compared with pre-lockdown days. For 29-year-old Sahil Malik, co-owner of Evershine Drycleaners at south Delhi’s RK Puram, taking care of the customers’ clothes has become all the more important not only for his business, but also for his family. “I have a seven-month-old son, so I have to be doubly sure not to infect myself,” he said. Malik and his staff use their personal cars for pick and drop services, few as they are, and make sure they disinfect not only the carry bags, but also the vehicles after each run. “We wash the clothes with detergents and then use disinfectants for double safety,” Malik smiled. Spotless Wasche in south Delhi’s Anand Niketan is doing dull business despite having started free pickup and drop service. An operator claimed to TOI that the plastic bags that were earlier used for multiple orders are now being used once and then disposed of. “It’s true that we are receiving fewer orders, but we still ensure that all safety norms are met,” she said. “Even when someone brings in one single item for dry cleaning, it is treated separately without bundling it with other orders. People are concerned about the safety, and we are trying our best to make them believe their clothes are in safe hands.” Premium cleaning service, Cleanovo: The Laundry Room in Mahipalpur in south Delhi, is in a better position and receives quite a few orders from the capital, Gurgaon and Noida. Gurpreet Singh, regional manager for Delhi, assured they followed World Health Organization guidelines in their work. “People are apprehensive, yes, but then we are a premium service and people trust our services,” Singh said. “Contrary to how the business is panning out for other establishments, ours is going on smoothly. We make sure our staffers are healthy and we monitor his/her temperature before entering the store or when returning after an engagement with a customer.” Even when orders have reduced, most dry cleaners are focusing on safety. “We are getting more work than we expected, yet we are also giving a 25% discount on household textile and for up to 10 garments,” revealed Kamal, who is in charge of Wardrobe Dry Cleaners in Chittaranjan Park. “Our regular customers have retained their faith in us.” The sky is not so clear for many others, however. In west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh, Cozy Dry Cleaners is one of them. An employee confided, “At this time of the year, we used to be flooded with dry-cleaning orders, but no one is bringing in winter clothes to be cleaned and packed away as usual. We are offering pick and drop clothes and disinfect our store every half hour, but it seems people are afraid to leave their clothes with us.” Rexsona in Karol Bagh is among the biggest dry-cleaning stores in Delhi, and its woes are just as big. Shiv Kumar, a worker there, said, “Most staffers have returned to their villages, but the remaining don’t have much work either. Since the lockdown, our shop has been as good as.” Most of these places have taken all precautionary measures, but it is only the goodwill of old customers that brings them some work. “We do not expect new customers,” declared an employee of A-One Dry Cleaners of Karampura in west Delhi. “Even those who did business with us for years are apprehensive and who wouldn’t be?” He said that clothing items are each being cleaned separately and the store is ready to bear the extra costs for this so long as it gets the customers back and puts business on an even footing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/washing-firms-start-with-clean-slate-to-save-business-from-drying-up/articleshow/76988284.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara residents indulge in panic buying||Kolhapur: A day after the Satara district administration made a formal announcement of complete lockdown from Friday night, scores of citizens were seen indulging in panic buying of essential commodities. All major markets, including commercial establishments, shops and petrol pumps witnessed crowding during the day as people were seen purchasing essentials ahead of the ten-day lockdown. Several commodities were sold minutes after shops were opened while citizens were seen complaining about increased prices of most essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-residents-indulge-in-panic-buying/articleshow/76986045.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||In Mumbai, ‘a notorious bunch’ of triplets joins 90% club||MUMBAI: When the CBSE Class X results were announced on Wednesday, the Kumar household in Andheri had three times the reason to celebrate, with triplets Sparsh, Yash and Harsh scoring 97.2%, 96.2% and 94.2%, respectively. The three brothers, all students of Andheri’s Rajhans Vidyalaya, have been studying together through the year, and near identical marks have been common in their home. “They are a notorious bunch but they study together. This year, too, they had a set routine to be followed and that was the key to all three of them scoring well. Whenever they had problems, they would have each other to discuss them with. On the other hand, there is always some healthy competition at home and they have often scored very similar marks,” said their mother Shreeti. While she wishes the three would opt for different careers, they want to follow their father and study engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/a-notorious-bunch-of-triplets-joins-90-club/articleshow/76987583.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: All Salt Lake shops could stay shut on alternate days||KOLKATA: With total 950 Covid cases so far and over 100 new cases in the last three days in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, the authorities are considering to enforce the rule of alternate-day functioning of all standalone shops, malls and other establishments in Salt Lake and off VIP Road. The civic body may even implement a complete lockdown if Covid cases continue to rise on a large scale. Meanwhile, the NATMO office in Salt Lake’s CGO complex has been closed following reports that a staffer’s family member tested positive for Covid-19. The office will reopen on coming Monday. Despite the lockdown containment zones, Covid cases in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area continue to rise. Around 25 to 30 new single Covid isolation units — the houses, from where Covid cases are reported — are being identified everyday, but the number of containment zones in this area is, however, yet to be increased till now. The civic authorities are keeping several market complexes closed on alternate days and also urging standalone shops and road side stalls to down their shutters by the evening. “If the Covid cases rise, we may ask for the closure of all standalone shops, including malls and roadside stalls, on alternate days and enforce a complete lockdown for some days,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-salt-lake-shops-could-stay-shut-on-alternate-days/articleshow/76988281.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Rains halt road repairs in Secunderabad, civic body fails to meet target||SECUNDERABAD: Commuters plying on Secunderabad roads have to endure bumpy rides for at least another four months as the monsoon has affected the works undertaken by the GHMC. As part of the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP), the civic body is recarpeting roads in Secunderabad, Begumpet, Malkajgiri and Musheerabad. Less number of vehicles on the roads due to the extended lockdown enabled the GHMC to expedite the road works. But with the incessant rains in the city, GHMC fell short of its target. GHMC planned to recarpet 709 km stretch, of which 107 km is in the Secunderabad circle. “Works started in the last week of March and continued until the first week of June. We completed recarpeting of 36 km of 107 km stretch in Secunderabad. Simultaneously, 1.30 km length of footpaths had been remodelled and 17 km of lane markings were completed,” said a GHMC Secunderabad engineering wing official. The official said a new technology—Vacuum Dewatered Cement Concrete (VDCC)— is being used to recarpet roads. “All roads are being laid with high quality concrete that is cost-effective and ensures durability.” A couple of years ago, the civic body had used the technology on an experimental basis. After witnessing better results, GHMC is now relying on VDCC, the official said. “It has become a huge financial burden to the civic body as we are spending lakhs of rupees towards repair and maintenance of the roads during the rainy season,” he added. GHMC deputy commissioner, Secunderabad circle, P Mohan Reddy said, “GHMC has allotted recarpeting works to a private agency. The onus is on the agency to maintain the roads for five years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rains-halt-road-repairs-in-secbad-civic-body-fails-to-meet-target/articleshow/76988278.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 16, 2020||Mysuru||Tiger population in Karnataka will rise by next census, says chief of forest force||MYSURU: It was hard for Sanjai Mohan, principal chief conservator of forests (head of forest force) Sanjai Mohan to conceal the elation he felt, while reacting to the state’s 2018 tiger census entering the Guinness Book of World Records for its being the world’s largest wildlife survey conducted using camera traps. Mohan said that surveys to account for the population of any particular animal conducted with the aid of camera traps were significantly more accurate. “Going by the data we have from the census conducted two years ago, we are confident of a rise in the population of tigers by 20% across the state. Conducting a tiger census is an onerous task, and no other country takes on an endeavour of such magnitude. Estimating the number of tigers using images captured through camera traps is not easy since we have to cross-check all of them for duplication and segregate them accordingly,” Mohan added. Across all tiger reserves of the state, there were 1,500 camera traps in place, he said. “We have observed a 30% rise in the population of the big cats in every census we have conducted since 2006. The next census, slated to get under way in 2022-23, we are confident of seeing a 20% population,” Mohan told TOI. The tiger census, conducted once in four years, in 2018 pegged the population of tigers across India at 2,967, with Madhya Pradesh emerging at the top of charts with 526 and Karnataka a close second with 524. The third spot went to Uttarakhand, in the forests of which state were counted 442 tigers. Founder of the Wildlife Conservation Foundation Rajkumar Devaraje Urs attributed the recognition for the tiger census on the global stage to the groundwork of the volunteers and forest staff. “More than 330 volunteers supplemented the efforts of the forest department personnel at the Bandipur Tiger Reserve, where more than 380 camera traps were set up. I had advised the forest department against setting up the camera traps on paths generally taken by elephants since the likelihood of their being damaged was high,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tiger-population-in-state-will-rise-by-next-census-says-chief-of-forest-force/articleshow/76988907.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||Woman kills husband over domestic squabbles||VADODARA: A 39-year-old woman from Chhalier village in Desar taluka was arrested for hacking her husband to death following heated arguments on Tuesday. Police said that the accused Ramila Solanki and her husband Rajendra used to fight often over petty issues. On Tuesday afternoon too, the couple was engaged in a heated exchange of words which ended after Rajendra’s elder brother Pratap intervened. A while later, when Pratap was sitting on the ground floor of the house with his mother, he again heard shouts. Hearing this, he again went to the first floor to check on the couple. Pratap told the police that he was shocked to find that Ramila had killed Rajendra by hitting an axe on his head in front of their daughter Dimple. According to cops, Rajendra was killed when he was taking a nap. As Dimple shouted their neighbours too rushed to the house and took Rajendra to health centre in Desar. However, the doctor there declared him dead before admission. Meanwhile, Pratap informed police and got Ramila arrested. Ramila told police that she was tired of the daily fights with her husband due to which she killed him out of anger. Pratap also told cops that when he intervened between the couple earlier, Ramila was shouting that she will finish him off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-kills-husband-over-domestic-squabbles/articleshow/76987089.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Madurai||Police officials attend homage of SSI who died of Covid||Madurai: The Madurai range deputy inspector general of police, S Rajendran and Madurai district superintendent of police, Sujit Kumar, on Tuesday, paid homage to the deceased special sub-inspector (SSI) of police, M Pandi, who died due to Covid-19 on Monday.Pandi, 51, attached with the Checkanurani police station was tested positive with Covid-19 on June 27 after a complainant visited the station, who was later tested positive for Covid-19. 27. He died at government Rajaji hospital on Monday at 5 am. The body was shifted to Thathaneri Crematorium on Monday, where it was cremated.Rajendran and Kumar visited Pandi’s house in Checkanurani. They met his wife and children and consoled them. The state government has announced job for the kin in case a frontline warrior loses life and Rs 50 lakh compensation.The higher officials assured of taking immediate steps in getting the job and compensation without any delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-officials-attend-homage-of-ssi-who-died-of-covid/articleshow/77096332.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Woman death in Kolkata: Kin claim murder||KOLKATA: A day after a 24-year-old woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances in her rented house at Bikramgarh in Jadavpur, the initial investigations by cops revealed that she had committed suicide. But the deceased Pallabi Karmakar’s family claimed that she might have been murdered. Cops said the woman had been trying out other means of livelihood than sewing, but the pandemic had badly impacted it. “There were not too many orders for her as people hardly stepped out of home. We believe that the woman had been depressed over the issue,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-death-kin-claim-murder/articleshow/76988289.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid cases likely to fall in Telangana, say experts||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 cases are expected to decline over the next 15 days, according to experts. In an interesting trend, the number of cases have come down in Telangana despite more tests being conducted during the past one week. In the state, the positivity rate has come down to 10% from 20% in the last few days, especially when over 10,000 tests were being conducted per day and antigen tests are also being done. Experts say that two scenarios can be possible. “Before concluding that cases are actually coming down the trend needs to be maintained for atleast 15 to 20 days, only then can we say that the positivity rate has come down,” an expert said. However, the question is, who is being tested, say experts. “We need to examine where the testing is being done, is it more among the population at risk and those susceptible to Covid-19, if so, the positivity rate might be less due to that reason,” said Giridhara R Babu, professor, head of life sciences epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH). According to professor Sarang Dev, executive director at ISB Max Institute for Healthcare Management, the testing criteria might have been more relaxed unlike earlier. “Earlier, only symptomatic patients were being tested, now that net might have been extended to people with no symptoms but those who are first contacts,” he said. Though many allege that the state government is hiding the actual number of cases, the government has denied the claim. “We are including all the numbers and every Covid suspect is being tested,” health minister Etela Rajender said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-cases-likely-to-fall-say-experts/articleshow/76988292.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 9L seniors at risk in Kolhapur district: Survey||Kolhapur: There are 9.29 lakh senior citizens with co-morbidities who are susceptible to the Covid infection and need to be isolated , a survey conducted across Kolhapur district has found. The survey, conducted by the district administration, covered 11.32 lakh people aged above 50 and found 9.29 lakh with some form of disease. The death rate of serious Covid patients with co-morbidities has been found to be high compared to others. District collector Daulat Desai said senior citizens with co-morbidity have been put into three categories based on the period of illness and severity. “There are 7,890 people in the very high risk category, 1.17 lakh in medium and 8.4 lakh in the low risk category,” he said. Desai said a drive has been initiated to isolate and test people in the high-risk categories. Those in the medium- and low-risk categories will be monitored closely by the ground-level health staff. Among those with co-morbidities, around 3.19 lakh are high blood pressure patients and 1.23 diabetic. “Out of the 36 deaths so far in the district, 35 were above 50 years and suffering from hypertension, diabetes or lung-related diseases,” he said. “The district has a death rate of 2.4% and infection rate of 0.032%. We have best recovery rate in the state. We want the death rate to come down as early as possible. All efforts such as providing oxygen and ICU-related facilities are being made. We want people to take care of their elderly and stay away from them while at home,” said Desai. The district collector said that through the survey, people with symptoms like high fever, breathlessness, body-ache and runny nose have been identified and appropriate medication is being provided to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-9l-seniors-at-risk-in-kolhapur-district-survey/articleshow/76986057.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||Two teens lose parents, but don’t give up||Atharva Joshi could not grieve following his father’s sudden death due to cardiac arrest that was discovered an hour before his Class X maths paper. He got 88 in maths, his “weak” subject, and an aggregate of 81.2%. “That day still shocks us as my 52-year-old husband’s death happened unexpectedly. He was healthy and did not even complain of any uneasiness,” said Sunila Joshi, Atharva’s mother, who helped her son compose himself and told him to be strong. Atharva thought if his father revived, he would be upset on hearing his son did not appear for the exam. In Kopar Khairane, Stuti Wadhwa was witness to the untimely demise of her mother before her third paper. After her mother was diagnosed with cancer on January 20, most of Stuti’s exam preparation was done in the hospital lobby. She scored 91.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-teens-lose-parents-but-dont-give-up/articleshow/76987587.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
July 16, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC cracks whip on roadside vendors||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Wednesday initiated action against roadside food stalls for letting the customers eat on the spot, leading to congestion and violation of the social distancing norm. The KMC’s anti-encroachment department squads seized the LPG cylinders of the food stall operators. The food stalls are allowed to remain open, but only for take away service. Pandit Pawar, head of anti-encroachment department, said, “We carried out action at Mahadwar Road, Papachi Tickti and Jotiba Road. The action against stall operators will be stepped up from Thursday as we are arranging for more employees in the squads. As per traffic police officials we also cleared the illegal vegetable vendors sitting on the roadside and adding to traffic congestion.” After request from mayor Nilofer Ajrekar, Rajwada police station provided a personnel for security of the civic staff deployed to take action against people not wearing masks and not ensuring social distancing. In last few days, the instances of people refusing to pay the fine and confronting the staff has been increased. On Wednesday, over 400 people were penalised and a total fine of Rs 30,000 was collected from them. Mallinath Kalshetti, civic chief, said, “Instead of imposing lockdown across the city we have decided to enforce strict rules for public to avoid spread of Covid-19. Police will start taking action against people who are found flouting the norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-cracks-whip-on-roadside-vendors/articleshow/76986050.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Noida||Yadav Singh’s son removed from GNIDA post||NOIDA: The son of the former chief engineer of Noida Authority, Yadav Singh, has been removed from services by the Uttar Pradesh government. Appointed as the manager at the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) more than a decade back, Sunny Singh had been suspended in March 2018 and sources said, he was removed from the post last week. Trouble started from July 2015 soon after the CBI initiated a probe against Yadav Singh in a corruption case. Officials said Sunny (35) joined GNIDA as a manager, urban services, on February 25, 2010. But in July 2015, he allegedly stopped attending office without informing senior officials. A show cause notice had been issued to him. As the investigation progressed, CBI added the names of Yadav Singh’s family members, including Sunny’s, in the case as conspirators. The CBI found Sunny’s links with directors of SMP Technology Private Limited, a company which was awarded five projects worth Rs 2.19 crore by the Noida Authority, allegedly at the behest of Yadav Singh. Sunny studied engineering along with the directors of the firm at an institute in Solan, Himachal Pradesh, the probe revealed. Later, CBI also found shell companies set up for the purpose of siphoning of funds and the firms had Sunny as the promoter. The CBI issued a warrant against Sunny is June, 2018. Meanwhile, the GNIDA, where Sunny was employed, initiated an internal inquiry to look into Sunny’s documents that had been submitted while he got appointed. The inquiry was headed by the additional chief executive officer, KK Gupta. “I concluded the inquiry in October and forwarded the findings to the state government. I had gone through several aspects related to Sunny’s tenure. I compiled a report on the key points and submitted it. Beyond that, I will not be able to say anything at the moment,” Gupta said. Sources said he was removed for “indiscipline” and taking unauthorised leave. Sources at the industrial development department in Lucknow said that the action against Sunny was taken last week. “Opinion of experts from the legal department was taken. Sunny had moved the high court for relief. But we have submitted our response before the court and dismissed him,” said an official. Yadav Singh was granted bail by the Allahabad high court last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/yadav-singhs-son-removed-from-gnida-post/articleshow/76988287.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Goa||NH 66 road caved in due to seepage of springs: PWD||Panaji: The PWD on Wednesday said that the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MORTH) has been informed by it about the caving in of the under-construction highway at Amerem in Pernem, as the ministry is funding the project. PWD said that ‘seepage of springs’ at the foundation had resulted in the damaged to the road and its retaining wall. Officials said a detailed report has been sought from those involved in the road works. “Based on the joint site inspection and preliminary report from design director of the agency and authority engineers, it appears that the primary cause of the said collapse of road stretch could be due to erosion of the base of foundation of retaining wall associated with seepage of springs which can be confirmed after obtaining detailed report and analysis from experts/consultants,” the PWD said in a statement. MORTH had sanctioned the work of four-laning of the NH-66 from Patradevi to Karaswada for Rs 634 crore. The work was awarded to Qingado Construction alongwith MV Rao Infra Projects. Supervision, approval of designs and quality checks of the work are awarded to an independent firm FP Project Management Consultancy. “The total length of the project is 25.5km and the physical progress achieved so far is 50.92% and the likely date of completion is November 30. The entire responsibility of construction of the project and its maintenance for three years after completion of the project lies with the contractor,” PWD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nh-66-road-caved-in-due-to-seepage-of-springs-pwd/articleshow/76988912.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong slams TRS for naming parks after CM||Hyderabad: The Congress on Wednesday slammed the TRS government for naming parks and housing colonies after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and municipal minister KT Rama Rao while ignoring names of prominent national and state leaders including those who sacrificed their lives for the cause of statehood to Telangana. All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former MLA Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy ridiculed the ruling party for naming projects after leaders who are alive. Referring to one of the country’s largest eco park in Mahbubnagar district being named after the CM as ‘KCR Urban Eco Park’, Vamshi Chand said it is an insult to late leaders from Telangana. “Are KCR and KTR suffering from narcissistic personality disorder. The Mayuri Park was not only named after KCR but it was also inaugurated by his son and MAUD minister KT Rama Rao. TRS is setting a bad precedent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-slams-trs-for-naming-parks-after-cm/articleshow/76988294.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 95% of Covid beds at Hindu Rao Hospital lying vacant||NEW DELHI: More than a month after the notification for turning Hindu Rao Hospital into a Covid-designated facility was issued, the tertiary care facility continues to see low occupancy of Covid beds. Data from the north Delhi municipal corporation-run hospital shows that 95% of such beds continue to lie vacant. A senior health official from the corporation said that the hospital started with 50 beds, but from July 1 onwards, 304 beds have been earmarked for Covid treatment. “During this period, the Covid ward has seen 25 admissions and right now, 15 Covid patients are under our care. One of them is in ICU,” the official added. While officials said that the presence of Covid patients has been low all through the month, mayor Jai Prakash told TOI that the numbers are steadily rising. “People are now getting to know that Covid care facilities are also available at Hindu Rao. I am getting two to three calls every day and directing the people to get admitted in the hospital,” he added. The hospital has, meanwhile, got a fillip in its bid to increase its Covid handling capacity. The north Delhi mayor gave details of equipment that are scheduled to arrive in the first phase. “23,000 PPE kits, 5,800 N-95 masks and 2,000 surgical masks have been provided to us for running the Covid facility and securing our healthcare workers,” Jai Prakash said. The mayor added that 88 oxygen concentrators, 300 oxygen cylinders, 200 pulse oximeters to detect blood oxygen levels and five ventilators have been assigned to the hospital. In a separate development, the east corporation’s deliberative wing is pushing for turning Swami Dayanand Hospital into a Covid facility. Senior EDMC officials said that after GTB Hospital was turned into a Covid care facility, the load of non-Covid patients had been diverted to Swami Dayanand. “There should be a government hospital in the region for people who are suffering from non-Covid diseases,” an official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/95-of-covid-beds-at-hindu-rao-hospital-lying-vacant/articleshow/76969068.cms||Paras Singh
July 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Certificate under Evidence Act proviso must for admissibility of electronic evidence: SC||Pune: A three-member bench of the Supreme Court held that the certificate required under Section 65B(4) of the Indian Evidence Act is a “condition precedent to the admissibility of evidence by way of electronic record” in civil and criminal proceedings.“Oral evidence in the place of such certificate cannot possibly suffice as Section 65B(4) is a mandatory requirement of the law,” the bench headed by Justice R F Nariman and comprising Justice S Ravindra Bhat and Justice V Ramasubramanian said in an elaborate ruling on July 14.In July last year, a two-member SC bench — hearing an election appeal by Sena’s four-time MLA and then minister of state Arjun Khotkar against the Bombay HC’s judgment declaring his 2014 election as void — made a reference to the larger bench on the law point arising from conflicting rulings in Anvar PV vs PK Basheer (2014) and Shafhi Mohammed vs state of Himachal Pradesh (2018) cases regarding admissibility of electronic evidence without certificate under Section 65B(4) of Evidence Act.On Tuesday, the SC larger bench held that Anvar PV ruling is correct in holding that an electronic record as a secondary evidence shall not be admitted in evidence unless the requirements under Sections 65B are satisfied. In the Shafhi Mohammed, it was held that a party who is not in possession of the device from which an electronic document is produced, cannot be required to produce a certificate. The SC larger bench held this as “incorrectly clarified”.The high court had asked the Election Commission to produce records of the election, including electronic evidence like original video recordings along with necessary certificates. The Commission did not produce the certificate, but claimed “substantial compliance” on the grounds that no one had complained regarding working of the video cameras outside the returning officer’s chamber.Among other things, the high court accepted the substantial compliance point and held that CDs/VCDs were admissible in evidence. In the SC, Khotkar contended that the CDs/VCDs could not have been admitted as evidence without a certificate in writing under Section 65B (4) of the Evidence Act.On Tuesday, the SC bench observed, “We have heard this matter after the five year legislative assembly term is over in November 2019. This being the case, ordinarily, it would be unnecessary to decide on the merits of the case before us…... However, having read the impugned (under challenge) judgment, it is clear that the learned single (HC) judge was anguished by the fact that the election commission authorities behaved in a partisan manner by openly favouring the appellant (Khotkar).”The SC held that the high court judgment “cannot be faulted” as apart from the evidence in the form of electronic record, it also relied upon other evidence to arrive at the same conclusion.The Apex court also directed Khotkar to pay Rs1 lakh costs each to Gorantyal and Vijay Chaudhary, another litigant in the same caseCase In BriefOn November 24, 2017, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court had held Khotkar’s election as void. Khotkar moved the SC against the same.Khotkar had won the election by 296 votes. His nearest Congress rival Kailash Gorantyal alleged the returning officer erred in accepting Khotkar’s nomination as each of the four sets of these papers suffered from substantial defects.Gorantyal also cited the CCTV footage outside the returning officer’s chamber and alleged that Khotkar filed his papers 53 minutes past the 3pm deadline on September 27, 2014. Khotkar had claimed he filed the papers at 2.20pm.Sec 65B of Evidence Act needs relook: SC JudgeIn a separate ruling as part of the same judgment, Justice Ramasubramanian also held, “…the major jurisdictions of the world have come to terms with the change of times and the development of technology and fine-tuned their legislations. Therefore, it is the need of the hour that there is a relook at Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, introduced 20 years ago, by Act 21 of 2000, and which has created a huge judicial turmoil, with the law swinging from one extreme to the other in the past 15 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/certificate-under-evidence-act-proviso-must-for-admissibility-of-electronic-evidence-sc/articleshow/76986076.cms||Vishwas Kothari
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Even 90+ in Plus II not enough for top choices, fear students||KOLKATA: The initial euphoria and congratulatory messages over, students of ISC and CBSE Class XII fear even 90+ aggregate scores may not be good enough. To get that dream admission, the magic number is 95+. They are tense and say they might have to settle far below their expectations as board scores have become very important to crack admissions because the Covid situation is making colleges, universities and other institutes give up entrance examinations. This is not only true for humanities and commerce UG aspirants, but also for those looking to study engineering in private colleges. The latter are also cancelling their entrance tests one by one. Times ViewIt would have been better if all boards had come together and taken a common decision on what to do with subjects for which written exams could not be held because of the Covid disruption. There would have been less disparity that way.Naman Joe Naveen of Birla High School has scored 92% in CBSE XII in the science stream. He has got the information that Vellore Institute of Technology and SRM will not conduct their entrance exams. Bits Pilani and Manipal institutes are asking for board marks and have postponed entrance tests. “There are thousands with marks above 95% who will now have an advantage over us. We just hope that the state-conducted JEE Mains and Advanced are held or we will be in a difficult situation,” he said. For commerce student Sarvesh Kedia, who has scored 93.5% in ISC from St James’ School, the marks don’t look good enough. The cut-off for the coveted St Xavier’s commerce stream seems to be beyond his reach. He could not secure direct admission in Ashoka University through essay submissions, an aptitude test and an interview and will have to depend on his board marks. “Thousands have scored beyond 95% and they have an edge over us,” he said. Some commerce students who wanted to get into Narsee Monjee College in Mumbai said even 94% looked bleak compared to the steep cut-off. “My 94.3% might not get me an admission into St Xavier’s College here,” said Shlok Saha, a student of St James’ School. “It’s a grey situation even with a score of 93% in science. Since NEET is getting postponed, I might look for admission in microbiology, botany or chemistry in a degree college or university, like Presidency or Jadavpur. But it seems that 95% is the magic number,” said Sneha Roy from DPS Ruby Park. Though her parents are happy, Bhavya Jha of the same school is tense that she might not get to study psychology at St Xavier’s, Mumbai, Mithibai College, Mumbai, Fergusson College, Pune, or Loreto College here, despite her 93%. “I might have to wait for a second or third list,” she said. Students say the chance of admission in Jadavpur University, in subjects like English, is extremely low with the current scores. “With a score of 92%, how can I hope for a seat? St Xavier’s College here, St Stephen’s College and Delhi University will remain my dream institutes forever,” said Swapneel Ganguly of Heritage School. “We are about to hold meetings over the next two days on admissions. Students are excelling these days,” said Father Dominic Savio, principal of St Xavier’s College. “We treat all boards equally and go by the board results for admissions,” said Father Felix Raj, VC of St Xavier’s University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/even-90-in-plus-ii-not-enough-for-top-choices-fear-students/articleshow/76988321.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist reports 132 cases, 5 deaths||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 132 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, highest in single day so far. With this, the total count of cases has reached 1,515. In addition, the district also reported five deaths, including one from the city, taking the toll of Covid casualties to 39. Of the 132 new cases, 13 were reported from the city limits. The total cases in the city has reached 141 with four casualties. Meanwhile, Ichalkaranji reported 26 more cases and two deaths on Wednesday. Sangli reports 75 new cases Sangli district on Wednesday registered 75 Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of patients to 779, of which, 351 are currently active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-132-cases-5-deaths/articleshow/76986064.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy rains inundate Hyderabad roads, thunderstorms likely till July 19||HYDERABAD: Heavy rainfall of up to 95 mm lashed parts of the city on Wednesday leaving many areas inundated. According to the India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad, the thunderstorm activity is likely to continue till July 19. As per Telangana State Development Planning Society’s (TSDPS) figures up to 7 pm, Bala Nagar received the highest rainfall of 95.8 mm followed by 85 mm at Bhagath Singh Nagar, 80.5 mm at Kukatpally, 70 mm at Begumpet and 63.5 mm at Balaji Nagar. Many other areas such as Monda Market, Sardarmahal, Maitrivanam, Srinagar Colony received 30-40 mm rainfall up to 4 pm. The IMD officials termed it a regular southwest monsoon activity. “Light to moderate showers will continue for the next few days. One or two spells of intense rains can be expected in some areas until July 19,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD. The maximum temperature nosedived to 28.5 degree Celsius on Wednesday from 32.1 degree Celsius recorded on July 13. Heavy rains led to waterlogging in many parts of the city and 102 complaints of water-logging and tree fall were registered with GHMC till 6 pm. Intense rainfall also occurred in many districts. Up to 7 pm, 194 mm rainfall occurred at Annasagar in Sangareddy followed by 129.9 mm at Kotapally in Mancherial and 126.5 mm at Venkatraopet, Siddipet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-rains-inundate-city-roads-thunderstorms-likely-till-july-19/articleshow/76988308.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||Gang kidnaps toddler outside house to sell, rescued after 15 days, 4 arrested||GHAZIABAD: A four-year-old boy was rescued from Moradabad, 15 days after he was allegedly kidnapped by a woman while he was playing outside his home in Sudamapuri area, police said on Wednesday. The cops have also arrested four persons in connection with the case. The police found the arrested accused are part of a gang that “kidnapped and sold” children in other cities. According to police, the accused — Tarun (20), Rohit (25), and Kamlesh (55, also Rohit’s mother) — are residents of Vijay Nagar. Meanwhile, Rampal alias Rajbahadur (45), is from Moradabad. The cops are still tracing the woman who took the child from outside his house. On June 29, a woman from Lal Quarter in Sudamapuri lodged a missing complaint at Vijay Nagar police station. She said that her son was playing outside with other children when she sent him to a shop to buy a milk packet. When the boy didn’t return for over an hour, she went looking. Unable to trace him, she went to the cops who lodged the case under IPC Section 363 (kidnapping). She also told the cops that she suspected her ex-husband to be behind the kidnapping. However, police found a CCTV footage in which two men could be seen with the boy on a bike. The men were then traced. Rajeev Singh, SHO (Vijay Nagar), said the accused confessed that the woman who kidnapped the child took the boy to an empty shop where Rohit and Tarun were waiting. “Rohit and Tarun took the boy and handed him over to Kamlesh, who knew Rampal,” he added. Rampal had fixed a deal with a person in Moradabad for Rs 2 lakh. “A police office contacted Rampal four days ago and introduced himself as a customer, claiming he had been married for several years but had no children. The cop offered him Rs 3 lakh for the boy,” he said. “Rampal asked the cop to reach Moradabad. Police arrested him and rescued the boy,” he added. Police have also recovered the two-wheeler that was used in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gang-kidnaps-toddler-outside-house-to-sell-rescued-after-15-days-4-arrested/articleshow/76988309.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
July 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Class X student commits suicide in Maharashtra's Sangli district||KOLHAPUR: A Class X student committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling of his house in a remote village of Sangli district’s Jat tehsil, said police, adding that no suicide note was found. According to Jat police, the deceased — Adarsh Appasaheb Harale — took the extreme step after his father refused to buy him a mobile phone for his online classes. The incident took place on Monday evening when Adarsh argued with his father and demanded a mobile phone. Police said that Adarsh was upset with his father and when his father had stepped out for some work, he killed himself. Investigating officer Pravin Patil said that police had recorded statements of Adarsh’s parents, villagers, village chief (sarpanch) and others which indicate that the boy was upset since the last few days as his father was unable to meet his demand. Jat police said that Adarsh’s father is a marginal farmer with no substantial income. In his statement to the police, the deceased’s father expressed his inability to buy his son a phone. Adarsh is survived by his parents and a brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/class-x-student-commits-suicide-in-sangli-dist/articleshow/76986071.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rain disrupts life in Kolhapur and Satara||Kolhapur: Kolhapur and Satara districts received incessant rainfall since Tuesday night, leading to increase in water levels in the dams and rivers of these regions. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai issued an alert for these regions. The IMD report stated that heavy to very heavy rainfall will be witnessed in ghat sections of south Maharashtra districts on Thursday, including Kolhapur and Satara. The discharge of water from dams in both districts has increased with river water levels rising one inch per hour. Panchganga river water level reached 16.9 feet by 7.00 pm. Kolhapur district authorities have appealed to the citizens to brace for rise in water levels over the next two days. Meanwhile, two rescue teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) arrived in Kolhapur district, of which, one will be stationed in the city and another one at Shirol. Resident deputy collector Bhausaheb Galande said, “The NDRF teams will be stationed at two places till August 31. Each team comprises 22 rescue jawans with two boats, 50 life jackets and ten rescue rings. Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s chief fire officer Ranjit Chile and Shirol tehsildar Aparna More will co-ordinate with the teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rain-disrupts-life-in-kolhapur-and-satara/articleshow/76986079.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 104 fresh Covid-19 cases, 81 recoveries||DEHRADUN: With 104 fresh cases on Wednesday, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 3,785. A total of 81 people recovered from the coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total number of recovered people to 2,948 in the state. “The state’s recovery rate is now 77.88 per cent and infection rate 4.13 per cent,” said Abhishek Tripathi of Covid-19 war room. “The most number of infections, 52, were reported from state capital Dehradun on Wednesday. The district also reported the maximum recoveries, as 32 people were discharged from hospitals and Covid care centres in Doon,” Tripathi added. In Nainital, 24 new cases were reported on the day, followed by eight in Uttarkashi, seven in Pithoragarh, six in Udham Singh Nagar, five in Haridwar and one each in Champawat and Pauri. “Among the 52 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, 25 are contacts of people who had tested positive earlier. A few are from the Army and ITBP, while others are returnees,” said Tripathi. Also, with 2,985 new samples collected on July 15, the total number of samples collected in the state crossed the one lakh mark. “We have collected 1,02,529 samples till July 15, among which reports of 6,924 reports are pending,” added Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-reports-104-fresh-covid-19-cases-81-recoveries/articleshow/76986083.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Central Rly completed 23 FOBs during lockdown||Nagpur: In addition to running freight trains to keep essential supplies flowing, and running select special passenger trains across the country, the Central Railway has completed important infrastructure works utilizing lockdown announced in last week of March 2020. “The amount of works it has done would have required many traffic blocks and impacted trains running during normal period. Work at 23 locations over Central Railway for launching of steel girders for 14 foot over bridges (FOBs) and dismantling distressed steel structures of 9 FOBs was carried out since lockdown,” said chief public relations officer (CPRO) Shivaji Sutar. Out of these 23 important infrastructures works in five divisions, 7 were in Mumbai, 10 in Bhusawal, one each in Nagpur and Solapur, and 3 in Pune and one by the construction wing. In Mumbai, 6-metre-wide girders for FOB at Dombivli station and 3.66-metre-wide midsection FOB near Belapur station were launched. Besides, two distressed steel spans of FOB were dismantled at Wadala, one span of FOB each at Ambarnath and Ambivli, and 2 spans of FOB at Atgaon. Two spans of more than 100-year-old FOB at Vashind railway station were dismantled. In Nagpur division, 6-metre-wide FOB girders having 6 spans crossing 16 railway tracks were launched at Wardha station. Similarly, at Bhusawal station girder launching was done to replace old FOB with a new 4.88-metre FOB. Launching of girders of 3.66-metre-wide FOB at Bodwad station on Bhusawal-Badnera section and one FOB at New Amravati in Badnera-Narkhed section was also done. Launching of girders for replacement of old FOB by 6-metre-wide FoB at Akola station was taken up along with launching of girders at Chandur Bazaar (Amravati) and Nandura station on Bhusawal-Badnera section. Officials said dismantling of old corrugated steel structures of distressed FOBs at Bhusawal, Nashik Road and Shegaon stations was taken up. In Solapur division, launching of 6-metre-wide FOB girder was done at Daund, Kadethan and Chinchwad stations. Besides, dismantling of two spans of FOB at Talegaon station in Pune division was completed. “Optimum utilization of manpower during lockdown, effective utilization of limited resources and machinery and duly observing norms mandated for Covid-19 was done during execution of above works,” said Sutar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-rly-completed-23-fobs-during-lockdown/articleshow/77006347.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Bike lifter gang busted, six vehicles recovered||RUDRAPUR: Three members of a motorbike lifter gang were held in Udham Singh Nagar district and six stolen two-wheelers were also recovered on Wednesday. The arrested motorbike lifters have been identified as Nitin Kumar (Kashipur resident), Mandeep Singh (Rampur resident), and Imran Ali (Moradabad resident). Reportedly, a team of Kunda police station was patrolling the Mandi outpost area when two bikes coming from Kashipur were stopped for checking. During inspection, the police team found out that the motorbikes were stolen. The accused tried to outrun police officials but were nabbed. Vinod Fartyal, SHO of Kunda police station, told TOI that four more motorbikes were recovered from Rampur. “The motorbikes were stolen from Kashipur and nearby areas. The arrested motorbike lifters were presented before the court later in the day,” said SHO Fartyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bike-lifter-gang-busted-six-vehicles-recovered/articleshow/76986090.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Water conservation programme launched||Nashik: The police commisionerate on Wednesday launched the water conservation programme in which soak pits will be created to recharge groundwater artificially by rainwater harvested from the rooftops. The programme, under the technical guidance of the Namami Goda Foundation, Nashik, has been launched with the help of funds from the Corporation Social Responsibility of the various business and commercial establishments. Nashik commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre-Patil launched the programme across 65 police establishments by inaugurating one of the programmes in Satpur police station. “With this, we underline our commitment for the ecological development and water conservation programme. Wherever possible, we will use the system to recharge our borewells in our establishments and at other places we will have structures that will help recharge the sub-surface through the soak pits with filtered water harvested from the roof tops,” Patil said. “The concept is to ensure rainwater is harvested and is used to recharge the groundwater levels using the existing borewells. Usually, a recharge shaft is drawn for artificial recharging purpose, which will not be the case here,” said Rajesh Pandit of the Namami Goda Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/water-conservation-programme-launched/articleshow/76986100.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 16, 2020||Goa||‘Construct Western Bypass on stilts’||Margao: South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha on Wednesday demanded that the government heed to the demand of the locals to construct the Western Bypass on stilts to save the villages from flooding and prevent destruction of agriculture, even as he came out in support of the locals in their opposition to the Railways’ double tracking project in Cansaulim and surrounding areas. Pointing out to the imminent loss of agriculture cover and immense loss for farmers if the Western Bypass is constructed by filling of low lying fields, Sardinha warned that the situation will be irreversible once the bypass road is constructed. Lending his support to the anti-track doubling agitation, Sardinha said that while there was no issue with railway expansion project from Kulem to Majorda, the rail doubling work would adversely affect villagers from Majorda to Cansaulim. He said that the project would only serve to benefit coal transportation with no accrual of benefits to locals. Criticising the government for “mismanagement” of the Covid pandemic in the state, Sardinha accused the government of failing to upgrade the health infrastructure during the lockdown period. He reiterated his demand for regularisation of nurses employed in the health department. Voicing concern over the loss of livelihood of many farmers owing to the closure of the Sanjeevani sugar factory at Dharbandora, Sardinha demanded that the government instead work for revival of the factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/construct-western-bypass-on-stilts/articleshow/76988960.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Noida||Noida: Man thrashed by group of youths for asking toll||GREATER NOIDA: A 25-year-old toll staffer deployed at Beel Akbarpur toll plaza on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) in Dadri was allegedly beaten up by eight persons who arrived in three vehicles after a local youth had an argument with one of the toll staffers over the payment of toll on Tuesday evening. Police said the incident took place around 6.30pm when the main accused, Om Bhati, was travelling towards Chithera village in Dadri from Haryana. Om was asked to pay the toll at the toll plaza but he refused to do so saying that locals staying within the periphery of the villages neighbouring the EPE were exempt from paying the toll. Dadri SHO Dinesh Singh said the argument escalated and the youth called up his friends who arrived in a Scorpio and a scooter and thrashed the toll staffer brutally. The accused have been booked for rioting, unlawful assembly, criminal intimidation and culpable homicide not amounting to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/man-thrashed-by-group-of-youths-for-asking-toll/articleshow/76988314.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hired buses add to TSRTC’s financial woes||Hyderabad: Hired buses are adding to the financial woes of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC). There are over 3,000 buses hired by the RTC from private parties. As per the agreement, the RTC has to pay a minimum amount to the hired bus owners irrespective of their buses being operated or not. Hired buses welfare association general secretary V Yadaiah said the corporation is due to pay them nearly Rs 100 crore. “Nearly 10,000 families are dependent on these hired buses for their livelihood,” V Yadaiah said. The association has submitted a memorandum to transport minister P Ajay Kumar to release at least 50% of dues. A senior official said they have been operating private buses but not all of them for all days of the month. “A total 10,000 buses are operated by the TSRTC normally. Of the total, about 3,200 are hired buses. Due to coronavirus-lock down and lack of occupancy ratio, less than 5,000 buses are being operated. The Rs 100 crore is an exaggerated amount,” the official said. Sources said the issue would be taken to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hired-buses-add-to-tsrtcs-financial-woes/articleshow/76988313.cms||Roushan Ali
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||Artiste files plea in Bombay HC against bar on those above 65 at shootings||MUMBAI: A condition barring persons above 65 from participating in shootings deprived them of a livelihood and they are facing starvation, a film and TV artiste told Bombay high court. Pramod Pandey (70) urged HC to quash and set aside the condition, mentioned in May 3 and June 23 guidelines, to restart media entertainment industry for Mission Begin Again, that “any cast/crew above 65 will not be allowed at the site”. Pandey’s petition, filed through advocate Ashok Saraogi, said he was a writer, acted in films and TV serials and was fully dependent on his profession, which was his only source of income and livelihood. “The petitioner is starving for want of funds, and if the condition remains, he and alike persons will not be able to earn a livelihood,” it stated, adding that there was no financial support from organisations. The petition stated that the situation will not improve in near future and at least was not expected to be back on track in few months. “It is an unhidden fact that the disease (Covid-19) has not only affected elders but also persons of all age groups and there was no criteria, though general guidelines indicated that the possibilities of a person getting affected with it are more with those aged above 65,” it added. Pandey dismissed it as “only assertions and imagination of the departments concerned” and added that “if facts and figures are called for, it will be found that majority persons affected by the disease are below 65”. He pointed out that persons above 65, “including top-most authorities in India on the administrative side, have been functioning regularly”. He sought a stay on the condition pending hearing and disposal of the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/artiste-files-plea-against-bar-on-those-above-65-at-shootings/articleshow/76987599.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC demolishes 2 illegal buildings||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) demolished two unauthorised multi-storeyed buildings in Ayyapa Society of Madhapur on Wednesday. The civic body demolished the buildings with the help of an excavator. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar said that of the 44 unauthorised structures on Gurukul Trust lands, 36 were demolished between June 29 and July 14. The 36 buildings were demolished using small excavators, compressors and gas cutters. To demolish the remaining eight multi-storeyed buildings, a long reach excavator was hired.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-demolishes-2-illegal-buildings/articleshow/76988323.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mysuru||Schools in Mysuru excel in CBSE class X results||Mysuru: City schools have excelled in the CBSE Class 10 results announced on Wednesday. Nirmala Kumari M, principal, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Mysuru, said that of the 188 students of the school who appeared for the examination, 183 have passed. Sri Sharada Public School has secured 100% results. Akshay LB is the school topper. Out of 40 students appeared for the examination, 13 came up with distinction while 27 students got first class, said school secretary R Manjunath Srivatsa. Kautilya Vidyalaya too registered 100% results for the 10th consecutive year in the AISSE (X) board examinations. Parikshith MS topped the school with 97%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/schools-in-mysuru-excel-in-cbse-class-x-results/articleshow/76988933.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Bounty criminal wanted for constable’s murder held||RUDRAPUR: A criminal who had Rs 10,000 bounty on his head, was held for allegedly having killed an Uttar Pradesh police constable. The accused Gaurav Chawla was arrested from Rajpura Dera area under Gadarpur police jurisdiction. . “Chawla is a native of Delhi. Police also recovered a .32 bore pistol and two live cartridges from his possession, was wanted for the murder of Mayank Katariya, a constable of UP police. Chawla and his four accomplices had shot Mayank over a property dispute at a restaurant in Mahtosh town of Udham Singh Nagar district on August 13, last year,” said the district’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Daleep Singh Kunwar. The four accomplices of the accused were arrested earlier while Chawla was at large. Police had earlier announced a reward of Rs 2,500 on his head which was increased to Rs 10,000 by DGP (law and order) Ashok Kumar earlier this week. The team which arrested the accused was led by Deepshikha Agrawal, circle officer of Bazpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bounty-criminal-wanted-for-constables-murder-held/articleshow/76986103.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 16, 2020||Vadodara||Court grants bail to youtuber Shubham Mishra||VADODARA: Youtuber Shubham Mishra, who was arrested for allegedly abusing and threatening a stand-up comedian, was released on bail on Wednesday. Mishra, 26, was produced before a judicial magistrate’s court on Wednesday, a day after he was formally arrested. Police did not seek his remand and requested the court to send him to judicial custody. “We have collected evidence from him and his further interrogation was not needed, so we did not seek his custody,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Sandeep Chaudhary. Meanwhile, Mishra sought bail which was granted to him. Police said that his mobile phone has been seized for investigation and it will be sent for forensic analysis to find out if he had made more such abusive videos in the past. Mishra had allegedly posted a video on his Instagram account hurling abuses and rape threats at stand-up comedian Agrima Joshua for a video of hers. His arrest was made after the National Commission for Women (NCW) had sought immediate action against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-grants-bail-to-youtuber-shubham-mishra/articleshow/76987133.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kochi||Jewellers who buy smuggled gold identified, says customs||Kochi: The customs department probing the Thiruvanthapuram gold smuggling case has identified a few jewellers in northern Kerala who used to allegedly purchase the gold smuggled into the country by the racket involved in the case. Sources said raids were held at properties owned by jewellers at Kozhikode and Malappuram. “Our investigation points to the involvement of four jewellers who bought the gold smuggled through the diplomatic channel by the syndicate. Raids are going on at the properties of jewellers and culprits would be nabbed soon,” said a senior customs officer. National Investigation Agency had told the special court on Tuesday that the proceeds from the gold were for terrorism purposes and not for jewellers. “As of now the investigation is leading us to jewellers. If there is a terror angle to it, then another agency is investigating the matter, and it can look into it,” said a senior customs official. Customs recorded the arrest of three more persons in connection with the case late on Tuesday night. Jalal A M of Muvattupuzha, Mohammed Shafi and Hamjad Ali of Malappuram were the arrested accused and were allegedly involved in financing the smuggling racket and disposing of the gold. Customs officers said Sandeep Nair and K T Ramees were the masterminds behind the smuggling operation and that they used to make the maximum profit out of it. “Sandeep and Ramees came up with the idea to use the diplomatic channel to smuggle gold. Swapna and Sarith were recruited by Sandeep and they resigned their jobs at the consulate at his direction to become the racket’s links in execution of the operation as they were close to the diplomats. Apart from Ramees and Sandeep, the others arrested in connection with the racket have no direct connection with Swapna and Sarith,” said an officer. Ramees is the chief financier and buyer in the racket. He used to coordinate with other financiers, they said. “Jalal, who has a history in smuggling, collected funds from other financiers and handed it over to Ramees. The money was then sent to UAE via hawala channels. Faisal Fareed was the one who was involved in packaging and sending the gold through the diplomatic channel from UAE. Swapna’s job was to ensure the smooth passage and Sarith was supposed to pick up the baggage and hand it over to Sandeep. The gold then goes to Jalal through Ramees and later to the buyers,” said an officer. The officers added that they are probing whether Faisal, the racket’s link in UAE, received help from others as well. They also said that former principal secretary M Sivasankar’s statements were recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act. “Right now, we are yet to find a direct connection between the bureaucrat and the actual smuggling,” said the source. According to sources, one more person, hailing from Malappuram has been taken in custody and his arrest is expected soon. Meanwhile, documents and diaries are learnt to have been found in a bag seized from Sandeep Nair which was opened by NIA at the NIA court on Wednesday. The NIA had on Monday submitted before the court that the bag had to be opened at the court as it contained crucial evidence that can shed light on the entire smuggling network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jewellers-who-buy-smuggled-gold-identified-says-customs/articleshow/76987356.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown in Dharwad district total||Dharwad: The first day of the 10-day lockdown in Dharwad district on Wednesday saw people respond positively and remain indoors in a bid to fight the spread of Covid-19. In fact, many traders and residents and demanded another lockdown even before the district administration could think of one. That another round of lockdown was in the offing was a writing on the wall as there was a steep surge in Covid 19 cases and deaths in the district after the lockdown was withdrawn. The infection which was confined to certain pockets in the twin cities of Dharwad and Hubballi had spread to other localities and rural areas too. To enforce the lockdown strictly, the administration set up 18 check-posts in the border areas of the district to restrict the entry of people and vehicles from outside. Barricades have been erected on main roads and only government vehicles on Covid duty are being allowed to ply. All shops remained closed since morning on Wednesday. As some relaxation has been given for supply of essential commodities, only vegetable and fruit stalls, provision stores, bakeries and eateries were open till noon. Public transport was banned and attendance in banks and government offices was thin. The offices of the additional commissioner of public instruction, commercial tax and State Bank of India’s Hosayallapur branch were sealed down after employees tested positive. The lockdown will continue till 8pm of July 24. K’buragi cops cane wanderers, seize vehicles Kalaburagi: The lockdown in Kalaburagi was strictly enforced with police resorting to mild caning to drive away people who wandered outside. Almost all shops stayed closed and no private vehicles hit the roads on Wednesday. Only people in emergency services and government employees were allowed to work. Police seized some vehicles for violation lockdown rules. Police increased patrolling in residential and commercial areas and were stationed at major traffic junctions. Traffic movement reduced considerably from Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-in-dharwad-district-total/articleshow/76987433.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Immunity-boosting Vitamin C tablets in short supply, say Bengaluru chemists||BENGALURU: After paracetamol tablets and pulse oximeters, Vitamin C tablets are flying off the shelves, say city chemists. The drug needs no prescription for purchase and is an immunity booster, which is also given to Covid-19 patients. Physicians say a four-week course of the supplement can be very helpful in improving immunity. Multiple chemists TOI spoke to confirmed that a huge demand has resulted in short supply. However, if anyone wants Vitamin C supplements and is willing to pay in advance, supply could be assured, said a chemist in Malleswaram. Chemists say that ahead of the lockdown, many sought to purchase the tablets in bulk. “We have had many queries for Vitamin C tablets. It requires no prescription and is cheap. The demand is only increasing,” said a chemist near Hanumanthanagar, where a spurt in Covid cases has been noticed. Though there has been a huge demand for the drug since April, there was a further spike after a rapid rise in positive cases in the city over the last few weeks, say chemists. “There has been more than 50% increase in sale of Vitamin C tablets,” said MK Mayanna, president, Bruhat Bengaluru Chemists and Druggists Association. According to Dr Ramana Rao, physician and cardiologist, Vitamin C, Vitamin D and Zinc supplements can be taken for a period of eight weeks as they can improve immunity. “A 500mg tablet of Vitamin C drug taken every day for eight weeks can help in improving immunity. Vitamin D supplement must be taken once a week. Zinc supplement can be taken daily. Multi-vitamin tablets are helpful, but it’s better to consult a doctor,” said Dr Rao. Dr Rao added that these medicines must not be given to children without prescription and paediatricians must be consulted. However, Dr Jagadish Hiremath, CEO, ACE Suhas Hospital, said Vitamin C, D, E & Zinc are given generically to most patients who are healing. “They are not proven immune boosters as is being claimed. These drugs, when taken in large quantities, cause toxicity. In my opinion, people should stop self- medicating. If they increase consumption of food which provide these to the body, that should be enough. There is no need for supplements when we know that they can cause problems of hypervitaminosis and toxicity,” he said. Dr Hiremath instead suggested consumption of Vitamin C the natural way in the form of fruits and vegetables. Fruits with the highest sources of Vitamin C include oranges and grapefruits, mangos, papayas, pineapples, strawberries, raspberries, blueberries cranberries and watermelon. “Vegetables like broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, spinach, cabbage, turnip greens and other leafy greens, sweet and white potatoes and tomatoes are naturally rich in Vitamin C. Uncooked or raw fruits and vegetables are the best source of Vitamin C,” added Dr Hiremath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/immunity-boosting-vitamin-c-tablets-in-short-supply-say-chemists/articleshow/76987623.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||99 private doctors died of Covid, 1,302 affected in India||MUMBAI: At least 99 doctors have died of Covid-19 and 1,302 were affected in India, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said on Wednesday. The doctors’ body said the case fatality rate stood at a significant 8%. Maharashtra accounted for over 20% of the deaths in doctors, the highest among states. IMA said it had created a database to document infections among healthcare workers. According to IMA’s National Covid Registry, 74% deaths were in the 50 years plus age group, while 19% were among 35-50 years. There were seven deaths of doctors younger than 35. IMA’s numbers are limited to private sector and do not reflect the burden of infections among doctors in public sector. In terms of infections, private consultants and resident doctors seem to have been largely affected. Of the 1,302 infected, 586 were private consultants, 566 resident doctors and 150 house surgeons. IMA has told doctors and medical administrators to raise their guard. “If Covid mortality has to be reduced, it has to start with doctors and hospitals. The data analysis shows that while senior doctors and young doctors are equally infected with Covid, mortality is higher among elders,” said IMA president Dr Rajan Sharma. In Mumbai, 1,000-plus healthcare workers have been affected in public and private hospitals. KEM and Sion hospitals have seen over 300 infections each. The city has also seen nine deaths among doctors, including five alternative practitioners. IMA president (Maharashtra) Dr Avinash Bhondwe said the state had neglected the safety of private practitioners and left them vulnerable by failing to streamline availability of personal protective equipment (PPE) to ensuring their prices were capped. He said many smaller hospitals were arbitrarily taken over without ensuring they had resources. “Many of these hospitals were unfit to become Covid centres but were coerced,” said Bhondwe, adding that private doctors were not even extended the Centre’s insurance cover. Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) president Dr Shivkumar Utture said issues about availability and quality of PPE have been unresolved even after four months. “So far, only fabric used for PPE is checked for standardisation and not the complete kit. That goes for N95 masks. From two or three players, dozens of manufacturers have flooded the market and are operating without much scrutiny. All these factors compromise the safety of doctors,” he said, adding that it was not enough to call doctors ‘Covid warriors’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/99-private-doctors-died-of-covid-1302-affected-in-india/articleshow/76987626.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Noida||Indian Navy officer killed, 2 colleagues injured in e-way accident||GREATER NOIDA: A 34-year-old Indian Navy officer associated with the National Cadet Corps (NCC) died and two of his colleagues suffered injuries after the car they were traveling in was hit by an unknown vehicle on Yamuna Expressway early on Wednesday. The incident took place at 3.25 am around 28 km away from the Zero Point on the expressway. The deceased, identified as Satish Chandra Gangwar, was travelling towards Delhi with his colleagues Kuldeep and Dhananjay Singh. Police said that the three officers reside at the Chatham Lines campus of the NCC in Prayagraj and were travelling in a Himachal Pradesh registered number plate car that was owned by Gangwar. "It seems that they were speeding and was hit by a heavy vehicle from behind. Gangwar, who was behind the wheels, was brought dead at Kailash hospital, Jewar, by an ambulance of the emergency response team operational on the expressway," Rabupura station officer Vineet Kumar told TOI, adding that the unknown vehicle is yet to be identified. He added that the family of the deceased has been informed. "They have given a complaint to us and we are scanning CCTV footage for further leads in the case," he said. Kumar added that the officers were going to the Indian Navy headquarters in Delhi. ACP Vishal Pandey told TOI that a team is investigating the incident. "It seems a heavy vehicle hit the car from behind. While Kuldeep has been discharged after being administered first aid, Dhananjay is still undergoing treatment. Both are in their early 30s," he said, adding that the deceased belongs to Bareilly and Kuldeep is from Aligarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/indian-navy-officer-killed-2-colleagues-injured-in-e-way-accident/articleshow/76988331.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Vidya Vahini for children in remote areas||Nashik: The Nashik Zilla Parishad on Wednesday launched the Nashik Vidya Vahini programme in which Nashik Akashwani will air academic learning initiatives for children living in the remote areas of the district. It was launched with the help of non-governmental organisations and non-profit organisations. It will be aired from Monday to Saturday, free of cost through 101. 4 FM band. Balasaheb Kshirsagar, the president of Nashik ZP, said, “The ZP will take every step to ensure children get an education at a time when it is best to stay at home to remain safe from the Covid-19.” The launching of the programme was conducted in the ZP auditorium. It has been partnered with Pratham Education Foundation and Centre for Learning Resources (CLR) Pune. The second initiative of the Nashik ZP is launching of Nashik Education Helpline – a social website (Telegram)—-based chatbot that will provide students, parents, teachers and officials to interact and deliver audio-visual content for learning. In the third initiative, the ZP has appealed to the people to donate a device from a smartphone to a television set that can help children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vidya-vahini-for-children-in-remote-areas/articleshow/76986127.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Panel stages hunger strike||Warangal: Congress party’s Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation committee staged a hunger strike on Wednesday demanding the state government to include Covid-19 in the Arogyasri health scheme to help BPL families. The committee president, K Srinivasa Rao, stated that Covid cases are increasing by the day. He urged the authorities ensure the people follow the norms in the tri-cities. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panel-stages-hunger-strike/articleshow/76988332.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Local bizman kills self in Haridwar, FIR against kin||HARIDWAR: A local businessman killed himself inside his shop in Haridwar on Tuesday. According to sources, he was distressed over a family property dispute. Based on a suicide note,police have booked five of his family members, including his mother and younger brother. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “We have registered a case under relevant sections of the IPC. Further probe is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/local-bizman-kills-self-in-haridwar-fir-against-kin/articleshow/76986109.cms||MS Nawaz
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Dindori MP seeks govt intervention||Nashik: Member of Parliament from Dindori and BJP leader Bharti Pawar has presented a memorandum to state agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, requesting his attention towards the problems faced by farmers, especially in getting crop loan and fertilizers. Pawar, who recently visited several areas in her constituency and spoke to the farmers, also raised several questions with the agriculture minister about the delay in providing loans and fertilizers to the farmers. “Kharif sowing is about to end and the farmers have still not got crop loan sanctioned by the banks. They are either using their own corpus funds or taking money from ptivate money lenders. The state government should expedite the Mahatma Phule Shetkari Karj Mukti Yojana so that the beneficiaries get the money in time,” Pawar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dindori-mp-seeks-govt-intervention/articleshow/76986107.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Started to check Covid spread, telemedicine finds few takers in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Telemedicine consultation service, which has been started to provide remote diagnosis and treatment to minimise the risk of people getting infected by Covid-19, has received a lukewarm response in Punjab. To serve patients and halt the spread of coronavirus, the World Health Organization (WHO) has laid emphasis on patients staying at home and communicating with physicians virtually. It has recognised telemedicine as an important step in strengthening the health system’s response to the pandemic. Launched by the Punjab government on April 25 for general medicine and gynaecology, eSanjeevaniOPD service has managed to attract only 1,003 patients in 81 days. More than 12 patients availed the service on an average with collective consultation duration of 125 hours. Of the 250 doctors trained and enrolled for the service, half have not been consulted even once. Infrastructural and technical hurdles and lack of awareness are seen as key reasons for the concept not picking up in Punjab, where 8,511 Covid-19 cases and 213 deaths had been reported till Tuesday. A large population of the state does not have access to internet and computer\laptop. As per the data of National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) survey, only 9.4% households in rural areas of the state have computers, while 39.4% have internet connectivity. In urban areas, 26.7% households have computers, and 57.1% have access to internet. Earlier, for availing the service, laptop/desktop with high speed internet connection was required. For increasing access, the state government on July 1 launched a mobile application, enabling patients to avail the service of teleconsultations using their smartphones. According to figures of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), 42.46% of population in rural areas has mobile internet connections. To improve on this, the government is now planning to start the service on interactive voice response (IVR) calling. Once started, the reach of the service will widen substantially as Punjab has the second highest teledensity among all states in India at 121.41, while the national average is 93.98. Teledensity in Punjab is among the highest in both urban and rural parts of the state at 170.64 for cities and 81.84 in villages and towns, as per the TRAI data. The service was also hit by limited timing, which has been extended. The timings for gynaecology and general OPD services have been extended from 8am to 2pm from Monday to Saturday. Punjab health department nodal officer of eSanjeevaniOPD service Dr Deepinder Singh said required changes were being made to make the service more patient friendly. “There is also a need to generate awareness at the district level about the service,” said Dr Deepinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/started-to-check-covid-spread-telemed-finds-few-takers-in-pb/articleshow/76988319.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||No Kolkata candidate on Madhyamik Top-10 list||KOLKATA: The results of the state board’s Class X, which were published on Wednesday, showed that students from the districts have outperformed candidates from city schools yet again. None from the city have secured a spot in the top 10 for the first time in a decade. Educationists pointed out that the merit list has proved that with the leading schools having migrated to other boards, the state board has lost some of the best students. They blamed the state’s policies for driving the best away from the state board. Kolkata students have been steadily slipping down the Madhyamik merit list over the years. Four from Kolkata had featured among the top 10 last year and they shared the 9th and 10th spots. This year, none of the 84 students who shared the top 10 spots are from city schools. South Point School, which, till 2009, was one of the prized schools of West Bengal State Board, produced one of the highest scorers in CBSE Class X from the city this year — who scored 497 out of 500. Most CBSE-affiliated city schools fared brilliantly this year, with the number of students securing above 95% surpassing last year’s. “Nowadays, most students aim to study medicine, engineering or management, for which one has to be proficient in English. Also, English as a medium of instruction is popular, which is offered mostly by private schools in CBSE or CISCE,” said Saugata Basu, general secretary, West Bengal Government School Teachers’ Association. Another academic added that the grooming and overall development, which a student receives from private schools, are also more alluring. “These schools offer facilities which are unavailable in the government, government-aided or private schools under the state board,” he said. The migration to other boards started when admission through a lottery system was introduced at the government schools in 1995. “It meant that a student with merit would go to other schools since there was an uncertainty in admission in state board. Yet, students were retained to some extent till 2012, when a combined admission test was held for admission in Class III for candidates with merit. After the test was discontinued, there was further migration,” added a source in a government school. Headmasters said in several government and government-aided schools, there are vacancies in teaching and non-teaching posts. “Many schools are using stop-gap teachers. The assistant headmaster’s post is lying vacant in 32 among 39 government schools. An assistant headmaster is usually the one who prepares an academic routine and conducts exams. In several schools, even the headmasters’ position is vacant and the assistant masters-in-charge are carrying out the duties. In such an atmosphere, how can academics thrive?” questioned a teacher. The infrastructure in private schools is also better, which gives them an edge over the state-board affiliated educational institutions, sources said. Among the otherwise mundane Madhyamik results for the city, the only silver lining is this year’s soaring pass percentage, which has reached an all-time high of 86.3%. Aritra Pal, the first rank holder, from Memari Vidyasagar Memorial Institution, has bagged 694 out of 700. After East Midnapore (96.6%) and West Midnapore (92.2%), Kolkata has the highest success rate at 91.1%. Though the number of girls was high in Madhyamik, the pass percentage is lower than the boys’. This year, the marksheets will be distributed on July 22 and 23, and parents have been asked to maintain social distancing when collecting them from the schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-kolkata-candidate-on-madhyamik-top-10-list/articleshow/76988329.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 16, 2020||Goa||Yet another single-day high, Goa sees 198 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 tally rose to 1,259 on Wednesday after yet another single-day high of 198 new infections were detected. This was the second consecutive high for the state after Tuesday’s tally of 170. Wednesday also saw 67 persons cured of the disease and discharged. Over 100 of the day’s cases were linked to Mangor Hill, a disappointing development given the past few days has seen cases pertaining to the state’s first containment zone steadily dip. Also, the hotspot areas of Kharewada, New Vaddem, Zuarinagar, Sada and Baina — all in Vasco — reported a total of 81 cases on Wednesday. While June saw the emergence of new hotspots in South Goa, this month has seen the virus spread across the state. In North Goa too, the virus, which was more or less limited to Chimbel, Sakhali and Morlem, has made inroads into a number of other villages. The state has seen almost 500 new cases this week alone, with Tulip Diagnostics, a pharmaceutical unit at the Verna industrial estate, accounting for 136. Chimbel too inched closed to the century-mark with its 20 new cases on Wednesday taking the total to 93. Parts of Mapusa, too, have reported cases daily this week. This includes Karaswada, which has seen 16 cases over the past few days, and seven in Xelpem. Other areas that have seen a rise are Margao, Indiranagar, Ponda, Pernem and Dharbandora. Meanwhile, the total number of tests the state has conducted on Wednesday neared the 1,00,000-mark. Goa, which has been testing aggressively, conducts more tests per million population than any other state in the country. Over the past few days, the state has ramped up its testing even further. Chief minister Pramod Sawant appealed to the people to contact their nearest health centre for Covid tests, as most of them now have the facility. He said that if the health centre doesn’t have it, people should go to the district or sub-district hospital if they’re unwell. Sawant said that while most persons who died of Covid had co-morbidities, one person died of the infection after he didn’t seek medical help even after being sick for more than five days. By the time he was hospitalised, it was too late to save him, Sawant said. Goa has so far reported 18 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/yet-another-single-day-high-state-sees-198-cases-on-wed/articleshow/76988983.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nashik||State health panel projects 8,000 cases in city by July-end||Nashik: The state health assurance committee has projected that the number of Covid-19 cases in the city could cross the 8,000-mark by the end of July and directed the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to ensure adequate beds for treating the infected patients.  The CEO of the state health assurance panel Sudhakar Shinde on Wednesday reviewed NMC’s preparedness to deal with the rising number of cases. The city had only 10 cases till April 30 and 214 cases with eight deaths by the end of May.  The city recorded 1,968 cases in the month of June, taking the total tally of patients to 2,182 along with 105 deaths. However, the numbers went up drastically in July with as many as 2,255 cases being reported in the first two weeks. The same period also registered 76 deaths. Shinde on Wednesday visited NMC headquarters and held a meeting with municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game, additional municipal commissioner Pravin Ashtikar, city’s Covid nodal officer Avesh Palod, assistant medical health officer Prashant Shete, chief auditor B J Sonkamble, local MLA Devyani Pharande and other senior officials. During the meeting, Shinde directed Game to ensure that they have adequate number of oxygen and ICU beds with ventilators considering the spike in positive cases by July-end. Shinde instructed the civic health officials to get details of the comorbid and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-health-panel-projects-8000-cases-in-city-by-july-end/articleshow/76986143.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: High cut-offs even if CBSE 90% club shrinks||PUNE: A smaller 90% club of standard X students of Central Board of Secondary Education will not dent the cut-off for first-year junior college admissions, experts have said. Teachers have forecast that the number of outstation students coming to Pune will be reduced due to Covid-19 as a result of which there will be enough seats in top colleges for all students. They feel that steps like restoration of internal marks last year and the bonus marks given by the state board to students who have excelled in sports, arts or other activities would give an advantage to state board students over those from the central boards. Bhagwan Pandekar, a counsellor cum teacher from Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, said, “The reduction in the 90% club in CBSE may give the state board students an edge for FYJC admissions. But this year, many parents may not send their students to Pune due to the Covid 19 outbreak and prefer a college near their hometown. Hence, more seats will be up for grabs which is a good thing for state board students.” Jayshree Venkatraman of SNBP International School said most of the CBSE students prefer to continue with the same board as most of the entrance examinations are based on its syllabus. “First of all, we need to see how SSC results come out to make a comparison. Secondly, most of the top bracket students carry on in the same school for class XI and XII in CBSE,” Venkatraman said. Meena Shendkar, deputy director of education for Pune division, said the number of other board students applying for FYJC admissions was very less to actually make any difference. “The central board students, when compared to state board students, are very less. The cut-off marks in FYJC are decided mostly by how students score in the state board rather than the other boards,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/high-cut-offs-even-if-cbse-90-club-shrinks/articleshow/76988339.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 16, 2020||Nashik||11 shops seized for defaulting on Rs 25L rent||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), in the first phase, has seized 11 shops (galas) in commercial complexes across Satpur division for defaulting on rent payment of Rs 25 lakh. The NMC has started taking action against the shopholders in commercial complexes in the city for defaulting rents. Show-cause notice and final notices were sent to the defaulters by the NMC, but there were no replies. Hence, the NMC seized the shops. Now, the NMC has issued a public notice to these 11 defaulters, asking them to pay the rent amount within 14 days, by July 28. Otherwise, legal action will be taken against them, said NMC officials. The shops are given through auction for a period of three years and the shopholders have to renew after that. Rent is charged as per the Ready Reckoner (RR) rates. The NMC officials said, “Some of the shopholders do not pay rent to the municipal corporation. So, we have started taking action against the defaulters division-wise. We will seize shops of the defaulters in other divisions and allot the shops to other parties.” “We are making new agreements as per the RR rates and conducting a survey of all the shops in various commercial complexes in the city to find out the sub-tenants. Action will be taken against the shopholders if sub-tenants are found there,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/11-shops-seized-for-defaulting-on-rs-25l-rent/articleshow/76986152.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Schools help parents with fee options in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Several schools in the city have started reaching out to parents, offering instalments to clear the backlog of fees. The institutes said they were responding to parents’ formal appeals for financial help and were trying to work out a mode for staggered payment. “We never charged students for library, electricity or games even during regular school days. These heads have never been part of our fee structure. Our school fees are nominal, compared to that in other schools of our level. Normally, we charge fees on a quarterly basis. In this situation, we are charging fees on monthly basis to make it easy for parents. Instead of paying a lump sum, parents can pay in a staggered manner. Moreover, charges for books, diary, magazine etc have been dropped,” said principal of Calcutta Boys’ School Raja McGee. “We are also meeting parents individually on a one-on-one basis, if they have difficulty in paying school fees, to address their problems. However, we don’t want to make it a public issue.” “We are holding one-on-one discussions with parents, whoever is seeking relief in school fees. In some genuine cases, we have decided to allow them to pay the first-quarter fees in instalments and offer waivers,” said principal of Vivekananda Mission School Sarmistha Banerjee. “In my school, we have a reasonable fee structure. In spite of that, when parents with genuine issues are approaching the school, the authorities are trying to address their problems to the best possible extent. We have also broken up the annual charges into parts for the parents’ convenience,” said principal of Central Modern School Nabarun De. In April, the state government had asked schools across Bengal not to increase any fees for the 2020-21 academic session. Thereafter, private schools were also asked to submit a compliance report. “Based on the first letter from the state government in April, where private schools were asked to comply with the advice, the members of the Association of Schools for Indian School Certificate were requested to follow the state government’s suggestions,” said Ranjan Mitter, secretary of the ASISC (West Bengal and North-East chapter). “At the end of June, the association’s Bengal chapter had asked its members to formally inform the state government about their compliance, if they had not done so already, and mark a copy of the letter to the ASISC for its information and records,” added Mitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-help-parents-with-fee-options/articleshow/76988335.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||Rudrapur boy scores 99.6 %, highest in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Rishit Agarwal, an aspiring engineer, was busy attending a class on IIT preparations when the CBSE class 10 board exam results were announced. The 16-year-old student of Bhartiyam International School in Rudrapur, scored 498 out of 500, the highest in the state as well as Dehradun region, which comprises eight districts of Uttar Pradesh apart from the 13 of Uttarakhand. “I had an important class today and decided to celebrate the achievement after it was over,” Agarwal, who was also congratulated by CM Rawat on phone, told TOI. An avid badminton enthusiast, Agarwal said he didn’t take any tuitions. “I was completely dependent on what was taught at school. Now, I am focusing on my class 11 syllabus and will simultaneously prepare for IIT entrance exams. My aim is to pursue BTech from IIT Bombay,” he said. Both of Agarwal’s parents are doctors but he doesn’t want to pursue medical science because of his interest in Maths, a subject in which he has scored 100 per cent marks. The two top scorers from Dehradun district are Aastha Kandwal, who scored 497 out of 500, and Pratibha Mishra, who scored 495 out of 500. Kandwal is a student of DSB International Public School and Pratibha Mishra of TonsBridge School — the two institutes which also had the top scorers of CBSE class 12 Board exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudrapur-boy-scores-99-6-highest-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/76986141.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 1,000 more doses of CDV vaccine being procured for Asiatic lions||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat forest department is in the process of procuring 1,000 doses of purevax ferret distemper vaccine from Merial Inc, USA, according to a report by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). In 2018, a total of 1,300 doses of the vaccine, used for the treatment of canine distemper virus (CDV) in lions, were procured, out of which 1,100 had been utilized. Following a large number of lion deaths, as many as 85, between January and May, the Centre has recommended the setting up of a special committee of experts by the Gujarat government to look into the exact cause. The MoEF & CC report has not confirmed the CDV or any other disease that led to the deaths of the majestic beasts. Of these, 59 deaths have occurred in the Gir East Division, it added. This is the same area where the deadly CDV had taken toll on at least 27 Asiatic Lions in 2018 in less than two months’ span. The mortality detected in the Asiatic lion landscape during the entire calendar year 2018 and 2019 were 112 and 134 respectively, according to the findings of the report. Sources in the forest department said that the new vaccines have started arriving and may soon be given to the lions. The Indian Council for Medical Research had in October 2018 recommended “existing CDV Vaccine which should work as protective intervention against Gir lions.” The decision has, however, not gone down well with many wildlife experts who feel it can further endanger the lives of Asiatic lions whose population has been steadily rising in their last abode in Gujarat. The success story of Asiatic lions in Gir has become a model of conservation, with constant patrols against poachers. Presently, there is no dedicated CDV vaccine for the cat family and the only ones available are for ferrets and dogs. “No challenge studies have been done, so no claim can be made that antibodies produced by this vaccine in big cats are likely to protect against the canine distemper,” said a veterinary official aware of the development. For re-purposing any vaccine or drug in humans or animals, clinical trials have to be conducted in which its efficacy including short term and long term side effects are put to test. “No trials have been conducted regarding the use of ferret CDV vaccines for big cats including lions,” the official said. “Also, the CDV vaccine can give immunity for about six months period or so,” he said. The vaccine doses are scheduled to be given at 0, 21 and 42 days, and in the absence of whisker pattern, it is difficult to identify and vaccinate the same lion as per schedule, said sources. “The forest department has already radio collared about 75 lions. However, monitoring all lions for vaccination is a mammoth task,” the official added. A researcher from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) said that the ferret vaccine, if at all needs to be given, should be used on zoo lions and not those in the wild. The MoEF&CC report expediting the development of CDV vaccines for the strain isolated from Asiatic Lion population in Gir and addressing its efficacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1000-more-doses-of-cdv-vaccine-being-procured-for-asiatic-lions/articleshow/76988343.cms||Maulik Pathak
July 16, 2020||Dehradun||CBSE Class X board results: Dehradun schools post excellent scores||DEHRADUN: Several students of the state have performed exceptionally well in CBSE X board exams 2020. The city's well known Welham Boys’ saw Moksh Kandpal, Sarthak Singhal and Rudransh Agrawal scoring 98% each. Similarly, CJM Waverley in Mussoorie saw Jennifer John scoring 98.2% and Riddhima Gupta scoring 98%. The Kendriya Vidyalaya (ONGC) saw Sneha Singh scoring 97% and Kashish Rawat scoring 96.4%. Minakshi Saini of NIEPVD scored 93.6% while Anshu Maria Kujur scored 89.8%. Divya Godara of Ecole Globale International School topped the school by scoring 94.6% while Punya Punaini bagged the second position with 94.2%. The Doon International School saw Prashansa Bisht scoring 98.8% while Shreyansh Jugran and Meerakrupa Arpita scored 98% each. The DIS also saw Priyanshu Singh scoring 96.2% in his exams. The Kendriya Vidyalaya (Birpur) saw Mitul Bisht scoring 95% and Pankaj Singh Lamgria scoring 94%. Greenway School Roorkee's Harsh Vardhan Gupta has scored 99.6%. While Priyanshu Mahar of Army Public School (Birpur) scored 98.8%. Delhi Public School (Dehradun) saw Bhavya Gujral scoring 98.2%, Charchit Kuletha scoring 98%, Adityansh Chand, and Divesh Tiwari scoring 98% as well. Keshav Agarwal and Anshul Shukla of Tula's International School scored 93% and 88.6% respectively. Similarly, Children's Academy saw Sakshi Kanswal scoring 93.6% closely followed by Anushka Aggarwal scoring 93.2. The Olympus High School's Nishtha Chaudhary scored 98.8% followed by Rita Nandal scoring 98.6%. Both Harsh Aggarwal and Samaksh Mahajan of Selaqui International School scored 97.6%. Gayatri Vidyapeeth in Haridwar saw Ritika Mridul scoring 94.8% and Pragya Yadav scoring 92.6%. Doon Heritage School saw Shrishti Rawat scoring 97.6% and Osheen Dhasmana scoring 96.2%. While Sadgi Sajwan and Devang Dangwal of Saigrace Academy International scored 96% and 94% respectively. Shrishti Shukla topped in St. Kabeer Academy by scoring 99.2% while Adarsh Nayan Chaubey of Kendriya Vidyalaya (Hathibarkala) topped the school by scoring 95.83%. Kendriya Vidyalaya (ITBP) saw Nakshatra Beniwal scoring 98.2%. The Indian Academy saw Abhipsha Malgudi scoring 98.6%. The Oak Grove School saw Abhinav Akarsh scoring 98.2%. The Jaswant Modern Sr Sec School saw Isha Mittal scoring 97.7%. The Kasiga School saw Harshita Sobhani scoring 92.6%. The Asian School saw Rohan Trivedi scoring 97.8%. The Doon Global School saw Aarti Kumari scoring 98.4%. The Doon World School saw Vaibhav Maithani scoring 94%. The Mount Litera Zee School saw Garima Goswami scoring 95.6%. (With inputs by Aksheta Bahuguna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cbse-class-x-board-results-city-schools-post-excellent-scores/articleshow/76986145.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||In Covid battle, Haryana, Punjab now fight hoarding of lifesaving drugs||CHANDIGARH: Following complaints of black marketing of some lifesaving Covid-19 drugs in the National Capital Region (NCR), the drug authorities of Punjab and Haryana have started procuring these medicines directly from authorised wholesalers only for Covid hospitals. These drugs, including Remdesivir, Favipiravir and Tocilizumab, are used on patients with severe infection. In a bid to check hoarding, the Haryana drug officials have prepared a database of requirement of medicines for the patients admitted in ICUs and on ventilators. Accordingly, 100 Remdesivir and 200 Tocilizumab have been procured from Cipla, Ambala and are available at Rohtak warehouse. “Of the 4,984 active patients as on Monday, 81 are on oxygen and 11 on ventilators. By preparing a database of the hospitals where such patients are admitted, a fair assessment can be made for procurement of these drugs to avoid black marketing,” said Haryana drug controller of food and drugs administration Narendra Ahuja. He said, “These medicines will be made available only by wholesalers to avoid hoarding. For this, we have Google forms to serve as database, which need to be filled up by both hospitals and wholesalers.” Punjab also has directed its hospitals to procure these medicines from state’s warehouses, which will be stocked by the approved drug suppliers. Punjab health and family welfare director Dr Avneet Kaur said, “In order to make sure that no black marketing of lifesaving Covid medicines takes place, we are procuring lifesaving drugs, including Remdesiver, for critical patients in the state. It will be supplied by the companies concerned to our warehouses, from where it will be further supplied to all tertiary care units at the three government medical colleges and other government facilities in the state. This medicine will be given to the patients on the advice of an expert committee formed in all government Covid facilities.” There are 2,635 active cases in Punjab and 11 are on ventilators. An official of the Punjab health department said it has been proposed to supply these drugs free of cost but the final decision would be taken by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-covid-battle-haryana-punjab-now-fight-hoarding-of-lifesaving-drugs/articleshow/76988338.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||They beat poverty, secure above 97% in Madhyamik||KOLKATA/BURDWAN: When Rakhiaj Mollah of Mathurapur in South 24 Parganas learnt about his result at the Madhyamik examination, there was a tinge of regret. Despite scoring 681, he had missed the 10th rank by barely 2 marks. His father Alauddin, a daily labourer, was delighted that his son had done so well but he, too, had worries. “How do I sustain Rakhiaj's studies?” he wondered. Cyclone Amphan that devastated parts of Mathurapur, left the family house in ruins. The anxiety was over an hour later when Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School, turned up at his house and assured the family of taking are of Rakhiaj's education. “Rakhiaj wants to become a doctor and it will be my school’s privilege and my personal pride to help him achieve the goal,” the headmaster told TOI. In East Burdwan’s Kalna, Anwesha Bhattacharjee scored 683. A farmer’s daughter, she, too, plans to study medicine and become a doctor. Rakhiaj and Anwesha got above 97%. “My family doesn’t have the means to fund my studies. If I get a sponsor, I will study medicine after Class XII. Otherwise, I will graduate in a general stream,” she said. Her father, a vegetable vendor, is hopeful someone generous will reach out to the family and help the bright girl fulfil her dreams. Bhattacharjee, whose studies at Kalna Bhairabnala SKUS High School located 5km away from her home, cycles to school and back daily. She may not have to pedal for quite sometime now with the pandemic forcing schools to shift to online teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/they-beat-poverty-secure-above-97-in-madhyamik/articleshow/76988358.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
July 16, 2020||Goa||After electrocution cases, power dept asks consumers to take safety precautions||Panaji: To avoid any electrical accidents during the monsoons, the power department has advised consumers to get the wiring in their premises thoroughly checked and tested by a licenced electrical contractor and to switch off the mains in case of any water logging or leakage in the meter cabin. “Turn the main switch on only after ensuring that all faults have been rectified. Refrain from attempting any power theft by hooking on to an electricity system, which poses a serious safety hazard,” the department stated in an advisory to consumers on Wednesday. The department also advised consumers not to venture near any electrical installations and ensure that children don’t play near electricity installations, poles, transformers distribution boxes, power cables “even if they are barricaded” to prevent any electrocutions. “Consumers are requested to kindly intimate the electricity department authorities in case one comes across any fallen cable, pole, exposed wiring or interference in the power lines, etc. The electricity department authorities can be reached via the 24X7 call centre on the toll free no. 1912, or landline nos. 0832-2458304 and 0832-2490800,” the department stated. Consumers can also reach the department via the consumer login on filling details under the tab notification registration/tracking after which a notification registration no. will be communicated via e-mail, the department further stated. Last month, a 26-year-old resident in Khorlim died of electrocution when he came in contact with a 33kv power line passing over his house. This month four stray dogs died of electrocution after coming in contact with a live wire which fell on the road at Kavlem, Ponda. A local youth alerted pedestrians thus preventing any human fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-electrocution-cases-power-dept-asks-consumers-to-take-safety-precautions/articleshow/76988991.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Civic chief to address citizens||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game will address city residents on Saturday at 5pm through Facebook live. Game will also answer questions that the citizens can send across on the link published by the municipal corporation: https://bit.ly/NashikFacebooklive The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has appealed to the people to send in their queries or suggestions on the link before 2 pm on Saturday. During the address, Game will inform citizens about the current scenario of the city related to Covid-19 and also about the measures that the NMC is taking to curb its spread along with treatment being provided to the patients at various hospitals in the city. The civic chief will also appeal to the city residents to wear face masks while stepping out of their homes, maintain physical distancing in public places and wash their hands frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-to-address-citizens/articleshow/76986160.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 16, 2020||Goa||TIMES VIEW||The state government’s abruptly-announced lockdown is yet another chapter in its woefully-planned, maladroit handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. CM Pramod Sawant not only went back on his own word that there was no need for another lockdown, but he had also declined to lock down port town of Vasco—the epicentre of local transmission—despite his ministers and locals demanding it. The weekend lockdown, which comes even as the state has opened for tourism and industry, is bound to disrupt the economy and people’s lives. That it has led to even more chaos can be seen by panic-buying in many parts of Goa. The government doesn’t seem to have learnt its lessons from Lockdown 1.0, when it didn’t allow even essential services to function. As of Wednesday night, the government was yet to decide what would be permitted to open and what wouldn’t. And this kind of indecision only further erodes public confidence in the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/times-view/articleshow/76988992.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kozhikode||3kg gold seized at Cial, Karipur airports||Kochi/Kozhikode: Customs sleuths at the Cochin International Airport (Cial) seized about 2kg gold from a passenger who landed here. The passenger who came from Dubai in an early morning flight on Wednesday had the contraband hidden on his person. The value of the seized gold is estimated to be around Rs 80 lakh, sources said. 1.1kg haul at Karipur Air intelligence unit of customs at Karipur airport seized 1.1kg of gold in compound form from two passengers who arrived in Vande Bharat Mission repatriation flight from Sharjah on Wednesday. The gold is valued at Rs 41.6 lakh. Customs officials seized 638 grams of gold compound from Vishnu, 22, hailing from Kodancherry in Kozhikode and 558 grams from Niras, 46, hailing from Nirmalagiri in Kannur who had arrived in Air India Express flight IX 1376. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/3kg-gold-seized-at-cial-karipur-airports/articleshow/76987417.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Homeless wander on roads as NMC fails to take care of them||Nagpur: Despite tall claims by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) of accommodating all homeless and migrants at its various shelter homes during Covid-19 outbreak, many of them are still wandering on roads across the city. At various squares, such homeless, including the beggars, were found lying in filthy and unhygienic conditions, unattended by anyone.Moved by their pitiable condition, a youth engaged in social work clicked their photographs by travelling to various areas. In search of such persons, Shashank Gattewar visited Loha Pul, Cotton Market, Sai Mandir, Shankar Nagar, Meetha Neem Dargah, Sadar, Gandhi Sagar Lake, Cotton Market Square and other areas and sent pictures. After contacting a senior NMC official of the rank of assistant commissioner, he was diverted to Vasant Rangari, a shelter home caretaker at the Tekdi Ganesh Temple. However, the latter expressed inability to accommodate such a large number of persons stating that the beds were full. He also told him that due to differences between NMC commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and mayor Sandip Joshi, the free food service for outsiders was stopped from July 23.Rangari told TOI that persons referred were mentally unstable and therefore, it wasn’t possible for him to accommodate them at his shelter home. “As per rules, every homeless person is first taken to GMCH for testing of Covid-19. Only after s/he is found negative that they are provided a bed at such homes. But when the youth called me, the beds were unavailable with us.”He added that earlier, an NMC bus used to be with them for bringing such people to the shelters, but now it has been discontinued. “We’ve 17 beds of which 15 are full. After NMC stopped free food service from June 23, we get ration only to feed five senior citizens, while others stare at us. We feed them till last month end by pouring our own resources, but now we have exhausted everything and even NGOs aren’t coming forward these days to help,” he said, adding that ti would be very difficult to provide food to any new inmate at his home.Gattewar said when he talked to homeless persons, some of them told him that they were facing problems getting food ever since the lockdown was imposed. “We humans donate bread, biscuits to the stray dogs, but no very few think about the plight of these poor people,” an upset Gattewar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/homeless-wander-on-roads-as-nmc-fails-to-take-care-of-them/articleshow/76987399.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 16, 2020||Pune||Showers elude Shivajinagar, heavy downpour in parts of Konkan||Pune: Shivajinagar did not record any rainfall and Lohegaon experienced just 1mm showers till Wednesday evening, while some places in Konkan registered heavy precipitation. India Meteorological Department (IMD) did not rule out the possibility of moderate to heavy rainfall at isolated places in Pune district and the region within its 50km radius till Thursday morning. Weather forecast for Pune was updated to moderate rainfall till July 16. Thereafter, the city might witness light to moderate rainfall till July 19 and light showers thereafter, till 21 July. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune said, “Pune is on the leeward side of Western Ghats, which is why, on and off the city experiences light rain or no rain. Good rain continued in Konkan and Pune ghat areas on Wednesday. Pune ghat areas will continue to have a heavy to very heavy rain forecast at isolated places for Thursday.” He said, “The rain in parts of the state have been the result of east-west sheer zone over Maharashtra, coupled with an offshore trough off north Karnataka/south Konkan coast to Kerala coast. There is also an upper air cyclonic circulation over north Konkan.” During next five days, Konkan-Goa is likely to get widespread rainfall. Madhya Maharashtra is likely to get widespread rainfall on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/showers-elude-shivajinagar-heavy-downpour-in-parts-of-konkan/articleshow/76988351.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Worst-case scenario: India to have 35 lakh Covid-19 cases by September 1, finds IISc study||BENGALURU: Going by the current national trend, a worse case scenario projection made by a team at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) estimates that India would have a few more than 35 lakh cases by September 1, while Karnataka will have 2.1 lakh. Of these, 10 lakh and 71,300 will be active cases, respectively. In a scenario that is better than the current trend, India is expected to hit a peak of 4.78 lakh active cases in the second week of September, while there will be around 1.4 lakh active cases, 1.88 lakh deaths and 37.4 lakh total cases at the end of March 2021. Comparatively, worse case scenario projection shows that Maharashtra will have 6.3 lakh total cases and 2.1 lakh active cases, it would be 2.4 lakh and 81,000 in Delhi, 1.6 lakh and 53,000 in Tamil Nadu, and 1.8 lakh and 61,000 in Gujarat. The projections done by Prof Sashikumar G, Prof Deepak S and their team estimate that by September 1, India would have recorded 1.4 lakh deaths, of which 25,000 will be from Maharashtra, 9,700 from Delhi, 8,500 from Karnataka, 6,300 from Tamil Nadu and 7,300 from Gujarat. By November 1, India is predicted to have 1.2 crore cases (including 30.2 lakh active) and 5 lakh deaths and by January 1, these numbers would be 2.9 crore (60 lakh) and 10 lakh. Karnataka is estimated to have 7.2 lakh cases by November 1 with 1.9 lakh active cases and 30,400 deaths, and by January 1 these numbers will be 10.8 lakh (3.7 lakh) and 78,900. As per a worse scenario projection, no peak is predicted for India until end of March 2021, at which time there will be around 82 lakh active cases and still growing, 28 lakh deaths and 6.18 crore total cases. A similar analysis is done for various states. The state-wise results are computed with the parameters of national trend to compare the performance of the respective state with the national trend. Multiple epidemiologists TOI spoke with suggested that projections for states should have been based on current trends in states as the virus peaks at different times in different regions. “...Since this is an active situation with regular ongoing interventions and policy changes from State and Central governments, we do not predict each state individually,” Sashi and Deepak explain, adding that in each scenario, the state numbers are computed with the national parameters so as to compare the actual data of the state with the national trend. Further, their modelling provides projections of current trend which shows that India would hit a peak peak of 9.7 lakh active cases in the last week of October. There will be around 2.1 lakh active cases, 4.5 lakh deaths and 91 lakh toal cases at the end of March 2021. “The proposed model is a paradigm shift in mathematical modeling of infectious diseases. This modeling framework introduces a multi-dimensional equation to predict the spread of pandemics with insights into the severity of infection, duration of infection, population age etc,” Sashi told TOI. He further claimed that such insightful predictions are key for planning and said: “These insights can be used to formulate science-informed policy to revive normalcy, especially from the disruption induced by Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/worst-case-scenario-india-to-have-35l-cases-by-sept-1/articleshow/76987434.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Top scorers show their deep love for foreign languages||PUNE: Had it not been for the one mark each he lost in science and social Studies, Aadit Litake (15) from Sanskriti School in Bhukum near Pune would have scored a 100% in the standard X CBSE examinations, this year. Litake, who wants to become an engineer, like his father, is a district-level badminton player. He said that no matter what stream he takes up, he would want to complete all levels in German language exams. “He has always been a consistent student. We knew he would score above 95%, but this is a pleasant surprise,” his mother Meeta Litake said. Aadit said he was overwhelmed, but that too was an understatement. “I appeared for all the five examinations and scored 100 in mathematics, German and English. I would like to take up engineering and have already enrolled for JEE coaching. However, I would continue learning German as it is a beautiful language,” said Aadit, who also plays the piano. Khanak Patwari from Elpro International School, who scored 99.2% also has a YouTube channel. She said she loves to shoot and edit videos in her spare time. “We just crossed 100 subscribers for our channel,” Khanak said. “I had taken French as my second language but since I have IIT preparations now, I may not continue. But I would want to study the language at a later stage,” said Khanak. Her father is an engineer and her mother, a physiotherapist. Ayush More joined Army Public School Khadki just a year ago due his father’s transferable job in the Army. “I love mathematics and I scored 100 in the subject. Hence, I would like to take up physics, chemistry and maths and then take up computer engineering,” More said. Pranjal More couldn’t believe her English scores when the results were announced and she secured 99% marks overall. “I scored 100 in mathematics, but I couldn’t believe that I could get full marks in English. Generally, teachers always cut marks in the writing section. My father works in the IT industry and I would like to take up engineering,” Pranjal said. The efforts of teachers, parents and students shows when it comes to board exams and its results, said Bharti Bhagwani , principal of GG International School, Pimpri. “Each child is unique and carries his/her own set of talents. The sparkle within them must keep shining brighter with each passing day,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/top-scorers-show-their-deep-love-for-foreign-languages/articleshow/76988345.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 16, 2020||Shimla||HP temples to be closed in festive season: CM Jai Ram Thakur||SHIMLA: This festive season, religious places to remain closed to avoid overcrowding, said chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a meeting with deputy commissioners (DC), superintendents of police (SP) and chief medical officers (CMO) on Wednesday. Held through video conferencing from Shimla, the meeting was held to discuss ways to prevent corona infection. The CM directed the officials to keep a strict vigil on the arrival of migrant labourers, particularly in industrial units. He said the state government had decided that industrialists would be allowed to bring labourers after due approval of the administration. To quarantine these labourers, the CM said big industrial units will have to create adequate quarantine capacity, whereas small units can pool together and creating facilities. He also directed the industries and labour and employment departments to keep an eye on the proceedings. Thakur also directed the officers to strictly enforce the decision of allowing only 50 persons in marriages and other family functions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-temples-to-be-closed-in-festive-seaso-thakur/articleshow/76988355.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Kharif sowing completed on 85% area in north Maha||Nashik: The four districts of North Maharashtra — Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar — have witnessed kharif sowing on 85% of the total projected area. According to the state agricultural department, sowing for kharif season was projected on 21.62 lakh hectare in North Maharashtra, including 7.66 lakh hectare in Jalgaon, 6.83 lakh hectare in Nashik, 4.18 lakh hectare in Dhule and 2.95 lakh hectare in Nandurbar. “Till now, sowing has been carried out on 18.23 lakh hectare,” an official said. “So far, Dhule district tops the chart with sowing on 95% of the projected area followed by Jalgaon (93%). Sowing in Nashik and Nandurbar districts have been completed on 73.5% and 73% projected area, respectively,” he added. Maize, cotton, bajra, moong, urad, soyabean, jowar and bajra are the major kharif crops of the region. Cotton contributes to around 40 of total kharif areas in the region and this year, the agriculture department had projected sowing of cotton on 8.63 lakh hectare. However, cotton has been sown on 8.90 lakh hectare. Maize is second on the list having around 19% land under cultivation. Of the total projected area of 3.98 lakh hectare, maize has been sown on 3.79 lakh hectare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kharif-sowing-completed-on-85-area-in-north-maha/articleshow/76986175.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 16, 2020||Meerut||Rehabilitate kids rescued from Muzaffarnagar ashram: NCPCR to 3 states||MUZAFFARNAGAR: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has directed authorities in states of Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram and Tripura to rehabilitate 10 children who were allegedly drugged and sexually abused in an ashram in Muzaffarnagar. The 10 boys — aged between seven and 18 who hailed from Mizoram and Tripura — were rescued by Childline earlier this month after a tip off by a whistleblower. Their statements were recorded by the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) which is currently looking after them. On Sunday, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo held a videoconference with officials from the three states concerned and directed them to work towards rehabilitation of the children. Kanoongo also said that suitable compensation should be given to the children. The meeting was attended by Muzaffarnagar district additional magistrate (enforcement), the district president of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), the district probation officer and SP (Rural). “Following the virtual meeting, it was decided that officials from the two northeastern states would visit UP soon,” said a UP official who was present. According to CWC Muzaffarnagar president Kamlesh Verma, the children will continue to remain in UP until the court trial. The ashram owner Swami Bhakti Bhushan Govind Maharaj and associate Mohan Das have been arrested and charged under the Pocso Act and the IPC for unnatural offences. According to the FIR at Bhopa police station, medical examination has confirmed that at least four of the children had been sexually assaulted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rehabilitate-kids-rescued-from-muzaffarnagar-ashram-ncpcr-to-3-states/articleshow/76986167.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 16, 2020||Pune||Two men snatch doc’s smartphone||Pune: Two men riding a bike snatched a smartphone, worth Rs20,000, belonging to a 26-year-old doctor in a lane on Bundgarden Road around 1.45pm on Tuesday. The doctor, who works with a private hospital, has registered an FIR with the Koregaon Park police. The doctor had finished her work at the hospital and was walking home. While she was talking to her mother over the phone, the pillion rider got off the bike, caught hold of the woman’s neck, snatched her phone and fled on the bike. The terrified doctor chased the bike but the robbers sped away, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-men-snatch-docs-smartphone/articleshow/76988364.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Bail pleas of former SHO, SP dismissed||Bathinda: The court of officiating district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi on Wednesday dismissed the bail applications of Punjab Police SP Baljit Singh and former Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher in the Kotkapura firing case. SP Baljit Singh, then DSP at Kotkapura, had applied for anticipatory bail, while Pandher, who is already in judicial custody, had applied for regular bail. Meanwhile, SIT probing the case has included Pandher as an accused in the FIR of Behbal Kalan firing case of October 14, 2015, in which two protesters were killed. IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who is a SIT member, confirmed that Pandher had been made an accused in the Behbal Kalan case as well. Faridkot district attorney Rajnish Goyal said arguments on bail applications were held on Monday. On July 20, the court take up matter of Dera Sacha Sauda followers who have alleged that their arrest in case of theft of bir from Gurdwara Burj Jawahar Singh Wala was illegal. Meanwhile, accusing the CBI of meddling into the sacrilege case, three political parties have decided to stage a protest at Bargari in Faridkot district on July 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bail-pleas-of-former-sho-sp-dismissed/articleshow/76988361.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC extends Amit Bhatnagar’s bail||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has extended the temporary bail of Amit Bhatnagar, accused in a Rs 2,654 cr bank scam, by nine more months as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has failed to complete its investigation since March 2018. With the extension in bail for the promoter of Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd, the CBI also got more time to complete its investigation. Along with Amit, his brother Sumit and father Suresh were held in 2018 for misuse of public money. A few bank officials were also arraigned in this case on corruption charges. An official of Vadodara crime branch will visit Bhatnagar’s office twice a month and arrange a video conference with CBI officers and Bhatnagar will mark his presence in this manner for the duration of the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-extends-amit-bhatnagars-bail/articleshow/76988367.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Students overcome hurdles to achieve big in CBSE||KOLKATA: When Srinjani came to know her father had cerebral stroke far away in London, her CBSE board exam was just a week away. Her father, who is a hotel manager in the UK, was admitted to a hospital but she and her mother couldn’t even visit him because her boards were near. At a time, when she thought of dropping out of the exam, her mother and her teachers inspired her to sit for it. She scored a whooping 99% from Delhi Public School, Ruby Park. “We could see him on video call. He was not able to speak, walk and write properly. I had initially decided not to sit for the boards but my mother and my school teachers motivated me to sit for the exam. The result is unbelievable,” said Srinjani Sen Ray, who wants to pursue economics. Srinajni has an interest in studying languages and she is currently learning Japanese (intermediate level), Spanish and Korean. Srinajini is not alone. Hreeman Saha, another student of DPS Ruby Park, who had lost one of his eyes in an accident, scored 94.6% in CBSE X to make the school proud. “I met with an accident in 2018 when I was in Class-IX and that took away my right eye vision. I was extremely depressed and thought that I would not sit for my board exams this year. Nothing felt right,” Hreeman said. His parents and school, however, stood by him and helped him. There were continuous procedures on his eye as part of his treatment and he often had to sit in one position for hours. “But somehow, I realized that even if I had lost hope with myself, my parents, teachers and school didn’t. They still looked up to me and had a lot of expectations. That perhaps helped me to start pushing the barriers,” said Hreeman. Alisha Khatoon, who scored 82.4% from Asian International School (ASI), Howrah had to complete all household chores before going to school everyday. “My father and my brothers are in jari business and the situation of the business is not very good. My school helped me in all possible ways, else I would not have been successful,” said Alisha. “She didn’t take any tuitionsand the school supported her in every possible way in terms of studies. We are really happy that she has done so well in her exam. We hope she will do better in future,” Principal of ASI Vijaylakshmi Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-overcome-hurdles-to-achieve-big-in-cbse/articleshow/76988391.cms||Saibal Gupta
July 16, 2020||Goa||Goa to lockdown for weekend, enforce 8pm-6am curfew till August 10||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday declared a three-day complete lockdown from Thursday night to Monday morning after a huge spike in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths over the past few days. He said the government would also enforce a strict curfew at night, from 8pm to 6am, with immediate effect till August 10. The decision for a weekend lockdown came days after Sawant said there was no need to impose another lockdown in the state that has opened for tourism. TimesViewThe state government’s abruptly-announced lockdown is yet another chapter in its woefully-planned, maladroit handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. CM Pramod Sawant not only went back on his own word that there was no need for another lockdown, but he had also declined to lock down port town of Vasco—the epicentre of local transmission—despite his ministers and locals demanding it. The weekend lockdown, which comes even as the state has opened for tourism and industry, is bound to disrupt the economy and people’s lives. That it has led to even more chaos can be seen by panic-buying in many parts of Goa. The government doesn’t seem to have learnt its lessons from lockdown 1.0, when it didn’t allow even essential services to function. As of Wednesday night, the government was yet to decide what would be permitted to open and what wouldn’t. And this kind of indecision only further erodes public confidence in the government.“Except essential services, everything will be shut. It will be a 100% lockdown,” he said. Sawant said the decision was taken after discussions with the directorate of health services, and that it was a necessary call to flatten the curve. He said a consensus emerged that the state may see a further spike in cases during the monsoon. In the past one week, Goa has seen over 900 positive cases, while there have been nine deaths in four days. “We may already have reached the peak,” Sawant said after the state reported 170 positive cases on Tuesday. But on Wednesday, the state saw a new single-day high of 198 new cases, taking the total caseload to near 3,000. He said people still do not follow social distancing norms and don’t wear masks—both essential interventions to prevent the infection from spreading—and over 40,000 persons have been penalised for not wearing masks. “It was decided to introduce a night curfew to stop the movement of people,” he said, adding that harsher measures are required to discipline people, so they start following social distancing norms. Sawant said the only categories of persons allowed to move will be industrial workers on night shifts, who are required to wear identity cards, and people seeking emergency medical help. He said those found defying curfew would be arrested. However, during a cabinet meeting on Wednesday, some ministers demanded that the lockdown be implemented for a longer period, while others opposed it and questioned the logic behind the weekend lockdown. But the chief minister vetoed both their demands, a minister said. Another minister said that the lockdown, which is currently for three days, may be extended further. “A lockdown of three days has been announced so as not to create panic situation in the state,” he said. Sawant also appealed to the people not to resort to panic buying, as essential services would continue functioning during the lockdown. However, no sooner was the announcement made, several parts of the state witnessed panic buying. Three months ago, following the one-day Janata curfew on March 22, the Goa government came in for widespread national criticism after it extended the lockdown and didn’t let essential services such as even grocery stores to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-lock-down-for-weekend-enforce-8pm-6am-curfew-till-aug-10/articleshow/76989007.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon GMCH gets a makeover||Nashik: The Jalgaon government medical college hospital (GMCH) has undergone striking transformation in the last one month, including blue-coloured clothing for patients, setting up of a help desk and a helpline number for anxious families of patients. Some of the other highlights include significant enhancement of ICU beds, ventilators and monitors, round-the-clock vigil on Covid patients, etc. The 311-bedded GMCH, the main dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the district, came under severe criticism early last month after an 82-year-old woman went missing from the Covid ward and body being found inside the toilet of the ward five days later. The image of the hospital was so tarnished that families were reluctant to admit Covid patients to the hospital for treatment. “The negative perception about the Jalgaon GMCH among people is changing rapidly. Families are now coming forward to get their patients admitted to the hospital,” Jalgaon district collector Abhijit Raut said, adding that the infrastructure at the hospital has been ramped up. Dean of Jalgaon GMCH Jaiprakash Ramanand said that for the first time ever since this hospital started functioning over two years back, patients have been provided with dresses after admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-gmch-gets-a-makeover/articleshow/76986200.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Goa||Guirim flyover open from today||Panaji: PWD minister Deepak Pauskar on Wednesday said that the newly constructed flyover at Guirim junction, near Hotel Green Park, will be open for public use from Thursday onwards. Speaking to TOI, Pauskar said that on Thursday, only one way traffic will be allowed on the flyover. “From next week onwards, two way traffic will be allowed to ply on the flyover,” the PWD minister added. The project is expected to take at least another year for completion. The work on the stretch had been going on at a slow pace. Last month, debris from the flyover had come on to the road due to heavy rains. People have criticised the state government for bad roads on Guirim-Mapusa stretch of the highway, which has resulted in slow traffic movement. Pauskar said that on Thursday, only one way traffic will be allowed and from next week onwards, two way traffic will be allowed on the flyover||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guirim-flyover-open-from-today/articleshow/76989004.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kochi||Ramees not new to controversies||Kochi: KT Ramees, identified as one of the masterminds of the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling racket is not new to controversies. Smuggler Ramees as he is known in syndicate circles was in the radar of forest officers for a case pertaining to hunting of wild animals for meat in a case registered in 2014. A beat forest officer from Walayar on Wednesday filed a request at the Ernakulam additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences) seeking permission to formally record his arrest, which was granted by the court. Forest officers say Ramees used to deal in horns and skin from hunted wild animals as well. “He offered locals liquor and money and encouraged them to go for hunting. We’ve learnt that they used to hunt deer, sambar deer and Nilgiri tahr. Ramees used to sell the meat elsewhere,” said a forest officer. Ramees is the fifth accused in the case registered at Walayar on July 30, 2014. The forest department was unable to locate him as he used to move from place to place, including to Dubai. Forest officers said they will seek his custody now that his arrest has been formally recorded. Ramees was involved in a case in connection with the smuggling of over 15kg gold at Kozhikode airport in 2014. He is also linked to a case probed by customs relating to the attempt to smuggle six rifles claiming that they were for a rifle club in Palakkad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ramees-not-new-to-controversies/articleshow/76987438.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Meerut||BJP MLA from Kithore tests positive for Covid-19||MEERUT: Meerut BJP MLA from Kithore Satyaveer Tyagi tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. His report came two days after his cook and attendant tested positive. The health department is now tracking the chain of people who came in contact with him. Tyagi’s family is not under scanner as they live in Noida and Tyagi lives alone. He will be undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Delhi. “Satyaveer Tyagi tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, two days after his cook and attendant tested positive for the disease. He will be undergoing treatment in Delhi,” Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said. Earlier, Tyagi’s cook and computer operator had tested positive. This comes days after UP Ayush minister Dharmendra Singh Saini tested positive for Covid-19. “All the contacts of Satyaveer Tyagi are being traced and they will be quarantined accordingly. Anybody who has come in contact with Tyagi is asked to come forward for the test,” Dr Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bjp-mla-from-kithore-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76986182.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||15 sent to q-centre as suicide victim tests Covid +ve||Nagpur: Fifteen of the 17 persons who had come in contact with a 30-year-old daily wager, who allegedly ended life in Annapurna Society residence in Navin Nagar on Tuesday, have been quarantined at VNIT centre after the deceased’s sample tested Covid positive at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. Two family members — mother and younger brother — will be sent to institutional quarantine on Thursday after last rites of the deceased.Authorities are also trying to find out how the daily wager had contracted the infection.Deputy commissioner of police (Zone-V) Neelotpal said two police personnel from Pardi police station who had taken the body to Mayo hospital for inquest have been put under home quarantine. “They will be tested for Covid-19,” he said.Pardi police said the deceased was alcoholic. The deceased’s mother told police that he had hanged self on Tuesday afternoon. Police had also recovered two empty liquor bottles from the spot.Corporator from the area Deepak Wadibhasme said the deceased was married and had three children. Both husband and wife worked as labourers. He used to spend all his money and even wife’s income on liquor. Fed up his addiction, wife had left home along with kids a couple of days ago, said the corporator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-sent-to-q-centre-as-suicide-victim-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/76987423.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Free education for convict’s children||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court ordered prison authorities to help a murder convict get school fees, uniforms and textbooks for his children under a state government scheme that has been in existence since 2005. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria rejected an application on Monday and refused temporary bail to a murder convict, Anwar-ul-Haq Ansari, who is lodged in Sabarmati central jail. He had sought temporary release to arrange financing for his family and particularly to manage funds for the education of his children, who are studying at the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Shahibaug. The high court said that the state government will look after the basic necessities of Ansari’s family under the scheme announced by the government due to the Covid-19 pandemic.So far as funds for the children’s education are concerned, the high court pointed out a government resolution passed on May 19, 2005, by the state education department. This GR said that the government would provide uniforms, free textbooks, free notebooks, free school bags, tuition fees, scholarship etc. to the children of convicts in state prisons. By citing this resolution, the high court directed the jail authorities to extend full assistance to Ansari to apply to the government for these benefits from the education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/free-education-for-convicts-children/articleshow/76988383.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Missing saroops: ‘SGPC shielding influential family’||Amritsar: Former employee of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) Balbir Singh Farash has blamed SGPC’s present regime for allegedly shielding an influential family in case of missing of 267 saroop of Sri Guru Granth Sahib. While talking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, Farash said “a family” that was ruling the SGPC by proxy had pressured SGPC to not reveal the incident of missing of 267 saroops for their political gains. Farash had earlier, while performing sewa as Ardasiya in the sanctum sanctorum of Golden Temple, refused to give siropa to former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his son former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal at Golden Temple blaming them for failing to check incidents of sacrilege. Meanwhile, secretary SGPC Dr Roop Singh has gone on long leave to Canada. Sources said he had gone there on a personal visit. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/missing-saroops-sgpc-shielding-influential-family/articleshow/76988370.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Dubai hospital waives Rs 1.5 crore Covid bill of Jagtial worker||HYDERABAD: A hospital in Dubai waived off 7,62,555 dirhams (Rs 1.52 crore in Indian currency) of a Covid-19 positive worker from Jagtial, who had undergone treatment for 80 days. The 42-year-old worker returned to his Venugumatla home in Gollapalli mandal on Tuesday, where he will be in home quarantine for 14 days. Dubai Hospital on Al Khaleej Road in Dubai provided treatment to the Telangana worker for more than two months after he tested positive for coronavirus and waived off the medical bill. Mandha Bheem Reddy, president, Emigrants’ Welfare Forum, said the worker was admitted in the hospital on April 2 due to some illness and later tested positive for Covid-19. After recuperating, the worker landed by an Air India flight at RGIA on Tuesday night and headed straight to his village. Sources said his travel was also taken care of by the hospital, Consulate General of India (CGI) in Dubai and social worker Gundelli Narasimha. Narasimha, who is president of Gulf Workers’ Protection Society in Dubai, took the worker to the hospital and visited him regularly and brought his matter to the attention of Sumanth Reddy, Indian consulate volunteer in Dubai. Sumanth and Ashok Kotecha of BAPS Swaminarayan Trust urged Harjeet Singh, Consul (Labour) of Indian consulate in Dubai, to help the worker as he did not have money to clear hospital bills. Harjeet wrote a letter to the Dubai Hospital management, which responded positively. Ashok provided free flight tickets to the worker and his escort Kankaiah and also gave them Rs 10,000 for expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubai-hospital-waives-rs-1-5cr-covid-bill-of-jagtial-worker/articleshow/76988396.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||PPCC leader’s family brings Starbucks’s 1st drive-thru in India||New Delhi: The family of Kewal Dhillon, senior vice-president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, who was once Punjab’s richest Congress MLA with assets worth Rs 136 crore, has opened Starbucks’s first drive-thru in India at the Dhillon Plaza in Punjab’s Zirakpur. The launch of the outlet on July 10 came at a time when Covid-19 has disrupted restaurant business but led to a greater demand for drive-thru facilities. Punjab has allowed restaurants to open for dine-in with restrictions. Karan Dhillon, the Congressman’s son and owner of the project, told TOI that a revenue sharing deal was signed with Tata-Starbucks in 2019 to open an outlet at the plaza which houses several international fast food brands. “The facility is adhering to norms and operating at 50% staff capacity. The world needs to keep fighting against the pandemic through innovation.” Navin Gurnaney, CEO of Tata Starbucks, told TOI that the drive-thru was the first of its kind by their company in the country. Architects were called in from Hong Kong to design the store. Gurnaney added that Chandigarh was an important focus market for Starbucks. “Tata Starbucks remains committed to its growth potential in India and would continue to bring new innovative experiences for customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ppcc-leaders-family-brings-starbuckss-1st-drive-thru-in-india/articleshow/76988379.cms||Rohan Dua
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Traders upset over non-essential shops not allowed to open on Sunday||Ludhiana: Citing no improvement in their sales during weekdays, city traders are upset over the state government not allowing opening of the non-essential shops on Sunday. According to the traders, the government must reconsider its decision and allow them to open their shops on Sunday at least for half day. Businessmen are also of the view that the government must also extend the closing hours for the shops on weekdays by one hour. Speaking on the issue, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, president of the Business Bachao Morcha, said, “There are lakhs of shopkeepers in the city who are dealing in goods which fall under the non-essential category and hundreds of such shopkeepers and traders are our members and all of them are reporting very low sales and no improvement during weekdays. This is due to the fact that the majority of the customers are free only on Sunday to go out of their homes and shop for non-essentials like clothes, electronic goods, shoes, etc. But Punjab government without studying the ground realities has banned non-essential shops from opening on Sunday. This is proving to be a great setback for the traders fraternity and losses of the businessmen are piling and soon we will see permanent closures of several shops and establishments in Ludhiana just because of this Sunday lockdown.” According to Sunil Mehra, chairman of the morcha, “What has the government achieved by the Sunday lockdown as there has been no reduction in the cases of corona and in fact they are on the rise drastically. Keeping Sunday as mandatory off for non-essential shops has hurt every single businessmen and not only caused losses to us but has also impacted the livelihood of the workers and other persons attached with us. Government must reconsider its decision at the earliest.” Vinod Jain, general secretary of BBM, said, “Sunday lockdown has turned out to be our worst nightmare as this was the only day for the shops in all areas when we were able to do brisk business as compared to weekdays. Moreover, considering the current situation when there are other restrictions like closing shops by 8pm daily and no movement of people allowed beyond 10pm, the sales on weekdays are very disappointing. Along with increasing the operating hours beyond 8pm on weekdays, lifting ban on opening non-essential shops on Sundays is need of the hour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traders-upset-over-non-essential-shops-not-allowed-to-open-on-sunday/articleshow/76987453.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana adds 678 cases, tally rises to 23,306; seven die||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid count on Wednesday reached 23,306 as 678 new cases and seven deaths were reported from different parts of the state. There are 5,320 active cases in the state now and the death toll from the disease now stands at 319. A total of 577 patients were also discharged from various hospitals after recovery, taking the overall recoveries to 17,667. The recovery rate in the state has gone up to 75.80%, with doubling rate stable at 21 days. The state also crossed 4 lakh-mark in testing of patients. A government bulletin revealed that Faridabad reported maximum 216 new patients and three deaths. This took the district’s total to 5,881 with 104 deaths. Faridabad was followed by Gururgram with 82 new patients and one death, pushing the district’s tally to 7,208 with 110 deaths. Sonipat recorded third highest of 66 new patients in a day and the overall toll has gone up to 2,170 patients with 24 deaths. Rohtak reported 36 new patients, Hisar 34, Ambala 33 and Fatehabad 31. Palwal saw 26 new patients, Rewari 25, Panchkula 24, Nuh and Karnal 19 patients each, 10 new patients came from Kaithal, nine new patients from Jhajjar and eight patients each from Bhiwani, Kurukshetra and Panipat districts. Seven cases each came from Mahendragarh and Sirsa, four from Yamuanangar and three each from Charkhi Dadri and Jind districts. Meanwhile, the testing rate in Haryana reached 15,785 with 400,155 tests so far. Out of those tested, 371,350 were found to be negative. Meanwhile, there were total||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-adds-678-cases-tally-rises-to-23306-7-die/articleshow/76988360.cms||Manvir Saini
July 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Only 8 of 5,000 recovered patients in Bengaluru have donated plasma||BENGALURU: More than 5,000 patients have recovered from Covid-19 and been discharged in Bengaluru, but only eight of them have come forward to donate plasma. An HCG team, in collaboration with Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, had received approval from Drug Controller General of India to study the use of convalescent plasma to treat critically ill patients through clinical trials. The therapy has so far been used on eight patients in Bengaluru, three of whom died. The other five recovered. The pamphlet distributed by the government with the defunct helpline numberGlobally, the view is that a transfusion of convalescent plasma derived from a person who has recovered, could boost the ability of a seriously-ill patient to fight the virus. Dr Vishal Rao US, who spearheads the project, said he gets calls from private hospitals to provide plasma therapy for their patients, but is hampered by a lack of plasma. “I’ve been requesting the government to help us contact people who have recovered,” Dr Rao said. “We need to set up a plasma bank that can track recovered patients and approach them for donations.” Dr CR Jayanthi, dean cum director, BMCRI, said six patients in their hospitals have been given plasma therapy so far. While three — a 39 year old woman and two men, aged 60 and 48 — survived, the others — a 53-year-old woman and two men, aged 60 and 58 — died. Of the more than 1,500 discharged from BMCRI’s Covid hospitals, only two have donated plasma. The government has been of little help here. In April, it circulated a pamphlet detailing steps to make a donation, including calling a helpline, ‘08061914960’. TOI called the number several times, but got only a pre-recorded voice message asking if the caller has a fever and cough. Also, helpline-related awareness material had carried photographs of chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya and revenue minister R Ashoka. A pulmonologist said, “Ideally patients should be briefed about donating plasma during discharge. Awareness has to begin in all hospitals by healthcare workers treating patients. There has to be political will to establish a plasma bank and encourage donors.” On Wednesday, the government announced it will pay Rs 5,000 to anyone who donates plasma. “This is to encourage recovered persons to come forward and donate plasma,” said K Sudhakar, medical education minister. How to donate The donor has to be a person below 45 years of age, who has recovered from Covid-19 infection. The process is similar to donating blood and takes about an hour. Plasma donors are hooked up to a small device that removes plasma while simultaneously returning red blood cells to the body. Pre-donation tests are mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-8-of-5k-recovered-patients-in-bluru-have-donated-plasma/articleshow/76987452.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Airlines reopen bookings on 6 routes as ban on incoming flights nears end||KOLKATA: Airlines have reopened bookings on six of the busiest routes in anticipation of the ban on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad to the city being lifted on July 20. The fortnight-long ban on travel from Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat — states with higher incidence of Covid infections than Bengal — had been announced by the civil aviation ministry, following a request from the state government and came into effect on July 6. “We are ready to resume flights on all the sectors that had been off the radar for the past two weeks. Although flights from Kolkata to these cities were not banned, it was not feasible to operate one-way flights,” an official of a private airline told TOI on Wednesday. The embargo on flights had seen daily departures dip from 65-70 to 40-41. Passenger figures had gone down from 16,000-17,000 a day to just over 9,000. Once the flights resume on Monday, airport officials expect a spike in travel to meet the pent-up demand. Though a few people who were desperate to reach Kolkata took flights to the city via other airports like Patna or Guwahati, many did not travel fearing quarantine at the transit point or on arrival in Kolkata. While other airports like Chennai, Mumbai and Hyderabad have also restricted the number of arrivals to check the number of travellers in the belief that it will slow down the rate of Covid infection in the states, the travel trade fraternity pointed to the spike in Covid cases since the ban. While new Covid cases in Bengal increased by 12,301 since July 6, the 10 days preceding that had recorded 6,478 cases. In Kolkata, 3,867 new cases have been recorded since the ban on flights against 1,975 cases in the 10 days preceding that. IndiGo, the largest airline operating out of Kolkata, saw 12 flights being grounded by the embargo. SpiceJet, AirAsia and Air India also grounded flights while Vistara didn’t operate any flights. Ten flights from Delhi to Kolkata went off the air, five flights each from Mumbai and Chennai, two flights each from Ahmedabad and Pune and a lone flight from Nagpur were cancelled. An IndiGo official said the airline was ready to resume operations of all flights that had been grounded. “We have a good number of passengers booked from Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai to Kolkata,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airlines-reopen-bookings-on-6-routes-as-ban-on-incoming-flights-nears-end/articleshow/76988402.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata private hospitals increase ICU beds, requisition more ventilators||KOLKATA: The spike in Covid positive cases and a growing list of patients waiting for admission has prompted several Kolkata private hospitals to augment their ICU capacities. Most have expanded their Covid units over the last fortnight necessitating more intensive care beds. Along with new ICU berths, more ventilators have also been commissioned. The hospitals hope to start using the augmented facilities by next week. Peerless Hospital that now has eight Covid ITU beds plans to add 12 more by next week. Four ventilators and 10 monitors have been commissioned by the hospital to serve the added beds. Peerless also ordered four high-pressure oxygen suppliers for patients suffering from acute breathing distress. “Even though all our 67 Covid beds are now occupied, there are many more who are waiting for admission,” said CEO Sudipto Mitra. There are patients who would be better off in an ICU or ITU, Mitra added. “We needed more ventilators and monitors, too, that could not be procured earlier due to the restrictions. We hope to have them by next week,” said Mitra. Medica Superspecialty Hospital will add 10 more ICU beds to its existing 72 by Monday. It will also have four more ventilators. AMRI has added 14 more ICU beds at its new Covid-designated building at Dhakuria. It takes the total number of its Covid ICU beds across the three units to 42. The number of ventilators, however, remained unchanged. “As cases rise, the queue is getting longer. We have already raised the number of our Covid beds to 155,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. The number of Covid beds at Ruby General Hospital went up to 45 from 32 this week. This included 15 Covid ICU beds. “We had just six ICU beds till Tuesday. But it was not enough and we had been trying to raise the number for the last two weeks,” said Ruby general manager, operations, Subhasish Datta. The hospital will also dedicate four ventilators for Covid patients apart from the six that are in use. He added that Ruby had been getting a steady stream of critical patients, including several undergoing treatment at their cancer unit. “Initially, we had been wary about having a Covid unit due to our cancer patients. But as the pandemic spread, we were left with little choice,” added Datta. Even though Covid symptoms are getting milder, the spike in numbers will lead to a swell in serious patients as well, pointed out RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences consultant Arindam Biswas. “The elderly and the co-morbid population will require ICU care and ventilation. So, as the numbers go up, we must add more critical care beds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-increase-icu-beds-requisition-more-ventilators/articleshow/76988392.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Karnataka HC allows awareness hoardings||BENGALURU: The state government and the BBMP can now put up hoardings/banners at prominent places within BBMP limits and other locations to create awareness on safety measures to be adopted/followed to prevent spread of Covid-19 virus. This high court on Wednesday granted permission for the same, but with some riders. The court’s nod became necessary in view of a series of directions issued in a PIL last November. Allowing an application filed by the state government and also considering the affidavit filed by BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar, a division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka stipulated that no plastic/flex or objectionable material should be used and no product or item should be endorsed in those advertisements. The court has stressed that once the Covid scenario improves, these hoardings and banners have to be disposed of scientifically as per the undertaking given to the court. Both the state government and the Palike have informed the court that the hoardings will be put up at several important/key traffic junctions, 35 government properties such as offices, stadia and bus stops and 37 BBMP properties such as parks, playgrounds and hospitals, among others. In addition, such hoardings are to be displayed at 500 bus shelters, public toilets, tollways and skywalks which come under PPP project sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-hc-allows-awareness-hoardings/articleshow/76987520.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||Greens laud CM’s stand against upgrading Melghat rail line||Nagpur: Greens have termed the stand of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray against upgradation of railway line through Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati district as a balancing act of saving the forest and also allowing development by alternative route.Reacting to this decision, conservationists hailed Thackeray as a ‘Green CM’. Earlier, the chief minister had said ‘no’ to Human, a major dam that would completely isolate Tadoba.State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray told TOI, “I’m extremely glad we have a chief minister who balances development and nature. Development has to be sustainable and not mindless and destructive.”On railway line issue, Aaditya added, “If an alternative route is worked out, more villages will benefit. In India, we should have a set norm to not even think of projects in non-development zones (NDZs) and eco-sensitive zones (ESZs) and forests.”Three-time Shiv Sena MP from Buldhana Prataprao Jadhav, who played key role in pushing out the railway line from Melghat, said, “I have been fighting against the project since the beginning but BJP government was adamant about upgrade the line through tiger reserve. If an alternative route is taken, at least 4 lakh people will directly benefit. The new alignment will also be parallel to Samruddhi Mahamarg and boost regional development.”Jadhav was instrumental in persuading Thackeray to say ‘no’ to the project, especially after the meeting of ‘Group of Infrastructure’ on July 7, when union ministers Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal, and Prakash Javadekar expressed displeasure over delayed opinion by the state government.According to Jadhav, alternative alignment will benefit more villages. Driving home his point, the MP said, “If the line is upgraded through MTR, 82 villages will benefit (47 in Maharashtra & 35 in MP). If new alignment is worked out, 212 villages will get benefit (145 in Maharashtra & 67 in MP).”Former Congress MLA Harshawardhan Sapkal also backed Jadhav. “I have discussed this issue in House too. The human development index (HDI) of Sangrampur and Jalgaon (Jamod) talukas is poor and if the line is upgraded from outside, lakhs of people will benefit in the long run and it will also save the forest,” he said.Welcoming the decision, wildlife conservationist Kishor Rithe said, “The government spent Rs 402 crore to resettle 13 villages from the tiger reserve to make it inviolate. Now Centre is hell-bent on upgrading the line through the reserve making this expenditure wasteful.”“Melghat is one of the oldest tiger reserves in India. This region is not only biologically and environmentally important but also good wildlife habitat. Tigers and wildlife tourism can bring more money than the railway line. Alternative route, though may be costly, but will be better. As it is, our wildlife is living in only 4% area and we cannot afford to lose more areas for detrimental projects,” remarked Suresh Chopane, president, Green Planet Society.“I really appreciate the chief minister who is so sensible about forest and wildlife protection. We must avoid development projects that damage our environment,” said Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre.Environment lawyer Manish Jeswani, whose case reference has been made by Thackeray in his letter, asked, “If the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in their comments have recommended that only feasible mitigation is ‘avoidance’ of gauge conversion and alternative alignments bypassing the tiger reserve, why is the railways adamant on damaging the tiger habitat?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-laud-cms-stand-against-upgrading-melghat-rail-line/articleshow/76987451.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Abandoned infant case solved||AHMEDABAD: One of the four cases of abandoning infants dead on the city roads has been solved. Gomtipur police have managed to crack the case of an eight-month-infant boy having been abandoned dead near Chatursinh Chawl in Gomtipur on July 11 by detaining an 18-year-old girl living in the same area. However, three other such incidents in which infants were abandoned in Odhav, Maninagar and Amraiwadi still remain a mystery for the “well-equipped” city police. Inspector C B Tandel of Gomtipur police station said that they tracked the girl through the CCTV footage and brought her to the police station. “She got the child through her boyfriend who is in UP right now. We are tracking him too. We will take action against the girl after Covid-19 test is conducted on her. Then she will be arrested under section 315 and 318 of IPC for abandoning a child,” said Tandel. In other three cases on July 6, two new born babies were found abandoned dead — one near Avkaar Hall in Maninagar and the other in Amraiwadi. On July 10, an infant was found abandoned dead in Odhav. The scavengers had torn apart its body. “These cases look small in nature but can be compared to murders. They have to be solved because, ultimately lives have been lost,” said a police official. N L Desai, inspector with Amraiwadi police station, said there was no progress in the case. “We are not able to trace the person who had abandoned the child” he said. At times when each and every nook and corner of the city is equipped with CCTV cameras in addition to thousands installed in private buildings, the argument that the police are not getting a clue is baseless. City police chief Ashish Bhatia said this type of things do happen but they need to be investigated. “We check into all the incidents and narrow down on whoever has committed the crime” he said. In April 2010, 15 foetuses, of which seven were suspected to those of female, had been found abandoned in a garbage bin near Shastri Stadium at Bapunagar area of Ahmedabad. The police had acted swiftly then and had arrested a doctor who was running a maternity home near Bapunagar Char Rasta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-of-four-cases-of-abandoning-infants-on-city-roads-solved/articleshow/76988395.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Road & Cidco divns emerge as new hotspots||Nashik: After Nashik East and Panchavati divisions, two more divisions (Nashik Road and Cidco) have emerged as Covid-19 vulnerable areas within the city. In the last two weeks, between July 1 and July 14, Covid-19 positive cases in Nashik Road division have increased about four times — from 168 to 667 — while in Cidco division the cases have increased from 204 to 480. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started a door-to-door survey in these areas to check for suspected cases. “Earlier, the cases were mostly being reported from Nashik East and Panchavati divisions. But now, Nashik Road and Cidco divisions have also started reporting a surge in positive patients,” an NMC official said. The city had reported the first patient on April 6 and of the total 2,024 cases till June 30, as many as 1,350 (around 62%) had come from Nashik East and Panchavati. Back then, Nashik Road and Cidco divisions had only 168 and 204 cases, respectively. Gosavi Wadi, Maldhakka Road, Jaybhavani Road and Jail Road are some of the areas in Nashik Road division where cases are increasing. In Cidco division, Khutwad Nagar has emerged as a hotspot with 30 patients. Cases are also being reported from the Maharana Pratap Chowk area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-road-cidco-divns-emerge-as-new-hotspots/articleshow/76986225.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||City witnesses rise in cured percentage of Covid patients||Ludhiana: There is some good news for city residents on Covid-19 front as the cured percentage in Ludhiana district has improved in the last about a week. Not only this, the doubling rate has also improved for the district. As per the state media bulletin released on Tuesday, the cured percentage for Ludhiana district is 58%, which was 49% a week ago. As per the latest bulletin, the district, which was at number one position with 608 active cases in the July 9 bulletin in the state, has retained the same spot, with Jalandhar at second position with 553 active cases and Patiala at number three position with 488 active cases. The latest bulletin suggests that Ludhiana district is at number two spot so far as the number of cases being reported in the last about seven days is concerned with 338 reported here. Jalandhar district is at number one position n the state adding 401 cases to the state in the last seven days whereas Patiala has reported 283 such cases. The latest bulletin also suggests that doubling rate, which is the number of days it would take for the cases to double based on the last seven days growth rate, has improved for Ludhiana district. As per the July 9 bulletin, it was at 15.7 and as per the July 14 bulletin, it has increased to 19.3. As per the bulletin, the case fatality rate (CFR) for the district continues to be at 2%, which is better than the state's CFR of 3%. Meanwhile, some social activists say that even as there is some sign of improvement in the Covid scenario in the district as compared to a few days ago, lot more needs to be done. “It is good that there is some improvement on the Covid front recently but for the last two days a lot of cases have been reported from Ludhiana. This needs to be checked. I think still many people, including educated ones, are not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing, so the authorities concerned should act tough against them. There should be zero tolerance to violation of such norms which is for the good of the people,” said Amarjit Kaur, a social activist. She added that till the time all people don’t follow the rules related to Covid prevention, things won’t change for good permanently. The health department officials said that they were not lowering the guard. “It is a good sign and our teams are working very hard to combat the Covid pandemic despite hot and humid weather,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-witnesses-rise-in-cured-percentage-of-covid-patients/articleshow/76987473.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata students in the US welcome decision to revoke recent visa rule||KOLKATA: City students studying in America welcomed the decision of the US government to revoke the visa rule that would have forced foreign students to return home if their university courses went online as a precautionary move due to the pandemic. The new move has come in the backdrop of a strong pushback from top US universities and even the students, including many from Kolkata. Ujaan Ghosh, a PhD student who joined University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2017 after completing his masters from Presidency University, had taken a Vande Bharat flight back to Kolkata on June 8. According to him, the new decision brought some respite for international students. “The earlier regulations would have led to complicated bureaucratic procedures for international students who are already dogged with teaching, research and coursework. But this new regulation allows online courses for existing students, but makes it trickier for incoming graduate students to US universities. Most of them are now considering deferring their admissions to a future semester,” Ghosh said. Sohini Mukherjee, a junior with a major in cell and molecular biology at Lycoming College in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, had crossed multiple hurdles to pursue her American dream. The July 6 order had left her wondering what would happen if her college suddenly decided to go online in the middle of the semester.“I really appreciate how institutes supported international students and ensured that they stay safe while performing their best,” she said. According to Aparajita Dutta, a comparative literature PhD student at the Louisiana State University, visas control the lives of international students irrespective of how hard they study. “I believe, US has always provided cordial ambience for foreign students. This decision reestablished that ethos of the US,” Dutta said. Referring to the new directive, Suman Das, a PhD student at the department of Biological Sciences at Louisiana State University, said, “I couldn’t see what the US government would have gained from the previous directive in the very first place. The swift move by Harvard and MIT followed by hundreds others proved to be the decisive force.” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-students-in-the-us-welcome-decision-to-revoke-recent-visa-rule/articleshow/76988394.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||32 positive, 28 recover in Himachal||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 32 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, including 11 from Bilaspur district, nine from Solan district, six from Kullu district, three from Chamba district, two from Una district and one from Sirmaur district. Twenty eight positive patients have also recovered, including 19 from Hamirpur district, three each from Bilaspur, Kangra and Chamba districts. The total positive cases has now increased to 1,341, of which 351 cases are active while 966 positive patients have recovered. Of the total positive cases tested so far, 13 have migrated out of state, nine have died of Covid-19 while two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district have occurred due to non-Covid reasons. In Bilaspur district, seven positive cases were tested among the 55 people who were quarantined after a person from Bandla was tested positive earlier, two positive cases were detected among the labourers engaged in the construction of hydro engineering college while a woman from Amarpur Panoli, who had returned from Delhi, has also been tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/32-positive-28-recover-in-himachal/articleshow/76988371.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||‘People going for walks in parks not wearing masks’||Ludhiana: As the number of Covid cases are rising in the city, many people who go for morning and evening walks in various parks, including a main park, don’t wear mask. Many persons who go on morning walk shared that a sizeable percentage of people don’t wear masks. “We are a group of morning walkers in Rakh Bagh just opposite the deputy commissioner's residence. Since unlock-1, we are regular walkers there and we have been going there for the last about 30 years. Here we find people from age group of 5 to 70 years roaming around without masks. We have many times pointed out to them to wear mask as they are posing risk to others who are wearing masks. But we face hostility many times in terms of sharp looks or verbal confrontation,” narrated Sandeep Jain, a businessman from Gurdev Nagar. “Even seemingly educated people don't understand the risk. A few days ago I confronted a young person who was covering his mobile with a plastic bag but himself was without a mask. I told him that you can buy a new mobile if it got damaged but not life.” He added that about 30-40% of morning walkers who come to the park for walk don’t wear mask. “Though in our parks, some people do wear masks during morning or evening walks but there are some who are not doing it. Apart from wearing mask, social distancing is also very important to check the spread of the disease. It is very necessary to cut the spread of the disease and that can be achieved only if all people follow the norms on Covid-19 prevention,” said Ravneet Singh, a BRS Nagar resident. Many residents said even in many posh colonies, people going for morning and evening walks are not following the norms. “Even as a good number of adults are not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing, kids too are not doing so. I have seen many children playing in the park with no masks and I wonder how their parents allow them to go out without proper protection,” said a resident of a posh area in Dugri. Police officials said they do act when they get inputs on such violations in parks, etc. “We had got inputs about such violations of rules in Rakh Bagh and Rose Garden and we had sent teams and issued challans. However, people should realize that it is a collective problem and request them to comply with the norms,” said Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Akhil Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/people-going-for-walks-in-parks-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76987503.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Bangladeshi’ or son of 2002 riot-hit family?||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has ordered the special operations group (SOG) to bring before it a man who had been taken into custody near Chandola lake on the suspicion that he is a Bangladeshi. The high court on Tuesday ordered that the man, Amir Shaikh, be produced through video-conferencing from the nearest court on Thursday. The high court also directed the SOG’s assistant commissioner of police to remain present during the process. This was in response to a habeas corpus petition filed by Shaikh’s mother, Rashida Shaikh, who has said that the family was affected in the 2002 riots. She has said that her family was settled in this part of Ahmedabad in a government rehabilitation scheme. The petitioner has annexed documents — Aadhaar, election, and ration cards — of her son to prove that he is an Indian. She has said that Shaikh, like her five other children, was born and brought up in Ahmedabad. She has said that in 2010 the state government acted on a high court order and rehabilitated Indian families that had suffered in the 2002 riots. She has further said that she got a plot and Rs 50,000 from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in the name of her husband, Sidikbhai Shaikh. She has submitted the documents to the high court. The mother, in her petition, said that Shaikh was detained by SOG officials on June 18 from his workplace near the octroi naka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bangladeshi-or-son-of-2002-riot-hit-family/articleshow/76988415.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Will try not to have containment zone in my constituency, says Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar||The Congress MLA from east constituency, Sanjay Talwar, claims to have fulfilled all promises he made with the people of his constituency at the time of elections. He claimed that he had been working for providing better infrastructure, facilities, education, health facilities and other important things to the public. Immediately, after becoming an MLA the maximum number of announcements were made for east constituency and Talwar claims to have fulfilled all these. He, along with councillors, is also putting efforts to help people in this Covid-19 times. Here are a few excerpts from a conversation in which he told TOI’s Nidhi Bhardwaj about announced and upcoming projects for east constituency. Q: What is being done by you in order to control spreading of coronavirus among people in your constituency?A: There is a ban on social gatherings and all councillors have been told not to indulge in too much public meetings in their offices. Apart from this, no religious or political programmes are being organised. If anybody has no mask or sanitiser, we distribute both things. There are 10,000 masks ready with me. We are distributing ration among the needy people who require it and they can also collect it from the office of councillors. As of now, no containment zones are there in the constituency and efforts are on to avoid having any in future too. We are requesting people to avoid visiting the police stations as well and if possible settle things at their level. Q: Right after your election as MLA from east constituency projects worth Rs 800 crores were announced. What happened to those announcements? A: The work on all announced projects is going on at fast pace. If Covid-19 had not disturbed things, many of those projects would have been completed by now. In those announced projects, three were major projects,a includingn exhibition centre, which is coming up on 12 acres, a club on 5 acres and a government school on 6 acres. If I talk about these three projects, then only the land cost is around Rs 1,000 crore. The construction work of college is going on while for club the design is getting ready and in September we will start membership drive as well. For the exhibition centre too the process is going on and tenders will be called shortly. Q: East constituency lacks better infrastructure, whether it is an exhibition centre or a club. Besides, all basic amenities are also required for the public? A: Mine constituency is not a backward one. I have semi-urban area and mixed population is residing here. If I have migrant labourers and BPL families, then I have effluent businessmen families too. I have 10 lakh population and 2.15 lakh voters in the constituency. And my priority is to bring everything in my constituency so that people need not visit other constituencies for their works. As far as infrastructure is concerned, from Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) already Rs 50 crore worth of works are in progress and Rs 50 crore worth works are in the pipeline. Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has approved development works for almost Rs 100 crore for the constituency while the MC has spent Rs 150 crore on similar projects. More than 100 open gyms have already been set up in public parks and Rs 20 crore have been spent on the beautification of those parks. Q: What are the upcoming projects for the constituency? A: First of all, the maximum part of the Buddha Nullah passes through east constituency and for its rejuvenation a Rs 650 crore project has been approved. Along with this, roads will be constructed on the sides of the nullah. 11 new government schools are approved for my constituency and these will be equipped with smart classes, playgrounds and solar panels. Five big community centres are also planned for poor people to organise their functions. One amusement park is coming near Mohini Resort at Chandigarh Road. Then static compactors are under installation and the largest leisure valley is going to be developed in my constituency. Three fire stations have been approved. One will come on Tajpur road while for the second talks are going on with Mandi board as land is required there near Bahadurke road. The third is planned on Rahon road. Two 66 kg sub-stations were also proposed for the constituency, one is near completion opposite Tibba Road police station and the other one will be at Bahadurke road. Q: For all these projects funds will also be required, which always remain short, so will these projects will come into existence before 2022 elections? A: The state government has given Rs 25 crore to each MLA for development works and Rs 25 crore will come later. Apart from this, I have planned projects under various departments because I know very well that only one department cannot manage these many projects. First preference is to get land transferred from the department concerned and then funds will be arranged. And if not completed, at least the projects will start and will complete gradually. Q: Your differences with other MLAs as well as mayor Balkar Sandhu have come to the fore many times. Whether those differences still exist?A: I had no differences with anybody at personal level. The fight was for getting projects and development works for the constituency, so that promises made to people get fulfilled. When I saw there was some problem in getting funds from the MC, I changed my approach and got funds from other departments and even from the state government. So now, there is no issue with anybody. I am dedicated to provide basic facilities and other essential things for people of this constituency, so I am working only in that direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/will-try-not-to-have-containment-zone-in-my-constituency/articleshow/76987517.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
July 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||What more evidence needed, asks Ramesh||Thiruvananthapuram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala slammed chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan for refusing to suspend his former principal secretary M Sivasankar despite customs officials questioning him for nine hours on Tuesday in gold smuggling case. Addressing a news conference on Wednesday, Ramesh said, “The chief minister is deceiving the public by saying there is no evidence against Sivasankar, even as details of his telephone calls with the main accused in the gold smuggling case are out in public. What more do you need to suspend an official who was continuously in touch with people who have been declared economic offenders and charged with treason?” Reiterating his demand that Pinarayi Vijayan should resign as chief minister and face a CBI enquiry, Ramesh said, government’s suggestion that chief secretary and finance secretary will investigate the smuggling case is a farce. “Will the NIA handover evidence that it has collected to these officials, when the office of the chief minister itself is under suspicion,” he asked. On higher education minister K T Jaleel in connection with the gold smuggling case, Ramesh said despite evidences about Jaleels’s calls with the accused in smuggling surfaced, the chief minister is firm that he is innocent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/what-more-evidence-needed-asks-ramesh/articleshow/76987479.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Administration cites lax info for Covid-19 bed scramble||PUNE: The district administration has dismissed the private hospitals’ argument that the lack of vacant intensive care unit (ICU) beds was affecting Covid-19 critical care. “There is no shortage of ICU beds. The designated private hospitals are not updating the availability of beds in real-time. This is causing problems for the patients requiring urgent medical help,” said a district administration official involved in managing the dashboard software. Around 6.30pm on Wednesday, the real-time online dashboard — set up to monitor vacant beds — showed only one vacant ICU bed among the 359 such facilities meant for critically ill patients across 34 private/government and corporation hospitals in the city. “The designated hospitals are updating the availability of beds at 11am and 6pm. This is not helping citizens. The hospitals are lax about it,” the official said. Private hospitals stated that it was not just the number of patients in intensive care, but also the duration of their stay that was overwhelming the ICUs. On Wednesday, Saurabh Rao, officer on special duty to the divisional commissioner's office, met some private hospital representatives and told them to update the number of beds in all categories by Thursday evening. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said the civic administration would deploy 15 staffers at five major trust hospitals — Ruby Hall Clinic, Jehangir hospital, KEM hospital, Poona hospital and Inlaks and Budhrani hospitals — for round-the-clock monitoring of bed availability and apprising the administration. “We have directed the designated private hospitals to update the dashboard in real time, increase the overall beds and discharge asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms for home isolation,” he told TOI. Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati hospital, said, “It is true that many private hospitals update the data about the availability of beds only twice a day. But that does not mean that the ICU beds are vacant. ICU beds in almost all designated hospitals are full.” Sanjay Pathare, medical director of Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “The rise in the number of critically ill Covid-19 patients is exceeding the ICU capacities. Covid-19 patients stay in ICUs for quite a long time .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/administration-cites-lax-info-for-covid-19-bed-scramble/articleshow/76988414.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||288 fresh cases, 8 fatalities in Punjab; toll rises to 221||Chandigarh: A total of 288 fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced from 20 districts of Punjab on Wednesday. Eight more people infected with the virus died. The overall tally of positive cases stands at 8,799, while 221 people have lost their lives till date. Also, 204 more patients were discharged after recovering, with which the number of recoveries in the state rose to 5,867. Jalandhar accounted for about 32% of total cases by recording 92 cases, of which 49 were contacts of positive cases and 43 were new cases. As many as 61 cases were added to the tally from Ludhiana. Of them, 20 were contacts of positive cases and eight were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). In Patiala, 26 people were found infected with the virus, 22 in Amritsar, 21 in Ferozepur, 13 in Mohali, nine in Nawanshahr, seven in Pathankot, six each in Muktsar and Faridkot, five each in Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib, three each in Bathinda and Hoshiarpur, two each in Barnala, Ropar and Tran Taran, and one each in Fazilka, Moga and Gurdaspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/288-fresh-cases-8-fatalities-in-punjab-toll-rises-to-221/articleshow/76988389.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Malda twins score identical marks||MALDA: Twin sisters Prachi and Prapti may not have made to the merit list, but their Madhyamik results have brought a strange air of happiness in the family. Both have scored 538 out of 700. Though the marks for individual subjects were different, the total remained the same. “Never have I ever seen or heard of such a coincidence,” said an elated Prachi. The daughters of the head clerk of Malda Women’s College, Pranab Ghosh Dastidar, Prachi and Prapti took Madhyamik from Malda Girls’ School this year. Both followed the same routine while preparing for the boards. They also had same tuition. “Teachers often mistook our identity. Sometimes, one of us would get punished for the other person’s fault,”said Prapti. Separated by only three minutes at birth, the happy duo share the same passion for dancing and painting. They also love to TV watch shows, like Didi No 1. “The two sisters are inseparable. When I rebuke one, the other intervenes,” said their mother, Archita. Merit-wise, the two are not very different from each other. In their selection test, Prapti secured less than 60%, while Prachi got slightly higher. In Madhyamik, their venue was Krishna Mohan Girls’ School of English Bazaar. While Prachi scored slightly better in Bengali, English, mathematics, physical science and geography, Prapti got higher in life science and history. Both plan to take up science in Class-XII. “It is true that both scored more or less the same in school tests, but the same total is an excellent coincidence,” said Sutapa Chatterjee, their headmistress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malda-twins-score-identical-marks/articleshow/76988411.cms||Subhro Maitra
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pakitan moves Gujarat HC for custody of its citizen||AHMEDABAD: The Pakistan High Commission has moved the Gujarat high court for custody of a Pakistani citizen, who was prosecuted on charges of keeping fake currency notes and was acquitted. The case involved Karachi resident Sajjad Vora (28), who had come to Surat to meet his maternal relatives in 2016. While he and his relatives were on their way to Mumbai to attend a religious function, he was found to be in possession of fake Indian currency notes at Surat railway station. Vora was booked and prosecuted before a sessions court in Surat. He was later acquitted. The trial court ordered his release but he was not allowed to leave India until the the appeal against his acquittal was pending. The state government’s appeal was dismissed by the high court in July 2019 and Vora’s acquittal was confirmed. After his acquittal was confirmed, Vora initiated efforts to return to Pakistan. His visa had expired in 2017, and this caused a hurdle. He required an NOC from police without which his return was not possible. The Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) insisted on an NOC, which the local police did not give. Vora last month approach the high court to get the hindrances cleared to return to Pakistan. The high court asked for replies from the state government as well as the central government. Meanwhile, the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi espoused his cause and filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court, saying that the Pakistani national wanted to return and was being made to stay in India against his will without a valid visa. It was also contended that Vora has got a clean acquittal in the criminal case and the Indian authorities do not need him to be kept in India any further. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria on Tuesday sought responses from the state government and the Centre over the neighbouring country’s demand to hand over its citizen to it. The HC also sought the authorization letter from the high commission official, Munit Sati, showing that he had been authorized by the country to file litigation for Vora’s custody. The HC is to hear the case further on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pak-moves-gujarat-hc-for-custody-of-its-citizen/articleshow/76987519.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district reports 319 Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths, 235 recoveries||NASHIK: Nashik district registered 319 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 224 from the city in the last 24 hours, taking the total of positive cases to 7,704. In addition, the district also reported 10 Covid casualties on Wednesday, of which, seven were reported from the city alone. The death toll in the district stands at 359, including 188 from the city. Meanwhile, 235 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the district on Wednesday with 159 of them being from the city limits. At present, the district has a total of 2,114 active cases, of which 1,458 alone are from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-reports-319-cases-10-deaths-235-recoveries/articleshow/76986245.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Pune||Weak contact tracing continues to impede infection control in Pune||PUNE: Pramod Chavan is a sanitation inspector stationed in the Kothrud area of the city. Over the past four months , the 42-year-old has tracked down contacts of nearly 150 Covid-19 patients. Chavan and team have been averaging about 10 contacts — both high-risk and low-risk — per patient. But he admits that the number can be higher.  “The biggest problem is that people are still hesitating to give us all details. Those who are traced are immediately isolated at quarantine centres and some are sent to get tested,” Chavan said. Such problems on the ground have severely impacted the Pune Metropolitan Region’s contact tracing numbers. While the average has gone up to 10 contacts per patient (from the earlier 3), officials said teams should be tracing at least 15 to 20 people for every positive case. “That is the minimum we should be reaching,” said officer in-charge of contact tracing Omprakash Bakoria. He is now set to deploy more teams to improve surveillance and tracing on the ground across the district. Currently, there are 1,439 contact tracing teams deployed in the district. “Several contacts have been traced within 24 hours. But more people will definitely help boost the process,” Bakoria added. Increased strength will also ease pressure on existing teams. Chavan and his team start the day at 7am and often end up working late into the night. “Our only aim is to track down the maximum number of contacts,” he said. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram, who held a meeting with Pune Cantonment Board officials on Wednesday, told TOI that contact tracing is still the most important tool to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “The more contact tracing we do, the higher the number of people we can isolate and test,” he said. For the record, Kerala and Karnataka have been able to track down at least 30 to 40 contacts for every positive patient. Bakoria said talks are also on to use antigen tests on high-risk and low-risk contacts to ensure faster isolation or treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weak-contact-tracing-continues-to-impede-infection-control-in-pune/articleshow/76988418.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 16, 2020||Goa||Kandolkar to quit BJP, contest from Aldona||Panaji: Former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar announced on Wednesday that he would quit BJP and contest from Aldona constituency. Stating that the party has no respect for its karyakartas and even for former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, he described BJP as a “private limited party”. Speaking after the change of guard at the Aldona panchayat, Kandolkar said he is committed to the welfare of the people of the constituency. Subhash Raut who is backed by Kandolkar, was elected sarpanch of Aldona panchayat unopposed on Wednesday. Stating that he comes from Aldona, Kandolkar said that he would be quitting the party he worked for for so many years. Calling himself a ‘bhakt’ of Manohar Parrikar, Kandolkar said BJP has eliminated the tall leader’s name from its organisation and has destroyed his ideology. “The party has no regard for karyakartas who have built the party from the grassroots. In Tivim too, party leaders should have consulted workers before admitting an MLA from another party. They didn’t even have the courtesy to do so,” he said. A year ago, Nilkant Halarnkar who had defeated Kandolkar in the 2017 assembly polls, joined BJP along with nine other Congress MLAs. Kandolkar also said that after the mandal was constituted, more than 75% are not from the saffron party. “What can you expect from people who have forgotten the work of Manohar Parrikar?” he said. The party has no regard for karyakartas who have built the party from the grassroots||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kandolkar-to-quit-bjp-contest-from-aldona/articleshow/76989046.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite MC appeal, residents continue to visit zonal offices undeterred||Ludhiana: Though the civic body has made an appeal to the general public for not coming to the offices for their works, on Wednesday also people were seen entering the zonal offices. While in zone D a gatekeeper was present at the main entrance and was trying to stop people, but in zone B there was no check on the movement of people inside. Outside the zone B office people had gathered many prospective customers around their tables for filling every kind of form. This despite the MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, issuing important email IDs and phone numbers for public convenience. In the orders issued by the commissioner late on Tuesday he had requested the general public to visit the MC offices only if there was some kind of emergency, otherwise people should avoid doing the same. He claimed that coronavirus had reached the officers and now it had become important to save officials and staff from getting infected with the disease, or else the entire system would collapse.  As per the commissioner, a complaint box had been kept outside the zonal offices, where people can put their complaints and letters. Before entering the offices the temperature of employees and officials will be checked and their hands will be sanitised. In case anyone from the public needs to enter the office then even his temperature will be monitored and hands sanitised. There will be no entry in MC offices for people coming in groups of some organisation for handing over memorandum as gathering is not allowed. So memorandum or demand letters will be accepted only on email IDs or Whatsapp of numbers of officials. A random visit at zone D office, where on Tuesday many violations were seen, highlighted that there was improvement in the situation. There was less rush at suvidha centres and at entrance gate an employee was stopping people from entering the office and a complaint box was also kept at the entrance. But despite all this some of the residents were adamant on going inside and went to hand over their documents. Meanwhile, at zone B office there was no such kind of arrangement at the entrance and people were freely going inside and social distancing was also being ignored. Even in zone A office, there was no check on public movement. Though an employee was checking the fever at the entrance but people were reaching the officials personally and in corridors too they were seen standing without any check.. At zone C office too arrangements were made and only one entry gate was left opened to the public. The suvidha centre in zone C is very congested so at a time only five persons are being allowed inside. But the officials claimed that people do not listen to them as in morning one person had to made a complaint about some illegal activity in colony and he brought five other people along. They claimed that they had kept a complaint box at the entrance but even then people wanted to hand over the complaint personally. Box-- Send your complaints here Additional commissioner (Sanyam Aggarwal): adcmcludhiana@gmail.com Additional commissioner (Rishipal): additionalcomm.mcl@gmail.com Zonal commissioner, zone A: acdmcl1@gmail.com Zonal commissioner, zone B: zonalcomm.zb@gmail.com Zonal commissioner, zone C: zonalcomm.zcmcl@gmail.com Zonal commissioner, zone D: zonalcomm.d@gmail.com Secretary (Neeraj Jain): zonalcomm.zcmcl@gmail.com Secretary (Jasdev Sekhon): jassekhon@gmail.com Secretary (Tajinder Panchi): singhtajinderpal09@gmail.com Secretary (Surinder Kumar): secmcl01@gmail.com Important phone numbers to contact 01614085013 and 01614085038||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-mc-appeal-residents-continue-to-visit-zonal-offices-undeterred/articleshow/76987525.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No weekend lockdown, ban on press briefings, says VP Singh Badnore||CHANDIGARH: There will be no weekend lockdown in the city for the time being. However, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore during a review meeting on Wednesday stressed that weekly curfew or short-period lockdown is still under consideration. In the meeting, the UT administrator also ordered a ban on press conferences, where there is a risk of infection due to large gatherings. He also appealed to all political parties not to hold any gathering or function which violates the ministry of home affairs’ guidelines that permit only events like weddings and cremation as exceptional cases. The administrator also directed UT DGP to lodge FIRs in case of illegal gathering of any kind in the city. He ordered immediate testing of 58 persons detected through Aarogya Setu application. Municipal commissioner K K Yadav said they have increased screening and hygienic practices in both sabzi mandis in sectors 17 and 26. The administrator directed him to take precautionary measures against outbreak of any monsoon-related diseases. He also ordered regular sanitisation in congested areas and markets. The administrator also congratulated the UT education department for the excellent results achieved by government schools. He particularly thanked the teachers for great efforts in motivating the students and bringing laurels to the city beautiful. WHO coordinator praises UTDr Srinivasan, who is the local coordinator of WHO for northern states, joined the review meeting on Wednesday through videoconferencing. He complimented Chandigarh Administration for several best practices; such as “extensive screening of entire population, quality contact tracing in a record time and involvement of community in containing infection”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-weekend-lockdown-ban-on-press-briefings/articleshow/76987524.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 16, 2020||Nagpur||City crosses 2k Covid cases, 15th among 27 state cities||Nagpur: Though third in state as far as population is concerned, the city is 15th among 27 municipal corporations to cross 2,000 Covid-19 cases. Mominpura has become the second locality in the city to breach 400-cases mark.Data provided by District Information Office shows the number of corona positive cases in the district increased to 2,571, of which 2,022 are from NMC limits, 459 from Nagpur Rural and 90 from other districts and states.The situation in the city is better compared to other cities in the state due to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) mass quarantine and testing model; and various innovative measures planned and implemented by team led by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Dr Yogendra Savai, Dr Praveen Gantawar, Dr Minakshi Mane, Dr Khwaja Moinuddin and others.However, the city that registered first 1,000 cases in 102 days, saw the latest 1,000 in just 25 days after easing of lockdown.The number of cases in 14 other municipal corporations are a lot more. Mumbai has 96,474 cases followed by Pune 32,096, Kalyan-Dombivali 16,071, Thane 15,821, Navi Mumbai 11,719, Vasai-Virar 8,473, Pimpri-Chinchwad 7,895, Aurangabad 6,688, Mira-Bhayandar 6,436, Ulhasnagar 5,055, Panvel 4,696, Nashik 4,851, Solapur 3,550 and Bhivandi-Nizampur 3,110.In Nagpur, cases have crossed 2,000 mark due to four hotspots Naik Talao-Bangladesh with 413, Mominpura 402, Central Jail 319 and Satranjipura 138.Though cases in Naik Talao-Bangladesh started after Satranjipura and Mominpura, it breached 400-mark on July 10. Four positive cases were registered from Mominpura on Wednesday taking it’s total to 402. Mominpura was containment zone since April 4. Also, the civic body had curtailed many areas and made mini containment zones last month. Still, cases continue to come from this area every day.Other localities in the city have less than 50 cases.The city has recorded 22 deaths as on Wednesday for a mortality rate of 1.08%, which is better than other municipal corporations in state.However, civic chief Tukaram Mundhe has warned of reimposing full lockdown in the city if violations of Covid-19 guidelines continue. Mayor Sandip Joshi is not in favour of full lockdown and kicked-off awareness drive urging people to follow guidelines so as to prevent full lockdown.The city is equipped with mass medical facilities as far as testing, quarantine centres and isolation wards are concerned. Only problem is lack of sufficient medical staff with NMC, as number of containment zones in existence have increased to 156.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-crosses-2k-covid-cases-15th-among-27-state-cities/articleshow/76987496.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 16, 2020||Nashik||Most Nashik, Aurangabad toppers score above 95%||Nashik/Aurangabad: The CBSE Class X results announced on Wednesday revealed exemplary performance by students with school toppers, in most cases, scoring above 95%. In Nashik and Aurangabad cities, most CBSE schools achieved 100% result with many students breaching the 90%-mark. Nashik Cambridge School’s Sejal Zode topped the school securing 99%, followed by Aastha Chaudhari (98.60%) and Gauri Deoghare (98.40%). At the Army Public School, Devlali, Sirwani Hiten Lal emerged as the school topper scoring 98.60%. Rashmi with 98.20% and Hrick Bose with 98% were placed just behind Sirwani. In Nashik’s Symbiosis School, Charvi Patil (98.60%) emerged the school topper followed by Sharayu Korade (97.6%) and Shirya Bhandave (96.8%). Delhi Public School’s Saachi Ahire and Ananya Singh Baghel each scored 97.20% to become joint-toppers, followed by Hrriday Ruparel (96.60%) and Swapnil Soni (96.40%). In Gems English School, Bharvi Kankaria (98%) got the top spot followed by Savi P Chandwadkar (96.6%) and Shraddha Thorwat (94.4%). All 45 students of Kishore Suryavanshi Int School passed the examination with Janhavi Hengade and Bhavesh Thakare being the joint-toppers, each scoring 94.8%. Govid Dhakane (92.4%) was placed behind them. One student here even got 100 in mathematics. Om Pund with 94% emerged as the topper in Vidya Prabodhini Prashala. Behind him were Vishaka Sarnaik (93%) and Apurva Wadnere (92%). In Aurangabad city, 37 of Nath Valley School’s 108 students scored 95% or more, while another 35 secured marks in the range of 90% to 94.99%. Saloni Raodeo (99.2%), Abhyday Purohit ( 98.8%), Kejal Vakil (98.6%), Manas Deshmukh (98.2 %) and Atharva Pawar (98%) are among the top scorers from the school, a release said. At Tender Care Home school, of the 44 students who have secured A grade, Vinit Dhoot and Sarthak Pardeshi emerged as school toppers with 98% each. At Agrasen Vidya Mandir, 16 of 121 students cleared Class X examination with more than 90% marks. Another 30 got marks above 80%. The top scorers include Manav Jain (95.6%), Sameer Dhande (94.6%) and Rajesh Pradhan (94.4%), a release said. The Oyster School had Bhushan Kale and Tejas Shastri scoring 96% marks each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/most-nashik-aurangabad-toppers-score-above-95/articleshow/76986212.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Despite Pakistan nod, no Afghan trucks||ATTARI: No Afghan goods truck arrived at the Attari integrated check post (ICP) on Wednesday, despite the Pakistan government’s announcement to open Wagah (Pakistan) international border to facilitate the one-way Afghan trade with India from July 15. Sources said a strong lobby of Pakistani traders was opposing the Afghanistan trade with India. However, they also said if Pakistan opened its border with Afghanistan on Wednesday, it could take two-three days before the trucks could reach the Attari ICP. Even Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) member national assembly Aisha Ghaus Pasha had opposed the government’s decision and had said the government didn’t take parliament into confidence before taking the decision, they added. Earlier, Islamabad opened the Torkham and Chaman borders with Afghanistan, which were closed on March 27 in the wake of the pandemic. Amritsar commissioner (customs) Dipak Gupta said they did not have any official information regarding resumption of Afghanistan trade since the announcement was made by Pakistan government. However, he said, if Afghan goods truck arrive at ICP, they would receive them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/despite-pak-nod-no-afghan-trucks/articleshow/76988410.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Food industry sets new trend with focus on immunity boosting menu||Mangaluru: Hygiene and other safety protocols in hospitality industry is a given in these pandemic times. But there’s something more this industry is focused on these days — immunity. Immunity booster dishes, drinks, sweets and desserts are the latest buzz word in the hospitality industry. As a result, hotels in Kudla have ushered in immunity booster foods and beverages and a wide variety of immunity booster menus are being introduced apart from regular ones. The welcome drinks are now replaced with traditional kashayam made of pepper, ginger and dash of jaggery. “One must not mistake immunity food as medicine. We are not serving medicine for the pandemic but through our special curated food menu, we are trying to boost the immunity of our patrons. Studies have claimed that one can keep Covid-19 at bay if the immunity is strong and we are doing exactly the same,” said B N Girish, vice-president, Hotel Ocean Pearl. The restaurant introduced the separate immunity booster menu two days ago and has been receiving positive response from the diners. Explaining the menu, Girish said all the customers visiting the hotel are served with kashayam, kada, Kahwa, turmeric tea, golden milk (milk with turmeric, black pepper and ghee). The food menu contains immunity booster soup — chicken broth with thyme, avocado, spinach and broccoli, and soya paneer soup. There are also a variety of immunity booster salads and main course (both vegetarian and non vegetarian). “ And the there are immunity booster desserts too — apple and honey with cinnamon pie, citrus and green tea souffle, dark chocolate tart with roasted walnut. City-based cloud kitchen EverydaySalad has come up with a healthy menu, bringing traditional nutritious recipes in the form of salads. They use Lakshmanphal (soursop) avocado, healthy nuts and seeds in the salads. They have also introduced warm salads for the monsoons. Ice creams from Hangyo Hangyo Ice Creams has launched Ayur range in multiple flavours that boost immunity levels. The Ayur range comes in wheatgrass, ginger and lime, isabgol and chavyanprash with dates flavours. “We use the most traditional ingredients to ensure the effect is seen and felt,” said Pradeep G Pai of Hangyo Ice Creams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/food-industry-sets-new-trend-with-focus-on-immunity-boosting-menu/articleshow/76986253.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Kukatpally land row: HC gives 10 days time||HYDERABAD: The tussle over a 75-acre parcel of land, part of Kukatpally survey number 1007, landed before Justice A Abhishek Reddy of the high court on Wednesday. Aditya Constructions has filed a petition seeking to restrain the registration department and Prime Properties from registering a joint development agreement in respect of its 75-acre land. Prime Properties advocate Sateesh Parasaran told the court that they had filed the counter in the case and sought disposal of the case. “A division bench of the HC, comprising Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Abhishek Reddy, has already allowed us to proceed further in respect of registration,” he said. The counsel for Aditya Constructions sought 10-days time to file their rejoinder to the counter filed by Prime Properties. Parasaran opposed grant of any time. However, the judge said an opportunity for filing a rejoinder cannot be denied, granted time to the petitioner and posted the case to July 27. The high court earlier granted a stay order in favour of Aditya Constructions and restrained the registration authorities from proceeding further in respect of Prime Properties’ pleas for registration. The Supreme Court had also issued a status quo order and all the actions in respect of the land would be subject to final orders of the apex court, the petitioner’s counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kukatpally-land-row-hc-gives-10-days-time/articleshow/76988425.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad looks to Google to maintain data of patients||GHAZIABAD: The Ghaziabad administration on Wednesday introduced a Covid patient management system, an integrated data portal with information from detection of patients to level of infection, which will be accessible to all stakeholders. Officials said that the system is aimed at reducing time from the point of identifying a patient till discharge and the whole process will be overseen by two nodal officers appointed by the district magistrate (DM). DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We realised that over the past fortnight, the number of positive cases in the district has increased manifold as we are conducting more tests. And to effectively manage the situation, we needed a robust system in place.” PN Dixit, one of the nodal officers, said that the process will start from uploading patients’ details on Google spreadsheet on real-time basis. “In the second stage, a team of nine doctors will get in touch with the patient and ask five questions to understand the severity of the situation. They will then allot a L1, L2 or L3 hospital accordingly and note down the details on the spreadsheet,” he said. At the hospital, the medication administered and remarks such as good, satisfactory will be updated on the spreadsheet, Dixit said. Entering the details on the Google spreadsheet is mandatory at every step. He said that the two nodal officers appointed for the purpose will then cross-check the details. “In case there is any discrepancy or delay, the officer will direct a doctor to rectify it. With this approach, we will be able to ensure that not much time is wasted in the entire process,” he said, adding that also details of several patients will be available in one document and the health department and administration officials will be able to access it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzb-looks-to-google-to-maintain-data-of-patients/articleshow/76989022.cms||Abhijay Jha
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 19 man’s death takes Covid-19 toll to 11||CHANDIGARH: Another death due to Covid-19 was reported on Wednesday, taking death toll to 11 in the city. This is the third death in this month. A 78-year-old man from Sector 19, who was tested positive for the virus at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, on July 14, has died of the virus. He was a patient of chronic heart disease with coronary stenting. He was at the Civil Hospital in Panchkula for last three days and was administered oxygen support. He has four family contacts and a maid. With this, the mortality rate is now 1.78%. “We will do screening of all those who have acute respiratory illness and influenza-like illness,” said Dr G Dewan, director, health services, UT. Meanwhile, besides a death, 18 persons have been tested positive of the deadly virus. These include two residents from Sector 46, two from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, two from Sector 29, three from Sector 48, two from Dhanas and two from Burail. While the others are one each from Sectors 38, 25, Khuda Alisher, Sector 63 and Raipur Khurd. Also, 13 patients were discharged on Wednesday. This takes the active cases to 149. Mohali DC issues fresh ordersThe Mohali DC has issued revised orders under Section 144 of the CrPc. Social gatherings shall be restricted to five persons and guests at marriages shall be restricted to 30 and funerals to 20 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sec-19-mans-death-takes-covid-toll-to-11/articleshow/76987518.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 16, 2020||Pune||PMC to deploy 1,400 ‘SPOs’ to track people||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is set to deploy 1,488 special police officers to boost its contact tracing in the city. Officials from the civic body said they plan to form 748 contact tracing teams, with two SPOs each, to trace high and low-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients. A PMC official said these SPOs will be given basic training on how to trace, approach and interview close contacts. Easing anxiety will be key. Currently, the PMC has deployed sanitation inspectors and staff from ward offices to trace contacts. They have so far traced over 3.47 lakh contacts: 1.08 lakh high-risk and 2.39 lakh low-risk contacts.  Each of these new SPOs will be given an ID card and protective gear. Special police officers are usually citizens who have been picked and assigned duties that aid the city’s efforts. Many SPOs are already involved in Covid-related work such as health surveys and management of isolation units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-deploy-1400-spos-to-track-people/articleshow/76988422.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Relief to vegetable, street food vendors in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The urban local bodies department of the Chandigarh administration has made significant amendments in the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Bylaws, 2018 by providing relief to different vendors by placing them under the essential services providers (ESP) category. With this move, hundreds of city-based vendors will not be dislocated from their original places to designated vending sites and will be able to sit at their respective places to carry on with their business. According to fresh orders, besides cobblers, tea vendors, milk and bread sellers, barbers, dhobi, now fruit and vegetable vendors, tandoor vendors, roadside chhole bhature/kulche chhole vendors, parantha sellers and florists sitting only outside religious places like temples and gurdwaras have been added in the ESP list. Since the number of these vendors is high, it has come as a major relief for them because most of them have been doing business at their own designated places from past 10 to 15 years and thus they have regular customers. “Initially, the matter was raised and passed in the town vending committee (TVC) meeting after a detailed discussion. Members of the TVC went through the representations of these vendors and later assessed the practical viability of their vending areas and the matter was then sent to the urban local bodies of the UT and from there it went to Governor-cum-UT administrator. After going through the entire exercise, the administrator approved the amendments and now the UT sent the same to us for issuing notification and for subsequent implementation and we have started the process for the same,” said an official of the MC. Besides the said amendment, another crucial amendment has been done, where transgender community has also been added in the vendors’ category. The move has been taken to provide them licences, so that they can run their livelihood by by following guidelines of the Government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/relief-to-veggie-street-food-vendors/articleshow/76987528.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||‘High charges fire dept NOC will discourage applicants’||Ludhiana: As the local bodies department has notified the charges for getting NOC from the fire brigade department, city residents have said that the charges should have been nominal as this would discourage those who were applying for the NOC or were getting it renewed every year. They claimed that along with imposing these charges the government should take steps to ensure fire safety at public places and also impart important knowledge to the residents about fire extinguishers and other safety equipment required for controlling a fire incident. They questioned that they were already paying 10% fire cess with property tax dues of industrial and commercial establishments, then what kind of charges are being imposed now. Earlier in Ludhiana, there were no charges for issuing fire NOC but as per a recent notification, now a minimum Rs 5,000 will be imposed. Even year there will be 10% increase in the charges and if anybody has to get an NOC renewed then 50% charges will be imposed. Moreover, there is no specification about large or small units as one criteria is fixed for all units. A resident of BRS Nagar and a businessman, Ravi Arora said, “I believe nothing should be free of cost and the NOC should also be paid but with this the government should make it mandatory that regular checking of equipment should be done by the department in units and keep on guiding the owners about the systems required for avoiding any untoward incident.” He said nobody comes to check the premises and they had engaged a private firm for this job, from where a person comes after every two-three months and does the needful. He said moreover the charges should be nominal. Meanwhile, Col (retd) Harjap Singh, who runs his business in Feroze Gandhi Market, said, “Instead of imposing such things the government should adopt two way approach. As already we are paying 10% fire cess with property tax amount, now why we are being told to pay fee for fire NOC as well.” He said in the market too big commercial complexes had made collective arrangements for the fire safety and taken NOC as well every year. He claimed that it would stop people from getting NOC if charges would be on the higher side. A city-based architect, Sanjay Goel, opined that nominal charges should have been fixed by government initially and then gradually it should have been increased. He said already people are less interested in getting an NOC from the fire department and this step would discourage them more, which may increase corruption. Meanwhile, the fire officials remained tight-lipped over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/high-charges-fire-dept-noc-will-discourage-applicants/articleshow/76987534.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra wants masks on essential list again||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said government will write to department of consumer affairs to once again add masks and sanitizers to the list of essential commodities. The department did not continue with them after the notification expired on June 30. Tope said the state was also seeking legal opinion on whether under Disaster Management and Epidemic Disease Act the state can cap their price. “We will set up a panel to study the market and suggest a maximum price,” said Tope. He said these items were no longer a luxury and were important tools to fight Covid-19.”"We want to ensure these items are available to all at a nominal price and profiteering is controlled,” said Tope after a meeting with food and drugs department. There have been complaints about black-marketing or inflated pricing of masks and sanitizers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-wants-masks-sanitizers-on-essential-list-again/articleshow/76987604.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Disconnect hampers fight against Covid-19 in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Doctors assisting the Karnataka government in its battle against Covid-19 and policy-making bureaucrats have not been on the same page for some time now. There have been several examples of the disconnect over the past few days. This despite the government setting up a Covid-19 task force with the intention of channelising expert opinion. While health experts have been suggesting that all those who walk into fever clinics be tested for the virus, personnel at these facilities have been advising patients to take paracetamol tablets for 2-3 days and report back only if there are symptoms. “A mild fever is good enough reason to test for Covid-19 so that the person can be isolated soon after. Because of fear and stigma, many are not coming to fever clinics. Also, those who make it a point to visit a fever clinic are sent back with an advice to take paracetamol, which is sad. They must be immediately tested,” experts told TOI. While the experts had suggested other cost-effective strategies, the civic agency instead got busy negotiating with private contractors to set up Covid Care Centres (CCCs). “Instead of spending Rs 800 per day per patient for a period of up to 14 days, which adds up to around Rs 10,000, the government can distribute a health kit worth around Rs 2,000-Rs 2,500 to each asymptomatic patient and tell the person to stay in home isolation. Each kit should consist of a pulse oximeter, a thermometer and some basic medicines, including immunity boosters. The patient should be tasked with taking his oxygen-level readings and uploading the same from his/her house,” an epidemiologist had suggested, while emphasising the government could save Rs 7,000-Rs 8,000 per patient by not sending them to a CCC. The government’s sudden decision on June 26 barring all labs from communicating Covid-19 results to patients too came as a shocker to multiple experts. It took almost a week for them to convince the government to withdraw the decision. “How can a report be withheld from suspected Covid-19 patients? There have been clear guidelines from the Supreme Court to ensure patients are allowed to access their test reports. This circular from the government was probably issued to prevent patients from getting themselves admitted to a hospital soon after the test results are known to them, but it only led to unnecessary confusion,” said sources privy to deliberations over the matter. The experts have been suggesting the government restrict inter-district travel, but the latter is yet to consider the advice. Multiple cases of Covid-19 patients having inter-district travel history have been reported. “We don’t know the idiosyncrasies of the virus yet. Inter-district travellers are carrying an infection from one district to another. It has become an unwritten rule in many villages to quarantine those who come from Bengaluru,” said experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/disconnect-between-experts-bureaucrats-hampers-virus-fight/articleshow/76987532.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Wanted accused’s house vandalised||Ludhiana: Kin of notorious criminal Ajay Pandit, wanted by Ludhiana police in murder bid cases, have alleged that some miscreants have attacked their house in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar with petrol bombs in the wee hours of Wednesday. Besides, the group of miscreants vandalised a car and a scooter parked in the locality before fleeing. On other side, the police claimed that the attack was not on the house of Ajay as some unidentified miscreants created ruckus by throwing some glass bottles on the locality and vandalised some vehicles. Ajay Pandit’s father Bishan Das said that when he was sleeping he heard some noises. When he woke up, he realised that some men were trying to break open the main gate of the house. Before he could understand anything, the miscreants started throwing petrol bombs. He added, “One petrol bomb thrown by miscreants had burnt the cover of washing machine kept in verandah. Out of fear, I did not go outside the house. When miscreants escaped, we went out and saw that a car and scooter of their neighbours had been damaged.” ACP Devinder Chudhary while confirming the development said, “Some miscreants created ruckus in locality by throwing glass bottles outside the houses and damaged vehicles. The police will lodge FIR after recording statement of locality residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wanted-accuseds-house-vandalised/articleshow/76987530.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Jaleel’s explanation not convincing,says Surendran||Kozhikode: Higher education minister K T Jaleel’s explanation that he made phone calls to Swapna Suresh, the accused in the gold smuggling case, was only official, is not convincing, said BJP state president K Surendran. Addressing a news conference here on Wednesday, he said the minister should tell as to why his personal staff contacted Swapna. The minister has said that relief kits were not distributed this Ramzan. So, Jaleel’s explanation is not credible, Surendran said. Jaleel had said on Tuesday that he spoke to Swapna only about distribution of food kits from the UAE consulate. The minister should also explain as to why smugglers frequented his office. Jaleel had association with some extremist organisations. “The revelations of NIA that the gold smuggling is connected to extremist activities should be read along with this,” Surendran said. The BJP leader challenged Jaleel to make public his telephone call details for the past two months. “A senior IAS officer was grilled for 10 hours. Such a thing is unheard of in the history of the state,” Surendran said. Meanwhile, activists of the Yuva Morcha took out a march to Jaleel’s residence in Malappuram demanding his resignation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/jaleels-explanation-not-convincingsays-surendran/articleshow/76987526.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wife poisons, stabs man to death in Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: A 21-year-old woman, Umiya Patel, allegedly poisoned and stabbed her 23-year-old husband Vakji Patel, killing him, at Sector 6 in Gandhinagar on Tuesday evening. She had initially told investigators that her husband had poisoned himself before she stabbed him. SP Gandhinagar, Mayur Chavda, said during her interrogation it emerged that she had poisoned him and later stabbed him because the poison was proving ineffective. Chavda said the accused was sent for a pre-arrest Covid test. Inspector Amarsinh Chauhan of Sector 21 police station said the couple married about two years ago, but apparently did not like each other. “The woman lived at her parents’ house at Mangrol village in Tharad taluka of Banaskantha district. They would occasionally stay together at the house of Vakji’s father, Narbat Patel, in Tharad. Vakji, who had passed Class XII, worked at a printing press owned by one Vashram Patel in Gandhinagar. For the last few days, the couple were staying at a rented house in Gandhinagar,” added Chauhan. According to the FIR lodged by the victim’s father Narbat Patel (Chaudhary), on Tuesday night, Umiya’s father, Premabhai, had called him and told him that Umiya had called him and said that something had happened to Vakji and he was unable to speak now. Police sources said they called a relative in the police, Jebhai Patel, and asked him to go to Vakji’s house while they left for Gandhinagar. “According to the FIR, when they reach Vakji’s house, they saw policemen there and Vakji’s body in a pool of blood on the floor of the house. Umiya was sitting on the staircase weeping,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-poisons-stabs-man-to-death/articleshow/76987533.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested with 1kg ganja in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Sarangpur police arrested a drug peddler with 1 kg ganja from near the EWS flats in Dhanas on Tuesday night. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act. The accused has been identified as Rohit alias Bihari, a resident of Dhanas. Sarangur police team was patrolling in Dhanas. In the meantime, they noticed a person coming towards the cops. When he saw the police, he tried to escape, but was nabbed. The police seized 1 kg ganja from his possession. During interrogation, the accused said he had bought drugs from a person in Mauli Jagran for Rs 22,000 to smuggle the same to addicts in the area. Three held for theft, trespassingThe UT police have arrested three persons for trespassing and stealing goods from a shop in Sector 19. In his complaint, Ishwar Chand, a resident of Sector 27, alleged that Rajpal Sharma, Vicky Sharma and Ashu Sharma, all running a shop at Sadar Bazaar in Sector 19, illegally entered in his booth number 412 by breaking the locks of the shutter and stole articles on June 9, 2020. Sector 19 police registered a case and arrested all the accused. Man found dead in carA 33-year-old resident of Kharar, Inderjit Singh, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in a car in Sector 40 on Wednesday evening. He used to run a packaging factory in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh. Police said a passerby noticed the man lying unconscious on driver seat and informed the police. Cops found some medicines, suspecting he might have died due to drug overdose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-1kg-ganja/articleshow/76987531.cms||---
July 16, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD, BJP: Book MLA for ‘stocking’ govt ration||Jalandhar: Leaders from both SAD and BJP on Wednesday asked the Punjab government to register a criminal case against Congress MLA from Jalandhar (Central) Rajinder Beri for “illegal stocking of ration” sent by the Union government for distribution among the needy during the lockdown. SAD spokesperson and former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said party president Sukhbir Singh Badal has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding a central probe into the “large-scale embezzlement” and wrongful distribution of the Centre’s ration meant for 1.4 crore people. Dr Cheema said the MLA has admitted to keeping the ration in a hotel and he used to give it to Congress councillors for onward distribution. Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also tweeted, terming it a case of embezzlement and wrongful distribution of central ration by the Congress MLA. BJP leader and former Punjab minister Manoranjan Kalia claimed the ration lying at the hotel was part of the government supply. “Atma Nirbhar package was meant for distribution among the poor and the migrants, who did not have Blue Cards. Why was this not distributed when the migrants were leaving? With the state practically unlocked later, this material should have already been distributed,” said Kalia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-bjp-book-mla-for-stocking-govt-ration/articleshow/76988423.cms||---
