July 17, 2020||Kolkata||TV actors, crew brace for pay cuts, delayed raises, lower budgets||From lay-offs to salary cuts and forced leaves without pay, the COVID-19 pandemic has become the bane of employees across industries. The picture is no different in the Bengali television industry. After incurring huge losses due to shoots being stalled for over three months in the lockdown, some channels are now hinting at a possible reduction in production budgets even as actors and crew members brace themselves for pay cuts and delayed raises. Sushanta Das, the producer of shows like Krishnakoli, Title and Ke Apon Ke Por, said though shootings were on a pause during the lockdown, they still had to pay 35% of the studio rent. “Besides, we had to manage the upkeep of our existing office and employees. After the shoots resumed, we had a discussion about pay cuts with all the crew members, vendors and actors. Fortunately, everyone has agreed to share the financial burden. In fact, even the studios have agreed to discount 20% of the rent for three months from the time shooting started,” he said. Pay cuts for actors and crew Dwaipayan Das, who is seen in shows like Kora Pakhi and Trinayani, has confirmed that he is taking a pay cut. “I have been communicated by the team that there will be a 20% cut. However, we are yet to receive our first payment since the shooting resumed after the lockdown,” said the actor. Neel Bhattacharya, who plays the lead in Krishnakoli, said the production house had agreed to offer him a 20% raise from June. “But that's not happening anymore, and I completely understand why. I heard that a 15-20% cut in remuneration is set to take place, but I will be spared from that. However, my raise remains due till the situation improves," he said. Not just the actors, even the crew members are set to receive reduced salaries. “A member of the producers’ team called and communicated the decision to us. This pandemic has created an extraordinary situation. We have little choice but to accept the cuts,” said Aditi Majumdar, the scriptwriter for Joy Baba Loknath and the upcoming serial Kheerer Putul. While the senior crew members are going for a pay cut, junior technicians are exempted from it. “It is not a permanent thing. There will be a review meeting after three months. If things get better, the harsh decisions like pay cuts will be reconsidered,” said Amit Das, director of Kheerer Putul. Some refuse to take a pay cut However, not everyone is willing to settle for less, especially when the risks involved in shooting are at an all-time high. Soumili Biswas, who used to play the female lead in Joy Baba Loknath, turned down the role when asked for a cut. “How can I be okay with a lesser remuneration when I am risking my life by going on the sets to shoot? I cannot accept this double whammy. I have elderly parents at home and I have decided not to work at least till Puja,” said the actress. Saswati Guha Thakurta, who used to work in Phirki, has also taken a break from work. “My age puts me at a higher risk of contracting the virus. My children, who live abroad, are insisting that I don’t go to work. As of now, I am on a break,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tv-actors-crew-brace-for-pay-cuts-delayed-raises-lower-budgets/articleshow/77005198.cms||Ruman Ganguly
July 17, 2020||Bengaluru||No lockdown blues, say Bengaluru’s home entrepreneurs, as orders pour in||If you thought that the lockdown was only bad news for business, think again. Though many establishments shut shop or suspended operations during the previous lockdown, Bengaluru's small businesses and home entrepreneurs made the most of the down time and are looking forward to more this time around. Take for instance home baker Zahan Gafoor. The youngster has been selling brownies for over two years now through social media. And the lockdown, he says, kept him busy like never before. "It gave me more time to bake and post pictures. Then people started ordering," he shares, adding that he received so many orders, that there was a two-day wait for his customers. Similarly, the demand for telecom professional Maitrayee Roy's cross stitch products, too, rose during the lockdown. "I used to make decorative pieces and home decor products earlier. But during the first lockdown, I made masks for my son and myself and shared the images on social media. Then the number of orders kept rising. Now, I get at least four to five orders on a daily basis, and most of them are for masks," says Maitrayee, whose masks are washable and reusable. Adapting to the new normalGiven the current scenario, these entrepreneurs had to ensure a few changes in the way they function. "We began taking extra precautions even though none of us stepped out during the lockdown. I began wearing gloves while baking. Earlier, the delivery person would pick the order from my doorstep. But now I leave the package on a table outside the house and the delivery person picks it from there," says Zahan. Despite the price of meat going up during the lockdown, Radhica Muthappa, who along with her husband, Uttam, prepares and sells traditional pork dishes from home, managed to give her customers a discount. "If there were multiple deliveries from the same area, we would club them and contact and coordinate with other delivery boys in such a way that the delivery charges were less for the customers," she shares. A time to experiment and introduce new productsBesides giving home entrepreneurs more time to invest, the lockdown also gave them room to experiment. Roopa Vasanth was able to experiment with different swirl techniques for her artisan handmade soaps. "The soaps we make are all handmade. Apart from the ingredients, we give a lot of importance to how they look as well. Hence, I experimented with different techniques like the drop swirl, hanger swirl and layered techniques. These techniques give the soaps a different look. For example, if I want my soaps looking like beach waves, I use the in-the-pot swirl technique," she says, adding, "Initially, lockdown did slow the business a bit, but orders slowly started pouring in and now I take pre-orders and have them ready to be shipped." Zahan too experimented with recipes and introduced ‘Nutella Brookies’ - a mix of cookies and brownies - which he says are a hit. "I tried these brookies during the lockdown and now they are the most popular item," he says. Similarly, Radhica and Uttam too introduced new items on their menu like the Calcutta Entally and the Northern Thai Sai Oua sausages among other items, which were a huge hit among their customers. "We tried out different recipes during the lockdown and these dishes are a part of the menu now. We keep rotating our dishes from time to time," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-lockdown-blues-say-bengalurus-home-entrepreneurs-as-orders-pour-in/articleshow/77004894.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
July 17, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body chief speeds up work for dedicated Covid-19 testing lab||NAVI MUMBAI: Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation's new commissioner Abhijeet Bangar has asked the civic body administration to start working on Covid-19 testing lab. "At present, we collect and send 500 samples daily for testing, which will increase in the coming days when the lab starts functioning," a health department official said. The lab is expected to get ready in eight days' time, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-civic-body-chief-speeds-up-work-for-dedicated-covid-19-testing-lab/articleshow/77008020.cms||SANJAY BANERJEE
July 17, 2020||India||Govt asks states to upload rapid antigen testing data on ICMR portal||NEW DELHI: In a letter to all states and union territories Indian Council for Medical Research director general Balram Bhargava has said that with the use of rapid antigen tests, more and more tests are being carried out and therefore is absolutely necessary that all such testing data is uploaded on the ICMR database on realtime basis and all positive cases are brought to the the authorities fot isolation, quarantine or treatment. "It is expected that to provide safe healthcare services, all government hospitals/labs as well as all private NABH/NABL hospitals/labs may initiate antigen testing and also apply for obtainlng login credentials for data entry into the ICMR portal." In an effort to facilitate and further liberalize testing,lCMR has generated five common login credentials for each district of each State/ UT, which may be shared with all Government and private facilities selected for antigen testing. ICMR DG goes on to say that in this Covid-19 pandemic, to ensure that testing is further enhanced and reporting of the same is done seamlessly states should identify all government and private facilities who would be providing COVID-19 diagnosis through antigen-based assays. "The common login credentials should be shared with all government and private facilities approved by the state. lndividual organizations should not separately approach ICMR now for obtaining logins for antigen testing. However, ICMR / Mentor lnstitutes will continue to review and approve all applications for RT-PCR based testing," the ICMR DG states. ICMR has asked states to ensure that all the antigen testing points are appropriately linked with RT-PCR facility, where symptomatic negatives will be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-asks-states-to-upload-rapid-antigen-testing-data-on-icmr-portal/articleshow/77008055.cms||Ambika Pandit
July 17, 2020||Patna||Patna: DRI seizes gold biscuits worth Rs 1.96 crore smuggled from Myanmar||PATNA: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) along with help of customs sleuths arrested two smugglers and recovered 3.98kg of gold biscuits worth Rs 1.96 crore hidden inside their undergarments and luggage from Mithapur bus stand under the Jakkanpur police station area in Patna on Wednesday. The arrested duo were produced before a court in Muzaffarpur on Thursday which sent them to judical custody. Sources said that the operation was simultaneously carried out at Silliguri in West Bengal and in national capital too from where altogether 8kg smuggled gold was seized. The arrested accused in Patna, Silliguri and New Delhi were of the same gang and had smuggled approximately 12kg of gold from Myanmar via More in Manipur which is located on the Indo-Myanmar international border. “The gang members got separated and were following different routes to reach New Delhi for delivering the consignment,” a source said. They said that the duo arrested in Patna had already boarded a private bus bearing registration number of Uttar Pradesh which was scheduled to leave for Delhi. “Just before 5-10 minutes of departure, teams of DRI and customs entered the bus at Mithapur and arrested the duo. We suspect that name and address told by both the arrested men were not original,” sources said adding they had started from Guwahati in Assam and had stayed at hotel after reaching Patna by road. They said that altogether 24 biscuits of gold weighing 3982.49 gram were seized of which some were kept hidden inside undergarments of one of the smugglers while rest were concealed inside a suitcase which the two smugglers were carrying. “We suspect that the gold biscuits were actually manufactured in some European country from where they were first smuggled to Myanmar and then further into India,” a source said adding further investigation were going on in connection with the smuggling case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-dri-seizes-gold-biscuits-worth-rs-1-96-crore-smuggled-from-myanmar/articleshow/77008097.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 17, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 36 more Covid-19 patients||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 36 positive cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, including 18 from Solan, five each from Kangra and Una districts, four from Mandi, two from Hamirpur and one each from Shimla and Sirmaur districts. The state also saw recovery of five coronavirus patients. With this, the Covid-19 tally in the state has increased to 1,377 of which 382 cases are active while 971 positive patients have recovered from the infection. Of the total positive cases tested so far, 13 have migrated out of the state, nine have died of Covid-19 while two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district have occurred due to non-Covid reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-36-more-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77008174.cms||Anand Bodh
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown curbs force city toppers to share their joy over video calls||Ever since the ISC results were announced, Archishman Ghosh’s phone hasn’t stopped ringing. Congratulatory messages have been pouring in not just from his friends and relatives, but his teachers from MP Birla Foundation as well. After all, securing 99.25% marks in the board exams is no mean feat. But unlike previous years, the toppers from Bengal did not get an opportunity to welcome any visitors at home so far. “I guess, we have to understand the given situation and accept this as the new normal,” said Archishman. Celebrations on with chocolates and homemade food Sharing a similar experience, Bipraditya Mukherjee, who got 96.5% in ISC from MP Birla Foundation, said, “This year, my friends and family are sending over chocolates instead of my favourite mishti. My relatives are sceptical about sending sweets because no one is sure about the hygiene standards maintained by the sweet shops. As chocolates are packaged days before they are sold, the risk factor is less.” It has been the same for Archishman as well. Soma Ghosh, Archishman's mother prepared luchi and basanti pulao as part of the celebrations. “If the situation was normal, my parents would have taken me to a nice restaurant. But given the present scenario, they decided against it. I enjoyed what my mother cooked,” said Archishman. Even Kaji Samim Ahsan, who secured 95.4% in Madhyamik from Ballygunge Government High School, received a homemade biryani treat from his mother. Gifts delivered via courier Most of these students are overwhelmed by the gifts they are receiving as a token of their achievements, but are equally upset that they can’t meet their uncles and aunts in person to share their happiness. Kaji rued, “I love videogames and I hope my uncle sends me one as promised. But the worst part is that he won’t be able to come to our place. He will send me the gift via post instead.” Travel plans reserved for next year A number of families who couldn’t plan a vacation in the past two years are disappointed. "We had plans to go to some hill station after Archishman's boards, but that is impossible at the moment. So, we are planning to go to Durgapur, my maternal place for a few weeks. We can plan a vacation next year if the situation is better,” said Soma. Susim Mukul Roy, who secured 96.75% marks in ISC from Garden High School, wanted to visit a beach destination after his exams, but that seems a distant dream as of now. “After almost three years of hard work, we wanted to celebrate Susim’s achievements by planning a vacation. But it is not possible in this situation. Hopefully, we will go somewhere next year. However, celebrations won’t stop at home,” said Manas Roy, Susim’s father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-curbs-force-city-toppers-to-share-their-joy-over-video-calls/articleshow/77008527.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
July 17, 2020||India||India crosses 1 million cases; K’taka tally tops 50k, toll past 1k||Karnataka crossed 50,000 Covid-19 infections and logged more than 1,000 deaths even as the national caseload exceeded one million and the deaths due to the disease crossed 25,000. The number of Covid-19 deaths in the state quadrupled from just 246 at June-end to touch 1,032 on Thursday, which saw a single-day record of 104 deaths; 70 of these were in Bengaluru alone. Another daily record was broken with 4,169 cases on Thursday, taking the total number to 51,422. Of these, 36,180 were reported in July at a rate of 2,261 cases a day. The number of cases in Bengaluru stood at 25,288, of which 20,733 were added in July, including 2,344 on Thursday. Comparatively, Chennai reported 1,157 cases and 23 deaths; Mumbai 1,476 and 56 and Delhi reported 1,652 and 58. The number of active cases in Karnataka and Bengaluru stood at 30,655 and 18,828, while the total number of recoveries were 19,729 and 5,952 respectively. Karnataka, experts say, must shift its focus on preventing deaths if it wants to emerge from the pandemic with a high recovery rate given that the number of cases could rise. Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 taskforce, said: “The number of cases is bound to increase for two reasons: the anticipated peak and number of tests has increased. We’re now focussed on reducing deaths.” From testing about 10,900 samples a day on an average in June, the state has been testing more than 17,000 a day in July on an average. On Thursday, the state tested 23,451 samples, 19,347 of which returned negative. Most deaths in the state are still because of comorbidities like SARI and ILI, while clinical experts point to other effects of the virus that are affecting people’s hearts and lungs. As on Thursday, 539 patients, including 317 in Bengaluru were in the ICU. Manjunath said: “It is important we coordinate and ensure that critical and sick people get hospital beds. Our treatment strategy will also change as we learn new things about the virus. People whose health is not critical occupying beds is hurting patients who really need them”. Dr C Nagaraj, director, RGCID, and member, state Covid-19 death audit committee, said: “There's a need for more testing and the focus must also be on reducing the time taken to give the results. Besides, in 50% of the deaths audited by us and treated at our hospital, we've found that the patient spent only about a day or less than 24 hours at a hospital, leaving doctors with very little time to save them. And most deaths are severe SARI cases.” Among the 10,00,202 cases reported nationally, 6.3 lakh patients have been treated. The tally surged following a record spike of 36,429 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-crosses-1-million-cases-ktaka-tally-tops-50k-toll-past-1k/articleshow/77008439.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 17, 2020||India||Quick reboot at country’s biggest computer market||If work-from-home is the new normal, computers are the new essentials. In Nehru Place – the biggest market for IT products in the country – the crowd is back for laptops, desktops and headphones, because home is now both school and office. There is a pent-up demand for computers, say shopkeepers. After a slow first week in June, when most visits were for repairs, business picked up quickly. By the end of June, the footfalls had touched 50-60% of the March level, the market association says. And this was without the Delhi Metro. Before the lockdown, 3-3.5 lakh customers came to the market every day through the Nehru Place and Nehru Enclave metro stations, said Mahinder Aggarwal, president of the market association. Once metro services resume, shopkeepers expect thousands more to troop in. Read more from this seriesAmid the market’s concrete blocks, the only obvious change since March is the masks on every face. Stalls that sold screen guards, phone covers and even clothes are all there. Aggarwal said their June turnover was thrice as much as in March, and they also paid thrice the GST. “Covid has confined people to their homes, making laptops and desktops a must-have,” said Aggarwal. “Students taking online classes need a system to work on. Adults are also working from home, so the demand for laptops and desktops is very high. And if a device breaks down, they rush here for repairs.” Sanjay Nigam, who sells phone covers, said people initially came only for urgent needs, but now he also gets 20-25 customers daily. “It is a sign of normality. If the metro reopens, business will grow further.” He is worried about his leftover Chinese stock, though. “We are not getting any new Chinese products, but the old stock needs to be sold. We can’t let it go to waste, but we will need alternatives too.” Many other shopkeepers TOI spoke to also said they expect the rush to grow. Arshdeep Kaur, who had come to get her phone repaired, said she can’t do without it while working from home. “My phone’s battery stopped working last night and the first thing I did today was rush here to get it changed.” Wasn’t she worried about the crowd? “You can go out with the right precautions,” she said. Varun Madaan needs more visitors like her. He is one of the many roving ‘agents’ who earn a living by talking people into visiting the shops that pay them a cut. He says the first few days after reopening were as bad as the lockdown for him, but now he earns enough to eat three meals a day and save some money too. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch Business picks up at Delhi computer market as home is now both school and office||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/quick-reboot-at-countrys-biggest-computer-market/articleshow/77003880.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 17, 2020||Business||China economy returned to growth last quarter as virus eased||The Chinese economy returned to growth in the second quarter, marking an important milestone in the global struggle to recover from the coronavirus pandemic. Gross domestic product expanded 3.2% in the three months to June from a year ago, reversing a 6.8% decline in the first quarter and beating the median forecast of 2.4%. In the first half however, output is still down 1.6% on the same period in 2019. Having shut its economy in the first quarter to arrest the virus spread and managed so far to largely defeat subsequent outbreaks, China is claiming global leadership in dealing with the deadly disease. Yet a conservative stimulus approach has produced only a modest domestic recovery, and one that remains highly vulnerable to setbacks in external demand as shutdowns continue to hamper global activity. Further details from Thursday's data release: “The recovery in 2Q is strong, but also highly uneven” as the supply recovery is stronger than demand, and investment is stronger than consumption, according to Larry Hu, chief China economist at Macquarie Bank Ltd. “Looking ahead, while the growth momentum would slow inevitably, GDP growth could rebound to around 5% on year in the second half” of 2020, he said. Today's data showed the recovery is still largely industry-driven, while consumer sentiment is weaker than expected. A raft of measures have been rolled out since the pandemic to shore up the economy, including tax and fee cuts, cheaper loans, and increased fiscal spending. Stimulus has still fallen far short of the policies offered in developed economies, out of concern for debt buildup and financial stability. “China's economy has gradually overcome the negative impact brought by the virus in the first half, showing recovery momentum,” Liu Aihua, NBS spokesperson, said in Beijing after the data was released. “The recovery of the domestic economic recovery still faces pressure amid rising external challenges, as the coronavirus continues to impact the global economy,” A major headwind to the recovery is the level of unemployment created by the collapse in manufacturing in the first quarter. The surveyed unemployment rate doesn't capture the full impact, and tens of millions may still be out of work due to the pandemic. Policy makers are also signaling that monetary and fiscal policy won't become much more supportive, as long as credit growth continues its upward trend. “Not out of the woods” is how Helen Qiao, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's chief economist for Greater China, described today's numbers. She told Bloomberg Television that retail sales are clearly lagging the recovery in other parts of the economy. “People still hold a fear against going out and traveling,” and the service sector is continuing to feel pain, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/china-economy-returned-to-growth-last-quarter-as-virus-eased/articleshow/77008671.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Business||Spend big on infra for revival: Advisers to PM||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s key economic advisors have proposed an investment-led stimulus by the government to help revive the economy. The proposed massive spending on infrastructure, along with an upgrade of urban facilities, is expected to create durable assets and jobs, and generate demand for cement and steel. While NITI Aayog, the Economic Advisory Council (EAC) to the PM and the chief economic advisor had made detailed presentations to Modi. On Thursday, the finance ministry presented its assessment of the economy and suggestions for scripting an economic turnaround. Some of the advisors suggested that the government should not be bogged down by “unreasonable” fiscal deficit targets, given the unprecedented crisis as the priority is to revive growth, especially when money is lying idle with the private sector unlikely to lead investment, sources told TOI. While asset monetization and speedy disinvestment can help reduce the gap and boost spending, the need to focus on higher expenditure as the way out of the current economic situation is being recognized. The focus should also be on projects which can deliver results in one or two years under the Atmanirbhar Bharat drive. Officials argued that the Rs 20 lakh Atmanirbhar Bharat package, which saw only around 1% higher government spending, had met the results as the economy was not ready to deal with greater spending on infrastructure creation at that time. Most economists have estimated a 5% contraction during the first quarter, with even the government and RBI not ruling out lower economic output during the entire financial year — which will be a first in over four decades. While the EAC to PM headed by Bibek Debroy was split on how to get the economy back on track, the NITI Aayog has suggested that the government could significantly step up investments in railways, ports, airports, logistics and connecting state capitals through a more extensive road network. The presentation by chief economic adviser KV Subramanian and principal economic adviser Sanjeev Sanyal dentified urbanization as a focus area, while providing an assessment of the macro-economic situation, sources said. A key theme, including in the finance ministry’s assessment, is to channelize resources in areas which provide quick results. While the Rs 100 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline will prove the much-needed impetus to productive asset creation, some of the projects are seen to be long-gestation and may take years to implement. Government sources said that projects also need to be implemented quickly unlike those such as the Dedicated Freight Corridor, which has been under-construction for years and is running behind schedule. “It has to be a government spending led revival," said a source. There is also a recognition that deficit monetization, which actually means the Reserve Bank of India printing money, should be an option to fund the massive infrastructure push. An aggressive push for privatization of state-run companies has also been suggested as a means to ramp up funds and get rid of inefficiencies in public sector enterprises. A final decision on the shape and actual contours of the package will be taken by the PM, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spend-big-on-infra-for-revival-advisers-to-pm/articleshow/77008825.cms||Surojit Gupta
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Will provide nutritious midday meal despite odds: Punjab minister Vijay Inder Singla||CHANDIGARH: Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Thursday reiterated the commitment of the state government towards overall development of children. He said despite the Covid-19 crisis, the state government is providing food grains to 15.79 lakh students of government schools. “Despite facing odds due to the unprecedented pandemic, teachers have been doing a really commendable job in taking online classes, distributing books and foodgrains at the doorstep of every eligible student,” Singla said. The cabinet minister claimed that 8,262.23 metric tones (MT) of rice and wheat have been sent to schools in sealed packets to be delivered to students for first financial quarter of the 2020-21academic session. For the second quarter (July 20-September 20), he said, allocation of 11,974 MT has been approved. “An amount of Rs 37.26 crore as cooking cost has already been sanctioned by the state government. It has to be transferred to the accounts of beneficiary students as per guidelines of the Union government. As some students did not have any operative bank account, around Rs 14 crore is lying with the respective schools,” Singla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/singla-will-provide-nutritious-midday-meal-despite-odds/articleshow/77008891.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Electrification of 130-km rail section complete in Punjab, Haryana||PATIALA: The Northern Railway has completed the electrification work of 130-km section in Punjab and Haryana, which will ensure that no more diesel locomotives are used in the stretch. The electrified lines include 62-km-long Dhuri (Punjab)-Jakhal (Haryana) line and the 68-km Dhuri-Lehra Muhabbat single line in Ambala division. A speed trial for up to 120 kmph was also done in these sections. The Dhuri-Jakhal section in the significant Ludhiana-Dhuri-Jakhal line is a railway line connecting Ludhiana in Punjab and Jakhal in Haryana. The Dhuri-Lehra Muhabbat section falls in the Rajpura-Bhatinda line and will be significant as it will improve mobility. "While we have electrified major routes on northern railways, there are patches where our trains get delayed because the electric locomotive has to be changed to diesel on them. With the electrification of these sections, it will be a seamless travel, there will be no delays and above all, it will save energy. This is a significant move of the railways towards 100% electrification," an official said. Inspections of the sections were carried out by chief commissioner of railway safety Shailesh Kumar Pathak. Pathak. He conducted detailed safety inspections of the sections using motor trolley. Later, current collection tests and speed trials by electric locomotive were also done. The speed trial between Jakhal-Dhuri and Lehra Muhabbat-Dhuri sections with up to 120 km per hour was recorded successfully, the statement said. The tests were done using Oliver-G technology which is a type of ‘over-head line' inspection with video recording and GPS marking system for current collection. It is a highly reliable technology for ensuring spark-free current collection. Several other structures like ROBs, RUBs, level crossings and FOBs on the line were also checked during the inspection. The CCRS also inspected the railway stations and their amenities located on the sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/electrification-of-130-km-rail-section-complete-in-punjab-haryana/articleshow/77008890.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 26.71% dip in road crashes in 2020||CHANDIGARH: Haryana recorded 26.71% less cases of road accidents during the first-half of 2020 compared to the corresponding period last year, with the daily count of such cases coming down to 22 this year from 30 in 2019. Similarly, fatalities from road accidents declined by 26.77% during the January and June period, while the cases of injuries to people saw an impressive dip of 26.88%. Sharing the information, Navdeep Singh Virk, additional director general of police (law and order), said the reduction in road mishaps and fatalities has been possible on account of better traffic safety measures, including improved enforcement of traffic regulations by the field units. However, the lockdown enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19 starting March 24 also contributed significantly to the dip in accidents. According to Virk, the number of road mishaps between January and June this year came down to 4,024 from 5,491 in 2019, showing a fall of 1,467 incidents. The count of casualties also went down by 678 cases, from 2,532 in 2019 to 1,854 in 2020. Similarly, the number of cases of people receiving injuries also came down by 1,247 to 3,391 this year from 4,638 recorded in the January-June period in 2019. "The police in consultation with different stakeholders have been working on remedial measures like identifying black spots and getting them rectified on priority, improving the conditions of roads and putting up signage. In addition to the awareness on road safety, our field units are also keeping a close eye on drunk driving and speeding — one of the major causes of accidents," Virk added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-sees-26-71-dip-in-road-crashes-in-2020/articleshow/77008893.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||Army to verify Chinese pullback over next 10 days||NEW DELHI: India will keep a close watch and carefully verify over the next 10 days whether Chinese soldiers pull back further for concrete "disengagement" between the rival troops in eastern Ladakh before discussing "de-escalation" at the next corps commander-level meeting. The fifth round of talks between 14 Corps commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Maj Gen Liu Lin will be held after the "partial disengagement" at Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs, under way since the beginning of this month, "hopefully" leads to a "complete disengagement", top sources said. "The People’s Liberation Army (PLA), in the fourth round on July 14, indicated its willingness to move back further at Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs. But it’s consulting its politico-military hierarchy. We will have to wait to see how much it translates into actual action on the ground," a source said. Follow latest updates on India-China LAC faceoffThis was reinforced by a rare official statement by the Indian Army on Thursday, which said India and China "remain committed to the objective of complete disengagement" but the stepwise process was "intricate" and would require "constant verification" at different stages. There is a huge trust deficit between the two sides after the bloody clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15 and accounts for the Indian emphasis on verification. The carefully worded statement came a day after the high-powered China Study Group, which includes national security adviser Ajit Doval, foreign minister S Jaishankar and Army chief Gen M M Naravane, reviewed the outcome of the July 14 talks and discussed the future strategy, as reported by TOI on Thursday. The statement significantly did not mention the word ‘de-escalation’ to clearly imply that the mutual withdrawal of troops, tanks, artillery guns and other heavy weaponry from the ‘rear areas’ along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is not on the cards for now. The foreign ministry on Thursday said the disengagement process currently under way was "specifically aimed at addressing face-off situations and close-up deployments" between the rival troops. "Both sides have agreed at specific points to re-deploy towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC. These are mutually agreed reciprocal actions to be taken by both sides. It is an ongoing process," it said. This mutual re-deployment should not be "misrepresented" since there is "absolutely no change" with respect to India’s position. "Any unilateral attempts to change the status quo along the LAC are not acceptable," the ministry said. Sources said only the troop disengagement at "Patrolling Point-14 (PP-14)" in Galwan Valley, the site of the June 15 clashes, has been fully completed to India’s satisfaction till now, with all PLA troops withdrawing to their side of the LAC. There is also substantial progress at the face-off sites at PP-15 and 17A in the Gogra-Hot Springs area, with the bulk of the rival troops mutually pulling back to create temporary no-patrolling zones extending 2-3 km. "A further pullback has been agreed to for complete disengagement in these areas," a source said. The north bank of Pangong Tso, however, remains the major problem. PLA troops have so far only moved back from the face-off site at the "base" of "Finger-4" to "Finger-5" (mountainous spurs), without fully vacating the ridgeline that dominates the area. India wants the PLA soldiers to move back by about 8km to their bases at Sirijap-I and II to the east of "Finger-8", where the LAC runs north to south. Indian troops have also moved back westwards towards their Dhan Singh Thapa post between "Finger-2" and "Finger-3". Apart from the face-off sites, another major concern is the way the PLA is continuing to block Indian soldiers from going to their traditional "Patrolling Points 10, 11, 12 and 13" in the Depsang Plains — a strategically located tabletop plateau to the north of Galwan — after intruding deep into what India considers its territory. India is pushing for the "old norm" of not blocking each other’s patrols to be restored in the Depsang area. The eventual de-induction of the around 30,000 troops and heavy weaponry amassed by the two sides in the "depth areas" along the 1,597km frontier in eastern Ladakh is still nowhere on the horizon. Watch LAC row: Army to verify Chinese pullback over next 10 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-to-verify-chinese-pullback-over-next-10-days/articleshow/77008903.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 17, 2020||India||Coronavirus outbreak: India surges past 1 million cases with record one-day spike||NEW DELHI: India has recorded more than 1 million Covid-19 cases and 25,000 deaths from the virus, crossing the twin milestones on Tuesday amid a massive surge in the pandemic in recent days. The country added more than 36,000 new cases and 684 deaths during the day, both by far the highest in a single day. India is the third country, after the US and Brazil, to log 1 million Covid-19 cases and the eighth to register over 25,000 deaths. India’s caseload has risen from 8 lakh to 10 lakh (1 million) in just six days, as compared with nine while moving from 6 lakh to 8 lakh and 11 for the previous 2 lakh cases. Likewise, the death toll has risen from 20,000 to 25,000 in just 10 days. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusOn Tuesday, India recorded 36,139 fresh infections, over 3,600 more than the previous peak of 32,498 reported just a day earlier, as per data collated from state governments. With this, India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 10,04,806. Active cases rose by nearly 12,000 while around 23,000 patients were declared cured during the day. Tuesday also saw the highest single-day rise in the Covid-19 death toll, with 684 fatalities reported from across the country. The previous highest toll of 616 (discounting 2,003, mostly back-dated death reported on June 16) was recorded on Wednesday. While Maharashtra as usual led the count with 266 deaths — its second-highest 24-hour toll so far — Karnataka saw a huge spike in fatalities, adding 104 to its toll. It became the third state, after Maharashtra and Delhi, to register 100 deaths in a single day. The day’s toll was also high in Tamil Nadu (69), Delhi (58), Andhra Pradesh (40), Uttar Pradesh (34), Bengal (23) and J&K (16). In what would be another record, at least 11 states reported their highest single-day surge in cases, led by Maharashtra, which recorded a massive 8,641 new infections. The others were Tamil Nadu (4,549), Karnataka (4,169), Andhra Pradesh (2,593), Uttar Pradesh (2,083), Bengal (1,690), Bihar (also 1,690), Kerala (722), J&K (490), Jharkhand (381 since Wednesday night) and Chhattisgarh (218). Amid a major spike in the pandemic in the state, Karnataka became the third state to log 4,000 or more cases in a day, nearly 1,000 more than Wednesday’s number. The state also crossed 50,000 cases and 1,000 deaths. Breaking all previous records, Maharashtra on Thursday added 8,641 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day addition since the pandemic broke. The previous highest was 8,139 cases reported on July 11. The state’s case tally on Thursday reached 2,84,281, very close to the 3 lakh mark. The state also reported 266 deaths, the second-highest toll for a day so far, taking the total toll past 11,000. Mumbai reported an increase in the number of cases compared to the last few days, adding 1,476 new ones. Mumbai now has 97,950 cases. Of the 266 deaths in the state, 56 were reported from Mumbai, which contributed 21% of the daily addition. A civic official said since the easing of the lockdown, a bulk of new infections were coming from non-slum pockets. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) added twice the number of cases and deaths than Mumbai. Even as fresh cases rose to a new high in Tamil Nadu, Chennai continued to report declining numbers. As Chennai detected 1,157 cases on Thursday, a mathematical model suggested that the infection was no more an epidemic in the city. “Technically, it is no longer an epidemic in the city. If Chennai manages to prevent any new clusters from increasing the growth rate again, we could end up with all patients recovered by a couple of weeks,” an expert said. Telangana recorded 10 deaths and 1,676 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total tally of cases beyond the 40,000 mark. Telangana also set a new record in Covid-19 testing with 14,027 samples tested on Thursday, the single-day highest so far. With the latest figures, about 18.8% of the samples tested have been positive, officials said. Watch Covid-19: India surges past 1 million cases with record on day spike||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-surges-past-1-million-cases-with-record-one-day-spike/articleshow/77008947.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||MP, Bihar, T’gana economy to be hit most by Covid: Lancet||HYDERABAD: Madhya Pradesh is most vulnerable to the long-term effects of Covid-19 pandemic, followed by Bihar and Telangana, says a study published in the medical journal ‘Lancet.’ The study, ‘A vulnerability index for the management of and response to the Covid-19 epidemic in India: An ecological study’, shows Sikkim at score ‘0’ in the rankings, making it the least vulnerable state. Madhya Pradesh has scored ‘1’ on the overall vulnerability scale while Bihar’s vulnerability is calculated to be 0.971. While focussing on the exodus of migrant workers from cities during the lockdown, the study says, “most of these people travelled to UP and Bihar, followed by MP, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, J&K and West Bengal. And, indeed, we observed that these are some of the most vulnerable states according to the vulnerability indices.” According to the researchers, MP has the highest vulnerability due to housing and hygiene condition (0.971) which is highest among all states. Also, vulnerability is high due to socio economic conditions (0.886) and weak healthcare infrastructure (0.857). Bihar’s weak link is non-availability of healthcare (0.971). It fared poorly on hygiene (0.800) and socio-economic conditions (0.714) as well. “The objective of the study is to see how vulnerable the population is to the effects of the pandemic. For example, it studied how a particular state will be impacted due to its socio-economic condition, housing and hygiene conditions among others,” says Dr Rajib Acharya of the Population Council, New Delhi, one of the authors of the study along with Akash Porwal, also from the same organsation. “Telangana has a very high epidemiological vulnerability (0.8) and vulnerability due to non-availability of healthcare is high (0.65). Vulnerability due to housing and hygiene conditions (0.629) is high as well,” added Acharya. The researchers collected data from a number of publicly available sources like National Family Health Survey 2015–16, Census, Rural Health Statistics 2018, and National Health Profile 2019. The study points out that districts with higher vulnerability are more likely to get poorer. “These areas are already poor and are therefore more likely to be impacted economically as more people are likely to lose jobsas an impact of the illness," said Acharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-bihar-tgana-economy-to-be-hit-most-by-covid-lancet/articleshow/77009142.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 17, 2020||India||Norms for temporary registration no in new vehicles kicks in||NEW DELHI: Driving a new vehicle with a temporary registration number written on a piece of paper and pasted on the vehicle is now an offence. The road transport ministry on Wednesday notified a comprehensive norm for colour code for alphanumeric details and for the background portion used for displaying the registration number of 11 categories of vehicles. The two new inclusions in the list are vehicles with temporary number plates and the ones in possession of dealers. The changes have been made under the Central Motor Vehicles Rules (CMVR), which prohibits using any alphabet except capital letters in English and Arabic numerals on the number plate. It also says nothing else must be written on it. This means it’s illegal if any motor vehicle displays registration details in regional language or in small letter. “Even VIP registration numbers auctioned by states must comply with the norms,” said an official. The CMVR specifies the dimensions of the number and alphabets to be written on any number plate. For example, in the case of all motor vehicles except two and three wheelers, the height, thickness and space have been specified at 65 mm, 10 mm and 10 mm respectively. “Uniformity of all number plates is very essential for enforcement of rules. The cameras with automating number plate readers cannot read those which don’t conform to the norm,” said Anil Chikara a Delhi transport department official specialising in motor vehicle licencing. He added that there have been numerous instances of criminals misusing vehicle with temporary registration numbers to commit crime. “It’s difficult to read the details printed on a piece of paper from a little distance and one can easily remove it at convenience. The notification has brought greater clarity,” Chikara said. Though nation-wide implementation of High Security Registration Plate (HSRP) will put an end to the current practice of people flouting norm, several states are yet to implement this. The road transport ministry said that the notification has been brought to bring clarity in respect of an amendment notified in June 1989 on “The assignment of registration mark on vehicles for various States and Union Territories at a glimpse”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/norms-for-temporary-registration-no-in-new-vehicles-kicks-in/articleshow/77009228.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 17, 2020||Business||Vijay Mallya offers settlement package of Rs 13,960 crore||NEW DELHI: After exhausting judicial remedies against his extradition to India, fugitive former liquor baron Vijay Mallya's counsel on Thursday told the Supreme Court that he has offered a comprehensive settlement package to the consortium of banks and that if it is accepted then all the cases against him by Enforcement Directorate would be sorted out. Though the counsel did not mention the quantum of settlement before a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, sources said Mallya has filed a petition before the SC last month offering a settlement package of Rs 13,960 crores for full and final payment of the principal defaulted amount in excess of Rs 9,000 crore. This is the highest offer Mallya has ever made for settlement of dispute with consortium of banks and closure of money laundering cases under PMLA registered by ED. But, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said Mallya had a habit of giving such offers from time to time. "This is one of the many carrots Mallya had dangled at the end of a stick from time to time. Let him deposit the money before coming to India," he said, giving a hint that Mallya could be extradited to India soon. Mallya has reportedly sought asylum in the UK after losing battle against extradition in multiple courts there. A Delhi court had in 2016 issued non-bailable arrest warrants against Mallya for repeated non-appearance in an ED case even as the SC had pulled up Mallya for non-disclosure of his assets during the hearing of the petition by consortium of banks for recovery of debts. In March 2016, Mallya had offered to deposit Rs 4,000 crore as settlement, which included pending suits by his companies including the now defunct Kingfisher Airlines for settlement. A month later, he had increased the offer to Rs 6.868 crore. Recently, he tweeted - "Congratulations to the government for Covid-19 relief package. They can print as much currency as they want. But should a small contributor like me who offers 100% pay back of State owned bank loans be constantly ignored? Please take my money unconditionally and close." Congratulations to the Government for a Covid 19 relief package. They can print as much currency as they want BUT s… https://t.co/6Y2aGEnHnX— Vijay Mallya (@TheVijayMallya) 1589414581000Referred to as "India's Richard Branson" and the "king of Good Times", Mallya had built a fortune on Kingfisher beer before starting Kingfisher Airlines in 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vijay-mallya-offers-to-pay-up-but-govt-is-not-interested/articleshow/77009259.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 17, 2020||India||Sachin Pilot, 18 MLAs move HC against anti-defection notices||JAIPUR: Sacked Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 Congress MLAs on Thursday filed a petition in the high court, challenging the constitutional validity of “some provisions” in the legislature rules invoked by the Speaker to issue them disqualification notices on grounds of defying the party whip and staying away from CLP meetings on consecutive days. Challenging Congress’s reliance on the (anti-defection) law to stem dissent, the petition argues that it could potentially have dangerous consequences such as an elected representative being deprived of assembly membership at the “whims and fancies of the leader of the party”. Two versions of the petition were heard during the day, first at 3pm and again at 5pm, before the single-judge bench of Justice Satish Kumar Sharma acceded to a plea to list the matter before a division bench. Read AlsoTop Congress leadership still wants to keep 'doors open' for Sachin Pilot: SourcesEven as a section of leaders within the Congress feels that Sachin Pilot has "gone too far", especially after he took the party to court over the disqualification issue, sources on Thursday said the top party leadership is still keeping the "doors open" for him, and has also asked Rajasthan CM AshokPilot's lawyers — Harish Salve, Mukul Rohatgi and Devadutt Kamat — had sought time to amend the petition during the first hearing, saying the petitioners wanted to incorporate elements challenging the constitutional validity of portions of the Rajasthan Assembly Member (Disqualification on the grounds of changing party) Rules, 1989. The plea was accepted despite opposition from Congress counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi and advocate general MS Singhvi, representing the Speaker. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on Rajasthan political crisisThe original petition had only challenged the notices issued by Speaker CP Joshi on the basis of a complaint filed by Congress against Pilot and his loyalists, accusing them of conspiring with BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta will take up the amended joint petition on Friday. According to the petition, which lists Pilot as petitioner No. 7, all 19 MLAs who have been served notices by the Speaker are still with Congress and none of them has given up assembly membership. The petition mentions that Pilot had already issued multiple statements saying he had no intention of leaving Congress. The MLAs’ petition argues that the Speaker should have given them at least a week’s time to respond to the allegations against them instead of just two days (till 3pm on July 17). “Grave mischief is sought to be achieved by the prejudicial manner in which the CLP is seeking to impose sanctions upon the MLAs on sheer presumptuous basis, as the complaint (by Congress chief whip) is dated July 14 and the showcause notice is issued (by the speaker) on the same day,” the petition states. The MLAs accused Gehlot of trying to threaten them through an inquiry by the Special Operations Group (SOG) so that they wouldn’t raise their voices against “the inefficiency of leadership within the party”. On being taken to task for not attending CLP meetings, the Pilot camp has said that skipping party conclaves cannot be considered tantamount to inviting disqualification on grounds of defection. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi reached the court with an impleadment application, saying he should be made party to the case as the Speaker had issued notices based on his petition filed under para 2(1)A of Schedule X of the Constitution. Watch Rajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot moves HC against disqualification||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sachin-pilot-18-mlas-move-hc-against-anti-defection-notices/articleshow/77009380.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 17, 2020||World||Hydroxychloroquine ineffective against mild Covid-19, US study shows||NEW YORK: The anti-malaria drug touted by US President Donald Trump as a Covid-19 treatment was ineffective for patients with a mild version of the disease in a study conducted by researchers at the University of Minnesota. About 24% of the patients given hydroxychloroquine in the study had persisting symptoms over a 14-day period, while roughly 30% of the group given a placebo were determined to have persistent symptoms over the same period. The difference was not statistically significant, the researchers said. "Hydroxychloroquine did not substantially reduce symptom severity or prevalence over time in non-hospitalized persons with early Covid-19," the researchers wrote in an article to be published in the Annals of Internal Medicine journal on Thursday. The randomized, placebo-controlled study was conducted on 491 non-hospitalized patients. Owing to test shortages in the United States, only 58% of participants were tested for the disease. Although it was not an endpoint of the study, five individuals who were given hydroxychloroquine were hospitalized or died because of Covid-19, compared with eight people given a placebo. The study "provides strong evidence that hydroxychloroquine offers no benefit in patients with mild illness," Dr. Neil Schluger of New York Medical College said in an commentary on the study, also scheduled to be published on Thursday. Vocal support from Trump raised expectations for the decades-old drug. In March, Trump said hydroxychloroquine used in combination with the antibiotic azithromycin had "a real chance to be one of the biggest game changers in the history of medicine" with little evidence to back up that claim. He later said he took the drugs preventively after two people who worked at the White House were diagnosed with Covid-19. But several placebo-controlled studies suggest the drug is ineffective to either treat or prevent the disease. "There's just more and more data accumulated that hydroxychloroquine, at least alone does not really have any effect," said Dr. David Boulware, the senior investigator of the trial at the University of Minnesota. "Most sort of sensible people have started to move on and really look at other therapies."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/hydroxychloroquine-ineffective-against-mild-covid-19-us-study-shows/articleshow/77009445.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||Surat woman cop who took on min's son faces 2 inquires||SURAT: Two more inquiries have been instituted against woman Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) constable Sunita Yadav, who shot to limelight since she took on Gujarat junior health minister Kishore alias Kumar Kanani’s son here on July 8 for defying curfew orders. Yadav, who has unleashed an outburst on social media, now faces inquiry for making people do sit-ups on the road and for not accepting the notice seeking explanation for remaining absent from duty since July 9. The inquiries were ordered by Surat police commissioner RB Brahmbhatt on Thursday. The feisty policewoman is already facing an inquiry into the entire July 8 run-in with Kanani’s son Prakash and his friends whom she had confronted for violating curfew orders. The videos of the incident and her subsequent conversations with senior police officials had gone viral, making her an instant Twitter sensation. Yadav had allegedly made some people do sit-ups for violating social distancing in Matawadi locality of Varachha in Surat, the video of which also went viral. Raju Godhani, a resident of Varachha, had also submitted an application regarding her alleged high-handed behaviour before this incident happened. “After watching the video, I found that she is the same woman who harassed me and others in Matawadi. I had complained about her to the police before this incident happened and officers shifted her to another location. But she continued with her abrasive behaviour,” Godhani alleged. Yadav had reportedly refused to accept the notice sent by police headquarters seeking explanation for not reporting to duty since July 9. She went on leave after the run-in with Kanani on the grounds that she was unwell. She has been absent from work since July 9 and on July 14, when a police team went to serve her a notice, she refused to accept it claiming that she doesn’t understand Gujarati. All the three inquiries are being conducted by assistant commissioner of police JK Pandya. Her statement in the Kanani episode has been recorded. She was also provided two armed guards at her residence for protection following her request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/surat-woman-cop-who-took-on-mins-son-faces-2-inquires/articleshow/77009572.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 17, 2020||India||India waits for Iran to resolve ‘outstanding’ technical, financial issues of Chabahar rail project: MEA||NEW DELHI: After reports that Iran had "dropped" India from the Chabahar-Zahedan railway project, the government on Thursday said the project was actually awaiting the appointment of an authority by Iran to resolve outstanding technical and financial issues. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said since 2016, despite the difficulties posed by the sanctions situation, there has been significant progress on the Chabahar Port project. On the proposed railway line though, he said, IRCON was appointed by India to assess the feasibility of the project. It was working with CDTIC, an Iranian company under their ministry of railways in that regard, he said. IRCON has completed the site inspection and review of the feasibility report, said the official. "Detailed discussions were thereafter held on other relevant aspects of the project, which had to take into account the financial challenges that Iran was facing. In December 2019, these issues were reviewed in detail at the 19th India-Iran Joint Commission Meeting in Tehran," Srivastava said. "The Iranian side was to nominate an authorised entity to finalise outstanding technical and financial issues. This is still awaited," he said His remarks come after media reports claimed that India has been left out of the Chabahar-Zahedan railway project in Iran. The official described the reports as speculative. On reports regarding the Farzad-B Gas field negotiations in which ONGC was involved in the discovery stage, Srivastava said follow-up bilateral cooperation was, however, impacted by policy changes on the Iranian side. "In January 2020, we were informed that in the immediate future, Iran would develop the field on its own and would like to involve India appropriately at a later stage. This matter remains under discussion," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-waits-for-iran-to-resolve-outstanding-technical-financial-issues-of-chabahar-rail-project-mea/articleshow/77009592.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||South China Sea part of global commons: India||NEW DELHI: Responding to questions on the security situation in South China Sea (SCS), the government on Thursday said its position had been clear and consistent that SCS was a part of global commons and India had an abiding interest in peace and stability in the region. "We firmly stand for the freedom of navigation and overflight and unimpeded lawful commerce in these international waterways, in accordance with international law, notably UNCLOS," said the MEA spokesperson. India also believes that any differences be resolved peacefully by respecting the legal and diplomatic processes and without resorting to threat or use of force, he added. India's response, while stated earlier too in May this, followed US rejection this week of territorial claims made by Beijing in South China Sea. The US had stated that China has no legal grounds to unilaterally impose its will on the region. "The world will not allow Beijing to treat the South China Sea as its maritime empire. America stands with our Southeast Asian allies and partners in protecting their sovereign rights to offshore resources, consistent with their rights and obligations under international law," US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a major policy announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/south-china-sea-part-of-global-commons-india/articleshow/77009643.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||Clashing claims by govt on J&K: NGO in 4G plea||NEW DELHI: An NGO seeking resumption of 4G internet services in Kashmir valley on Thursday pointed out the dichotomy in the claims of the Centre before the Supreme Court and assertion of the Union home minister on the ground situation of terrorist activities in the valley areas of the Union territory. Appearing for 'Foundation for Media Professionals', senior advocate Huzefa Ahmedi told a bench of Justices N V Ramana, S R Reddy and B R Gavai that on one hand the Centre through attorney general K K Venugopal claimed that there are more number of terror attacks in the valley, but on the other hand the Union home minister had recently claimed that terrorist incidents were at its lowest since 1991. "Who is speaking the truth," he asked even as he complained in the contempt petition that the Centre has miserably failed to implement the SC's May 11 order for weekly review of the situation by a high powered committee headed by Union home secretary to examine feasibility of providing faster internet services in the valley areas. "In the absence of 4G services, the students are unable to join online classes, businessmen's trade is affected, the doctors are impeded from providing latest treatment and the citizen's right to free speech is violated," he said. Appearing for the Centre and J&K administration, attorney general Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta said that the order is fully complied with as the high powered committee took into consideration exhaustive details of the prevalent situation and decided to continue the status quo, that is 2G internet services, for the time being. "The minutes of the meeting run to 20 pages and records in detail the elaborate deliberations on the issue by the high powered committee. It has also asked for further investigation into the petitioner's claim of violation of rights because of denial of 4G internet. We can file in sealed cover the minutes of the meeting to satisfy the court about the genuineness of the exercise," the AG said. AG said there is no ground to file a contempt petition as the very premise of the petitioner that nothing has been done by the government stands repudiated. However the bench asked the Centre to file counter affidavit to the contempt petition and posted the matter for further hearing next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/clashing-claims-by-govt-on-jk-ngo-in-4g-plea/articleshow/77009663.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 17, 2020||Patna||Test 20,000 samples a day, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar as Covid-19 cases spike||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar has asked the health department to test at least 20,000 samples per day even as 1,385 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded in the state on Thursday, taking the tally to 21,558. With 10 fresh deaths, the Covid-19 toll in the state has gone up to 167. According to the health department, four Covid patients died in Patna, two in Muzaffarpur and one each in Bhagalpur, Gaya, East Champaran and Purnia districts on Thursday. At AIIMS-Patna, three Covid patients died on Thursday. Hospital’s Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said a 63-year-man from Boring Canal Road, a 35-year-old man from Saran and a 40-year-old man from Begusarai died on Thursday. Fresh Covid cases were registered in 34 districts on Thursday. Patna once again topped the chart with 378 cases. Among other districts, Nalanda recorded 93, Muzaffarpur 68, Siwan 63, Jamui 59 and Bhojpur 55 new cases. Meanwhile, 14,101 people have so far recovered from the disease in the state and the number of active cases stood at 7,288 on Thursday. With Covid-19 cases increasing alarmingly in the state, the CM has asked the officials concerned increase number of beds in dedicated Covid hospitals, Covid health care centres and Covid care centres. The CM, who took stock of Covid situation at a high-level meeting on Thursday, also asked the officials to make proper arrangements so that people with Covid symptoms get their tests done easily at identified places. The CM told chief secretary Deepak Kumar that the target of 10,000 tests per day has been achieved and it should now be increased to 20,000. He asked the officials to identify new hospitals and equip them with new facilities and enhance the existing facilities. Nitish said those going for home isolation should be given pamphlets during registration, so that they know how to isolate themselves at home. The CM appealed to people not to panic and said the recovery rate of Bihar was better than the national average. “People infected with Covid-19 are returning home after getting cured. Today also, 568 people have recovered,” Nitish said. Nonetheless, Covid-19 recovery rate in Bihar has plunged by more than 10% in last fortnight. As per the figure shared by Union ministry of health and family welfare, Bihar’s recovery rate on June 30 was 76.56% and it decreased to 65.31% on July 15. National recovery rate on June 30 was 59%, which has now increased to 63.25%. State health secretary Lokesk Kumar Singh said 10,245 samples had been tested in last 24 hours. “So far, 3,47,457 samples have been tested in the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/test-20000-samples-a-day-says-nitish-as-covid-cases-spike/articleshow/77006543.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 17, 2020||Business||Start-stop lockdowns put brakes on auto companies operations||CHENNAI: Local start-stop-start lockdowns are playing havoc with the auto industry’s production and sales ramp-up plans. Companies readying to scale up to pre-Covid levels as they start launching models or upgrades are having to grapple with frequent off-and-on local restrictions, which have thrown a spanner into production plans and hit supply lines, even though the countrywide lockdown ended on May 4. Take for instance Honda Cars, which is targeting 100% of pre-Covid production by September. Senior VP & director (marketing & sales) Rajesh Goel said that it was not even thinking of a third shift as the market contracts and ramp-up plans are disrupted by local lockdowns. “In the past one week there have been multiple local lockdowns. So, we have to balance both the pandemic risk as well as supply & demand. Our factories started production on June 15 and we did 25% of pre-Covid production in June, and have hit 60% in July,” he added. Sometimes, quick changes in administrative decisions also mean employees return to their hometowns and villages and take time to get back to work schedules. “Timely and clear instructions will help industrial units plan their production cycles and logistics, including work force and raw material movement. The fact is that it takes a lot of preparation in reopening large manufacturing units and involves the participation of everyone in the value chain. Complete clarity and adequate time to start or stop operations will go a long way in helping the manufacturing sector plan their business activities in a proper and safe manner,” said Toyota Kirloskar Motor senior vice president (sales & services) Naveen Soni. While Bihar has announced a total lockdown, Jharkhand is contemplating one. Cities like Pune and Bengaluru too have imposed lockdowns, partial or total. With the situation so fluid, car companies say they cannot really plan even month on month and have to take it week-by-week. For example, Hyundai plans to ramp up to a third shift production, but with the rider that there should not be any more disruptions, said Hyundai Motor India director (sales, marketing & service) Tarun Garg. What makes this uncertainty worse is that the car industry has been battling both a slowdown and Covid-triggered demand disruptions. Which is why companies are still talking about hitting pre-Covid levels, not peak capacity. Car marketers also say the dealer network too is impacted by local lockdowns as the whole process of getting a dealership to open shop afterwards takes time. ICRA cuts growth forecast to -9.5%With the economy not restarting as anticipated in July 2020, rating agency ICRA has sharply revised its forecast for the contraction in the country’s GDP to 9.5% in FY21 from 5%. ICRA has attributed this to the climbing Covid-19 infections, resulting in a spate of lockdowns, arresting the nascent recovery made in May and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/start-stop-lockdowns-put-brakes-on-auto-cos-operations/articleshow/77007561.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 17, 2020||Patna||24-year-old kills self over financial crisis in Patna||PATNA: A youth allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in his rented accommodation at Durukkhi Lane under the Pirhabore police station area in Patna on the intervening night Wednesday and Thursday. The deceased was identified as Rahul Kumar (24), a native of Diwan locality under the Alamgajn police station area in Patna City. Police reached the spot several hours after the incident on Thursday evening. By then, the family members had already taken the body for cremation without informing police. SHO of Pirbahore police station Rajesh Kumar Pandey said they have made a station diary entry of the incident. “Locals have told police that the youth committed suicide due to financial crisis amid Covid-19 pandemic,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/24-year-old-kills-self-over-financial-crisis/articleshow/77007654.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 17, 2020||Patna||Now, pay hefty fines for illegal parking at Patna airport||PATNA: Be prepared to pay hefty fines if you are caught parking your vehicle on the premises of the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport on Shaheed Peer Ali Marg in the state capital from Friday. After a videoconference with the members of the Airport Environment Management Committee (AEMC) and others on Thursday, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said, “People will be issued challans for unauthorized parking on both sides of the Peer Ali Marg near the airport from July 17.” Agarwal, who is also the chairperson of the AEMC, asked city traffic superintendent of police (SP) D Amarkesh to depute men outside the airport to keep tabs on people who parked their vehicles in no-parking zones. “Keeping in mind security reasons and the problem of traffic congestion, no unauthorized parking will be allowed near the airport. Challans will be issued to the violators,” the divisional commissioner said and added that the Airports Authority of India (Patna) had raised the issue of traffic snarls on the airport road. Agarwal directed Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Himanshu Sharma to get street lights installed along the boundary wall of the Patna zoo near the airport. He also asked the civic body to remove the meat and fish shops at Phulwarisharif due to bird hit cases reported by the airport officials. “Pruning of trees near the airport and the zoo will be done by August 15 to make sure that flights land and take off safely,” he said. The meeting was virtually attended by the Patna Municipal Commissioner (PMC) commissioner, trafficsuperintendent of police (SP) , airport director Bhupesh C H Negi, Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials and CISF commandant among other stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-pay-hefty-fines-for-illegal-parking-at-airport/articleshow/77007601.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||Patna roads wear a deserted look on Day 1 of fresh lockdown||PATNA: Patna once again came to a standstill with roads wearing a deserted look and multiple police checkpoints coming up on the first day of 16-day lockdown enforced by the state government to break Covid-19 chain on Thursday. Police constables and traffic cops were seen stopping motorists to ascertain if they were travelling for valid reasons. Even Bailey Road, Boring Road, Ashok Rajpath, Exhibition Road and Gandhi Maidan areas did not see any major vehicle or pedestrian movement. All shops, except those selling essential commodities, remained shut. Milk, medicine, meat shops were open and vegetable and fruit vendors were also seen doing business along the roads. City SP (central) incharge D Amarkesh said police personnel have been deputed at 50 checkpoints in the district and traffic police keep checking the vehicles throughout the day. “Local police stations have been asked to ensure that shops close and open on the time allotted by the district administration, people maintain social distancing and wear masks,” Amarkesh said. Since residents were informed about the lockdown two days in advance, they stocked up essential items. Those living in containment zones, however, found it difficult to buy even essential commodities. Aniket Prakash, who lives in Gurhata in Patna City, said medicine and grocery shops remained shut throughout the day. “We can’t go beyond the sealed area,” he added. Prince Mishra, a resident of Bhattacharya Road, said shopkeepers in the area kept their shutters down due to fear. “As the shops were closed, I had to walk a few miles to get the grocery items,” he said. Marketplaces, shopping malls, religious places, public places (restaurants, eateries, zoo and parks), private offices and other establishments remained shut. Restaurants are allowed for takeaways and home deliveries. Though mobile repair shops and garages have been exempted from the purview of lockdown, very few were open on Thursday. Manoj Singh, sales executive at a mobile repair shop, said, “I don’t think we are going to get any customer during the lockdown period.” Some pre-paid taxis and autorickshaws were seen running on roads. Sanjay Rathi, driver of a private taxi, said, “I got only one passenger for Patna airport and two for Patna Junction.” Meanwhile, the Bihar Chemists and Druggists Association has asked owners of medicine shops on Govind Mitra road to keep their shutters down on Saturday and Sunday when the area will be disinfected by the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-roads-wear-a-deserted-look-on-day-1-of-fresh-lockdown/articleshow/77006366.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Five teachers test +ve, raise scare||Jaipur: Despite the government’s prohibition, private schools are calling their teaching staff to school which has proved to be dangerous. On Saturday, five teachers of a private school here tested Covid positive. Private schools have started calling teachers to the institutes everyday either for online classes or just to mark their attendance. As online classes are going on, teachers are finding it difficult to work from home with no facilities and data problems. A private school teacher who did not wish to be named said, “Our school had asked teachers who are facing problems to come to school and work from computer labs. We are okay with it but the news of school teachers testing positive has scared us. If we test positive, who will take care of us financially.” Many schools have made it mandatory for the 50% teaching and non-teaching staff to come to school every day. Most of the institutes are calling teachers just to mark their attendance in the register. Sushil Sharma, president of Rajasthan Abhibhavak Sangh said, “Private schools and the government must be cautious about this situation. There are discussions of opening of schools within three months but when teachers are affected with coronavirus, how can the students be safe. These are difficult times.” The school where teachers were found positive have since shut down their campus and no one is allowed inside anymore. All the teachers have been home-quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-teachers-test-ve-raise-scare/articleshow/77008706.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Business||PTC India mandates IDFC Sec to divest arm||Mumbai: PTC India (formerly Power Trading Corp) has decided to divest its controlling 65% stake in PTC India Financial Services. The parent company has launched the divestment process, it said in a statement to the BSE. PTC has mandated IDFC Securities to manage the process. PTC India Financial Services is an NBFC that is permitted to launch an infrastructure development fund, a specialised government-permitted financing structure, not available to most NBFCs. Currently, the company is valued at Rs 880 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ptc-india-mandates-idfc-sec-to-divest-arm/articleshow/77007409.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||Sattarghat bridge intact, says Bihar government||PATNA: The state government on Thursday refuted reports that the Sattarghat Mahasetu in Gopalganj district, which was made operational on June 15, was washed away, claiming that only a portion of an approach road to a minor bridge was damaged. A press communique issued by the road construction department said, “The Sattarghat bridge has not been damaged. Nearly 2km away from it, an approach road to another small bridge was damaged by the swollen Gandak. This happened due to unprecedented pressure of water in the river.”  “The main Sattarghat bridge is totally intact. There is no question of misappropriation of funds in this project and this is a natural disaster,” the government press release said, adding the damaged portion would be repaired after the flood situation improves. Road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav, who was criticised by RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said,” The RJD leader has no moral right to say anything on the issue of corruption. The Sattargahat bridge is intact and only an approach road to a small bridge is damaged.” The government also released a video to show that the 1,440-metre-long Sattarghat bridge. Sources said more than three lakh cusecs of water were released in the river Gandak suddenly, which increased pressure on the small bridge. However, locals said the link between Gopalganj to East Champaran and Muzaffarpur district has been snapped due to the damage caused to the approach road of the minor bridge. “It will take time to repair the damaged portion of the approach road. The repair work doesn’t take place during monsoon,” said Munna Singh, a resident of Bhore in Gopalganj district. The Sattarghat Mahasetu was inaugurated by CM Nitish Kumar on June 15 through videoconferencing amid Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sattarghat-bridge-intact-says-govt/articleshow/77007564.cms||Ramashankar
July 17, 2020||Vadodara||BCA member moves HC||Vadodara: Four members of Baroda Cricket Association have moved the Gujarat high court to restrain the association from conducting its 79th annual general meeting on July 23. The four members, three of whom are senior citizens, told the court that the association has not received any permission from the district collector or the police commissioner. The meeting will start online but will be adjourned so that the members can pass two resolutions including passing accounts of 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 and appointment of statutory auditors for 2019-20. BCA will get a pending grant of Rs 120 crore from the BCCI once the accounts are passed by the members. Five venues have been decided where the members will have to go with their biometric cards or any government identity card to vote. In their petition, the petitioners have stated that of the 2,300 members of the association, 30% are senior citizens, who as per the guidelines of Covid-19 are advised not to go out in public. The petition also states that one of the petitioners – Kalpesh Parmar – had filed objections to which he did not receive any response initially. The court has also been told that there is no direction from any court or authority to finish the AGM in stipulated time so the AGM can be conducted at leisure and as and when the situation permits. The petitioners have also written to police commissioner raising objections against granting of permission. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-member-moves-hc/articleshow/77006115.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||Patna: Getting tested for Covid-19 a ‘Herculean’ task||PATNA: With the Covid-19 cases in Bihar crossing the 20,000 mark, getting tested for the virus has become a herculean task in the state capital. While two major private labs have stopped their Covid testing services, others have made it mandatory for people to get the test recommended by a doctor. At government hospitals, there is a huge rush and tests are being done only after approval from the in-house doctors. Healthcare workers falling prey to Covid-19 is adding another dimension to the problem. The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), which was doing around 700 tests in a day, is now barely able to test around 200 samples as 17 of its staffers at the virology lab have tested positive. To top that the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI) in Patna is closed for the past three days to carry out sanitisation of its premises. No wonder the queues are getting longer, despite claims to the contrary by the state health department that symptomatic persons or those who have come in contact with a positive person will be tested on a priority basis. Even the wait time for reports, especially for RT-PCR tests, are getting longer, taking up to 10 days now. A deputy collector rank officer in Patna had to opt for a private lab, after he could not get his sample tested at the PMCH as well as the NMCH despite several calls to senior officials. However, state health department secretary Lokesh Kumar said anyone who is symptomatic, or those who have come in touch with a Covid-19 positive person can get their tests done at government facilities. “We are also doing random testing,” Lokesh added. Kankarbagh resident Vishakha Ranjan recalled the horror her family had to go through after her father’s colleague tested positive for Covid-19. “My father’s sample was also taken and we were told it was negative. But then we got a call from the civil surgeon’s office saying he was positive and will be sent to a quarantine centre. There was so much chaos and confusion. How could we send a person who has tested negative to stay with positive ones,” asked Vishakha. A video went viral on Wednesday showing people creating ruckus at the Patliputra hotel in Patna, an isolation centre, to get their application forms submitted for Covid-19 test. They claimed their forms were not being accepted. “I kept running from one place to another. Finally, I was shown to the ‘flu corner’, but no one took my sample. People say only jugaad will work,” said a Bakarganj resident, who refused to be named, adding he had a bitter experience at the PMCH earlier in the week when he took his elderly aunt for her Covid test. Manoj Kumar (name changed) who went to PMCH earlier this week to get himself tested, said, “No one was taking samples. Some were saying the staff is on strike. Climbing mountains is easier than getting tested for Covod-19 at government hospitals here.” Getting tested is not an easy task even at private labs. Beijing-based Alok Gupta, who is trying to get two of his family members tested, said, “My brother-in-law and his mother are highly symptomatic. Both have fever for the past three days and we are trying our best to get them tested, but to no avail. Even a private lab we are in touch with has asked them to come on July 20. Aunty is too old and it is not safe to move around with her in this situation.” Data on tests per million shared by NITI Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant on July 4 had placed Bihar at the bottom of the list with just 2,179 tests per million, which was 15 times less than Delhi. Kant had stressed the need for more tests in his tweet. According to the state health department, on July 15, 10,052 samples were tested, which account for 2,762 tests per million, a marginal increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/getting-tested-for-covid-19-a-herculean-task/articleshow/77006824.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 17, 2020||Varanasi||Team led by BHU VC develops world’s1st vaccine against streptococcal infection||VARANASI: In a major scientific breakthrough, a team of researchers from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and abroad, in collaboration with Banaras Hindu University (BHU) vice-chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar, claimed to have developed the world’s first vaccine against streptococcal infection, which is affecting health of millions and causing over five lakh deaths worldwide annually. Talking to TOI on Thursday, Prof Bhatnagar disclosed, “We have developed a vaccine against streptococcal infection which gives protection from 70% to 90% in mouse model. This disease is prevalent in all over the world. We have tested this vaccine against many serotypes. We have filed for the patent and looking for a company to do preclinical studies and human clinical trials to take it to the market. So far, there is no other vaccine available in the whole world against it.” Prof Bhatnagar added, “Three years ago, when I was at JNU, I had initiated this project in collaboration with my colleague Prof Atul Kumar Johari along with some research scholars, who are now working with different institutions in the US.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/team-led-by-bhu-vc-develops-worlds1st-vaccine-against-streptococcal-infection/articleshow/77007839.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 17, 2020||Patna||NHAI awards work for Manihari-Sahibganj bridge: RCD minister||PATNA: State road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav said on Thursday that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has issued the work order for the ambitious Manihari- Sahibganj four-lane bridge over the Ganga. While Manihari is in Katihar district, Sahibganj is in neighbouring Jharkhand. The RCD minister said that the bridge will boost road connectivity of Bihar with Jharkhand and north- eastern states as well. “Apart from being an option for direct road connectivity to Jharkhand from north Bihar, the bridge will also connect a four-lane road connecting Purnia. Thus, it will get connected with the east-west four-lane corridor connecting northeastern states,” the minister said. He added that the bridge will be constructed utilising an estimated outlay of Rs1.9 crore over a period of four years. “The total length of the bridge project is 21.185, including the bridge structure, which will be six km long. Of the total length of the bridge project, 15.685km, including the entire stretch of the bridge will fall under Jharkhand, while remaining 5.1km stretch will be in Bihar,” Yadav added. The road construction minister said that the construction of the bridge will benefit movement of trucks loaded with coal and stones coming from Jharkhand as they have to come via Vikramshila Setu in Bhagalpur, which is comparatively a longer route. Deliberating upon the connectivity of the bridge with Purnia, Yadav said, “NH-131 (A) will connect the north Manihari with Purnia via Narainpur. NHAI has recently initiated the bidding process for four-laning of NH- 131 (A). The four-lane Narainpur- Purnia will be 49km long and it will be constructed tiling funds to the tune of Rs1,325crore. This project is a part of PM’s special package for Bihar, which he had announced in 2015.” The RCD minister added that construction work on the bridge is likely to commence post- monsoon as the contractor will require some time to mobilise manpower and resources. “Construction of this bridge is expected to create over 80,000 man days for workers, which will be of muchgreat financial help for the returnee migrant labourers in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nhai-awards-work-for-manihari-sahibganj-bridge-rcd-min/articleshow/77007449.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||Lockdown garners mixed response in districts||PATNA: The 16-day statewide lockdown imposed by the government till July 31 to contain the spread of coronavirus garnered mixed response on Thursday. Except for some minor violations, Day 1 of the lockdown was effective in Gaya. Since the main commercial area of the town had, earlier, been declared a containment zone, business activities on G B Road and adjoining areas were stopped much before the implementation of the lockdown. Gaya district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh, who visited several areas of the town, told this newspaper, “This lockdown was far more effective than the previous one. It very much depends on the people’s response.” Although markets remained shut in Samastipur, several people were seen roaming on the streets without masks. Private vehicles, especially three-wheelers, were also moving freely. Besides, fruit and vegetable vendors, who had been allowed to open their shops in the morning and evening, violated the norms by dealing with customers throughout the day. In Madhubani, all shops, except for those selling essential commodities, remained shut. Roads wore a deserted look as neither buses nor other modes of transport were allowed. Even small eateries and tea stalls were closed and policemen roamed around the town on bikes to keep tabs on the activities of the locals. District Congress general secretary Anil Nath Jha claimed that during the previous lockdowns, a general disdain for the restrictions was witnessed, but “this time people are serious owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases”. The people of Khagaria also remained indoors and all business establishments, shops, institutions, government and private organizations followed the directives of the district administration. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh and SP Meenu Kumari urged the people to follow the norms, “failing which stern action will be taken against the violators”. Ara’s Gopali Chowk, the main market area of the town, wore a deserted look during the peak traffic hours on Day 1 of the lockdown. Town police station SHO Janmejai Rai and circle officer Kamal Kishore launched a vehicle and mask-checking drive on Shivganj Mor in the morning and collected fine from the violators. “Even the small shops in the town were closed till early evening. Luckily, those, who had stepped out, were using face masks,” the SHO said. In Bhagalpur, most markets and areas were empty as both two-wheelers and four-wheelers remained off the roads. Only people with emergency needs could be seen riding vehicles. Officials of the district administration and policemen ensured that lockdown was strictly imposed by keeping a checking on the movement of people. (With inputs from Abdul Qadir in Gaya, S K Jain in Samastipur, C S Jha ‘Azad’ in Madhubani, N P Thakur in Khagaria, Praveen in Ara and Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-garners-mixed-response-in-districts/articleshow/77006316.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Business||Club Factory sellers send payment notice||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: A group of Indian sellers through Aiova — an association of online merchants — has sent a legal notice to Chinese e-tailer Club Factory for suspending all payment settlements till the ban on the platform continues here. Club Factory is one of the 59 Chinese apps banned by the government. On Tuesday, Club Factory, which has now temporarily paused operations here, told its Indian merchants that it will settle existing dues only after the ban is lifted, triggering anger and anxiety from sellers. It has about 30,000 registered Indian sellers. Aiova’s legal counsel Chanakya Basa said they have asked Club Factory to settle dues in 48 hours. Failing which, the association will have to consider the next course of action. He also felt pausing settlements until the ban is lifted could be a ploy to nudge the government to exempt the platform’s operations. According to the notice, putting all settlements on hold due to the ban is in violation of the Payment and Settlements Act, 2007 and as well as against an RBI circular issued in March, which says payments to merchants need to be settled within one day of delivery confirmation of goods. “That your defence to continue this illegal act further by invoking force majeure...is contrary to RBI circular dated 17.3.2020 and Payments and Settlement Systems Act, 2009. Therefore, you are hereby called upon by my clients to settle the pending dues to the sellers within 48 hours,” the notice sent on Thursday said. An email to Club Factory did not elicit any response. Since Tuesday’s development, sellers have expressed concern online over their dues — critical capital for them amid the pandemic. Typically, these are third-party independent sellers of smaller scale, unlike entities like Cloudtail or Tech Connect, that are one of the largest sellers on Amazon India and Flipkart, respectively. “Marketplaces are bound by RBI directives to keep money collected on sellers’ behalf in escrow. No force majeure can be applied to escrow. In case of non-compliance, we shall be forced to go to court against this misconduct,” a spokesperson of Aiova said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/club-factory-sellers-send-payment-notice/articleshow/77007718.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 17, 2020||Patna||Schools begin uploading online forms to websites||PATNA: With the publication of Class X results of both CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) and CISCE (Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations) students, private schools in the city have started uploading application forms and prospectuses to their websites for Class XI admissions. Although all schools in Bihar have been shut for an indefinite period due to the Covid-19 pandemic, online classes are being conducted to keep the current academic session going. A notice uploaded to the official website of St Michael’s High School (SMHS) along with the Class XI admission form reads, “Due to the lockdown, the date for submission of Class XI application forms has been deferred. Information regarding this will be available on the school website on July 18.” SMHS principal Fr Armstrong Edison SJ told this newspaper on Thursday, “The forms are available on www.stmichaelspatna.edu.in, but the cut-off marks and other important information will be uploaded to the site on July 18. Everything — from admissions to fee payment — will be done online.” Online registration for Class XI admissions has also started at Loyola High School and will continue till July 19. For admission to the science stream, Loyolites and ICSE students require 80% marks each in mathematics, science and English whereas CBSE students need 85%. For getting themselves enrolled in the arts stream, Loyolites require an aggregate of 70% marks while ICSE and CBSE students should have 75% and 80% marks, respectively, in English and social studies. Notre Dame Academy (NDA) will first give preference to its students for Class XI admissions. Abha Choudhary, an NDA teacher, said, “Admission forms for the students of other schools will be uploaded to our website along with the cut-off marks soon.” Different wings of DAV Public School will also upload the Class XI forms and other details to the official site soon so that students and parents do have to visit the campus amid the lockdown. St Karen’s High School, Gyan Niketan, International School, Bishop Scott Girls’ School and St Dominic Savio’s High School have also started online registration for Class XI admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-begin-uploading-online-forms-to-websites/articleshow/77007490.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 17, 2020||Patna||20 more to donate plasma at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: At least 20 more Covid-recovered patients have come forward to donate plasma at AIIMS-Patna. The donation process will begin on Friday. More than 13,500 people in the state have recovered from Covid, but so far only 18 have donated their plasma. This time, five donors, each from Buxar and Nalanda, will also donate their plasma at AIIMS-Patna, which received a nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct convalescent plasma therapy to treat seriously ill Covid patients in the last week of April. Concerned over low rate of plasma donation, the district administration has decided to launch special cells to encourage people. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal held a meeting through videoconferencing with Patna DM Kumar Ravi, AIIMS-P administration and DMs and doctors of other districts in order to ensure plasma donation. Agarwal said plasma donation was the need of the hour. “Keeping in mind the surging cases in the city and elsewhere in the state, plasma therapy can act as a lifesaver for critical patients. Therefore, every recovered patient should voluntarily donate their plasma and contribute their bit in combating the virus,” he said. He added that those donating plasma will be felicitated. “ Altogether18 donors, including Deepak Kumar of Khajpura, the first plasma donor of the state, will be honoured as ‘Corona Warrior’ by the district administration. Besides, in order to give them a hassle-free experience, special arrangements will be made for the new donors,” he said. As AIIMS-P has the facility of extracting plasma of four persons in a day, blood transfusion officer Dr Neha Singh said that the capacity might increase in the coming days as per the requirement. “Plasma therapy has been quite effective on patients who are critically ill. Hence, we expect more people to come forward in the coming days. The therapy involves injecting critical Covid-19 patients with blood plasma from those who have recovered as it has the tendency to fight the virus if injected in other positive patients,” she said. She added that a ‘Thank You’ card will be given to the donors, which will help them receive one unit blood whenever required in a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-more-to-donate-plasma-at-aiims-p/articleshow/77006398.cms||Archi Rani
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Theatre artiste Subhadramma Mansur no more||Davanagere: Kannada stage artiste Subhadramma Mansur,81, passed away at her residence in Ballari, late on Wednesday night, after a brief illness. She is survived by two daughters and two sons. She was married to Lingaraju Mansur, in 1953, who was also a noted stage artiste, and passed away a few years ago. She had performed different roles for more than half-a-century, as a stage artiste in several social, devotional, historical and mythological dramas, across the state. Her mortal remains were lad to rest in Ballari on Thursday. Sanehalli Mutt pontiff Sri Panditharadhya Shivacharya Swamiji condoled the death of Subhadramma Mansur, and described her as a “nightingale of stage art”. He said that her passing away was a great loss to stage art, and thus the discipline has become like a desert. She was honoured by the mutt in 2015 by being awarded the ‘Sri Shivakumara Ranga Prashasthi’ for her extraordinary talent. She was also a good singer and sang many vachanas in Kannada, the pontiff recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/theatre-artiste-subhadramma-mansur-no-more/articleshow/77008419.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mysuru||AAP’s Mysuru unit urges district administration to adopt Delhi model||Mysuru: The Mysuru unit of the Aam Admi Party (AAP) has urged the district administration to follow the Delhi government model to contain the spread of Covid-19. While appreciating the district administration for managing the crisis so far, it said there is a lot to be done in preparing for an escalated situation. AAP district president Malavika Gubbivani demanded that ward-level task force and booth-level committees be set up to handle the anticipated situation efficiently. AAP also urged more testing, launching Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) - for faster test results, backed up with RT-PCR tests on all symptomatic RAT negatives. Setting up of a plasma bank, allowing home isolation for asymptomatic and mild symptomatic cases with pulse oximeters, a 24/7 helpline by engaging doctors who are unwilling to work at hospitals, a system for door delivery of essentials for senior citizens and people under home isolation, setting up of a team and process for decent cremation/burial of Covid victims are some of AAP’s other demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/aaps-mysuru-unit-urges-district-administration-to-adopt-delhi-model/articleshow/77005054.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Business||No HC relief for Emami against HUL||TNN Mumbai: The Bombay HC on Thursday dismissed Emami’s appeal against an order passed on July 6 by a single-judge bench in a trademark battle with HUL over ‘Glow & Handsome’. An appeal bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and V G Bisht declined to intervene in the order that had said prima facie HUL was a “prior adopter” of the trademark, observing that Emami had been given liberty to move the single judge to vary its ad-interim order, passed ex-parte, after giving 48 hours notice to HUL. Justice B P Colabawala of the Bombay HC had on July 6 noted that HUL had already started “commercial advertisements” over the men’s skin care cream and had directed Emami to give a prior seven-day written notice before launching any trademark legal battle over use of ‘Glow & Handsome’. Soon after that order, Emami did issue a notice and filed a trademark infringement suit against HUL before the Calcutta high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-hc-relief-for-emami-against-hul/articleshow/77007503.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Business||Ed-tech company Vedantu gets $100 million funding||CHENNAI: Vedantu, an ed-tech platform for school students, said on Thursday that it has raised $100 million in a series-D funding round, doubling its valuation to $600 million within a few months. The investment was led by the US-based venture capital firm , with participation from existing investors. Coatue has previously invested in Swiggy and Rebel Foods in India. With Covid-forced closure of schools and educational institutions, the demand for online education is on the rise. At a $600-million valuation, Tiger Global and Accel backed-Vedantu has become the second-most valued ed-tech company, behind Byju’s which was valued at $10.5 billion last month, when it raised an undisclosed sum from an investment firm led by Mary Meeker. Vedantu’s core strength lies in live tutoring. Vedantu CEO Vamsi Krishna said the funds will be utilised in marketing spends, expanding in the new segment (classes 1 to 5) that they have entered. “We have grown by 220% during the lockdown and we are currently having 3.8 million hours of classes attended by a million students every month,” he said. Coatue MD Rahul Kishore said, “Online learning adoption in India is at an all-time high setting a new benchmark for the rest of the world. As we continue to focus on driving high-growth ventures, our investment in Vedantu marks our entry into the Indian ed-tech market. This move underlines our strategy to partner with companies that are strategically positioned for high growth & scale. We are excited to partner Vedantu in their next stage of growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-tech-co-vedantu-gets-100m-funding/articleshow/77007525.cms||Aparna Desikan
July 17, 2020||Business||Education and marriage can wait, now it’s savings for Covid||MUMBAI: Middle-class Indians, who were until last year worried about savings for their children’s education or marriage, are now more concerned about immediate health expenditure or loss of income following a pink slip at the workplace. There has been a dramatic change in risk perceptions since Covid-19 struck. Many of the concerns that were top of the mind for most last year have dropped off their lists as people have bigger things to worry about because of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. A survey conducted by consulting firm Kantar on behalf of Max Life Insurance shows that the current level of financial security was the lowest in metros (46%), while it was the highest in tier-2 centres (55%), followed by tier-1 cities (52%). Up to 64% respondents in metros said that security of job/current business/stable income is more of a worry to them now than before Covid-19, but only 51% in tier-1 said it had become more concerning to them. “While people are now saving half their income, the concerns are more short-term. The concerns are here and now and not long-term,” said Max Life Insurance MD and CEO Prashant Tripathy. The top three objectives for savings in the post-Covid-19 world are for coronavirus treatment, for medical emergencies, and keeping aside money for loss of job or business. Kids’ education, old age security, buying a house, kids’ marriage, travel and buying a car have moved down the list. In the wake of the current situation, the survey brought to light that, in comparison to pre-Covid-19 times, consumers are saving more now, whereas investments and basic expenses have remained the same as before. While savings increased for 48% respondents in tier-1 and 38% respondents in metros, investments remained the same as before Covid-19 for 44% in tier-1 and 40% in metros. Typically, uncertainty increases the demand for insurance. But this time, the impact is mixed as people are not really thinking about retirement and are not confident enough about their income stability to make commitments for future payments. According to Tripathy, there is demand for term life insurance, which takes care of the fear of loss of the breadwinner. “One of the barriers to buying term insurance is a misconception that it is very expensive, which is not correct,” said Tripathy. According to Tripathy, Max Life has seen around 35 claims on account of Covid. “The trend is that there is an overall decline in death claims as accidental deaths are down because of the lockdown,” said Tripathy. He added that while policy renewals did get impacted due to the lockdown in April, subsequent months have seen an improvement in renewals. He also said that the company had not seen any trend of policyholders trying to encash their unit-linked policies following the pandemic. Watch Education and marriage can wait, now it’s savings for Covid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edu-marriage-can-wait-now-its-savings-for-covid/articleshow/77007646.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mysuru||Students to hold state-wide protest against UGC decision on exams||Mysuru: The All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) has decided to hold statewide protest on July 17 against the government’s decision to conduct online exams during the coronavirus pandemic. AIDSO district committee president Akash Kumar BN said following University Grants Commission’s decision to hold online or offline exams for the final year students, the state government has issued an order on holding degree, post graduation and engineering exams amid pandemic. “The state government has decided to hold CET exams for PU students on July 30 and 31. The decision is against the interest of students. We conducted a survey in 30 districts and found only 33% of students have access to internet. Of the 12,000 students questioned, 97% PU students are not prepared to write CET exams. More than 90% of final year degree, PG and engineering students are not ready to write exams in September amid the spike in Covid cases,” he said. We request the government to cancel exams and urge the varsities to reimburse the exam fees collected fro the students, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/students-to-hold-state-wide-protest-against-ugc-decision-on-exams/articleshow/77008581.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 17, 2020||Mysuru||Steep fatality rate in Mysuru leaves authorities an anxious lot||Mysuru: In the past few weeks, Karnataka has been breaking its single-day record in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases being reported, and worse still, in the number of people succumbing to the novel coronavirus in the state on a daily basis. However, statistics indicate that the fatality rate to the number of infected patients in Karnataka is 2%, while in Bengaluru Urban, which accounts for nearly half of the cases in the state, it is 1.9%. Ironically enough, fatality rate among Covid-19 patients in Mysuru is almost twice as high as the state’s average at 3.9%, a number that has the authorities in the district a worried lot. In all, 50 people have fallen prey to the novel coronavirus in Mysuru district, where the Covid-19 cases have surged to 1320 largely owing to the spurt in the past week, during which time 733 cases have been confirmed. Even more interestingly, Chikkamagaluru, which has so far had only seven people succumbing to the pandemic, has a Covid fatality rate of 4.1%, placing it second only to Bidar (4.5%). The Covid tally in Mysuru and Kodagu districts has been climbing at a rate considerably higher than the state average. Between July 10 and July 15, the number of cases in Mysuru rose by 11.5%, jumped by 11.1% in Kodagu, both figures being considerably higher than the spike in the state (7.2%). However, authorities have attributed the spike to the huge backlog of untested samples at the Covid-19 laboratory in Kodagu . Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar attributed the high fatality rate in the district to delayed admission and comorbidities among the patients. In the past fortnight, more than 46 people have succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Mysuru, nearly all of whom had a history of respiratory illnesses or other disorders. Sankar pointed to the rise in the number of people with influenza-like-illnesses testing positive for the novel coronavirus across the state, adding that the trend had been observed in Mangaluru, Ballari and Hubballi too. Kodagu DC Annies Kanmani Joy said that the spurt in the Covid-19 case in the hilly district was owing to a pausein the testing of samples. “After a member of the team that was testing samples tested positive, the others were quarantined at home. By the time another team took over, the number of samples had accumulated, which is why the number of people being confirmed infected has also risen sharply in the past week,” said Kanmani. Since two days positive cases are around a dozen. Chikkamagaluru DC Bagadi Gautham said that, of the seven Covid fatalities in the district, three people had been declared ‘brought dead’ at the designated hospital, while two had passed away within 24 hours of their being hospitalised. “The other two patients had had problems in their lungs. All the seven people who succumbed were senior citizens with comorbidities,” he added. Cases double in Mysuru in one week District Total no. of cases* Cases reported in past week* Fatalities* Mysuru 1320 733 50 Kodagu 218 144 Three Chikkamagaluru 200 75 Seven *As on July 16, 2020 Source: Department of health and family welfare, Karnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/steep-fatality-rate-in-mysuru-leaves-authorities-an-anxious-lot/articleshow/77005541.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Parents, teachers demand audit of unaided schools||Hubballi: Even as private unaided school managements seek help from government to pay salaries of their employees during the pandemic, a group of teachers and parents are have raised a request for an operations and finance audit at unaided schools in the state. While teachers are locked in a tussle over payment of salaries with school managements, parents are at loggerheads with them over fee payment. According to the group, most schools are charging exorbitant fees from parents every year. They are allegedly hiking fees every year without giving any proper justification. During the pandemic, they are charging fees by claiming that they have to pay salaries despite having huge surplus funds. Despite assurances from the government about interest-free loans, educational institutions are citing financial constraints for non-payment of salaries to their teachers, said the group. Hence, to expose such schools, we demand government to conduct an audit of the last five years, they added. R Ranjan, a teacher in Basel Mission English Medium School in Dharwad told TOI that unaided managements are citing financial crunch to avoid paying salaries during the pandemic. “As per court order and government circular of 2006, unaided schools should provide job security by paying minimum wages to teachers and non-teaching staff. As per this circular, an inexperienced high school teacher is entitled to a salary of Rs 33,450 and inexperienced primary teacher to Rs 25,800 per month excluding PF and ESI. Most of managements are not following this rule and education departments officials are mute over the issue,” said Ranjan, who is also an office bearer of Karnataka State Educational Institutions Employees Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/parents-teachers-demand-audit-of-unaided-schools/articleshow/77008506.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Business||ICRA cuts growth forecast to -9.5%||TNN Mumbai: With the economy not restarting as anticipated in July 2020, rating agency ICRA has sharply revised its forecast for the contraction in the country’s GDP to 9.5% in FY21 from its earlier assessment of 5%. ICRA has attributed this to the climbing Covid-19 infections, resulting in a spate of lockdowns in some states and cities, arresting the nascent recovery made in May and June. “The Indian economy had started to recover from the troughs experienced in April 2020, when the lockdown was at its severest, and many sectors seemed to be adjusting to a new normal. However, the unabated rise in Covid-19 infections in the unlock phase and re-imposition of localised lockdowns in several states, appear to have interrupted this recovery,” said ICRA principal economist Aditi Nayar. “Given the severity of the pandemic and the duration of the safety measures that need to be employed, we now expect a deeper pace of GDP contraction in Q2 FY21 relative to our earlier forecast. We also anticipate more unevenness, as different regions move in and out of lockdowns, and persisting labour supply mismatches affecting supply chains and consumption patterns,” said Nayar. The rating agency has pushed its timeline for a firmer recovery out of the contractionary phase to Q4 FY21 from Q3 FY21. “This presumes that a vaccine will be widely available by then, which now appears necessary for discretionary consumption to recover in certain sectors such as travel, hospitality and recreation,” Nayar added. On the positive side, ICRA expects the rural economy to partly counter the urban slowdown. ICRA remains optimistic regarding the outlook for agricultural growth and rural consumption given the favourable monsoon so far. “More than half of the 2019 kharif acreage has already been covered. ICRA thus, continues to expect agricultural gross value added to rise by 3.5-4.0% in FY21, supporting rural sentiment,” ICRA said in a statement. The rating agency has, however, tempered its expectations regarding the extent of fiscal support that may be forthcoming, given the revenue shock being experienced by various levels of the government. “Overall, we have revised our forecast of the contraction in GDP in FY21 to 9.5% from our previous expectation of 5%”, Nayar added. The data up to June 2020 provided some broadly encouraging cues of a gradual, yet uneven recovery across different sectors relative to the troughs experienced in April 2020. However, the re-imposition of lockdowns in some states has arrested this recovery. Data on electricity consumption signals a mild worsening in the pace of contraction to 4.9% for the week ending July 13, 2020 from 3.7% for the week ending July 6, 2020. Additionally, data on mobility sourced from Google indicates a plateau in the recent weeks. ICRA expects the economy to have contracted by a sharp 25% in Q1 FY21. Given the aforesaid concerns, the ratings agency now expects a shallower recovery in the subsequent quarters, with a contraction of 12.4% in Q2 (previous exp.: -2.1%) and a milder 2.3% in Q3 (previous exp.: +2.1%), followed by an anaemic growth of 1.3% in Q4 FY21 (previous exp.: +5.0%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icra-cuts-growth-forecast-to-9-5/articleshow/77007568.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||At 378 cases, Patna logs highest single-day spike||PATNA: The state capital witnessed its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases so far with 378 cases reported on Thursday. There has been an “exponential rise” in the coronavirus cases in Patna over the past few days with 2,880 total cases recorded in the district so far. “While contact-tracing positive cases, we found that not taking precautions while on the road quadrupled the number of cases. For instance, Shastri Nagar, which is one of the worst-affected areas, has several vegetable and fruit markets. Residents throng the marketplaces without wearing masks,” said Patna DM Kumar Ravi, adding, cases started rising after Unlock 1.0 as people started moving about without safety precautions. According to Ravi, the New Capital Circle which houses several government departments has become a hotspot due to unavoidable reasons. “The nature of their jobs is also one of the reasons for the surge in cases here as government employees, doctors and cops cannot restrict themselves to their homes. In fact, a number of health workers at PMCH and NMCH have already been infected by the virus,” he said. Similarly, houses in Patna City are located cheek by jowl. “Most streets in Patna City have already been classified as containment zones in order to curb the spread of the virus,” Ravi said. Several methods such as rapid antigen testing and testing at portable booths are being given preference to increase testing in the city. “More than 500 people in the Patna division were tested using the rapid antigen testing kits on Thursday. The numbers will increase from tomorrow,” said divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal. According to health experts, rapid antigen testing may help in controlling the spread as they show results in 30 minutes. “As per findings from the Journal of American Medical Association, antibody testing, which is done by two methods, including rapid antibody test and ALISA test is quite significant and has a success rate of 100%,” said Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh, head of microbiology at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). Meanwhile, many Patna residents claimed that they are facing hassles in getting bed at the hospitals. Ashok Rajpath resident Kriti Kumari (name changed), whose father tested Covid-19 positive recently, didn’t get a bed at AIIMS-Patna. “After watching certain videos on social media, I didn’t feel like taking him to NMCH or PMCH. Hence, I have kept him in home quarantine,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/at-378-cases-patna-logs-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/77006604.cms||Archi Rani
July 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi, DK receive moderate rainfall||Mangaluru: Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts received moderate rainfall from Wednesday night to Thursday. In the last 24 hours till 8.30am on Thursday, Dakshina Kannada received an average of 57mm rainfall, with Bantwal taluk receiving the highest of 70mm. Mangaluru and Puttur taluks received 58mm and 57mm of rainfall respectively. The least was in Sullia taluk at 43mm. Udupi district received 74% excess rainfall as against the normal average for the day at 81mm. The highest rainfall of 150mm was recorded at Innanje, Udupi taluk in the state. Dakshina Kannada received 50% more rainfall for the day at 57mm and Uttara Kannada received 36mm rainfall, 7% more than normal. The KSNMDC bulletin stated that high waves in the range of 3-3.3 meters were forecast along the coast from Mangaluru to Karwar, warning fishermen not to venture into the sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-dk-receive-moderate-rainfall/articleshow/77008327.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||57% Covid-19 patients opt for home isolation in Patna||PATNA: Home isolation appears to be the preferred choice of a majority of those who have tested positive for the Covid-19 virus in Patna with around 57% patients so far opting for this mode to recover from this contagious disease. The crisis management group of the state government in a notification issued on July 7 had empowered the DMs to take a call on allowing people, including doctors and health workers, to go for home quarantine. According to Patna DM Kumar Ravi, as of Thursday, altogether 1,760 people tested positive in the district of whom 1,008 have given self- declaration form for home isolation. “People opting for home isolation will reduce the burden on hospitals and isolation centres in Patna with high number of positive cases coming forth,” Ravi said. He added, “Home isolation for Covid-19 infected people would be for 14 days after the sample collection of swabs, provided she/he turns asymptomatic.” According to the health department data, 378 people tested positive in Patna on Thursday of whom 373 have availed the home isolation option by filing the self-attested form to the district administration. The order issued by principal secretary of health department Uday Singh Kumawat, stated that home isolation facility would be available only to those patients who would have enough space and facilities at home. When asked how the district authorities are ensuring that people who selected home isolation have enough facilities, Ravi said the district officials contacted the Covid patients from time- to- time to check up on their health and they asked whether they are following the norms of home isolation. “In some cases, the district officials also made a surprise visit to their homes, only to check whether they are true to their words and have enough space and facilities. If a person is suffering from any symptoms of Covid -19, he or she also advised to contact the nearby health centres for the treatment,” the DM said. A patient at Khajpura area, who was under home isolation for last five-days, said he tested positive on July 11. “I am only suffering from sore throat. So I am advised by the doctor to drink kadha four times a day, gargled two times (day and night) and eat vegetable and fruit with high nutrition,” the patient said. Another at Budha Colony said, “I’m more comfortable at home than at any quarantine centre or hospital. I cook myself, exercise and eat healthy. My wife and kids are living on the first floor while I moved with stove and few utensils on ground floor,” he said. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS- Patna, on the other hand, said there was no fall in patients getting admitted at the hospital. “Patients are referred from other districts as well,” he said. Health minister Mangal Pandey on Wednesday instructed officials to further improve isolation facility and keep a stock of the health of those are under home isolation. Pandey informed that so far 1,450 people across the state are under home isolation. He added that there are 441 Covid care centres, 74 dedicated Covid centres and four dedicated Covid hospitals in Bihar with 39,000 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/57-covid-patients-opt-for-home-isolation-in-patna/articleshow/77006878.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 17, 2020||Business||RBI norms may slow asset sales by ARCs||MUMBAI: The sale process of distressed assets by asset reconstruction companies (ARCs) could get longer because of a new fair practices code announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday. The new guidelines require ARCs to invite bids from many potential buyers before selling assets, and also require ARCs to consult with investors before concluding a sale. In a circular to all ARCs, the RBI said that, to improve transparency in sale of secured assets, ARCs must rope in as many bidders as possible by soliciting public bids in an auction. Also, the ARCs have been asked to consult with investors in their security receipts while selling the assets. Third, the RBI has asked them to ensure that persons connected to the defaulting promoter do not buy the assets. Buying of auctioned assets by a promoter is barred under Section 29A of the Insolvency Act. According to UV ARC director Hari Hara Mishra, while the move to enhance disclosure and transparency in ARC operations is welcome, implementation of a consultative process with security receipt holders in sale of assets may create an additional layer for decision-making and impact resolution timelines. ARCs buy bad loans from banks and make money by selling either the business or the assets. To fund the purchase of bad loans, which run into thousands of crores, they rope in investors who buy security receipts that are similar to units in a mutual fund. Investors get a share of the upside. In the case of ARCs, often the investors in the security receipts are banks. The RBI already has fair practices codes for lenders. On Friday, it issued a directive to all ARCs under Section 9 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002, asking them to adopt the fair practices code. This comes at a time when ARCs have been under fire for employing recovery agents using strong-arm tactics for recovering retail loans. Also, there have been cases where assets of large defaulters have been sold by ARCs in quiet one-to-one deals after purchasing the loan from banks. On the use of agents, the RBI has said that the ARCs should have a board-approved outsourcing policy in place. “In the matter of recovery of loans, ARCs shall not resort to harassment of the debtor. ARCs shall ensure that the staff are adequately trained to deal with customers in an appropriate manner,” the RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-norms-may-slow-asset-sales-by-arcs/articleshow/77007604.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: Fourth fatality, 13 fresh cases recorded in Karnataka's Kodagu||MADIKERI: Kodagu district on Thursday recorded 13 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the active cases to 120. The district also recorded a fatality in the day taking the toll to four. According to officials, a 90-year-old woman from a containment zone here who died on Thursday morning was subjected to rapid test as per standard operating procedure and she was found to be positive. The funeral of the deceased was conducted as per government SOP on Thursday evening. A resident of Torenuru village in Somwarpet taluk, the woman died at 6am on Thursday. Torenuru had been marked as a containment zone by Kodagu district administration and hence the officials from the health department visited the place and collected the throat swabs of the deceased woman. Tension prevailed after the woman tested positive as a rift broke out between family members of the deceased and the health officials over final rites rituals. The family claimed the deceased had not come in contact with Covid-19 patients and thus was not infected. However, the officials convinced the family to conduct the final rites as per government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/fourth-fatality-13-fresh-cases-recorded-in-kodagu/articleshow/77006044.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Business||Infy, select banks lift sensex by 1.2%||TNN Mumbai: A strong rally in Infosys and select banking stocks added 420 points or 1.2% to the sensex on Thursday with the index closing at 36,472 points. Buying on expectations of Covid-19 vaccines also led to a strong rally globally, which added to the buying sentiment on Dalal Street, market players said. Infosys led the rally with an almost 10% gain after the company on Wednesday in post-market hours declared its first quarter results that beat analyst expectations, more so after the software industry major TCS earlier this month failed to beat estimates. Infosys rallied over 10% in early trade and closed at Rs 911, up 9.6%. Among other top contributors to the index’s gain were HDFC Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank. Sensex heavyweight Reliance Industries continued to witness profit-booking, with the stock closing marginally down at Rs 1,843.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infy-select-banks-lift-sensex-by-1-2/articleshow/77007470.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||Gopalganj Sainik School cadets shine in board exams||PATNA: Cadets of Sainik School, Gopalganj passed the CBSE Class X and XII examinations with flying colours. The school has recorded 100% success rate in both the examinations. In Class X, Cdt Aman Kumar stood first in the school by securing 97.2% marks. Cdt Mayank Yadav and Cdt Rajkaran Kumar secured second and third positions with 97% and 96.4% marks, respectively. Altogether 13 cadets secured 95% and above and 56 others 90% and above. Cdt Dyshyant Kumar emerged as school topper in Class XII by securing 95.4% marks. Cdt Aman Kumar and Cdt Sanjay stood second and third in the school with 95.2% and 95% marks, respectively. Seven cadets secured more than 90% marks in Class XII. The principal of the school has congratulated the cadets for their hard work. He also acknowledged the hard work and dedication of teachers and non-teaching staff of the school, saying they strived hard to shape the bright career of the cadets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gopalganj-sainik-school-cadets-shine-in-board-exams/articleshow/77007518.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mysuru||Transgender wins battle against novel coronavirus||Mysuru: A transgender who returned to the district from Mumbai and tested positive for the novel coronavirus on June 16 is now leading a lonely life in a plantation outside her native village near HD Kote town of the district. She was treated for 9 days at the district Covid-19 hospital. She said that she is thankful to the doctors who treated her and the district administration, for ensuring that she got the best treatment, and for infusing confidence in her. “Once the number of Covid-19 cases subside, I will return to Mumbai, as I don’t has any means of earning a livelihood here,” she said. A 45-year-old Bhagya (name changed) went to Mumbai 30 years ago in search of earning a livelihood. “As Covid-19 cases surged in Mumbai, I decided to return to Mysuru. I came to Bengaluru with six of my friends in the Udyan Express. From Bengaluru, I traveled to Mysuru in a bus. I was staying in a room in Mysuru. I was tested for the novel coronavirus after I came back from Mumbai and tested positive. The authorities advised me to get admitted in the Covid-19 hospital,” she said. “I am the only one among the six of us who travelled together, who tested positive for Covid-19,” she said. “When I was informed that I have tested positive, I decided to face it. I didn’t give in to fear,” she said. “I was asymptomatic. After 9 days in the Covid hospital, I was shifted to another place for three days. After that they asked me to be in home quarantine for 14 days. Now, I am leading a lonely life in a plantation outside a village near HD Kote town,” she said. “I have a stove on which I prepare rice for my meals,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/transgender-wins-battle-against-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/77006551.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mysuru||Constable killed in head-on collision||Mandya: A constable was killed while an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was grievously injured, after the motorbike they were riding on collided with another motorbike near Toreshettahalli village in Maddur taluk on Thursday. According to police, constable Arun,30, died on spot in the head-on collision. ASI Balaiah was severely injured and is being treated in Mandya Medical College Hospital. Arun and Balaiah were travelling towards Toppanahalli village, where Arun was deployed to provide armed security cover for a politician. A case has been registered in the Kestur police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/constable-killed-in-head-on-collision/articleshow/77008355.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Kashaya, chyawanprash for patients at ayurvedic care centres||Hubballi: Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in Dharwad district admitted to care centres being run out of ayurvedic and homeopathic hospitals are being treated with Indian medicines while following the allopathic course of treatment, in keeping with protocol. The Dharwad district administration has arranged more than 250 beds at ayurvedic and homeopathic hospitals to house patients who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. While being given the medicines recommended by allopathic doctors, physicians at the care centres are feeding the patients kashaya and chyawanprash, which will help boost immunity among the infected patients. Dharwad district health officer Dr Yashwanth Madinkar said that patients at the care centres were free to leave whenever they wanted to. “There is no compulsion on the patients to take the kashaya or chyawanprash,” Dr Madinkar said. Dr Mahesh Desai, head of department at Sanjeevani Ayurveda Medical College and Hospital on Gokul Road, which is one of the care centres in the district, said that the patients could as well look at taking kashaya as a substitute for tea and have it twice a day. “Patients are being given 10g of chyawanprash after lunch. We are providing it to all the patients, while all of them are being given the prescribed allopathic medicines,” Dr Desai added. Sources at the ayurvedic and homeopathic care centres said that most patients were only too eager to take the kashaya and chyawanprash, since they were aware of the effect they had on enhancing immunity. Principal of the Ayurved Mahavidyalaya and Hospital in Heggeri, another care centre, Prashant AS said that, no patient at the institution had developed any severe symptoms of Covid-19 or complications of any sort in the past ten days that they had stayed there for. “We are giving our patients natural medicines such as yashtimadhu, vasa, ginger, et al, all of which have been listed under the ‘herbal agents’ category of the Union Ayush ministry,” he said. Prashanth pointed out that chyawanprash contained amalaki, which was rich in Vitamin C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kashaya-chyawanprash-for-patients-at-ayurvedic-care-centres/articleshow/76998615.cms||J Abbas Mulla
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Online yoga sessions to help cops beat stress||Chennai: The women in khaki attached to the Crime Against Women Children (CAWC) wing of the city police had an online yoga session on Friday. The initiative. meant to boost immunity of police personnel working at the frontlines of the Covid-19 pandemic, will soon be extended to all police personnel in the city. More than 1,000 police personnel in the city have been infected so far. “Police are overworked since they have to ensure guidelines to prevent Covid-19 spread are followed over and above their usual duty of maintaining law and order. It is the need of the hour to keep them stress-free,” said a senior police officer. The personnel spend most of their time out on the streets adding to the anxiety and seniors have been asked to take steps boost the morale of the force, the officer said. “The yoga sessions are a part of the initiative.” In a two-hour online session on Friday, yoga instructors Priyadarshini and Mohammad Riswan guided 500 officers through stretching and breathing exercises. They were also taught asanas that can help ease other chronic conditions like blood pressure, lung-related ailments and thyroid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-yoga-sessions-to-help-cops-beat-stress/articleshow/77026447.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||Now, Chirag Paswan questions government’s ‘zero corruption’ policy||PATNA: The alleged rift between two constituents of ruling NDA – JD(U) and LJP – came to the fore once again on Thursday when LJP chief Chirag Paswan questioned the ‘zero corruption’ policy of the Nitish Kumar government by raising the issue of Sattarghat bridge. Though reports said the newly inaugurated Sattarghat bridge at Gopalganj caved in on Wednesday, the state government clarified on Thursday that it was not the main bridge, but the approach road to an 18-metre small bridge that was washed away by floodwaters. Chirag, however, went on to question the Nitish government on utilisation of public money for construction of the bridge. “Portion of a bridge constructed with an expenditure of Rs 264 crore has collapsed. Any work done with people’s money should be of highest quality. Such episodes raise a question in people’s mind about zero corruption. LJP demands a high-level inquiry into the matter and action against those responsible for it,” Chirag said in a statement. The JD(U), however, took strong exception to Chirag’s statement. “Chirag is president of a ruling alliance. He should have cross-checked the fact before issuing such statements. Neither the main bridge, nor the small bridge but a part of the approach road was damaged due to very high current in the swollen Gandak,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. Road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav, also a senior functionary of BJP, preferred not to comment. “Since there is not any issue at all, there is nothing to react on,” he told TOI. It is not the first occasion when Chirag has criticised the Nitish government. During his ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ Yatra, which he had to abandon midway due to Covid-19 pandemic, Chirag had questioned the state government over various issues, including health facilities, law and order and lack of industries. Meanwhile, leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also slammed the state government over the bridge issue. “Nitish should seek resignation from road construction minister or initiate disciplinary action against him as he is a minister from BJP quota,” Tejashwi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-chirag-questions-govts-zero-corruption-policy/articleshow/77007587.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 17, 2020||Patna||SP: Asymptomatic patients shouldn’t rush to hospitals||PATNA: Bhojpur SP Sushil Kumar, who resumed work on Tuesday after beating Covid-19 by remaining in home isolation, said asymptomatic patients should not panic and rush to hospitals as seriously ill and poor patients need medical attention first. The SP’s minor daughter has also recovered from the disease by remaining in home isolation. The SP, who took to social media to make an appeal to asymptomatic Covid patients or those with mild symptoms not to make a beeline for hospitals, told TOI over phone that his elder brother, a heart and blood sugar patient, had also tested positive for Covid-19 on July 8. “We still preferred to keep him in home isolation as he had developed mild symptoms,” Kumar said, adding his brother is yet to be tested negative. “It’s time to stay away from VIP syndrome and serve mankind. In times to come, you will be remembered for this same reason. We are capable enough to get admitted in any hospital but being a citizen, it is our duty that such facilities are extended first to those who are more ill,” he wrote in a social media post. “The well-to-do and capable people should not panic. They should not rush to hospitals after developing mild Covid symptoms. Such people should keep pulse oximeter with themselves and continue measuring pulse rate and oxygen level in body. They should go to hospital only when their oxygen level becomes abnormal,” he wrote. Kumar said several senior officials had suggested him to get admitted in AIIMS-Patna, but he preferred home isolation as he didn’t have any breathing problem. “I took doctor’s suggestion to remain in home isolation because several patients in serious condition are in need of treatment at hospital. My daughter also got infected and we kept her in home isolation,” Kumar, who was tested Covid-19 positive on June 29, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sp-asymptomatic-patients-shouldnt-rush-to-hospitals/articleshow/77006346.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 17, 2020||Patna||Patna: Medical shops fall short of drugs, immunity boosters||PATNA: Many chemists and pharmacists in the city have claimed that they are facing acute shortage of key Covid-19 drugs and immunity boosters. Supplements like vitamin C and zinc tablets have also gone out of stock as a lot of people are resorting to panic buying. The manager of a medical store in Rukanpura, Om Prakash Kumar, told this newspaper on Thursday that vitamin C and D as well as zinc tablets were in high demand. “People usually think twice before buying costly medicines. These tablets, however, are cheap and available in the range of Rs 25 to Rs 100,” Om said and added that the sale of oximeters had also gone up considerably. An employee of another medical shop in Phulwarisharif, Md Akram Khan, rued that immunity boosters were no more available at his store. “Our old stocks were over as soon as people began indulging in panic buying. Some of them purchased 30-40 strips of medicines even if they did not need them urgently. The demand went so high that we had to stop selling the drugs,” Akram claimed. Bihar Chemists and Druggists Association president P K Singh said, “It is mostly in the urban areas of Patna that people are stockpiling medicines which are required for treating the Covid-19 patients.” He also urged people to look for natural ways of boosting their immunity. “Consume lemon water, fresh mangoes, oranges and other food items rich in vitamins instead of eating medicines without consulting health experts,” Singh said. Many city residents accepted that they were “storing medicines for emergency purposes”. Patna City resident Rita Sinha said, “Nobody knows when they will be infected by coronavirus. All we can do is be prepared for the worst by stocking up on the essential drugs and immunity boosters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/medical-shops-fall-short-of-drugs-immunity-boosters/articleshow/77006907.cms||Archi Rani
July 17, 2020||Patna||IMA seeks 15-day work arrangement for doctors in Bihar||PATNA: The state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has sought reservation of 50% of the total beds at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) for the treatment of doctors. This step will “boost the confidence of the doctors who are tirelessly fighting against the coronavirus”. The demand was raised at a meeting held between IMA-Bihar president Dr Bimal Kumar Karak and health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday. “The virus has shaken the entire healthcare system and it is important to keep the medical fraternity safe and healthy. Since there is a heavy rush of patients from different corners of the state at the AIIMS-P, doctors and health workers find it difficult to get beds there,” Dr Karak said and demanded a ‘15-day work and 15-day rest’ arrangement for the doctors treating corona patients. He also pointed out that all doctors of the state needed to be tested after every two weeks for ensuring that they were not infected by coronavirus. IMA state secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said nearly 150 doctors across the state had already tested positive for Covid-19. The IMA members also demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation from the state government and Rs 50 lakh insurance cover announced by the central government for the families of Dr Ashwini Nandkuliyar and Dr N K Singh who had died due to corona. They also asked the minister to fill all vacant posts of doctors. Others, who were part of the delegation, included former IMA president Dr Sahjanand Prasad Singh and president-elect Dr Amar Kant Jha Amar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ima-seeks-15-day-work-arrangement-for-doctors-in-bihar/articleshow/77006698.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Surat||After workers’ exodus, now employers leave for natives||Surat: Surat: Rajnish Lilah, a textile trader had shifted his family to his native in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district last month and returned to Surat to handle his textile business. A few days ago, one of his closely acquainted traders succumbed to Covid-19 infection. Fearing getting infected with the virus, Lilah left for Rajasthan on Thursday to stay safe with his family. After the mass exodus of migrant workers from textile mills and markets of Surat, it's time for their employers to pack their bags and head to their natives. Out of the 75,000-odd shops in 165 textile markets, about 45% of the shops are owned by the traders hailing from Rajasthan. Of this, 70% are natives of Barmer district. The neighbouring state of Rajasthan is set to witness an influx of the textile traders and workers from the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) wholesale market as coronavirus cases spike here. According to the traders’ community, over 5,000 textile traders hailing from various districts in Rajasthan including Barmer, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur, Bikaner etc. have returned to their natives in the last one week. They said that about 200 traders are leaving the city every day in their private vehicles and luxury buses. There are traders like Gajendra Singh, a native of Jaisalmer, who have decided to come to Surat after Diwali festival. “The Covid-19 situation in Surat is not going to improve and it is deteriorating with each passing day. I have decided to stay in Jaisalmer with my family until Diwali. I was staying alone in Surat and my family was worried about my well being.” Manoj Agarwal, president of FOSTTA said, “Nobody wants to risk their lives and want absolute safety for their families. Not just traders from Rajasthan, but there are many from other states like Punjab, Bihar, Haryana etc. who are also moving out of the city.” Rajendra Bhanasail, a textile trader in the city for many years, said, “I feel safe and secure in my hometown Barmer. I left Surat two days ago and over 100 of my acquaintances in the markets will be leaving Surat in the next couple of days. I will return to Surat only when things get normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/after-workers-exodus-now-employers-leave-for-natives/articleshow/77006869.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chennai||People crowd Covid hotspot to buy water||Chennai: Residents of a street in George Town, which falls under Royapuram zone, were on Friday photographed crowding a water supply unit right outside the house of a Covid-19 patient. The photograph taken on Thatha Muthiappan Street showed a group of five to six people, some without masks, buying and selling water in cans and other vessels right under a banner declaring the place a Covid-19 hotspot. The warning,which was put up by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), said, in English, ‘entry and exit is not allowed’. This comes at a time when Covid-19 cases are on a steady decline in Chennai as well as in Royapuram, which was the biggest hotspot in the city. GCC officials have been making regular announcements asking residents to wear masks and follow containment measures properly to avoid another spurt in cases. On being alerted about the scene Thatha Muthiappan Street, civic officials assured to look into the issue. “Whether residents of the house with the Covid-19 patient stepped out to buy water has to be checked. They are not supposed to venture out as per containment policy,” said a zonal level official. Officials also said since the warning was not in Tamil, it might have been ignored. “In some locations, people have expressed that to be an issue. We try to put up boards in Tamil as much as possible,” the official said. Similar breach of containment measures was found in Kodambakkam zone around a month ago. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, who had noticed people breaking out of containment streets, that too without masks, publicly criticised the act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/people-crowd-covid-hotspot-to-buy-water/articleshow/77026456.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Man on a picnic with friends drowns in Tons river||DEHRADUN: A monsoon picnic by a couple of friends to Chandroti in Rajpur area of Dehradun took a tragic turn when one of them drowned in the Tons River on Wednesday. On Thursday, a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) recovered the body of the victim, identified as Nishant Pradhan, a resident of Mohabbewala, on the outskirts of Dehradun. According to SDRF officials, Nishant had gone to Chandroti picnic spot with his friends on Wednesday. After having food, all of them entered the waters for bathing. However, Nishant, according to his friends, ventured into deep waters and drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-on-a-picnic-with-friends-drowns-in-tons-river/articleshow/77006839.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Wife deceased Covid patient files plaint against Gandhi Hospital staff||HYDERABAD: The wife of a Covid-19 patient, who succumbed while undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital on Wednesday, lodged a complaint with police alleging that her husband had died because of negligence of hospital staff. The 23-year-old woman said that on July 14 evening her husband, who was a sales executive at a private company in Sainikpuri, was shifted from Osmania General Hospital to Gandhi Hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. “At OGH, my husband was provided oxygen when he was undergoing treatment before the test results came. At the entrance of Gandhi Hospital, I was sent back and my husband was taken inside in an ambulance. I stayed at my husband’s employers’ home as our landlord caused trouble when I tried going back home,” she said. “At 3.25 am on July 15, my husband started calling me, his employer and other family members said that he was not provided with oxygen supply. I reached the hospital and took permission to visit him. At the ward, he did not respond to my calls. As there was no movement, I requested duty nurses to check if he was fine. After examining him, they said there was no pulse and doctors will be informed about it. They asked me to stay outside. At around 10 am, I was informed that he passed away,” she said. At 5 pm, they took the body for cremation. “My husband died due to negligence of the duty doctor and nurses at Gandhi Hospital. Take appropriate legal action against them,” she said. Chilkalguda police made a general diary entry after taking the complaint. No case has been registered yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/widow-files-plaint-against-gandhi-staff/articleshow/77008715.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Varanasi||No toilets, brides return to parent’s home||GORAKHPUR: Some families in Jagdishpur village of Padrauna block in Kushinagar district are in a piquant situation as their brides returned to their maternal homes since there was no toilet facility at home. Senior officials visited the village and started construction of a public toilet and initiated the process for building toilets in homes of the affected families. More than half a dozen brides in Jagdishpur village of Padrauna block in Kushinagar district left their in-laws home and went back to their parents as there was no toilet facility. The village is in a low-lying area and there is heavy water logging during the rains which compounds the problem. CDO Anand Kumar said, “We came to know about the issue of brides leaving their marital homes due to lack of toilets. DPRO Raghvendra Dwivedi met the affected families. Toilets had already been constructed in homes of those whose names were on the list and it will constructed in homes lacking the facility. Construction of a public toilet has started.” DPRO Raghvendra Dwivedi said, “I have collected the necessary information of the families to start toilet construction.” Village head, Ram Naresh Yadav said toilets were not constructed in some houses as their names were not in the list. All the women who left due to lack of toilets had been married within past two years. They had put the condition of getting a toilet constructed before marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-toilets-brides-return-to-parents-home/articleshow/77007872.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 17, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Govt schools perform better than private ones in CBSE boards||DEHRADUN: Even though Dehradun is known as the school education hub of the country with a multitude of private educational institutions spread across the city, the students of government schools here have managed to perform better in the Class X and Class XII board examinations, the results of which were announced recently. In the Class X examinations, the overall performance of Dehradun region, which includes entire Uttarakhand and eight districts of Uttar Pradesh, was slightly better than the previous year with a pass percentage of 89.72%. While the Kendriya Vidyalayas in the region recorded a pass percentage of 99.56%, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas saw 98.94%. The other government schools too recorded 94.89%. However, this is in contrast to the performance of private schools which could manage a pass percentage of only 89.09%. In Class XII examinations too, the KVs recorded a pass percentage of 99.04% and JNVs 97.65%. However, private schools managed to touch only 82.77%. When asked about the gap between the pass percentage in private and government schools, educational experts opined that the trend is because children at private schools are unable to effectively utilise the ample resources available at their disposal while their counterparts in government institutions have to make do with their limited facilities. The trend at renowned Eklavya Residential School, meant for tribal children from humble backgrounds, is a testimony to this. While all students have passed the board examinations at the institute, their performance has also been remarkable nationally. Pushplata Rawat, state coordinator of the NGO ‘Room to Read’, said, “During my personal experience as an educationist, I have observed that the government schoolchildren are better exposed to other life aspects as well which help in their development and they are able to connect the dots much better which in turn help their performance in academics as well.” “I believe that government schoolchildren perform well because they know that only marks can help them have a better future. Unlike private schoolchildren, they don’t have anything to fall upon,” said S Ganguli, chief education officer of Aditya Birla Group. Ranber Singh, regional director of CBSE, said, “The performance of Dehradun region has improved this year. Like always, the KVs and JNVs have proved their excellent quality of education. Earlier, we used to have a bigger region up to Noida but now despite limited centres, we have performed well as compared to other bigger regions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-schools-perform-better-than-private-ones-in-cbse-boards/articleshow/77006837.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||From 7th spot last yr, Amravati division improves to 4th in Maharashtra||NAGPUR: Performance of Vidarbha’s both divisional boards, Amravati and Nagpur, improved drastically this year. Amravati divisional board, which has jurisdiction over five districts, has jumped to the fourth spot in state. That’s a big jump from the seventh spot it was at last year. The passing percentage at Amravati division this year was 92.09 compared to 87.55 last year. Board officials say the credit goes to students and teachers. Anil Pardhi, secretary of the divisional board, said, “Students have really done well by studying hard. I believe the combined effort our schools and students has ensured these results.” He added that there was a greater awareness among students about the need to do well in studies, which affects the performance of the entire division. The Amravati division too includes backward regions like Melghat where government run schools are the backbone of education. Around 1.42 lakh students appeared for HSC in Amravati, of whom 1.31 lakh passed. Amravati district had the highest number of students appearing at 35,828. Washim district had the least number of examinees at just 18,680. Coincidentally, it was Washim which had the second highest passing percentage in the division at 94.08. Overall, Buldhana district had the highest passing percentage at 94.22 while Amravati the lowest at 90.80. Pardhi and his team also ensured strict implementation of anti-copying measures with multiple flying squads deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-7th-spot-last-yr-amravati-division-improves-to-4th-in-state/articleshow/77008711.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 17, 2020||Surat||People opt for voluntary lockdown in Surat’s Rander||Surat: Majority of the areas in Rander, Adajan and Pal wore a deserted look on Thursday as shopkeepers and retailers began a voluntary lockdown for a week considering the worsening Covid-19 spread in the city. Together, these areas have a population of around 20 lakh. Rander zone was the first Covid-19 hotspot when cases began to spike in the city. It was declared a cluster containment zone to contain the spread of virus. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had quarantined almost 1.25 sq km area covering nearly 4,000 houses after two Covid-19 cases were reported in April . According to the SMC’s health department, Rander zone has recorded about 725 Covid-19 positive cases till date out of which 70 have succumbed. Majority of the shops in Adajan and Pal downed their shutters after 12 pm on Thursday. The retail shops in Adajan’s Prime Arcade, the well-known shopping destination for the residents, have voluntarily decided to keep their shops shut for a week. All the retail shops in Rander too down shutters voluntarily. At most of the places in Rander zone, civic officials were seen asking shopkeepers to close their shops for a week. On Thursday, deputy mayor Nirav Shah appealed to the shop owners and residents in Rander zone to set an example for others with a self-imposed lockdown for a week. He posted the appeal on his Facebook account. Shah said, “Covid-19 situation in Surat is worsening with each passing day. It’s time for the residents to impose self-lockdown for a week.” Imtiyas Patangwala, a retail shop owner in Rander town said, “We have seen the longest containment period of about one-and-a-half-month starting from the first week of April. We don’t want another containment and so all the shop owners have decided to impose self-lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/people-opt-for-voluntary-lockdown-in-surats-rander/articleshow/77006896.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Puda, Gmada restrict public dealings||TNNMohali: In the wake of the pandemic, Punjab Urban Planning & Development Authority (Puda) has decided to restrict public dealings in its office building situated in Sector 62, here, for two weeks starting July 20.Offices of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) also operate from the same premises.In a press statement issued on Thursday, a spokesman of PUDA said, “It has been decided to restrict public dealings only up to single window established at the ground floor of the office premises. For public convenience, in addition to the single window, a counter shall be set up at the same floor to receive complaints and issue receipts. No public visits would be permitted beyond the ground floor.”Further, a mail ID pudagmada.appointments@gmail.com has been created through which people can seek prior appointment pertaining to only those cases where emergency discussion is required. Public would be required to provide the reason of the visit along with the name of the officer whom they want to meet. After evaluating the request, appointment would be given. People who have sought appointments in advance would be allowed to visit the office building, the spokesman added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/puda-gmada-restrict-public-dealings/articleshow/77007940.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ethylene-ripened fruits safe or not for consumption, HC asks officials||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday directed state food safety commissioner and food laboratory’s chief public analyst to inform it whether fruits ripen through ethylene gas are fit for human consumption and also to explain the difference between ethylene and ethephon. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing two pleas filed by ethylene sachet traders, who complained about police harassment hindering their business in Telangana. The bench reminded assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao to obtain a counter from Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The food safety authorities and labs had already declared that ethylene sachets were safe because it uses natural hormones within fruit to act as catalyst to ripen the fruits and hence the central authorities had issued guidelines approving the use of ethylene as a safe ripener, the bench said. “Hence, we cannot say that ethylene is a prohibited item. But the report of the amicus curiae was confusing, who brought in ethephon into the picture. This led to some confusion,” the bench said. A little study into the matter revealed that edharine was the nickname of ethephon, it said. The amicus curiae’s report said that ethephon was an insecticide and hence cannot be used to ripen fruits. Petitioners’ counsel Dharmesh Jaiswal said that ethephon sachets produce ethylene gas, which would ripen the fruits, and was also approved by labs and authorities. The bench sought counters from the authorities and posted the case to July 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ethylene-ripened-fruits-safe-or-not-for-consumption-hc-asks-officials/articleshow/77008727.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CBI court issues NBWs against suspended SHO||CHANDIGARH: The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday issued non-bailable arrest warrants against suspended and on-the-run SHO of Manimajra police station Jaswinder Kaur in a Rs 5 lakh graft case. The matter will come up for hearing on July 20. If she is not arrested by the date, then she will be declared a proclaimed offender. Public prosecutor for CBI KP Singh had moved an application, seeking non-bailable arrest warrants against Jaswinder. Allowing the application, CBI special judge Sushil Kumar Garg ordered, “In view of circumstances mentioned in the application, non-bailable warrant of arrest be issued against the accused Jaswinder Kaur returnable on July 20.” In the application, the CBI stated that Jaswinder “deliberately and intentionally absconded” despite being asked twice to join the investigation. CBI said she created false evidence in DDR at Manimajra police station that she had returned from CBI office, Sector 30. It also stated how CCTV footage of June 21 of Manimajra police station substantiated the allegations of complainant Gurdeep Singh that the SHO took his signatures under pressure on a blank paper. One of the constables, Sarbjit Singh, revealed in a statement before the judicial magistrate that the SHO told him to take Gurdeep’s sign on a blank paper and write compromise. The SHO was booked along with an alleged conduit, Bhagwan Singh, under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and Section 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, on June 29 on charges of seeking Rs 5 lakh bribe from Gurdeep, a Manimajra resident. Gurdeep had told the CBI that he had already paid Rs 2 lakh to Jaswinder for not lodging a cheating case against him and was to pay Rs 3 lakh more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-court-issues-nbws-against-suspended-sho/articleshow/77007934.cms||Neha Sharma
July 17, 2020||Agra||Ex-Delhi doctor running illegal surrogacy operation in Nepal: Agra police||AGRA: An illegal commercial surrogacy operation in which babies were sold to foreign nationals for Rs 10 lakh has now come to light. The operations are based in Nepal, with poor women from Bihar and UP engaged as surrogates, and the doctors who ran it have recently shifted base to Faridabad because of the lockdown. The doctor and his wife are on the run. The prime accused, an IVF specialist from Karnataka, Dr Vishnu Kant, had left the Delhi hospital he worked at and left for Nepal after commercial surrogacy was declared illegal in India. This was in December 2018. Police said he and his wife, Ashmita, then started an illegal surrogacy operation at Siliguri in West Bengal. “They had started hiring women from Bihar and UP, who came from economically underprivileged sections, for surrogacy. They’d send them to Siliguri, where the IVF procedure would be done. Once they gave birth, the babies would be taken to Nepal by agents and sold to foreign nationals. Nepal had banned commercial surrogacy a year ago,” additional superintendent of police (East) Pramod Kumar said. “But when Covid-19 came, they had to move base. So they moved the surrogates to Faridabad.” On June 19, Fatehabad (Agra) Police had arrested Neelam, a mother of five, for being engaged in “illegal activities”. She had been living at Girdhwar Enclave in Faridabad and, allegedly, pushed poor women into surrogacy. “Her cut was Rs 50,000 per woman. She had got in touch with Kant and his wife though Anand Rahul Sarashwat, a resident of Harsh Vihar in southwest Delhi’s Jaitpur area,” a police officer said. Sarashwat is from Mathura and had been hired as a driver by Kant earlier. Also arrested at the time was Ruby, a surrogate mother who had given birth in May. She was caught carrying a baby to Nepal via the Agra-Lucknow Expressway with others — Sarashwat and two drivers, Amit Kumar from Badarpur and Pradeep Kumar from Faridabad — who later turned out to be part of the illegal operations. This was also on June 19. There was another woman, Meena, who would also act as an intermediary and persuade women to take up surrogacy and a doctor who had a parallel surrogacy operation. Neelam, police said, used to work with the latter but they stopped working together after disputes over money. “During interrogation, those arrested spoke of Ashmita, who they said ran a maternity clinic in Nepal. Foreign nationals would be handed these babies for Rs 10 lakh. For each delivery, the surrogate would be paid Rs 3.5 lakh, Neelam and others would get between Rs 50,000 and Rs 20,000, and the rest was for Kant and his wife to keep,” ASP Kumar said. Five babies were delivered by the surrogates at a private maternity clinic in Faridabad and while three girls were rescued, Kumar added, it is not known where the two baby boys are. “We suspect they were sold to foreign nationals in Nepal.” The six have been arrested for trafficking and Kant and his wife have been identified as the prime accused. The couple lived at Parsvnath Aviation City in Noida’s Sector 93 but had sold off the flat recently. Police suspect Kant has fled to Bengaluru. “A former colleague of his, Dr Vishal, and an aide, Saurabh, said that Kant worked at a child hospital in Greater Kailash for nearly 13-15 years before the surrogacy ban. Dr Vishal has been asked to share whatever information he may have,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-delhi-doctor-running-illegal-surrogacy-operation-in-nepal-agra-police/articleshow/77006879.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Agra||15 test Covid +ve in Agra, 20 more cases in Bareilly||AGRA/BAREILLY: At least 15 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Thursday, taking the district tally to 1,454. These included two patients suffering from coronary artery disease, three suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of SARI and a kidney patient. Also, 21 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 1,454 cases, 81.8% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 159 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,201 people have recovered.” Moreover, 20 more tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly on Thursday. With this, the total cases in Bareilly rose to 730, including 424 active ones and 21 deaths. Five fresh cases were reported in Shahjahanpur district. With this, the total tally reached 258, including 110 active cases and one death. While four people tested positive in Budaun and the active cases here touched 75.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/15-test-covid-ve-in-agra-20-more-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77006889.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||CBSE class 10 results: Many schools register 100% pass rate in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: City students proved their mettle in the Central Board of Secondary Education’s, (CBSE) class 10 exams, results of which were declared on Wednesday. Many schools registered 100 per cent pass rate. Vasana Srinivasan from Oakridge International School, Gachibowli scored 99% (495/500). The student, who moved back to the city from the US five years ago, attributed her success to school teachers and her parents. “When we moved to Hyderabad, I was very apprehensive about how well I can adjust, but the school provided me all the necessary support to make the transition smooth. The school ambience and focus on personality development made me focus on academics and helped me achieve my goals,” said Srinivasan. Nara Shreshtha emerged the school topper from Vignan Global Gen Schools, Hyderabad by securing 98%. “One third of the students from the school secured above 85%. As many as 30 students secured more than 94%,” read a press release issued by the school. Students of DPS, Nacharam also performed exceedingly well. Sasi Snigdha Yadavalli emerged the school topper by securing 97.6%. “For every subject, I thoroughly followed the NCERT textbooks. I also followed notes that were shared by the school management . I plan to pursue maths, physics and chemistry and eventually appear for joint entrance exams,” said Yadavalli. With 95.6%, Monisha Paladug emerged the school topper from Euro School. With 98.2%, Prajwal Tiwari secured the school topper’s position from Kennedy High – the global school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbse-class-10-results-many-schools-register-100-pass-rate/articleshow/77008737.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||Child-sex racket accused brought to Bhopal||BHOPAL: Newspaper owner Pyare Mian, who is accused of raping minor girls, was brought to Bhopal from Srinagar on Thursday. The 68-year-old had fled there after cases under POCSO were registered against him in Bhopal on Sunday, and was caught on Tuesday evening. Around 50 of his relatives -- including his daughter -- protested outside the police control room, claiming he was being “framed for political reasons”. She claimed he had surrendered in Srinagar and not arrested. ADG Upendra Jain dismissed these claims and wondered why Pyare was found in Srinagar, 1500km away. “He could have surrendered before Indore police or any other police unit. Why did he take three taxis to Mumbai and then two flights to reach Srinagar? It can be confirmed from Kashmir police that he was nabbed on input from Bhopal police and did not surrender,” he said. Pyare was brought to Bhopal by a crime branch team in the afternoon after being taken on transit remand. After medical examination, he was to be produced in court but since the sessions bench at Bhopal operates from 11am to 2pm due to Covid-19 precautions, he will be produced before court on Friday. Pyare’s daughter claimed that he had gone to Ratibad police station after the minor girls he is accused of sexually exploiting were found on the road in the wee hours of Sunday. “Why didn’t police arrest him then? He is 70 and has been operated for prostate cancer and has not done any of the things alleged by police,” she said, adding that Pyare got frightened when he found he was “framed" and fled Bhopal. ADG Jain rejected this claim and said Pyare wanted to escape to Rajasthan but police got wind of after which he changed his plan and turned back from Jhalawar. “He came back to Indore and travelled by road to Mumbai, switching three taxis. He then took a flight to Delhi and another to Srinagar. Bhopal police got information of this and caught him with help of J&K police. Immediately a team was sent to take him in custody. All their claims are false,” Jain said. Police are investigating Pyare’s ‘Kashmir connection’, he said. Asked if Pyare wanted to flee to Pakistan, he said he couldn’t say anything at the moment as investigation is on. Pyare is being interrogated, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/child-sex-racket-accused-brought-to-bhopal/articleshow/77007949.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs best HSC results since 2015; 90% club up 65%||MUMBAI: After a dip last year, the state’s Higher Secondary Certificate examination results for Class XII announced on Thursday made a sharp recovery to their best since 2015. The number of students scoring 90s in the state and the city, too, rose nearly 65% and 40%, respectively. Maharashtra’s success rate for both fresh and repeat candidates rose to 86.7% from 83.1% last year. Of the 15 lakh students who took the exams in the state, 7,344 scored above 90% compared with 4,470 last year. A chunk of the students, at 3,109, are from Mumbai division, which includes Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar. The board does not announce a merit list. While a changed paper pattern allowed the science stream’s success rate to touch 95.3% from 91.1% last year, that in the arts stream was 78.4%, up 5.6% from 2019. Several colleges reported a surge in scores among arts students. Consequently, competition for undergraduate courses is expected to remain fierce as their peers from CBSE and ISC improved their performance this time too. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the board has moved online for all re-evaluation processes. The board will most likely cancel the supplementary exams, which are usually conducted in July-August. Konkan division tops, Mumbai lastMumbai division bettered its success rate to 85.8% from 80.6% in 2019, but slipped to the last spot among nine divisions. At the top was Konkan, the smallest, with a 94.7% success rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-logs-best-hsc-results-since-2015-90-club-up-65/articleshow/77009196.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 17, 2020||Kanpur||Key witness & wife of Dubey henchman may turn approver||Kanpur: While slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s wife Richa was let off after a five-hour interrogation, Manu — wife of an arrested henchman Sashikant Pandey — is suddenly holding centrestage in police investigations after the surfacing of back-to-back audio clips in which she was purportedly heard mobilizing menfolk to take sniper position on rooftops and conniving with the don and misleading cops. After two days of rigorous questioning in detention, Manu, a crucial eyewitness to the Bikru bloodbath, was released on Friday and sent home under heavy police protection. With Manu singing in custody, police sources told TOI, she may be made an approver in the case. Manu confided to investigators that she and her husband were ready to provide details on the Bikru ambush. Police sources told TOI, their statements would be taken under Section 164 CrPC for recording confessions and statements by a magistrate during investigation. After her 48-hour detention, Manu was sent back to her Chaubeypur home under heavy police cover on Friday. “Though, she did not make a formal request for protection, two constables have been deployed round-the-clock outside her house after analyzing her threat perception,” said a police official. This gives credence to the theory that she’s crucial to the probe and may turn approver, said sources. “During preliminary interrogation, Manu revealed details on aides who reached the Dubey’s residence on the fateful night and sequence of events leading to the carnage and what happened next. Besides Manu, her mother-in-law was another witness. Manu’s statements will give police crucial leads to investigate and verify multiple murders on the night of July 3,” said a police official. Manu’s husband Sashikant, who was arrested late Monday, had accused the gangster of orchestrating the ambush while talking to reporters. To a query by media persons on what happened on the fateful night, Sashikant had stated, “The shootout was executed at the behest of gangster Dubey.” He further shared details of other accused, including Vikas Dubey and 25 of his aides involved in killing of eight policemen. He also confessed that three policemen, including slain DSP Devendra Mishra and a sub-inspector were killed and dumped in his house — a fact shared by his wife Manu, in an audio clip that went viral on Tuesday afternoon. He also went on to tell the media that Dubey had even threatened them, saying he will kill them all, if they did not open fire.” Firearms, including semi-automatic guns and 30 Springfield rifle were used in the carnage, he said. SP Rural Brijesh Kumar Srivastava told reporters, “If Manu or her husband Sashikant are made approver, we will serve them a notice for recording their statements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/key-witness-wife-of-dubey-henchman-may-turn-approver/articleshow/77027133.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 17, 2020||Noida||Abu Salem aide who managed his money, ran extortion business in NCR held||NOIDA: The Noida unit of the Special Task Force (STF) arrested a close aide of 1993 Mumbai blasts convict Abu Salem and his sharpshooter Khan Mubarak from the Sector 20 police station area on Wednesday night. The accused, 38-year-old Gajendra Singh, is a property dealer and an investor of Salem’s money in Delhi-NCR, police said. He has been sent to judicial custody. Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, STF, said that they had received information about Singh’s operations in Noida. “We were tipped off that he would be visiting his home in Sector 20 D block, following which a raid was conducted around 9.30pm and the arrest was made,” he said. Mishra said police had recovered a pistol from the house of Singh’s partner in the property dealing business, Sanjay Sharma, in Surajpur. An FIR has been filed against him under sections of the Arms Act. Since 2014, Singh had been running an extortion racket for Salem and using his property business to mask his criminal activities, Mishra said. “He would get people to buy property through him and after taking payment, he would threaten them by using the names of Abu Salem and Khan Mubarak,” he said. In 2014, Mishra said, Gajendra Singh took Rs 1.8 crore from a Delhi-based businessman, Mukesh Bhargav, on the pretext of selling a property. When he was asked to return the money, Singh plotted an attack on the businessman and arranged for shooters to fire at him in Sector 18. The businessman, who was in his car, escaped. The attack took place in May. Earlier that year, police said, Mubarak had transferred Rs 10 lakh to Singh’s account, with which the latter bought a Fortuner car in Kanpur. “Gajendra Singh met Abu Salem and Zafar Supari (Khan Mubarak’s brother) in 2014 through Salem’s brother Abu Jaish in a Mumbai court. He was asked to join Salem in his operations in NCR and was given a personal shooter, Harish Khan. The two men made a lot of money between 2014 and 2017 by extorting people using Salem’s name,” Mishra said. Police does not know the whereabouts of Harish Khan. In 2017, Singh had allegedly sheltered Khan Mubarak in his Noida home right before the latter was arrested in Mirzapur district by the STF. Police said they had recovered the details of various bank accounts that had been made with fake Aadhaar and PAN cards through which Singh had exchanged money with gangsters. During interrogation, they said Singh confessed to extorting Rs 52 lakh from a Sector 20 resident, Vineet Chauhan. The STF showed three cases related cheating, criminal intimidation and attempt to murder, all lodged at the Sector 20 police station in 2017 and 2018, at the time of producing him in court. Singh also told police that he is a distant relative of gangsters Sundar Bhati, who is from western UP, and Azad Bansal of Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/salem-aide-who-managed-his-money-ran-extortion-business-in-ncr-held/articleshow/77008750.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||UT cuts grant, pushes MC in deep financial imbroglio||Chandigarh: The municipal corporation, which is already facing a financial crunch, received a major blow with the Chandigarh administration deducting around Rs 5 crore each month from its grant-in-aid (GIA) during the current financial quarter, which is July, August and September.In the first quarter of the fiscal from April to June, the civic body had received around Rs 35 crore each month from the finance department of the UT administration as GIA.As per records, MC’s monthly expenditure on salaries, wages, pension and other committed liabilities is around Rs 40 crore, which it has to fulfil at all cost. This deduction of grant will put the authority under extreme financial burden, as its own income resources have shrunk drastically due to the pandemic.“We have received a communication regarding the cut in grant. We do not understand how we will run the civic body under the current financial circumstances. A meeting will be held soon for a discussion in this regard, but one thing is clear that we will definitely look for extra finances to meet our liabilities,” an officer said.Sources in the civic body said due to Covid-19, MC’s income had reduced and generating revenue was a major challenge. During the preparation of the budget in February, the authority had reserved Rs 402 crore from their own revenue, but it has now been reduced to Rs 286 crore. Increase in the water tariff was one of the most crucial segments, which could not be notified so far due to the pandemic.Box:Expenditure management“We have got the communication regarding the cut in the grant, so we will manage the expenditure in all sectors accordingly,” said KK Yadav, municipal corporation commissioner.Box:Work stoppedAs all kinds of developmental works have already stopped, the engineering wing of the MC has also been issued directions to stop the road re-carpeting due to the arrival of monsoon. Since the MC had received a special grant of around Rs 65 crore in the shape of deposits, only road re-carpeting was going on and all other works had stopped.Key liabilities Heads---------------------------------------------------Expenditure in 2020-2021 (in Rs crore)Salaries----------------------------------------210.36Wages-----------------------------------------209.76Pension---------------------------------------54.36Electricity------------------------------------104.28Water------------------------------------------24.44Petrol------------------------------------------13.56Telephone------------------------------------12.84MOH office expenditure-----------------15.12Head office expenditure------------------2.40Urgent maintenance work---------------30||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-cuts-grant-pushes-mc-in-deep-financial-imbroglio/articleshow/77007958.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Six-member gang arrested for murder||MADURAI: Madurai city police arrested six people on charges of murdering a man at Sellur here late on Wednesday. According to police, Elangovan alias Rajkiran, 28, is a resident of Sellur in Madurai. He and his father Mathialagan were working as masons. In 2018, a man named Praveenkumar was murdered over gang rivalry in the area. The people who were involved in the murder were friends of Elangovan. Due to this enmity, Praveenkumar’s aides had threatened Elangovan earlier. Mathialagan and Elangovan who had gone for work returned to their house on Wednesday evening as usual. Around 10pm, Praveenkumar’s brother Arunpandi, his friends Veerapandi, Balasubramani, Venkatesh, Malik and Muthupandi went to Elangovan’s house and murdered him, police said. Based on a complaint from Mathialagan, Sellur police registered a case and arrested six people. An investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/six-member-gang-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/77008753.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||16 test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali||TNNMohali: As many as 16 positive cases were reported in Mohali on Thursday.They include a 45-year-old woman of Sector 66; a 40-year-old woman of Jhanjeri; two women (aged 32 and 58), a 6-year-old girl, and a 62-year-old man of Shivalik City, Kharar; a 24-year-old woman of Mohali; a 29-year-old man of Phase 1; a 48-year-old man of Kharar; a 41-year-old man of Phase 4; a 43-year-old woman of Sector 125; a 68-year-old man of Gillco Towers; a 57-year-old man of Baltana; two men aged 19 and 47 of Lalru; and a 79-year-old man of Jharmari.Seven people recovered from the infection on the day, said DC Girish Dayalan. They include a 38-year-old man of Nayagaon; a 45-year-old man and a 14-year-old boy of Sector 114; a 22-year-old man of Kumbra; a 50-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man of Kurali and a 28-year-old woman of Mundi Kharar.The total occurrence of cases in the district in the past three-and-a-half months has been 472, while 294, which amounts to nearly 63%, have recuperated. The active cases are nearly 35% at 169. The district has encountered nine fatalities, taking the Covid-19 mortality rate to about 1.91%.Mohali bulletinTotal Cases – 472Recovered – 294Active – 169Deaths - 9||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/16-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali/articleshow/77007952.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Madurai||HC moots panels to review cases of history-sheeters||MADURAI: Observing that it is necessary to harmonize and iron out ambiguities in the police standing order (PSO) while exercising power to history-sheet, the Madras high court has issued a slew of directions to the police personnel, which includes a direction to the director general of police (DGP) to constitute a district-wise committee to review all cases of history-sheeters. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by some people seeking to remove their names from the history-sheeter list. Justice N Seshasayee observed that having spotted certain vagueness and internal inconsistencies in the choice of expressions which the PSO employ and the constant threat they pose to fundamental rights would ultimately lead to unnecessary and avoidable litigations before the court. Being adorned with the duty of being a constitutional sentinel, the court has to balance between the right of an individual to his fundamental rights as against the interests of the society in maintaining law and order through effective preventive policing. Citing that the court senses a duty to step in till legislative alternatives are found, the judge observed that police personnel may have to be provided with clear parameters for exercising their power to history-sheet. The judge said that in all the cases where a person has to be treated as an habitual offender, or one addicted to crime, or a known deprecator of law without a case pending and when the police propose to history-sheet him, he should have been either notified as a habitual offender under the Tamil Nadu Habitual Offenders Act or should have been one against whom an order has been made under Section 110 of CrPC. In all cases, a person can be history-sheeted only for two years as per PSO 748(1) and retaining a history-sheeter beyond that period is an exception and it must have an objective basis. The judge said that there cannot be any retention under PSO 748 (2), unless a fresh case is registered subsequent to the case which necessitated the opening of the history-sheet or a history-sheeter is notified as an habitual offender. “In cases which are registered in connection with a citizen participating in any peaceful protests, agitations or demonstrations or the like, history-sheet should not be opened unless an order is passed by the executive magistrate under sections 107 or 110 of CrPC,” the judge observed. The judge directed the DGP to constitute the committee to examine all cases of history-sheeting on the basis of the above parameters within one year. The judge further directed the DGP to take necessary steps to automate the process of history-sheeting to make the whole exercise self-driven. The judge further directed the DGP to submit a half-yearly progress/ compliance report with regard to the above directions. The judge directed to issue a circular to the police personnel in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-moots-panels-to-review-cases-of-history-sheeters/articleshow/77008749.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 17, 2020||Varanasi||Police confiscate property worth Rs 1 crore of Mukhtar Ansari’s aide||VARANASI: Jaunpur police confiscated more property worth Rs one crore of fish trade mafia Ravindra Kumar Nishad backed by mafia don-turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari on Thursday while Ghazipur officials suspended arms licences of Ansari’s four aides on Thursday. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “Mukhtar-backed fish trade mafia Ravindra Kumar Nishad’s properties worth Rs 3.71 crore had been seized by Jaunpur police on July 10. Police came to know about more immovable properties created by Nishad and seized one more house worth Rs 95 lakh and an SUV of Rs six lakhs in Jaunpur.” Earlier, on July 10, a two-floor residential building, a shopping complex, two goods carriers and a motorcycle of Nishad, who was booked under Gangster Act following his arrest, had been confiscated while his two bank accounts with deposits of Rs 5,82,082 and Rs 9,62,886 were also seized. Continuing the drive against the henchmen of Mukhtar, police had arrested his close associate and fish trade mafia Nishad and seized banned species of Thai Mangur and other fish worth Rs 12 lakhs. SP Jaunpur Ashok Kumar said a joint action team of police, food safety and drug administration and fishery department had conducted the raid and also arrested Nishad’s accomplice B Narain Rao of Andhra Pradesh. Ghazipur administration had suspended arms licences of Mukhtar’s close associates Durgesh Kumar Rai, Lajpat Rai, Sohrab Shah and Kayamuddin Khan, all from Mohammadabad. Mohammadabad police had detected irregularities in the arms licenses of these four during verification and submitted report to district magistrate who ordered suspension. The arms were deposited in Mohammadabad police station. Bhushan said, “So far, 47 arms licenses of Mukhtar’s close associates have been suspended in Ghazipur district alone.” Mukhtar’s henchmen, relatives and shooters are facing the heat as cops are targeting their illegal trade activities and arms since May- end. The government land in their illegal possession was freed in Ghazipur and their monopoly in fish trade was challenged. Many henchmen in Mau, Ghazipur and other districts of the region were booked under Gangster Act and sent behind bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/police-confiscate-property-worth-rs-1cr-of-ansaris-aide/articleshow/77007852.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Surat||Two more inquiries on woman LRD cop||SURAT: The city police commissioner on Thursday ordered two more inquiries against woman lok rakshak dal (LRD) constable, Sunita Yadav, who has shot to limelight since taking on state junior health minister Kishore alias Kumar Kanani’s son for defying curfew orders. Yadav, who has unleashed an outburst on social media, now faces inquiry for making people do sit-ups on the road and for not accepting the notice seeking explanation for remaining absent from duty since July 9. The feisty cop is already facing an inquiry into the entire July 8 run-in with Kanani’s son Prakash and his friends whom she had taken on for violating the curfew orders. The videos of the incident and her subsequent conversations with senior police officials had gone viral, making her an instant Twitter sensation. “I have ordered two inquiries against her, one in a case of forcing people to do sit-ups on the road and second for not accepting the notice sent for absenteeism from duty,” police commissioner RB Brahmbhatt told TOI. Yadav had allegedly made some people do sit-ups for violating social distancing in Matawadi locality of Varachha. Raju Godhani, a resident of Varachha, had also submitted an application earlier regarding her alleged high-handed behaviour. “After watching the video, I found that she is the same woman who harassed me and other people in Matawadi. I had complained about her and she was shifted to another location. But she continued with her abrasive behaviour,” Godhani alleged, while talking to TOI. Also, Yadav had reportedly refused to accept the notice sent by police headquarters seeking explanation for not reporting to duty since July 9. She went on leave after the run-in with Kanani on the grounds that she was unwell. On July 14, when a police team went to serve her a notice, Yadav refused to accept it claiming she doesn’t know Gujarati. All three inquiries are being conducted by JK Pandya, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), F-division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-inquiries-on-woman-lrd-cop/articleshow/77006936.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||HC: No desert, then why have camels in Telangana?||HYDERABAD: Seeking answers as to why as many as 71 camels are inhabiting in Telangana where there is no desert, the high court on Thursday questioned the state government, its transport and police authorities as to what are they doing at the highway checkposts when these desert animals are brought into the state in an unlawful manner. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy posed several questions to state’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar while hearing a PIL filed by Dr Shashikala Kopanati of Earth Quotient, an NGO, seeking directions to the illegal slaughtering of camels during ensuing Bakrid in particular and to discourage the illegal and inhuman transportation of camels from Rajasthan into Telangana in general. Responding to a query from the bench, Sanjeev said that the authorities had seized eight camels from those who were smuggling them into the state and sent them back to Rajasthan. “Those that were already brought in were being monitored and we will not allow them to be slaughtered,” he said. In some areas, some people are eking out a living by using these animals for taking children on joyrides, he said. “Rajasthan’s economy is dependent on camels but its numbers are dwindling due to illegal transportation. This is happening despite that state banning it,” the bench said. Brushing aside a suggestion that Muslims eat camel meat on Bakrid as part of their custom, the bench said there was no such custom in Islam. The bench posted the case to Friday for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-no-desert-then-why-have-camels-in-t/articleshow/77008752.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Your neighbour can report you for wasting drinking water||NEW DELHI: The next time you see someone wasting potable water, just click a photograph and send it to Delhi Jal Board (DJB) for taking penal action. Though Delhi is a water-deficient city with a 300 million gallons per day demand-supply gap, overflowing tanks and people washing vehicles and floors with piped water are a common sight across colonies. However, such reckless behaviour is now bound to cause a heavy burden on the violator’s pocket. Based on directions of National Green Tribunal (NGT), DJB on Wednesday issued orders for a crackdown on misuse of potable water. Inspection and challan teams would fine first-time violators Rs 2,000 and repeat offenders Rs 5,000 per day. A senior DJB official said that the engineering wing, revenue department and enforcement cell have been tasked with issuing challans for such violations. “The teams constituted at the zonal level comprise executive engineers, superintendent engineers, maintenance staff and enforcement cell. An intensive drive will be carried out soon. Zone-wise compliance reports will be submitted every Monday,” he added. The offences covered in the drive would include overflowing tanks, washing of vehicles, cleaning of porches, floors and houses, and wasteful use of piped water in gardens. Raghav Chadha, DJB vice-chairman, said, “People can inform us about such violations by taking photos and tagging us on the official Twitter handle @delhijalboard or by lodging a complaint on the helpline number 1916.” While the Delhi Water Policy lays clear emphasis on conservation and minimising inefficient use, the message doesn’t seem to have percolated to the city’s dwellers. Experts said low public consciousness about scarcity and economic value of water results in its wastage and inefficient use. Even enforcement by DJB has been somewhat lax. Between April 2019 and March 2020, no challans were issued for misuse of water. The intervention of NGT was required to bring about a change. “Ideally, people should mandatorily use overflow prevention valves or tank overflow alarms to stop water wastage. It is also their duty to fix leaks in pipes, taps and toilets. Water-efficient devices, faucets and aerators are also available in the market. We should avoid using drinking water wastefully in gardens and lawns. It is a penal offence to wash cars and floors with piped water,” the official said. He recommended that instead of throwing away the reject water from RO purifiers, it should be used in washing or cleaning floors. The huge demand-supply gap has also led to many people relying on illegal borewells, which further depletes the sub-soil reserves. So far, DJB has identified 20,351 illegal borewells of which 6,283 have been sealed. “We have limited water from Yamuna and underground aquifers. It is our collective duty to treat water as a limited resource of high value,” the official said. Watch Beware! Your neighbour can report you for wasting drinking water in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/your-neighbour-can-report-you-for-wasting-drinking-water/articleshow/77008751.cms||Paras Singh
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||NMC schools increase score to 88%, Science students lead the charts||NAGPUR: Despite facing hardships, students from schools run by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) delivered a commendable pass percentage of 88% collectively in all three streams in the HSC results announced by the Maharashtra state board on Thursday. Deputy mayor Manisha Kothe said, “We are extremely happy to see an increase in this year’s result of all three streams by 26%. It shows the students have really worked hard. This is the fruit of the dedication of our teachers and students.” A felicitation programme of all the toppers was organized at Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Hall at NMC headquarters. Students in the science stream had the highest pass percentage at 94.70 whereas for arts and commerce it was 88.06 and 73.77 respectively. A total of 263 students were studying in three streams, of whom 260 appeared for the examination and 229 passed. Mantashah Parveen of science stream from Azad Urdu Junior College stood first among all NMC schools students securing 73%. Hayat Kausar Samiujjma, a science student from Sane Guruji Urdu Junior College, stood second with 70.92% whereas science student Nagma Parveen Mohammad Afzal Hassan stood third with 67.69%. Anas Beg stood first in commerce stream securing 83.08% while Mohammad Abdul Rehman Mubin secured second with 76% and Arbiya Mohammad Mushtaq secured third position with 75% marks. All three students are from MAK Aazad Urdu Junior College. In the arts stream, Ashiya Farheen from MAK Azad Urdu Junior College stood first securing 71%. Bismani Mahesh Dhurve stood second with 69% and Ankita Channe stood third with 67%. Both are from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Junior College. Rohan Hiraman Meshram, a science student of the same college, stood first among disabled category from NMC schools by securing 60%. Ruling party leader Sandeep Jadhav, leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve, education comittee chairman Dilip Dive, sports committee chairman Pramod Chikhale, education Committee deputy chairman Pramod Tabhane and ruling party deputy leader Varsha Thackeray were present along with the teachers of NMC schools during felicitation programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-schools-increase-score-to-88-sci-students-lead-the-charts/articleshow/77008768.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||CJ’s bench will hear Pilot campplea on defection notices today||Jaipur: Sacked Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 Congress MLAs on Thursday filed a petition in the HC, challenging the constitutional validity of “some provisions” in legislature rules invoked by the Speaker to issue them disqualification notices on grounds of defying the party whip and staying away from CLP meets on consecutive days. Challenging Congress’s reliance on the (anti-defection) law, it argues it could have dangerous consequences such as an elected representative being deprived of membership at the “whims and fancies of the party leader”. Two versions of the petition were heard during the day, first at 3pm and again at 5pm, before the single-judge bench of Justice Satish Kumar Sharma acceded to a plea to list the matter before a division bench. Pilot’s lawyers — Harish Salve, Mukul Rohatgi and Devadutt Kamat — had sought time to amend the petition during the first hearing, saying the petitioners wanted to incorporate elements challenging the constitutional validity of portions of the Rajasthan Assembly Member (Disqualification on the grounds of changing party) Rules, 1989. The plea was accepted despite opposition from Congress counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi and advocate general MS Singhvi, representing the Speaker. “The original petition had only challenged the notices issued by Speaker CP Joshi on the basis of a complaint filed by Congress against Pilot and his loyalists, accusing them of conspiring with BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot government,” said Prateek Kasliwal, one of the lawyers representing the Speaker. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta will take up the amended joint petition on Friday. According to the petition, which lists Pilot as petitioner No. 7, all 19 MLAs who have been served notices by the Speaker are still with Congress and none of them has given up assembly membership. The petition mentions that Pilot had already issued multiple statements saying he had no intention of leaving Congress. The MLAs’ petition argues that the Speaker should have given them at least a week’s time to respond to the allegations against them instead of just two days (till 3pm on July 17). “Grave mischief is sought to be achieved by the prejudicial manner in which the CLP is seeking to impose sanctions upon the MLAs on sheer presumptuous basis, as the complaint (by Congress chief whip) is dated July 14 and the showcause notice is issued (by the speaker) on the same day,” the petition states. The MLAs accused Gehlot of trying to threaten them through an inquiry by the Special Operations Group (SOG) so that they wouldn’t raise their voices against “the inefficiency of leadership within the party”. On being taken to task for not attending CLP meetings, the Pilot camp has said that skipping party conclaves cannot be considered tantamount to inviting disqualification on grounds of defection. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi reached the court with an impleadment application, saying he should be made party to the case as the Speaker had issued notices based on his petition filed under para 2(1)A of Schedule X of the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cjs-bench-will-hear-pilot-campplea-on-defection-notices-today/articleshow/77008759.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 17, 2020||India||Law to protect consumers kicks in from next week||NEW DELHI: From Monday, consumers can file complaints at district or state consumer commissions linked to the place where he stays or works rather than from where he bought any product or service. The government has notified most provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, which will come into force from Monday. The provisions include consumers’ right to file cases against manufacturers, sellers or distributors of adulterated and spurious products in regular courts while they can file complaints in consumer commissions to seek compensation. The Act has set the quantum of punishment that a normal court can award, which is up to six months jail and fine of up to Rs 1 lakh even if such products do not result in any injury to the consumer. The punishment can be seven years jail and Rs 5 lakh fine in case there is grievous injury to the consumer. If it results in death, the offender can face at least seven years in jail, which may extend to life imprisonment, and with fine not less than Rs 10 lakh. Consumer affairs secretary Leena Nandan told TOI that the provision with regard to functioning of Central Consumer Protection Authority and e-commerce will be notified in the next one or two weeks. While the consumer commissions at district, state and national level can entertain complaints from one individual or a group, the CCPA will have the power to take up cases for investigation suo motu and also forward cases for class action suit to the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission where a large number of consumer are adversely impacted. The CCPA will also have power to deal with misleading advertisements, including by celebrity endorsers. It will also have authority to order recall of faulty products, seize such items and even order refund to consumers. “The enforcement of the Act will be expedited by notifying the remaining provisions and rules,” the consumer affairs secretary said. Sources said the CCPA will work in close coordination with the National Consumer Helpline Number, an agency engaged by the ministry to receive and resolve consumer complaints. “The consumer helpline, which receives about 50,000 complaints every month, will share the analysis such as frequent complaints against particular firm or against a product, delay in refund consumers. The CCPA can then take action. Largely, the CCPA will deal with grievances of a class of consumer. Individual complaints can be filed in consumer commissions,” said a source. Though the government has notified the provision for electronic filing of complaints in the consumer commissions, the exact date to implement this will be notified by the president of (NCDRC). The law has also introduced setting up of mediation cells in every commission for mutual settlement of complaints. However, these won’t entertain matters relating to proceedings in respect of medical negligence resulting in grievous injury or death and matters which relate to defaults or offences for which applications for compounding of offences have been made by one or more parties. Cases involving serious and specific allegations of fraud, fabrication of documents, forgery, impersonation, coercion won’t be taken up by these cells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/law-to-protect-consumers-kicks-in-from-next-week/articleshow/77009669.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||Dalit suicide bid in MP: 6 cops taken off duty after Jyotiraditya Scindia seeks action||BHOPAL: Six policemen, including two women constables, were taken off active duty on Thursday, a day after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ordered removal of the Guna collector and SP following the suicide bid by a Dalit couple over alleged police excesses during an eviction. BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who was four-term Lok Sabha MP from Guna, took serious note of it and tweeted: “The incident in Guna is very unfortunate. I spoke to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and requested to take strict action against the insensible officers. The chief minister has ordered removal of the officials responsible with immediate effect.” “The Guna SP and collector have been removed, and an inquiry ordered into the incident. I am confident that action will be taken against all those who are responsible for this heinous act,” he added. Scindia also spoke to the Dalit family over phone and assured all help. “All the policemen involved will be punished,” he told them. Action has been taken against SI Ashok Singh Kushwah and constables Neetu Yadav, Rani Raghuvanshi, Rajendra Sharma, Pawan Yadav and Narendra Rawat. They have been asked to not to leave headquarters without permission. The order issued by SP Tarun Nayak reads that their actions have led to an “unprecedented situation” and role of these policemen has been found “suspicious” in the drive. Some of the suspended police personnel told media that they had to use mild force after a woman constable was manhandled during the operation. Another video has surfaced in which a villager can be seen attacking a policewoman. The administration has initiated the process of externing Gabbu Pardhi. who is said to have encroached the government land allotted for a model college. He is already facing multiple criminal cases, say sources. Videos being shared widely on social media show Dalit couple Ramkumar Ahirwar and Savitri resisting police as they are being dragged into an ambulance, and children crying next to a woman who had fallen down after allegedly consuming pesticide. The couple is said to be out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dalit-suicide-bid-6-cops-taken-off-duty-after-scindia-seeks-action/articleshow/77007967.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Chaos at Jaisalmer hosp over Covid screening||Jaisalmer: After Jaisalmer Municipal Council (JMC) chairman Harivallabh Kalla’s wife and deputy CMHO tested positive for Covid-19, a large number of people on Thursday reached Jawahar Hospital for check-up. Due to chaos in the hospital, CMHO Dr B K Barupal and other officers reached the place and controlled the situation by calling security personnel. The administration swung into action after two locals tested positive. The health department was taking samples of chairman and his family members. Samples of officials of CMHO office and other contacts have been taken. The office of municipal council has been closed for two days and the entire office is being sanitized.Barupal said that a large number of people turned up at Jawahar Hospital on Thursday. “Adjoining districts like Bikaner, Jodhpur, Barmer have become hotspots and people travel to these places. So, all people have to be cautious. If people remain careless, then cases of corona infection could increase.” He said that the wife of Kalla was tested positive on Wednesday and she had come from Bikaner around 20-25 days ago. Deputy CMHO was on leave for 10-12 days as he was having symptoms of cold, cough and fever and was in home quarantine, he said.District collector Ashish Modi said that after two cases information related to travel history and others is being collected and samples of people who had come in their contact are being taken. The district administration has increased vigilance especially action is being taken against those who are not wearing masks, violating social distancing and other prescribed guidelines. People are being made aware and being directed to remain alert. Check-posts have been made to keep a tab on people coming from other places where after finding their travel history, sample is taken if required, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chaos-at-jaisalmer-hosp-over-covid-screening/articleshow/77008771.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kanpur||‘I don’t sit with anybody, get up to get clicked’||KANPUR: In yet another video that went viral on Wednesday night, slain gangster Vikas Dubey now could be heard speaking to a bride, “Main kisi ke saath baithta nahi, khadi ho kar photo khichwao (I don’t sit with anyone, get photo clicked in while standing).” According to sources, the undated video is said to be shot during wedding of Vikas Dubey close aide Amar Dubey’s marriage, but the police have denied and stated that the video is not of Amar’s marriage, as the bride in the video seems to be happy, wherein in case of Amar, Vikas got his marriage solemnised by applying pressure tactics as the girl’s parents had refused to marry their daughter with Amar after coming to know about his criminal background. Earlier, a video of the gangster dancing in a marriage function of his aide Aamr Dubey had gone viral. The video shows that the gangster is dancing with his henchmen on a popular Bollywood song “Apni Toh Jaise Taise, Thodi Aise Ya Waise Kat Jaayegi, Aapka Kya Hoga Janaab-E-Ali, Aapka Kya Hoga”. The wedding of Amar Dubey took place on June 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/i-dont-sit-with-anybody-get-up-to-get-clicked/articleshow/77008881.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Custodial deaths: Five accused cops in jail after CBI custody||MADURAI: CBI officials produced five suspended policemen, who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam, before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court on Thursday evening. CJM T V Hemanandakumar remanded inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj in judicial custody for 15 days. They were lodged in the Madurai Central Prison. Before being produced before the court, they were subjected to medical examination in Government Rajaji Hospital. The CBI on Monday filed an application before the CJM court seeking five days custody of the five accused personnel. After they were produced before the court on Tuesday, the court granted CBI the custody and directed it to produce them before the court at 5.30pm on July 16. The CBI officials who took custody of the five policemen conducted investigation by taking them to Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. Special sub-inspector Paldurai, who was arrested in connection with this case filed his bail application before the Tuticorin principal district and sessions court. His bail plea was adjourned to July 17. Meanwhile, the state human rights commission (SHRC) continued its inquiry for the third day on Thursday in connection with the custodial deaths case. Retired deputy superintendent of police Kumar conducted an inquiry with the Kovilpatti sub-jail staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-deaths-five-accused-cops-in-jail-after-cbi-custody/articleshow/77008760.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Alleged honeytrapper appears before cops, claims he leaked clip himself||NAGPUR: The audio-clip issue took a twist as Ashish Rathod, alias Maddy, a murder convict on parole, on Thursday landed at the crime branch admitting his involvement in the ‘honeytrapping’ audio clip to implicate two senior politicians. He also claimed to have leaked the clip to police through his network to serve a ‘social cause’. Crime branch, now probing the case, are now contemplating whether to convert the complaint filed by BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari into either a FIR or Non-Cognizable Offence. The complaint was filed before the Tehsil police station where Tiwari also recorded his statement. City police chief BK Upadhyay had transferred Tiwari’s complaint to crime branch to probe his allegations against the alleged persons conspiring to honeytrap him and another person in order to shield a senior health official who is also close to a top civic body officer. “We are now exploring various legal possibilities regarding the clip,” said CP. Tiwari said his entire family, including 99-year-old mother, along with followers were left stunned after the audio-clip leak indicating there was a conspiracy being hatched to trap him for raising voice against malpractices in the civic body. “Police must bring the offenders to book,” he said. DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane said the audio-clip had been already substantiated by one of the persons (Rathod) in the conversation. “We will also send the clip for a formal forensic verification,” he said. “We have already collected the voice sample of Rathod which too would be sent,” he said. It is learnt Rathod has stated Sahil Sayyed, also named in two offences, wanted to close down the hospital which would mean inconvenience to many and workers losing their employment which motivated him to share the clip with police to alert everyone regarding the honeytrap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alleged-honeytrapper-appears-before-cops-claims-he-leaked-clip-himself/articleshow/77008747.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 17, 2020||Surat||Mamlatdar held taking Rs 25,000 bribe||SURAT: Anti corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested a mamlatdar cum executive magistrate of Mangrol taluka of Surat district accepting Rs 25,000 bribe on Thursday. Accused, Mangu Vasava, a resident of Ankleshwar, had demanded money to measure land of the complainant’s friend for government records. He was caught taking bribe in his office in Mangrol village. The accused had demanded Rs 1 lakh for measurement of agricultural land. After negotiations, Vasava agreed on Rs 75,000. ACB official said that Vasava had demanded Rs 25,000 at time of submitting the application. As the complainant did not wish to pay, he had approached ACB. The anti-graft agency collected evidences and later laid a trap for Vasava. ACB will also conduct search at Vasava’s residence to collect details of his wealth and properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mamlatdar-held-taking-rs-25000-bribe/articleshow/77006962.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||45 new cases, Ambala touches 736-mark||Ambala: With 45 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, the district’s tally has reached 736. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The tally has reached 736, of which 439 were discharged, six died and 291 are active cases. The recovery rate is 59.64%. Out of the 45 new cases, 22 are from Ambala City, 12 from Ambala Cantonment, six from Chourmastpur, three from Boh village, one each from Mullana and Naraingarh.”He said as the chain of positive cases from the Old Cloth Market in Ambala City was yet to be broken, it has been decided to take RT-PCR samples again from there. “In future, antigen testing will be conducted in containment zones of the district. So far, 24,636 samples have been sent for testing, of which results of about 1,100 are awaited.”District’s positive cases jumped from 426 on July 9 to 736 on July 16, which is a surge of 310 cases in a week. As per data of the health department, Ambala district had crossed 100 positive cases on June 6.  Samples of Vij, kin, staff negative“The samples of Haryana home minister Anil Vij, his family, and staff tested negative. The tests were conducted as a precautionary measure,” said the civil surgeon.Warning against false info “It has come to light that some vernacular social media channels have been spreading false information regarding Covid-19 cases in Ambala. Therefore, a warning has been issued to print, social and electronic media to be cautious before publishing any information on the internet or in the public domain,” said Dr Kuldeep Singh. —Covid-19 patient with comorbidity dies in AmbalaJaskaran Singh | TNNAmbala: A 57-year-old native of Bihar, who was living in Baldev Nagar of Ambala City, died of coronavirus infection on Thursday, taking the death toll from Covid-19 in the district to seven, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.Giving details about the deceased, Dr Kuldeep said, “He had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and infection in his lungs. He had been a patient of the lung disease for past many years.”According to him, the deceased had arrived in Ambala from Bihar on July 3 and had fever ever since. He got himself admitted to the civil hospital, Ambala on Tuesday and his was sample sent for testing the same day. The test result showed him positive for the virus on Thursday.He was taking treatment from a private hospital and when his health condition deteriorated, he had come to the civil hospital. His second sample was taken for testing on Thursday, but he passed away in the evening, the civil surgeon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/45-new-cases-ambala-touches-736-mark/articleshow/77007968.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: 1 injured, 1 in ICU after car rams into 5 people in Pratap Vihar||GHAZIABAD: One person was killed and another was critically injured by a speeding car on a busy road in Pratap Vihar on Thursday afternoon. Three others escaped with minor injuries. Ayush Aggarwal, an eyewitness, told TOI, "The driver, a young man, appeared to be inebriated. Passers-by dragged him out of the car and beat him up. Locals also vandalised the car.” The injured were taken to a private hospital nearby, he added. Some bystanders suggested that there was some argument between the occupants of the car and locals over rash driving, which led to the incident. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Surendra (48), a resident of Pratap Vihar while Shankar Joshi (42), a resident of Vijay Nagar who was injured in the accident, is in the ICU. Rajeev Kumar Singh, SHO of Vijay Nagar police station, said the accused has been arrested and identified as Chandan, a BA student, and his father, who was a head constable with UP police. "On the basis of complaint, an FIR has been registered against the driver under section of 304A (Causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of IPC," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/1-injured-1-in-icu-after-car-rams-into-5-people-in-pratap-vihar/articleshow/77008766.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Former INA soldier passes away||MADURAI: Eighty-five year old Gandhimathi ‘Boy’ Ramasamy, who was a child soldier in the Indian National Army, passed away in her village Melapannaikulam near Kamuthi in Ramanathapuram on Wednesday. She was 12-years-old, when she was inducted into the Rani of Jhansi Regiment by Nethaji Subbash Chandra Bose. Her father had strongly opposed her induction into the INA, but she was determined. In an interview earlier, Gandhimathi had recalled how Nethaji had called her ‘Gandhimathi boy’ because of her spiritedness. She had donned the attire of ‘Lord Muruga’ and went to the streets to collect funds for the INA. She was trained in handling rifles. Many people conveyed condolences at the death of the late soldier. Chairman of the National Commission for De-notified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Tribe Bhiku Ramji Idate has condoled her death. He said she had made everybody in her community and region proud. She had worked under Captain Dr Lakshmi and had moved to her native place with her husband Ramasamy after the freedom struggle. Her funeral was held on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/former-ina-soldier-passes-away/articleshow/77008764.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Vadodara||Fraud duping with exchanges held||VADODARA: The prevention of crime branch (PCB) has nabbed a notorious criminal who had been duping people by offering them to sell US dollars at low exchange rates. Vishal Baarad, a resident of Akota, who has 12 similar offences registered against him in different parts of the state, was nabbed by the PCB sleuths near Bhayli on the basis of a tip-off. According to the police, Baarad had duped two Rajasthan traders some time ago promising them US dollars at a low exchange rate. He called them to the city and when the duo paid him Rs 2 lakh, Barad gave them a slip and fled with the money following which an offence was registered against him. “We are now investigating if he actually carried any foreign currency and whether he has any accomplices,” said PCB sleuths. Investigators said that Baarad used to contact businessmen and lure them by offering US dollars at a very less rate than the market rate. After convincing them, he used to call them with cash and disappear by diverting their attention. Police have also seized Rs 32,000 in cash, a car and one mobile phone from him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fraud-duping-with-exchanges-held/articleshow/77006133.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Indore||Dalit suicide bid in MP: 6 cops taken off duty after Jyotiraditya Scindia seeks action||BHOPAL: Six policemen, including two women constables, were taken off active duty on Thursday, a day after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ordered removal of the Guna collector and SP following the suicide bid by a Dalit couple over alleged police excesses during an eviction. BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who was four-term Lok Sabha MP from Guna, took serious note of it and tweeted: “The incident in Guna is very unfortunate. I spoke to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and requested to take strict action against the insensible officers. The chief minister has ordered removal of the officials responsible with immediate effect.” “The Guna SP and collector have been removed, and an inquiry ordered into the incident. I am confident that action will be taken against all those who are responsible for this heinous act,” he added. Scindia also spoke to the Dalit family over phone and assured all help. “All the policemen involved will be punished,” he told them. Action has been taken against SI Ashok Singh Kushwah and constables Neetu Yadav, Rani Raghuvanshi, Rajendra Sharma, Pawan Yadav and Narendra Rawat. They have been asked to not to leave headquarters without permission. The order issued by SP Tarun Nayak reads that their actions have led to an “unprecedented situation” and role of these policemen has been found “suspicious” in the drive. Some of the suspended police personnel told media that they had to use mild force after a woman constable was manhandled during the operation. Another video has surfaced in which a villager can be seen attacking a policewoman. The administration has initiated the process of externing Gabbu Pardhi. who is said to have encroached the government land allotted for a model college. He is already facing multiple criminal cases, say sources. Videos being shared widely on social media show Dalit couple Ramkumar Ahirwar and Savitri resisting police as they are being dragged into an ambulance, and children crying next to a woman who had fallen down after allegedly consuming pesticide. The couple is said to be out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/dalit-suicide-bid-6-cops-taken-off-duty-after-scindia-seeks-action/articleshow/77011070.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Rajkot||Health screenings begin at Amreli’s entry points||Rajkot: Health screenings begin rigorously at the entrance to Amreli district on Thursday. Thousands of passengers who had mostly come in from Surat and Ahmedabad were screened inside the luxury and state transport buses for Covid-19 at the Chavand checkpost. The screening has been done as part of the notification issued by Amreli district magistrate on Wednesday. “Surat has become a corona hotspot. As the city has also been hit by the recession, there is scarcity of jobs. I thought it best to return to my native and start life anew,” said Ajit Patel, who returned from Surat to Amreli. The decision to screen passengers at the district’s entry point was taken after it was found that most of the Covid-19 positive cases in the district had been from people travelling from Mumbai, Surat and Ahmedabad. Amreli district has so far recorded 203 Covid positive cases and 15 deaths from the virus, while 94 positive patients are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/health-screenings-begin-at-amrelis-entry-points/articleshow/77006979.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Skewed development on forest land drives leopards into Jaipur parks||JAIPUR: The encroachment of forest land for urban expansion and development is showing its adverse effect now, as many leopards have started taking refuge in city parks, which were once their home. Experts believe, the development authorities in the past have spent crores to provide various facilities to residents, without considering that it was disturbing the natural habitat of wild animals. TimesViewJaipur's growth as a city, encroachments and development projects have severely reduced the habitat of leopards in the Jhalana Forest Reserve over the last decade. Public parks designed by development authorities on forest land too have compounded the issue. With increasing number of leopards and the consequent demand for more space, authorities have to find solutions to ensure a habitat for these wild animals. A cell consisting of forest officials and related departments of civic bodies can make better plans for the use of forest land that is both sensitive to the needs of wildlife as well as of tourists.As the leopard population at Jhalana Forest Reserve is steadily increasing, the leopards are straying out in search of new territories. However, over time, it has been encroached by private developers and civic bodies. Environment conservationist Joy Gardner said, “Jhalana reserve forest has no buffer area. A male leopard requires at least 5-sqkm area. At present, there are 10–12 total leopards in Galta Valley close to Silvian Park. Since the land was home for wildlife, the forest and development authorities should earmark it for leopards and only open the park for public.” Others believe, the situation arose due to lack of coordination between the two departments. “The forest department should have explained to JDA the reasons why these areas should not be developed. Also, the nature of work which was undertaken, along with the construction, is a non-forestry activity. Moreover, mandatory approvals under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 were not obtained,” said a forest source. In the last two months, several incidents have been witnessed in Jaipur where leopards have entered human settlements putting forest officials in a spot. Officials claimed that increasing population of leopards has resulted in shortage of space at the Jhalana forest area in Jaipur. This has forced the big cats to venture out of the forest and stray into human settlements to look for new territories. As per the Waterhole Census, there has been an increase in leopards in the Jhalana forest area. At present, there are 28 leopards excluding cubs, despite at least five dying due to various reasons in a year. A forest official said, “There are five to seven sub-adults at the park. Leopards venturing out are sub-adults. The area of Jhalana is 23 square metre and the big cat population is higher than its carrying capacity. The problem will increase, if proper planning is not chalked out.” “In many regions of Jhalana and Galta, human activities such as illegal construction and mining are still rampant. The forest department and JDA have turned a blind eye to both the issues,” said a regular visitor of Jhalana park, who wished not to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/skewed-devpt-on-forest-land-drives-leopards-into-city-parks/articleshow/77008778.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Delhi||Put approvals for Covid tests on fast track, says Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Reminding all stakeholders that the public must not be made to run from one hospital to another for different Covid-19 tests when the number of infections has already exceeded 1.16 lakh in the capital, Delhi high court on Thursday directed Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and healthcare accreditation body National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) to fast-track the process of granting approvals to private labs and hospitals to conduct rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests. “Hospitals and labs cannot wait for one month. After all the public is also waiting and it doesn’t help if they have to run from pillar to post. Shorten the timeline for accreditation, make sure NADL doesn’t drag its feet,” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad remarked, while hearing a plea on ramping up testing facilities in the city. “Considering the fact that as on July 15, there are a total of 1,16,993 Covid cases in Delhi, of which 17,807 are active, in our opinion the window of one month given by ICMR for applicants to complete the procedural formalities is too long,” the bench noted, while saying that NABL must “hasten the inspection” so that applicants can complete the formalities required by ICMR at the earliest. The high court’s direction came after ICMR said it has been granting approvals to private hospitals and labs to conduct the rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, where it gives them one month’s time to apply for the same after getting accreditation by NABL. During the hearing, the court also granted time till July 27 to National Centre of Disease Control (NCDC) to place before it its preliminary report of the “sero survey” carried out in the capital to assess prevalence of Covid-19 infection at the community level. It had earlier sought to know from these agencies how many labs and private hospitals in the capital had been allowed to conduct rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, as well as the status of the sero survey carried out in the city. TOI had reported that in an affidavit before the high court, while seeking a minimum of one week to make its findings public, NCDC had said the study was done “to assess the prevalence of infection at the community level and is primarily used for evidence-based public health response.” Claiming that the exercise had to be done methodically and was a “time consuming” process, NCDC argued that imposing timelines for declaration of result for these studies “will lead to a compromise in the quality of the analysis and can have a detrimental impact on the evidence-based results.” During the hearing conducted via videoconferencing, the high court was informed by Delhi government counsel, Satyakam, that from June 18 to July 15, a total of 2,81,555 rapid antigen detection tests had been carried out, of which 19,480 had tested positive for Covid-19. Of the remaining 2,62,075 who tested negative, there were 1,365 who were still showing symptoms and were subjected to RT-PCR tests, where 243 were found to be Covid positive. The bench then sought to know why there was such a variation in the figures of testing done through RT-PCR and RAT method. Satyakam explained that as per ICMR norms, once a person was tested through RAT mode and was found to be positive, he/she was taken to be a Covid patient and no further follow up test through RT-PCR was required to be conducted. It was only in cases where a patient was found symptomatic but his results were negative in the RAT test, were they required to undergo the RT-PCR gold standard test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/put-approvals-for-covid-tests-on-fast-track-says-hc/articleshow/77008808.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||GMCH nurse among 16 infected in city||Chandigarh: Sixteen new cases of coronavirus were reported in the city on Thursday. These included a staff nurse from GMCH-32. The count has now reached 635, while active cases are 148. Besides, 17 patients were discharged. Among those who tested positive are a 26-year-old woman, who is the community contact of a positive case from Sector 45. She has two family contacts and both have been tested. Five family members of a positive case from Manimajra have contracted the virus and two family contacts have tested negative. From Sector 48, two family members of a positive case tested positive; one of the kin was negative.A 42-year-old man from Sector 52, a woman and a three-year-old child from Sector 31, a 64-year-old man from Sector 27 and a 24-year-old woman from Sector 46 have also tested positive. The staff nurse, who tested positive, has three family members who were asymptomatic. A two-year-old Dhanas boy, a family member of a positive case, also caught the virus. As of now, 476 patients have been cured in Chandigarh and 11 deaths reported. Result of 47 samples is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gmch-nurse-among-16-infected-in-city/articleshow/77007978.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Despite financial crisis, lad of Bharatpur farmer shines||JAIPUR: Yash Kumar, son of a farmer from Bharatpur, scored 96.80% in CBSE Class X examination. Delighted with the results, the 14-year-old student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Bharatpur, gave credit of his success to his family. “My parents are farmers in a village in Uttar Pradesh and I have been living with my grandparents in Bharatput since my childhood. There are no good schools where my parents reside. So, they sent me here. My family’s sacrifice motivated me to work hard,” said Yash with pride. He said that completing homework every day and continuous revision gave me an edge in examination. “I followed my teachers in school and completed my syllabus before my pre-boards. After that, I solved five previous year’s question papers to understand the examination pattern. I was scared of science, so I made extra efforts to become better in the subject,” said Yash. His total out of five subjects was 484 marks where he scored 100 in mathematics, 95 in science and social science, 98 in Hindi and 96 in English. Yash’ grandfather, Ramkishan, is a retired government employee who helps out his parents financially. Ramkishan explained, “He has always been a bright student. I support any other help needed for my grandchild. Yash, wants to pursue engineering and I am confident he will get through it.” Yash’s family couldn’t afford expensive coaching fee in Kota. Therefore, they have decided to keep him in Bharatpur. “I may become first engineer in my village in UP. I know money is an issue, but you don’t have to study in air conditioned classroom to get success. I am sure I will get into IIT after Class XII,” said Yash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/despite-financial-crisis-lad-of-bharatpur-farmer-shines/articleshow/77008780.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||‘Hold sudden inspections for Covid compliance’||Jaipur: In view of recent spike in Covid cases due to unregulated movement of people across state borders and non-compliance of social distancing norms, the home department on Thursday directed the district magistrates (and others authorized by DM) to carry out sudden inspections to ensure that guidelines/directions were followed in “true letter and spirit.” The order, issued by ACS (home) Rohit Kumar Singh stated, “During a high-level review meeting of the emerging situation in respect of the spread of the virus, it was noted that the recent spike in cases in many districts is largely attributable to non-compliance of various orders issued by the government from time to time…”“…Unregulated movement of persons across inter-state borders, non-compliance of provisions pertaining to social distancing and wearing of masks in public and work places,” the order stated.The department instructed all persons in-charge of work places/ofﬁces to ensure that employees wear masks compulsorily and maintain adequate social distance at work places, at all public places and transport. Non-observance of this shall be punishable with ﬁne, the department added.“Shops owners shall ensure social distancing among employees, customers and all others. They shall also ensure that no crowding takes place, under any circumstances, on their premises,” it stated.“Frequent sanitization of entire work place, common facilities and of all the points which frequently come into human contact - like door knobs, handles, railings etc. - shall be ensured at all times. It is advisable to wash hands with soap and water and if soap and water are not readily available, use sanitizer, after touching any surface that is prone to frequent public contacts.”The order stated the district magistrate and other authorised ofﬁcers shall ensure enforcement of common safety prescriptions/directions issued from time to time through ﬁnes and penal actions as prescribed in The Disaster Management Act, 2005 and The Rajasthan Epidemic Disease Ordinance, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hold-sudden-inspections-for-covid-compliance/articleshow/77008782.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||MP: With 135 fresh Covid cases, Bhopal tally reaches new peak||BHOPAL: The Covid-19 infection in Bhopal peaked to a new high with a record 135 people were diagnosed with the infection. More worrisomely, the new cases are not limited to certain areas, but are from a diverse geographical spread. “The spike in Covid-19 infection is attributed to lack of discipline in maintaining social distancing,” said a senior district administration official. Earlier this week, Bhopal for the first time had reported more than 100 cases in a day. The total number of infection since the pandemic began has now touched 3958 cases, with a total of 127 deaths due to Covid-19. Two areas of the state capital are under a week-long lockdown. In Misrod-Kolar area, 28 people were diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. The area was almost immune to infection spread during the lockdown. Habibganj area which has a significant migratory population reported nine cases. Bagsewania and adjoining areas reported eight new cases of the infection. A huge number of people around 2,000 per day are getting themselves screened in fever clinics. Meanwhile, Gandhi Medical College (GMC) staffers and medicos are once again faced with a community outbreak of Covid-19. Another person on campus, a female doctor tested positive for the infection. It is the seventh infection in as many days. The Covid-19 warriors in the GMC campus provide medical treatment to the more critical of patients. Infection cases from Chuna Bhatti, Nehru Nagar, Kotra Sultanabad, Ashoka Garden, Ibrahimganj and Berasia were reported on Thursday too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-135-fresh-cases-bhopal-tally-reaches-new-peak/articleshow/77007983.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||19 catch the virus in Pkl||Panchkula: As many as 19 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Thursday. With this, the district count has increased to 198, including 78 active cases.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said three men (aged 50, 26, 62) of Shiv Colony; a 40-year-old man of Tagra Hari Singh Kalka, Panchkula; a 46-year-old man of Kiratpur, Kalka; a 26-year-old man of Abheypur; a 36-year-old man of Sector 16; a 16-year-old resident of Sector 7; a 52-year-old man of Vishwakarma Colony, Pinjore; and a 50-year-old man of Sector 15, here, have tested positive.Four men (aged 54, 28, two of them 42) of CRPF, Pinjore, and five residents of Sector 25 have also contracted the virus. The CRPF jawans were admitted to the ITBP hospital isolation ward in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-catch-the-virus-in-pkl/articleshow/77007981.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas Dubey aide Guddan denies being in Bikru on ambush night||KANPUR: Guddan Trivedi, who was arrested along with his driver Sushil Kumar Tiwari from Thane in Maharashtra, allegedly revealed before investigators that he had aided Vikas Dubey after the Bikru ambush on July 2 & 3 night. However, he denied his presence at the gangster’s village or house during the police raid. “During questioning, he has made revelations wherein he was found to be involved in aiding gangster Vikas after ambush on July 2 & 3 night. He, however, had denied his presence at Bikru village. We are in the process of accessing call detail report of Guddan Trivedi and his driver Sushil Kumar Tiwari alias Sonu to cross-check and match their location on the fateful night, when the gangster and his aides killed eight policemen after opening indiscriminate firing on them,” said Inspector Nazirabad Gyan Singh. They were produced before court and sent to jail on Wednesday. To recall, the district police had initially denied that encountered gangster Vikas aide Guddan is a wanted accused, but soon after his arrest from Thane area of Maharashtra, the police had made a U-turn and informed Thane court that he is a wanted accused in the Chaubeypur encounter case in which eight policemen were shot dead by Vikas and his accomplices. Inspector Gyan Singh had thereafter stated that a case had been registered against Vikas, 21 named accused and 60 to 70 unnamed accused on July 3 at the Chaubeypur police station. He had then added that Guddan, who was arrested from Thane Maharashtra, is wanted in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-aide-guddan-denies-being-in-bikru-on-ambush-night/articleshow/77008815.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Wedding sans rituals, guests get tea, biscuits||UDAIPUR: When one talks of Indian weddings, elaborate revelries like mehendi, haldi, sangeet and a lavish buffet come immediately to mind. However, in Pratapgarh, a couple decided to get married sans rituals and follow austerity in the celebrations. The groom was dressed in a casual pant-shirt, while the bride didn’t have any jewellery on her and neither were her palms adorned by mehendi. Some 25 guests including relatives and close family members from both the sides sat on the ground while ‘KabirVani’ was played and within 17 minutes, the wedding was solemnised. The couple wanted to break away from these rituals to create awareness among people against superstition. Rekha, the bride, daughter of Kamalchandra from Chatarpura village in Arnod tehsil of Pratapgarh, married Perulal, son of Ramchandra from Amaliyapada Beed of Ratlam district in Madhya Pradesh. There was no reception and the guests were served tea and biscuits only. No pheras or varmala rituals were performed. “The disciples of Kabirpanthi Sant Rampalji Maharaj and members of the Labana Samaj are doing away with the rituals and social evils related to weddings such as dowry, squandering money lavishly on gifts and receptions etc,” spokesman Sohan Panwar said. Such simple weddings are known as ‘Ramaini’ among them, where not even invitation cards are printed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/wedding-sans-rituals-guests-get-tea-biscuits/articleshow/77008779.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Allahabad||Police team attacked in Pratapgarh, 1 1 held||Prayagraj: Close on the heels of Bikru ambush in which eight cops were killed, a police team was attacked when it went to Bhavdaspur village under Sangramgarh police station in Pratapgarh district late on Wednesday evening on getting information about a clash between two groups. Three policemen were injured in the attack. Police registered a case, conducted raids and arrested 11 accused. Police said two groups belonging to Dhadwal and Bhavdaspur villages have been at loggerheads and clashed on Wednesday evening. When policemen posted at Lakhpeda police outpost came to know about the clash, they went to settle the dispute between two groups. Before the team could resolve the issue, a group assaulted them. Constables Akhilesh Kumar, Manish Kumar and Ravi Yadav were injured and rushed to Sangramgarh community health centre where their condition was stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-team-attacked-in-pratapgarh-1-1-held/articleshow/77009066.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Suspended cop back due to ‘staff crunch’||MUMBAI: Suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, facing trial in the case of custodial death of 2002 blast accused Khwaja Yunus, was reinstated due to “overwhelming scenario’’ because of Covid and needing more policemen on duty. Joint commissioner (administration) Nawal Bajaj, in an affidavit, said Vaze was suspended (2004-20) and “during pendency of criminal case, it was decided not to initiate departmental enquiry’’. At the quarterly meeting to review suspended policemen on June 5, the review committee headed by police commissioner considered cases of officers including Vaze and three other constables. The CP considered the “large-scale infection’’ of Covid among policemen as a vital issue. In October 2011, the state decided to have the committee take a decision on suspension if the case is pending for two years after filing a chargesheet. Asiya Begum (72), mother of Yunus, filed a contempt petition against Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh in HC. The matter will come up for hearing on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cop-reinstated-due-to-staff-crunch/articleshow/77007985.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Trichy||Nine child labourers perform well||TRICHY: All nine child labourers in Trichy, including five girls rescued through child labour elimination and effective rehabilitation society (Cheers), have proved their mettle by successfully clearing the plus two examinations. N Loganathan from Kumarapatty was the topper among the nine scoring 336 out of 600 marks. Forced to graze goats, he was rescued in 2011-2012 and admitted to one of the special training centres (STCs). He chose commerce group and passed plus two, said project director Pearline Sathyanathan. The eight others and their marks are S Abi from Arangoor (297), V Swathi from Rajanganagar (294), B Muthazhagan from No1 Toll Gate (286), S Thaslimbanu from Kajapettai (286), A Ragavendra from Arangoor (258), A Alagi from Rajanga Nagar (249), S Parkavi from Rajanganagar (241) and S Prabakaran from Alamarathupatti (233). Six of them were subjected to rearing goats while the two others were involved in daily wage work and one was engaged in beedi industry. Cheers project manager S Gowtham said that poverty and lack of awareness by the family left several such children without education. “Cheers rescues such children . In some cases, the children also won’t be interested in studying and parents won’t also compel them. We rescue such children and give them education in a way that stimulates their interest in STCs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nine-child-labourers-perform-well/articleshow/77009223.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 17, 2020||Kanpur||Wife of gangster’s aide heard mobilising men to take sniper position on rooftops||Kanpur: The serial tape exposes on the midnight ambush in Bikru village has again unearthed the role of women folk in destroying evidence, peddling don Dubey’s messages and misleading cops after the carnage. On Thursday, a fresh audio clip surfaced in which a woman can be heard asking her father-in-law Prem Prakash Pandey to quickly reach home and take sniper position on rooftops. The voice in the 33-second audio clip is said to be that of Manu, wife of Vikas’ aide Sashikant Pandey, who was arrested on Tuesday. Manu was taken into custody on Wednesday following the surfacing of back-to-back audio clips in which she was found conniving with the gangster and his aides. TOI, however, cannot verify the authenticity of the clips though Manu admitted to reporters on Wednesday that it was her voice in the two earlier clips that went viral. In the first call recording, Manu is heard enquiring about her father-in-law Prem Prakash Pandey’s location. When informed that he’s in neighbouring Dibba Newada village, she requests him to rush home as Vikas Dubey had ordered menfolk to climb atop houses and take position with rifles due to an impending police raid. In another 22-second audio tape, Pandey can be heard conveying the don’s directives to his son, Sashikant. He’s heard asking Sashikant to immediately contact him on his mobile. Police said, the conversation seems to be just hours before the ambush, in which eight policemen including DSP Devendra Mishra were killed. Speaking to TOI, a police officer said, investigations revealed DSP Devendra Mishra had taken refuge in courtyard of Manu’s house to skirt the barrage of bullets from rooftops, but was killed after Manu apprised the gangster’s henchmen about the police officer’s location. In the first viral audio on July 14, Manu could be heard admitting Dubey’s men had killed policemen and dumped three bodies near her door. She’s also heard discussing ways to dispose her mobile phones and mislead cops. “Two men died at my door, while another man died in my courtyard. Everyone has ran away, what will I say when police arrive,” she is heard telling her ‘bhabi’. Similarly, in another audio, a call recording between Manu and her brother went viral on Wednesday. In the conversation, Manu is heard telling her brother about destroying a SIM card and is repeatedly told to delete call details from his phone as well. Manu’s father-in-law Prem Prakash Pandey was gunned down by police in an encounter, six hours after the Bikru ambush, while her husband, Sashikant was arrested on Tuesday. Mobile phone of wives and women members of all 11 on-the-run accused have been seized by police. “Going by conversations in audio clips, there is ample evidence against Manu and we are questioning and corroborating her role in the Bikru ambush. We are going through call detail record of their cell phones to establish their links with slain gangster Vikas Dubey,” said SP rural Brijesh Kumar Srivastava while talking to reporters. Police had deferred the decision to free slain Dubey aide, Amar’s wife Khushi, who is currently in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/wife-of-gangsters-aide-heard-mobilising-men-to-take-sniper-position-on-rooftops/articleshow/77008899.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 17, 2020||Varanasi||UPCC chief stopped from going to Umbha||VARANASI: UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu and three others were detained by the police at Gopiganj in Bhadohi district on Thursday while they were heading to Umbha village in Sonbhadra district on the anniversary of the 2019 massacre. Bhadohi SP Ram Badan said they were stopped and asked to return as the prohibitory orders are in place. The police took them to Sitamarhi guest house. Later, in his support many party leaders including former MLA Ajay Rai moved to Bhadohi. They staged sit-in in Sitamadhi area when stopped by police. Heavy police force was deployed in the area to avert any untoward situation. Lallu said that he was going to pay respect to the victims of the Umbha massacre, in which several people were killed. Criticizing the state government, he said that the police force should be utilized in catching criminals instead of stopping him. The Congress would continue to raise its voice for the people’s right. As many as 10 persons of Gond tribe were killed and several others were injured at Umbha village in firing by the gram pradhan and him men when they opposed the land grabbing on July 17 last year. Last year, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was also stopped when she was going to meet the kin of those killed in the firing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/upcc-chief-stopped-from-going-to-umbha/articleshow/77007881.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 10 crore bids to re-carpet 10km on Delhi-Chandigarh NH||CHANDIGARH: The engineering department of the UT administration has received bids of Rs 10 crore to re-carpet 10km section of the Delhi-Chandigarh national highway falling in the city. The department has started technical evaluation and work will be allotted after the monsoon. Sources said before sanctioning the project, a team of engineering officials of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) visited the city to know the situation. Later, they held a detailed discussion with officials of the engineering department and gave their nod to the project. “Since NHAI officials are actively involved in the exercise, the engineering department has been in consultation with them. They are now involved in the technical evaluation of the bidding. After completion of the evaluation, financial bidding will be opened, and tender allotted as per laid down norms and guidelines,” said a senior officer of the UT. Sources said the re-carpeting is being done after completion of the specified period. “Though the national highway can be re-carpeted after a gap of three years, we gave proper time and are re-carpeting the road after five years. All technical and related parameters are being followed so that the road can be re-carpeted properly,” an official said. The finance department has imposed a 20% cut on works due to the Covid-19 crisis and only necessary works are being done. But since the work of re-carpeting the road is being financially aided by the NHAI, there is no issue of funds. Different stretchesThe re-carpeting work will be done on 10km NHAI road in Chandigarh under the project. According to the UT engineering department, the stretches are from Sector 39 to Sector 43 near the ISBT roundabout and from there to the Sector 34-35 roundabout. The stretch from Sector 34-35 roundabout till the GMCH roundabout and from Hallomajra roundabout till the Chandigarh boundary too will be re-carpeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-gets-10cr-bids-to-re-carpet-10km-on-delhi-chd-highway/articleshow/77007984.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Former BJP MLA resigns over ‘dictatorship’ in party||BHOPAL: BJP veteran Ramdayal Prabhakar – a two-term MLA– resigned from the party on Thursday, alleging ‘dictatorship’ in the state BJP unit and ‘insult of the old guard’. Prabhakar is from Datia, the home district of cabinet minister Narottam Mishra. Sixteen of the impending bypolls are in Gwalior-Chambal region, where Prabhakar’s former constituency, Sewda, lies. It’s yet another sign that resentment is brewing In Madhya Pradesh BJP after the recent cabinet expansion and allocation of portfolios in which Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists walked away with the lion’s share. “I am a two-term MLA from Sewda assembly seat in Datia. I won in 1993 and 2003 but now I feel neglected in the party. After Sewda was declared a general seat in delimitation in 2008, the party has not given me any responsibility,” Prabhakar told TOI on Thursday. In his resignation letter to BJP state chief V D Sharma, Prabhakar writes: “I have resigned from primary membership of the party and from all positions, including Datia district general secretary, state working committee, and SC Front. The party’s old workers are being ignored and insulted. There is dictatorship in the party. Issues related to public interest and welfare are considered as opposition of the party.” Asked if he had spoken to any senior leader or received any call from the party leadership, Prabhakar said ‘no’. He said he has no grudges against any leader who has joined the party recently and been given a plum post. “But there are some senior leaders who are neglecting workers and dedicated leaders,” he added. The appointment of two former Congress leaders — Pradyumna Singh Lodhi and Pradeep Jaiswal — as chairpersons of two corporations soon after they switched to BJP seems to have added to the simmering resentment after Team Scindia cornered 41% cabinet berths and largely had its say in allocation of portfolios. Former minister Ajay Vishnoi had taken a dig at the largesse to Lodhi and Jaiswal, tweeting on Monday: “A wonderful example of ‘give and take’ policy… Where do you want to take BJP?” BJP, however, denies there are any rumblings within the party and said anyone can approach the leadership to discuss their grievances. “There is no resentment in the party. We have not received any letter. On receiving the letter, the party leadership will take appropriate action,” said BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/former-bjp-mla-resigns-over-dictatorship-in-party/articleshow/77007991.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Rs 50k reward to locate missing Ghaziabad builder||GHAZIABAD: Ghaziabad Police on Thursday announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for anyone who helps in tracing Vikram Tyagi, the builder who went missing on June 26 when he was on his way home from his office in Patel Nagar. Police had recovered Tyagi’s car from Titavi area of Muzaffarnagar on June 27. The blood sample collected from the car was found to be of the same blood group as that of Tyagi. Meanwhile, the DNA report is still awaited. “We believe that Vikram is alive even though the accused have also not made any call for ransom so far,” an officer said. Police have identified 15 gangs, including Ashu gang that allegedly killed Gaurav Chandel and dumped his body in Noida extension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/rs-50k-reward-to-locate-missing-gzb-builder/articleshow/77008781.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
July 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Medicinal plants in high demand in Chandigarh||By: Piyush Sarna CHANDIGARH: With city residents trying to bolster their immunity during the Covid-19 pandemic, demand for medicinal plants is spiralling. Sales at local nurseries are higher than previous years, said nursery workers. People are on the lookout for plants like Tulsi to Ashwagandha. “The demand has increased very much. There is demand for Tulsi, Stevia and Aloe Vera. Earlier, we used to sell Tulsi for Rs 20 per kg but as there is so much demand that prices have doubled. Tulsi is now being sold for Rs 40 per kg,” said Mata Prasad, a worker at the Chandigarh Cooperative Kitchen Gardening Society Ltd in Sector 23, Chandigarh. Workers in nurseries say regular customers who were not keen on buying medicinal plants are also asking for them. They also said that even if somebody doesn’t have a proper lawn or space for gardening, they are sowing these plants in pots. Roshan, a worker in ‘Ram Nursery’ situated in Manimajra said, “If 15 people walk in on a daily basis in our nursery, everybody wants medicinal plants. Tulsi, Ashwagandha, Rosemary, Thyme, Neem, Amla, Kapoor plant (Cinnamomum camphora) are the plants everyone asks for. Seeds of Rosemary, Thyme and Oregano are available in September or October but currently too many people are asking for them. As the monsoon has started, people are benefiting from it.” While a few medicinal plants such as Tulsi and curry leafs are required for cooking, plants such as Ashwagandha improve the body’s defenses system by improving the cell-mediated immunity. “Along with Covid-19 outbreak, the monsoon has also arrived, increasing sales. Customers say they buy medicinal plants for safety. We give one plant of Tulsi free of cost and don’t charge for it,” said Rajesh of Durga nursery in Manimajra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/demand-for-medicinal-plants-increases-as-people-try-to-bolster-immunity/articleshow/77007988.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Indore||MP: Former BJP MLA resigns over ‘dictatorship’ in party||BHOPAL: BJP veteran Ramdayal Prabhakar – a two-term MLA– resigned from the party on Thursday, alleging ‘dictatorship’ in the state BJP unit and ‘insult of the old guard’. Prabhakar is from Datia, the home district of cabinet minister Narottam Mishra. Sixteen of the impending bypolls are in Gwalior-Chambal region, where Prabhakar’s former constituency, Sewda, lies. It’s yet another sign that resentment is brewing In Madhya Pradesh BJP after the recent cabinet expansion and allocation of portfolios in which Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists walked away with the lion’s share. “I am a two-term MLA from Sewda assembly seat in Datia. I won in 1993 and 2003 but now I feel neglected in the party. After Sewda was declared a general seat in delimitation in 2008, the party has not given me any responsibility,” Prabhakar told TOI on Thursday. In his resignation letter to BJP state chief V D Sharma, Prabhakar writes: “I have resigned from primary membership of the party and from all positions, including Datia district general secretary, state working committee, and SC Front. The party’s old workers are being ignored and insulted. There is dictatorship in the party. Issues related to public interest and welfare are considered as opposition of the party.” Asked if he had spoken to any senior leader or received any call from the party leadership, Prabhakar said ‘no’. He said he has no grudges against any leader who has joined the party recently and been given a plum post. “But there are some senior leaders who are neglecting workers and dedicated leaders,” he added. The appointment of two former Congress leaders — Pradyumna Singh Lodhi and Pradeep Jaiswal — as chairpersons of two corporations soon after they switched to BJP seems to have added to the simmering resentment after Team Scindia cornered 41% cabinet berths and largely had its say in allocation of portfolios. Former minister Ajay Vishnoi had taken a dig at the largesse to Lodhi and Jaiswal, tweeting on Monday: “A wonderful example of ‘give and take’ policy… Where do you want to take BJP?” BJP, however, denies there are any rumblings within the party and said anyone can approach the leadership to discuss their grievances. “There is no resentment in the party. We have not received any letter. On receiving the letter, the party leadership will take appropriate action,” said BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/former-bjp-mla-resigns-over-dictatorship-in-party/articleshow/77011164.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 17, 2020||Rajkot||Sans bridge, villagers walk through a river||Rajkot: Two villages near Rajula of Amreli district — Nani Mandaradi and Moti Mandaradi — have been cut off from each other after the only bridge over River Dhatarvadi that links them has collapsed. The bridge on the National Highway 8E connects nearly 2,000 people of the two villages. “A part of the dilapidated bridge as well as a diversion at one end have collapsed. It is on the verge of total collapse any day and we will have no option but to wade through knee-deep and waist-deep water to cross the river,” a resident of Nani Mandaradi, Ramesh Patel, lamented. “While both the villages share a common village panchayat, the panchayat office is one village, but the fair price shop is on the other side. This leads nearly 2,000 villagers to cross the river on foot, sometimes even having to drag their two-wheelers through water, risking their lives in the flood waters,” said Patel. Apart from Nani Mandaradi and Moti Mandaradi villages, the broken bridge has also left Jhapoder village in the lurch. Jhapoder village sarpanch, Manu Dhakada said, “Rajula is just two kilometres away from Jhapoder, and so we would use the bridge to reach there quickly. But now, in the absence of the bridge, our villagers have to take a 25km-long detour in order to reach Rajula.” After people from these three villages made a representation to Amrish Der, the local MLA, he visited the site and apprised officials concerned in Gandhinagar about the villagers’ plight and sought remedial measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sans-bridge-villagers-walk-through-a-river/articleshow/77007010.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: 2 builders held for selling unfit flats in Shahberi||GREATER NOIDA: Two men were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly building and selling flats in Shahberi village that were deemed unfit for people to live in. The accused, Hirendra Kant Sharma and Ashok Goswami, both from Ghaziabad, were picked up from their houses. Police said they had been on the run since last year. As per the complaint filed by officials of the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority, the accused have duped hundreds of people into investing in illegal properties at Shahberi. Separate cases were registered against them under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings), 420 (cheating) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using forged as genuine) of the IPC. Harish Chander, DCP (central Noida) said: “They constructed illegal buildings with substandard material after getting the floor maps approved by the development authority and later, they sold the flats. A case was filed after GNIDA reported it in 2019. Police got a tip off after which the two were arrested.” He added that they were remanded in judicial custody after being produced in court. More than 1,450 illegal buildings have been found in Shahberi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-builders-held-for-selling-unfit-flats-in-shahberi/articleshow/77008790.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Active cases spiral as +ve count breaches 27,000||JAIPUR: The state has reported 6% of the total Covid cases reported till date in just two days — 866 on Wednesday and 737 on Thursday — taking the overall count to 27,174. During the day, eight persons died taking the toll to 538. Deaths were reported from Sawai Madhopur (10), Karauli (1), Jaipur (1), Sikar (1), Sirohi (1), Udaipur (1), Dholpur (1) and one person succumbed to the virus from another srare. Jodhpur reported 782 new infections in the past six days averaging 130 cases per day. On Thursday too, it reported 141 cases. Active cases in Jodhpur touched new high of 1,251. The other districts which have highest number of active cases are Alwar (862), Bikaner (729) and Jaipur (695). There are 15 districts in the state, which have more than 100 active cases currently. Since July 4, active cases have been touching a new high every day. On Thursday too, it touched new high as the state reported 6,666 active cases. In the past 13 days, the state has reported 8,122 new infections with an average of 624 cases per day. Apart from Jodhpur (141), other districts which reported new cases are Bikaner (94), Jaipur (71), Alwar (58), Pali (51), Ajmer (48), Jalore (40), Sirohi (38), Barmer (34), Nagaur (25), Dholpur (21), Udaipur (18), Bharatpur (16), Kota (15), Churu (14), Jhunjhunu (12), Bhilwara (9), Dungarpur (6), Bundi (5), Sikar (5), Karauli (4), Pratapgarh (3), Banswara (3), Sawai Madhopur (2), Dausa (2), Hanumangarh (1) and one from other state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-spiral-as-ve-count-breaches-27000/articleshow/77008787.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Active cases spiral as +ve count breaches 27,000||JAIPUR: The state has reported 6% of the total Covid cases reported till date in just two days — 866 on Wednesday and 737 on Thursday — taking the overall count to 27,174. During the day, eight persons died taking the toll to 538. Deaths were reported from Sawai Madhopur (10), Karauli (1), Jaipur (1), Sikar (1), Sirohi (1), Udaipur (1), Dholpur (1) and one person succumbed to the virus from another srare. Jodhpur reported 782 new infections in the past six days averaging 130 cases per day. On Thursday too, it reported 141 cases. Active cases in Jodhpur touched new high of 1,251. The other districts which have highest number of active cases are Alwar (862), Bikaner (729) and Jaipur (695). There are 15 districts in the state, which have more than 100 active cases currently. Since July 4, active cases have been touching a new high every day. On Thursday too, it touched new high as the state reported 6,666 active cases. In the past 13 days, the state has reported 8,122 new infections with an average of 624 cases per day. Apart from Jodhpur (141), other districts which reported new cases are Bikaner (94), Jaipur (71), Alwar (58), Pali (51), Ajmer (48), Jalore (40), Sirohi (38), Barmer (34), Nagaur (25), Dholpur (21), Udaipur (18), Bharatpur (16), Kota (15), Churu (14), Jhunjhunu (12), Bhilwara (9), Dungarpur (6), Bundi (5), Sikar (5), Karauli (4), Pratapgarh (3), Banswara (3), Sawai Madhopur (2), Dausa (2), Hanumangarh (1) and one from other state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/active-cases-spiral-as-ve-count-breaches-27000/articleshow/77014325.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Son of flour trader from Pali scores 97% in CBSE Class X||JAIPUR: Vaibhav Maheshwari, son of a flour shopowner from Pali, scored 97% in CBSE Class X board examinations on Wednesday. He studies at Ambuja Public School, Rabariyawas, Pali. His family is well known as the ‘chakkiwale’ as his father is the third generation running the 60-year-old shop. “I have worked hard to provide everything to my family. While helping out in the shop, my son has studied religiously for the exams and took his studies seriously. All my prayers have come true,” said Mahendra Maheswari, Vaibhav’s father. Explaining about his preparation, Vaibhav said it was just about consistency during preparation. He explained, “I completed my syllabus by January and in pre-boards I performed well. Consistency is important and there are times when I thought that I won’t be able to perform well, but I had to overcome my fear and the result is in front of everyone.” He scored 98 in Hindi, mathematics and IP, 97 in social science and English and 94 in science. His total score was 582 out of 600. Vaibhav said his father never let him feel about any of the financial problems he might be facing and his education was always a priority. “I want to be an engineer and will be sitting for IIT exam after class XII. Next year, I will give scholarship exams in Kota coaching institutes as I know it won’t be possible for my family to pay hefty fees. I am hopeful to get scholarship,” said Vaibhav. His father confidently said Vaibhav will clear IIT exam and will become first engineer in the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/son-of-flour-trader-scores-97-in-cbse-class-x/articleshow/77008786.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt seeks Centre nod to extend international flights||JAIPUR: To facilitate expatriates who want to return to Rajasthan from various countries on Vande Bharat flights, the state government has written to the Centre to extend these flights to Jodhpur and Udaipur and set up customs and immigration facilities. These passengers, rather than landing in Jaipur and staying in 14-day quarantine, can directly visit their home cities when these flights are extended up to Jodhpur and Udaipur. Additional chief secretary Subodh Agarwal, head coordination, migration (air) has written to the Centre and asked them to set up customs and immigration facilities at Jodhpur and Udaipur airports to facilitate extension of Vande Bharat flights to these cities. Presently, these flights land in Jaipur and passengers are sent to paid institutional quarantine to various city hotels. “I have written to the Union home secretary urging him to direct departments such as customs, immigration and civil aviation to issue requisite clearances and permissions along with operations of non-scheduled and chartered flights to Udaipur and Jodhpur,” said Agarwal. Various international organisations too on their own have requested the Centre to do the needful in this regard. Prem Bhandari, a social worker in New York, who was instrumental in getting the Vande Bharat flights started during lockdown said, “A person returning home with family is already in trouble. First, you will keep him in Jaipur in 14-day quarantine and thereafter, he would take any means of transportation to reach cities like Jodhpur, Barmer, Jaisalmer, Udaipur, Banswara and others. Thus, there is a need to extend these flights to Jodhpur and Udaipur.” In the first phase of Vande Bharat, at least 3,000 Rajasthanis stuck in various countries including United Kingdom were brought back. Likewise, in the second phase, nearly 1,000 Rajasthanis have been brought back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-seeks-centre-nod-to-extend-intl-flights/articleshow/77008804.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Villagers protest laying of LPG pipelines via fields||TUTICORIN: Villagers of Kulayankarisal and Pottalkadu, on Thursday, staged a protest to oppose the laying of LPG pipelines through agricultural fields in their villages. The protest was to grab the attention of the district administration and demand that the pipelines be laid in an alternative route. According to sources, the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) is laying pipelines in a stretch of 142 km from Ramanathapuram to a private fertilizer plant in Tuticorin. Sources said that the work has been completed for about 134 km that include 53 revenue villages. As the works reached Kulayankarisal and Pottalkadu, the villagers feared it would pose a threat to their lives and farming. On Thursday, the villagers, led by Selvasekar, gathered at a common place in the village and began the protest. Selvasekar said that adequate land is available to lay the pipes through alternative routes. Police personnel were deployed in large numbers as tension gripped the place and the protest continued till late in the evening. Though revenue officials including Tuticorin sub-collector Simranjeet Singh Kahlon and the superintendent of police for Tuticorin district S Jayakumar tried to convince the protesters, they insisted on continuing the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/villagers-protest-laying-of-lpg-pipelines-via-fields/articleshow/77008797.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||Cargo vessel sent to Agartala via Bangladesh after 55 years||NEW DELHI: After a gap of 55 years, a container ship was flagged off from Kolkata carrying TMT steel bars and pulses to Agartala via Chattogram (Chittagong) port in Bangladesh on Thursday, reports Dipak Dash. This is the first time after 1965 that Bangladesh is allowing its ports to be used as transit for cargo movement from any part of India to northeastern states. The shipping ministry said two TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent unit) carrying TMT steel bars are destined for West Tripura district and two TEUs carrying pulses is heading for Karimganj in Assam. After reaching Chattogram, the consignment will move to Agartala on Bangladeshi trucks. The road ministry has given a permission for Bangladeshi trucks transporting goods from Chittagong port to West Tripura district. The ministry has also started preparing a standard operating procedure for movement of passenger and cargo vehicles among the neighbouring countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cargo-vessel-sent-to-agartala-via-bangladesh-after-55-years/articleshow/77009677.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||PCMC to set up coronavirus hub at Magar stadium||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A Covid care centre with a capacity of 2,000 beds will be set up by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) at Neharunagar-based Annasaheb Magar stadium. It will be set up on a five-acre area. The standing committee has given permission for appointment of a private firm as adviser for the project. The adviser will plan for electricity, generator, water supply, water heater, water purifier and closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, told TOI, “This is just another initiative to increase the bed capacity. We have ample beds, but the number of patients, with the current doubling rate, might cross 20,000 by the end of July and we need to be prepared for it. The corporation has already issued tenders regarding the same.” Patil added that they are mapping other places which can be converted into Covid care centres. At present, 11 centres are functional, while 21 are being mapped, which will have 8,000 more beds. According to PCMC’s live dashboard data, the number of active patients on Thursday evening was 3,409, while 5,441 recoveries were recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-set-up-coronavirus-hub-at-magar-stadium/articleshow/77008810.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||NWR may add special trains from Rajasthan to southern states, MP & Punjab||JAIPUR: Passengers travelling in trains are likely to get connectivity to more destinations, including Mysuru, Secunderabad and some parts of Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. The North Western Railway (NWR) is awaiting nod of the railway board to get new set of special trains to various destinations. Though trains to various destinations from Rajasthan are witnessing low occupancy, officials are aiming at adding sectors where there is presently no rail connectivity. “Even if there is a poor load factor in some of the areas, we need to start for the places where we have no train connectivity. Whatever we are aiming is based on the suggestions by various MPs and others and on the basis of survey,” said a senior officer of NWR. NWR has already written to the railway board and is awaiting their final nod on this. However, it is yet to be seen that while trains are having poor occupancy, will they go ahead with adding more trains. “There is zero connectivity from Rajasthan to south India and some parts of Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. Gradually, they have to extend the train movement. So, it is better they start doing it in a phased manner,” said Trilok Singh, a private agent who books railway tickets. According to sources, there is possibility that Jaipur may get a connectivity to cities like Chennai, Mysuru, Ernakulam and Secunderabad. “Also, these trains can run on weekly or bi-weekly basis as in Rajasthan there is a sizable population of the people from south India,” said a senior officer of NWR. It may be recalled that from June 1, NWR had started the movement special trains, while 10 trains to important destinations including Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad were started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-may-add-special-trains-to-southern-states-mp-punjab/articleshow/77008814.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Panel formed to ensure welfare of labourers||Jaipur: A committee has been formed on the directions of chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup on Thursday to review the progress of various schemes run by the government for the welfare of workers under the building and other construction workers (BOCW) board and ensure job security for them post-lockdown and in the midst of Covid pandemic. It was also decided that state government will collect the 1% labour cess from all the constructions and buildings, the payment of which are still due. Labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan said, “The committee has been formed to ensure job security, welfare and benefits of the workers under the BOCW board through various Government of India schemes and guidelines in the post-lockdown times. The committee will review the progress of the schemes and ensure that these are run more effectively. This was a preliminary meeting. Another meeting will take place soon.” “A one per cent labour cess is levied on the total value of construction post 2009. Those who have not made the payments will have to pay now. It will also be ensured the cess collection is done regularly by the state government,” he further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-formed-to-ensure-welfare-of-labourers/articleshow/77008812.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Special training for forest staff to track tigers||JAIPUR: Frontline staff of the state forest department posted in non-wildlife reserve duties will be provided special training to accustom themselves with wildlife reserve duties. The department has rolled out a 15-day special training schedule to provide them exposure to works like wildlife monitoring, conservation of natural habitat, prevention of illegal grazing and deforestation activities. The training will be held at the tiger reserve areas to provide a better learning experience to the staff. “All forest department officials are provided training at the time of their recruitment, however, many of these get posted in forest areas without wildlife. Such officials are faced with challenges when transferred or deputed on duties at wildlife reserves. The new training module is designed to provide them the exposure and skill,” said a senior officer. The training programme will help the department in capacity building by upgrading the skills of the existing staff. It is expected to help in preventing incidences of human-animal conflicts and increasing wildlife population by conserving their natural habitat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spl-training-for-forest-staff-to-track-tigers/articleshow/77008800.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||Hospitals told to set aside 50% of all ICU beds for Covid care in Pune||PUNE: The district administration has now directed all hospitals to reserve 50% of their total ICU beds exclusively for Covid-19 treatment. The directive comes in the wake of several reports of bed shortages in the city. An earlier order had asked hospitals to set aside 80% of their total beds for coronavirus treatment. However, there were no specific guidelines for management of ICU beds, which are key to treating severely ill patients. On Thursday, during a Zoom meeting with representatives from 70 hospitals within PMC limits, Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram directed the care units to set aside these beds as soon as possible and update vacancies on the bed monitor dashboard within the next two days. He repeated the order that hospitals should not admit asymptomatic patients — Covid-positive individuals with very mild to no symptoms. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaiseker, OSD to the div commissioner's office Saurabh Rao and PMC Commissioner Vikram Kumar were also part of the meeting. “It is essential to have beds for non-Covid patients too, but many hospitals have stated that general admissions have been less,” the collector said, while adding that beds can now be diverted for exclusive coronavirus care. Non-Covid wards have been having an occupancy of just 30 to 40%. Even among admitted Covid-19 patients, at least 35% have been those with extremely mild symptoms — new protocols state they can recover at home. There are fears of a bed shortage within the coming week. Authorities said the Pune city could see a shortfall of over 200 beds, 100 ventilator-supported ICU beds and nearly 1,000 beds with oxygen support in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hosps-told-to-set-aside-50-of-all-icu-beds-for-covid-care/articleshow/77008793.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kidnapping case still unresolved||KANPUR: The police are yet to achieve any breakthrough in the kidnapping of one Sanjeet, a lab technician, who was allegedly abducted on June 22 from the city. Meanwhile, inspector Barra was suspended by SSP Dinesh Kumar P on Thursday. To recall, police had on Tuesday landed in a soup when family members of the kidnapped youth Sanjeet alleged on camera that police made them pay a ransom of Rs 30 lakh to kidnappers but failed to rescue the captive. In charge Surveillance Cell -Harmeet Singh has been made as new incharge of Barra thana. The SSP has also made a major reshuffle in the Surveillance Cell and Crime branch Investigation Cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kidnapping-case-still-unresolved/articleshow/77008918.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||IMA favours mandatory blood donation for cured||PUNE: Concerned over only 0.1% cured Covid-19 patients coming forward so far to donate blood for plasma therapy in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association has suggested making blood donation mandatory for the recovered people. Only 20 out of over 20,000 recovered Covid-19 patients in the Pune civic limits donated blood for plasma extraction at Sassoon General Hospital till Thursday, said S Chockolingam, the land settlement commissioner and the nodal officer looking into the functioning of the state-run facility. The honorary state secretary of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter, Pankaj Bandarkar, said, “In view of increasing cases and scarcity of essential antiviral medicines, the government must increase the use of plasma therapy. It can make blood donation mandatory after recovery. We feel that increased availability of plasma will improve the recovery rate and reduce the mortality rate.” After the recovery of 13 patients through plasma therapy at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri, Maval MP Shrigang Barne has written to the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar to ensure its increased use in treating Covid-19 patients. “The number of patients is increasing, but so is the number of recovered people. Over 5,000 people have been cured in Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits and their information is available with the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). These people can be counselled and told to donate blood for plasma extraction. A plasma donor bank can also be established,” Barne said. Some doctors from the city said the clinical efficacy of the procedure was not proven yet. Medical superintendent of Naidu Hospital Sudhir Patsute said, “Plasma therapy is being used on a trial basis right now on a case-to-case basis. If it gets certified, the demand for plasma will increase and then we can reach out to cured people for donation.” Parikshit Prayag, consultant at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “Awareness and education are the only way to ensure that there is more blood donation from the cured, if the efficacy of plasma therapy is certified.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-favours-mandatory-blood-donation-for-cured/articleshow/77008827.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 17, 2020||Madurai||8-year-old girl murder case: Autopsy performed, no signs of rape found||TUTICORIN: The two 19-year-old men- Mutheeswaran and his friend Nandeeswaran, who were arrested for murder of an 8-year-old girl from a village near Kalvilai on Wednesday by the Sathankulam police, were initially booked under Pocso Act for rape and under Indian Penal Code (IPC) for murder. However, after the autopsy on the body was performed on Thursday evening at Tirunelveli government medical college and hospital, police said that there was no visible evidence for rape when the body was examined by the scientific officer. “We registered the case under Pocso Act based on the complaint lodged by the girl’s mother,” superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district S Jayakumar told TOI. The case sections will be altered by removing sections of Pocso Act when the charge sheet is filed and the accused will only be booked under sections of IPC. Though the girl and the prime accused are from the same scheduled caste community, the case was also booked under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as Nandeeswaran is from a different community. Kin of the girl refused to collect the body after the autopsy and the police were trying to convince them to receive it till late in the evening on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-year-old-girl-murder-case-autopsy-performed-no-signs-of-rape-found/articleshow/77008817.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Trichy||No community transmission in Trichy, says district collector||TRICHY: Ruling out the possibility of community transmission in Trichy, district collector S Sivarasu on Thursday said it was tough to specify the source of infection as some patients got the infection from travel history and some locally. He also warned of action against violators of home quarantine. While new cases are on the rise in the city, the collector said that the number surfaced from new areas. “Three to four cases are cropping up in new areas. If they accumulate in new areas, the spread will be fast,” he said. On the source of infection, the collector dismissed the chances of community transmission. “As of now, 8 to 10% of the people being tested turn positive. If it touches 18 to 20%, we may suspect that scenario,” Sivarasu said. He also said that stickers mentioning ‘the result is awaited’ on the houses of those awaiting Covid-19 test results, were being pasted. “We are planning to book those violate the rules. FIR will be filed against them,” he said adding that the movement of people in urban areas was a cause of concern. On the likely emergence of clusters, the collector said that results of tests done on identified people in the ward with the highest number of cases will give an idea whether a cluster has been formed. “Out of 14 clusters, we have contained four areas. There is no new case reported in the last three days. We can bring down the cases by preventing the formation of clusters,” he said. A total of 245 people with symptoms of fever, severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), influenza-like illness (ILI) have been identified during door-to-door screening on Wednesday. “We have selected areas where the numbers are high. Ward 16 has the highest number of cases. The tests on those identified with symptoms will be taken,” the collector said. The collector also said that the district administration has hired six lab technicians and 30 nurses on a contract basis few days back, besides domestic breeding checkers (DBCs). On the possibility of reducing the working hours of commercial establishments, Sivarasu said, “Traders are affiliated to several groups and they differ with their stand on the timings of the shops. If they follow the rules to wear masks and social distancing norms, it will reduce the spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-community-transmission-in-trichy-says-dist-collector/articleshow/77009249.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Rowdy facing 26 cases arrested during vehicle check||TUTICORIN: A 37-year-old history-sheeter, who has 26 cases against him in various parts of the state, and two of his accomplices were arrested in Kovilpatti during vehicle checks carried out by the police to screen those travelling with e-pass Rajkumar alias Kumuli Rajkumar of Thachanallur in Tirunelveli was also found in the possession of an unlicensed country-made open barrel 9mm pistol with five rounds and two machetes. Police said that he travelled to Erode with an e-pass on July 13 and was caught while returning from Erode in the early hours of Thursday. They were stopped at the Thottilovanpatti check-post near Kovilpatti when police grew suspicious of them as the driver gave contradictory replies to their questions on the reason for the travel. On searching the vehicle, they found Rajkumar and his accomplices Vinod, 26, and Surendar, 24 inside. They were arrested and the vehicle and weapons seized. Police said that Rajkumar has seven murder cases and 19 other cases including attempt to murder, rioting with deadly weapons and country-made bombs and armed dacoity in Madurai, Tirunelveli, Chennai and Erode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rowdy-facing-26-cases-arrested-during-vehicle-check/articleshow/77008844.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cops worked nonstop during lockdown to curb coronavirus spread||JAIPUR: Constable couple Kamlesh and Parvesh Yadav have not seen their two-year-old daughter since the lockdown was implemented. In fact, they hardly met each other despite being posted in Jaipur itself. This is not a one-off case, but a common occurrence when it comes to police personnel who have been working in long shifts since the pandemic hit the state. As the country came to a standstill with the imposition of the lockdown on March 22, it was the responsibility of state police to keep the streets deserted to curb the spread of virus despite risking their own well-being. Majority of the cops in the state haven’t seen their families for over two months and even now, most of them see them only through video calls. The fortunate ones who met their families claimed that they cherished the few hours when they were off duty. “As soon as we came to know that a lockdown was going to be imposed, we decided to send our daughter to my mother in our village near Chomu. It has been one of the toughest days of our lives and at times we are close to tears as we could not see our child except on video calls. Since both of us are working, we just could not take the risk,” said Parvesh, who was a drone operator for nearly two months and is now stationed at the control room. His wife is posted at another police station in the city. There are approximately 1 lakh police personnel who have been working non-stop during the lockdown across the state to ensure that people adhere to the guidelines. While most have been coping, in the past three months at least five police personnel committed suicide in Rajasthan due to various reasons. During the lockdown months, police have worked for 12-hour or longer shifts. DGP Bhupendra Singh told TOI, “Each cop is trained to cope with adverse circumstances, but at the same time we have initiated several programmes to ensure that their mental health is not affected. There are difficulties and at times it is almost corrosive because we deal with so many tough situations, but we continue doing our duty.” Almost all police personnel that TOI spoke to claimed that as soon as lockdown was implemented they sent their families away to make sure they were safe. ASP Dausa Anil Chauhan, whose family stays in Jaipur said, “Since March, I have met my family only twice and both the visits were not for more than 24 hours. Like any other person, we also have family issues like getting ration to them. Like everyone else, we also ask some acquaintance to get them essentials while we are away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-worked-nonstop-during-lockdown-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/77008837.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||With 735 new Covid cases, MP breaches 20,000-mark||BHOPAL: With record number of cases being reported from Indore, Gwalior and Bhopal, the Covid-19 infections tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 20,378, according to MP health department health bulletin, here on Thursday. As the situation stands, the state has 5562 active cases and measures to stop the spread of the infection are being reviewed. All the 52 districts of MP have active cases, the health bulletin said. This on a day when India for the first time reported more than 30,000 cases in a day. The deadly infection has claimed seven more lives in the state, taking the total number of Covid-19 related deaths to 689. MP reported the highest single-day spike of 798 infections in a day on July 14. 735 cases were reported on Thursday. Of the seven new deaths, two each were reported from Indore and Bhopal and one each from Satna, Singrauli and Shivpuri. 121 new cases were recorded in Gwalior, 50 in Jabalpur and 32 in Shajapur. State capital reported 135 cases. The district level data is added in state tally with 12- 24 hour delay. A total of 219 persons were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the number of recoveries to 14,127. The number of cases in the worst-hit Indore rose by 136 to 5,632, while the death toll there increased to 280 after two patients succumbed to the infection, health department bulletin said. Bhopal has so far reported more than 3,950 cases and 127 deaths. The case count in Gwalior went up to 1,365 with 121 new cases. In the last 16 days, Madhya Pradesh has registered 6,785 new cases and 117 deaths, indicating a rapid rise in infections and fatalities, according to government data. There are 2,011 containment zones across Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-735-new-covid-cases-mp-breaches-20k-mark/articleshow/77008022.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||Pune’s tally nears 45,000 with addition of single-day highest 2,132 infections||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday added 2,132 Covid-19 cases, its single-day highest so far, pushing its tally to 44,968. The region’s Covid toll increased by 38 in the last 24 hours, taking its casualty count to 1,214. Of the fresh cases, 1,210 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, 534 in Pimpri Chinchwad municiap limits and 388 in the rural and Cantonment parts. A PMC official said 764 patients were discharged in the municipal limits in the last 24 hours, pushing the cured count to 20,334. The number of critical patients in PMC limits increased to 536, of whom 80 were on ventilator support, the official said. The count of active patients in PMC has now reached to 10,664, the official said, adding that as many as 6,582 tests were conducted in PMC limits on Thursday, of which 2,969 were rapid antigen tests. The patients who succumbed to the infection at the Sassoon hospital and government-run hospitals included a 66-year-old man from Yerawada, an 83-year-old man from Kasba Peth, a 40-year-old man from Katraj, an 85-year-old man from Lohegaon, a 69-year-old man from Shukrawar Peth, a 72-year-old man from Dhankawdi, a 70-year-old man from Shivajinagar, a 75-year-old man from Yerawada, among others. The deaths reported at private hospitals included a 65-year-old man from Karvenagar, a 64-year-old man from Dhanori, a 51-year-old man from Navi Peth, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-tally-nears-45k-with-addition-of-single-day-highest-2132-infections/articleshow/77008847.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan crisis: Ashok Gehlot-Sachin Pilot camps circulate audio-video clips to malign each other||JAIPUR: In a development related to the prevailing political crisis in Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s camp late Thursday night released three phone audio clips, two of which were allegedly between a Union minister and a rebel Congress MLA camping in Manesar speaking through a middleman about toppling the state government in the coming days. Gehlot’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Lokesh Sharma sent the audio clips to TOI on WhatsApp with a brief unsigned note claiming that the Union minister and the Congress lawmaker were conspiring to topple the Gehlot-government once they get their desired strength of 30 MLAs. The CM’s OSD, however, did not take TOI’s phone calls made for his comments on the sent audio clips. Later, the Pilot camp released a video clip of the accused MLA from Churu’s Sardarshahar Bhanwarlal Sharma refuting the allegations. “My audio that has gone viral is fake. CM’s OSD Lokesh Sharma sends his men to places to get fake audios prepared and to make phone calls to the MLAs,” said Sharma, adding “None of the MLAs would be pressurised by all this. This is a cheap act by the CM who is in despair.” The OSD then sent a press statement accusing the seven-term MLA of conspiring against elected governments since the 1990s. “This is his 5th attempt to topple a government but he never succeeded,” the statement read, while recalling how the MLA attempted to topple the BJP government in 1996 despite Gehlot advising him not to do so on moral grounds as the then CM Bhairon Singh Shekhawat was abroad for medical treatment. In one of the audio clips sent by the OSD, a person is heard saying, “You people (Pilot camp MLAs) should stay strong and continue to reside there only (in Manesar) for 10-15 days. The ‘Raj’ (state government) cannot keep its MLAs (in a Jaipur hotel) for 15 days. The moment they are freed, they will reach us.” The other man reacts saying, “I also understand the government cannot function from hotel and that they do not have the number strength.” The conversation in a local dialect between the two begins with one of them identifying himself with a name that is similar to that of one of the Union ministers. The other man greets him by saying, “Being the elder, let me bless you: ‘vijayi bhav’ (victory be yours).” The man said to be the MLA said the ‘required numbers’ would be reached in a day or two, while the man said to be the Union minister reacted by saying, “The moment the numbers are reached, they (Gehlot camp) will be on their knees.” The third audio clip is alleged to be of another rebel MLA speaking to an unidentified person about exchange of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-pilot-camps-circulate-audio-video-clips-to-malign-each-other/articleshow/77008841.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Minor boy ends life in Kota||KOTA: An 18-year-old boy committed suicide by hanging himself to the ceiling fan of his room with his school uniform tie in Ambedkar Colony under Kunhari police station of the city on Wednesday evening. The reason behind the suicide by Pemanshu Verma alias Piyush, a Class 12 boy, is yet to be ascertained as no note was recovered from his possession. However, the deceased boy reportedly scored low marks in the result recently declared, said assistant sub inspector (ASI) Narayan Lal. According to family members, Piyush was preparing for competitive exams and had cleared Class 12 this year, he further said. Police handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Thursday morning and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC, the ASI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-boy-ends-life-in-kota/articleshow/77008854.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Licences of 34 e-mitra kiosks suspended||JAIPUR: District collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday instructed to suspend the licenses of 34 e-mitra kiosks, located at government offices of municipal corporation area, for seven days for negligence in distribution of Jan Aadhar cards. Nehra said the responsibility of distribution of Jan Aadhaar cards was assigned to e-Mitra centers located at 89 state offices under the corporation area. “Despite directing them several times in the last one month, 34 of the 89 e-mitra centre operators did not collect Jan Aadhaar cards from SDM Jaipur-I for distribution,” he said. He said negligence in distribution of Jan Aadhar cards will not be tolerated under any circumstances and directed SDM Jaipur-I to suspend the licenses of these e-mitra kiosks for seven days. Deputy Director IT and communications Ritesh Kumar Sharma said, “If these e-Mitra operators continue to be negligent in their work even after suspension of 7 days, then the permission to operate these e-mitra centres in these buildings will be cancelled.” He said local service provider institutions (LSPs) associated with the operation of e-mitra centres were directed to monitor the process of card distribution and also speed up process. A warning has also been given to the LSPs that in future penalties would be imposed on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/licences-of-34-e-mitra-kiosks-suspended/articleshow/77008835.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kanpur||Project Kayakalp: Parivartan develops incomplete infrastructure near Ganga barrage as a picnic spot||KANPUR: Though the Ganga barrage is one of the beautiful places of the city, and also the most favourable place for selfie lovers, Parivartan, a social organization has developed one more place for selfie lovers a few hundred metre away from the barrage. The place is a botanical garden, the KDA’s dream project. KDA, which developed the infrastructure of the botanical garden, had to drop the project due to some objection raised by the National Green Tribunal and also due change in policies. The incomplete infrastructure, situated between the Ganga barrage and Mandhana road, which was lying barren and had become a desolate place, was adopted by Parivartan under its Kayakalp project. The combination of colours made the infrastructure so beautiful that people started visiting here for picnics and taking selfies. The artist, Raghav Tripathi decorated the incomplete infrastructure by colour combination, pictures and combination of colour portraits. Every imagination which is a piece of art speaks for itself. Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi who inaugurated the place on Thursday said that Parivartan had made it so beautiful that people would prefer to visit it again and again. Anil Gupta and Anoop Kumar Dwivedi, who are associated with Parivartan, said that efforts were going on to make it more beautiful and convert the entire area into a green cover. “Our organization has so far planted as many as 928 saplings on both sides of the road which are being protected by tree guards. Every member of the organization has adopted one plant”, said Anoop. He said that his organization had already made an appeal to the residents to come forward and plant a sapling. The organization would display a card on the tree guard mentioning the name of the person who has adopted the tree, Anoop said and added that several people had expressed their willingness to take part in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/project-kayakalp-parivartan-develops-incomplete-infrastructure-near-ganga-barrage-as-a-picnic-spot/articleshow/77008931.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Indore||With 735 new Covid cases, MP breaches 20,000-mark||BHOPAL: With record number of cases being reported from Indore, Gwalior and Bhopal, the Covid-19 infections tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 20,378, according to MP health department health bulletin, here on Thursday. As the situation stands, the state has 5562 active cases and measures to stop the spread of the infection are being reviewed. All the 52 districts of MP have active cases, the health bulletin said. This on a day when India for the first time reported more than 30,000 cases in a day. The deadly infection has claimed seven more lives in the state, taking the total number of Covid-19 related deaths to 689. MP reported the highest single-day spike of 798 infections in a day on July 14. 735 cases were reported on Thursday. Of the seven new deaths, two each were reported from Indore and Bhopal and one each from Satna, Singrauli and Shivpuri. 121 new cases were recorded in Gwalior, 50 in Jabalpur and 32 in Shajapur. State capital reported 135 cases. The district level data is added in state tally with 12- 24 hour delay. A total of 219 persons were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the number of recoveries to 14,127. The number of cases in the worst-hit Indore rose by 136 to 5,632, while the death toll there increased to 280 after two patients succumbed to the infection, health department bulletin said. Bhopal has so far reported more than 3,950 cases and 127 deaths. The case count in Gwalior went up to 1,365 with 121 new cases. In the last 16 days, Madhya Pradesh has registered 6,785 new cases and 117 deaths, indicating a rapid rise in infections and fatalities, according to government data. There are 2,011 containment zones across Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/with-735-new-covid-cases-mp-breaches-20k-mark/articleshow/77011393.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||Parts of Baner gaothan sealed||Pune: Parts of Baner gaothan with a population of 800 have been sealed following the emergence of 13 Covid-19 cases in the last two days. The Aundh-Baner civic ward official said the areas were sealed as a precautionary measure and contact tracing was under way. “We are monitoring the situation. The health teams are on the field,” local corporator Amol Balwadkar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parts-of-baner-gaothan-sealed/articleshow/77008872.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Is there community spread? TN government to check||CHENNAI: In an attempt to get a clear picture of the infection rate of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu and ascertain the community spread, the health department has planned a State Covid Sero Survey, while Greater Chennai Corporation is working on a city-specific sero study with ICMR institutions National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis and National Institute of Epidemiology. Director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam said the state survey will test at least 25,000 people across all districts using antibody testing kits. An antibody test is a blood test that determines whether someone has ever been infected with the novel coronavirus. “The results of the survey will help the government plan policies for further management of the novel virus, he said. We will be starting the study soon,” he said. Separately, Greater Chennai Corporation will draw blood samples from at least 12,000 people across all wards. The city samples will help the civic body narrow down on micromanagement plans for the city, which is the worst hit district. A survey done in May by ICMR in Chennai, Tiruvannamalai and Coimbatore districts as part of the national survey showed that the sero-prevalence was between 1% and 2% of the population. A repeat survey will show if the disease has travelled deeper into the community, officials said. While real time RT-PCR is the frontline test for clinical diagnosis for the viral infection, antibody tests are critical for surveillance to understand the proportion of the population that has been exposed to infection. Though antibody tests are scientific and ideal for testing large numbers, TN has made RT-PCR the sole test for diagnosing the viral infection. Many states use a combination of antigen and RT-PCR tests, but TN’s health department said it will use only the latter. “If a person tests positive in an antigen test it is confirmed positive. Yet, 50% of those testing negative will have to undergo RT-PCR screening. In case a person needs two tests, we may be delaying results,” said a senior health official. “We have adequate PCR machines to test using the ICMR prescribed RT-PCR,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/is-there-community-spread-govt-to-check/articleshow/77008908.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||CPM blames BJP, Congress rebels for Rajasthan crisis||JAIPUR: Amidst rumours that he had joined the Pilot camp in Delhi, CPM MLA Girdharilal clarified that he is very much in Rajasthan and will abide by the party’s decision. The other CPM MLA Balwan Poonia, who has been suspended by the party for voting in support of the Congress candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections, too, is with the Gehlot camp. The CPM, which has two MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly, has alleged that the current political crisis has been engineered by the BJP. The state secretary of the party, Amraram told TOI that the BJP had started its conspiracy by fielding a second candidate in the recent Rajya Sabha elections. But after failing, now it has come out openly challenging all the democratic niceties and Constitutional values. Amraram further alleged, “Democracy, secularism, federalism and the Constitution have been directly attacked in the country ever since the BJP-RSS government was formed under the leadership of Narendra Modi at the Centre.” The elected state governments in Karnataka, Goa, Madhya Pradesh were toppled by open-ended purchases of MLAs like sheep and goat. The misuse of Raj Bhavan, Income Tax department, ED and CBI has become the order of the day for the BJP. He expressed surprise and regret at how the Congress president and other senior leaders fell prey to the machinations of the BJP-RSS. Gehlot govt will last five years: KachariyawasGehlot government had lasted five years with just 96 MLAs in 2008, now there are 109 MLAs with the government. The BJP's conspiracy to destabilise the Congress government will not succeed, claimed Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Thursday. He said people voted for the Congress and the same people won on Congress symbol now stand with BJP and claims the government had lost majority is dishonouring the peoples mandate. “If any MLA makes a statement that the government is in a minority, it directly reflects the nexus with the BJP,” he said. He alleged that the Income tax, ED and CBI started raids at the behest of the central government in a clear signal that the central government has come out in the open to threaten the Congress workers and leaders. The entire arrangement of Manesar hotel in Haryana is being done by BJP and the police personnel of the BJP government of Haryana are working round the clock to keep a watch on MLAs, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cpm-with-gehlot-condemns-bjp-cong-rebels/articleshow/77008874.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Cop arrested for taking bribe||The ACB of Kota (Rural) arrested an assistant-sub inspector (ASI) posted at Railway Colony police station for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 20,000 on Thursday. The ASI had demanded Rs 50,000 from the complainant for not arresting him in a case, however, the bribe amount after negotiations was settled at Rs 20,000. ASI Govind Singh had allegedly accepted the bribe of Rs 20,000 from complainant Tipu, a resident of Bhimganjmandi area, ACB inspector Vasudev said. Tipu approached the ACB on Wednesday and lodged a complaint against Singh, he said, adding the complainant stated the ASI was probing a case against his friend . The verification of the complaint was done on the same day, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-arrested-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/77008868.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Pvt school teachers seek help from their govt counterparts||HYDERABAD: Private teachers, allegedly neglected by the school managements and the state government, are now seeking help from their counterparts working in government institutions. Members of the Telangana Private Teachers Forum (TPTF) say that they can survive the crisis only if every government teacher helps three private teachers by buying them essentials. “As teachers, we always tell our students to help others. I feel it’s time to put our words into action. If government teachers help us on humanitarian grounds, lakhs of private teachers can survive,” said Shabir Ali, president, TPTF. Private teachers said that if each government teacher contributes a day’s salary, all private teachers can get essentials. “This would also force managements and state government to act,” he added. They said that they are trying to get in touch with Member of Legislative Councils (MLCs) and several government teachers’ associations seeking help. Members of government teachers’ associations said they have received a request from private schools on the issue but are yet to take a decision. They said that survival is hard for them too as the government imposed a 50% pay cut. The private teachers in the state have not been paid salaries for the last five months. Many have been struggling to survive and are taking up menial jobs to earn a livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-school-teachers-seek-help-from-their-govt-counterparts/articleshow/77008880.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||Drastic drop in patients in Panmala & Dandekar bridge slum pockets||PUNE: The Panmala and Dandekar bridge slum pockets, which had emerged as Covid-19 hotspots in May and June, have recorded a signification drop in active cases as on mid-July. Panmala had 11 active cases on July 15, while the Dandekar bridge had 12. Rajiv Gandhinagar, another slum area located near the Dandekar bridge, has also reported a drop in active cases, which have come down to 11 now. Civic officials said though the detection of new cases had slowed down in the two slum pockets in the last two weeks, the ongoing restrictions would continue to prevent resurgence of cases. Local corporator Shankar Pawar said the cooperation from the local residents proved vital in arresting the spread, besides the containment measures implemented by the civic authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drastic-drop-in-patients-in-panmala-dandekar-bridge-slum-pockets/articleshow/77008863.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Garbage piles up in Jaipur as contractors still on strike||JAIPUR: The condition of sanitation in the city has been degrading every day for the last one week with contractors responsible for garbage collection on strike. The BVG company, responsible for garbage collection, is at loggerheads with the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) regarding payment issues. Despite assurance that vehicles will start garbage collection, nothing could be soon on the ground yet. Garbage collection vehicles (hoopers) are not going to majority of the areas of Walled City, Tilak Nagar, C-Scheme, Moti Doongri zone, Mansarover and Malviya Nagar. Residents are complaining of piles of garbage on roads and at their homes. Pinky Taneja, a resident of Raja Park, said garbage collection vehicles are not coming to the area from the last one week. “We kept the garbage at our house for a while, but then we started throwing it on an empty plot or at the roadside. We didn’t have any choice as my house starting stinking,” Pinky said. Whereas residents of Walled City do not have empty plots to throw the garbage so they have been dumping it on roadsides. Garbage depots have made a comeback in the Walled City and vehicles are not coming on time to clean them up. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said they are in talk with the contracting company to resolve the issue. “We are having meetings regularly to resolve the issue with the contractors. In most of the areas hoopers are going except a few places,” Garg said. Though situation is completely opposite on the ground. Vikas Kothari, former councillor from Walled City, said he is getting calls from people regarding sanitation problems. “In the last one week, the situation has turned worse. JMC and the government are not concerned about the situation. The government’s MLAs are in a hotel dealing with political crisis. This issue has to be dealt on urgent basis,” said Kothari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-facing-problems-as-garbage-contractors-still-on-strike/articleshow/77008856.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jodhpur||NTPC manager in CBI net for accepting bribe in Jodhpur||JAIPUR: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday arrested a manager of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh in Jodhpur. A case has been registered against accused Om Prakash at Phalodi town under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (as Amended in 2018) on Thursday. “It was alleged that the accused demanded a bribe of Rs 3,50,000 from the complainant for smooth functioning of work relating to cleaning of solar plant at Bhadla, Phalodi district in Jodhpur. After the complaint was verified, a trap was laid by us,” said a senior officer of CBI. It was decided that the accused would accept a bribe of Rs 1 lakh as first instalment as was mutually agreed between the complaint and him. CBI laid the trap and caught the accused red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh as instalment. “Searches were conducted at the premises of accused at Phalodi and Bhilwara (Rajasthan) which led to recovery of incriminating documents,” said the officer. The accused would be produced in the court of special Judge, CBI cases, Jodhpur on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/ntpc-manager-in-cbi-net-for-accepting-bribe/articleshow/77008878.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Nearly 15k seats up for grabs in emerging technologies||HYDERABAD: Close to 15,000 seats will be up for grabs in six new courses in emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML), data science, Internet of Things, networks etc in colleges affiliated to the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) for the academic year 2020-21. Last year, there were only 84 AI seats in B.Tech in private colleges and none in other emerging technologies. However, this year, the number of seats will rise manifold with more colleges seeking approvals for computer science engineering in emerging technologies courses. With the affiliation process in its last lap, JNTUH has seen a surge in the number of colleges applying for emerging technology courses this year. Many have discontinued traditional courses such as chemical engineering and electronics and have added additional number of seats in emerging technology courses. “A total of 150 colleges have applied for affiliations and a majority of them have sought permissions to run computer science engineering in AI and ML, data science, cybersecurity etc.,” said Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH. All the colleges will be following the model curriculum issued by the All India Council of Technical Education for the six new courses in emerging technologies. The university is also helping college managements train faculty members in these new courses in association with industry experts. Recently, the university’s Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security held a faculty development programme on cyber security and forensics for 80 teachers. Overall, close to 80,000 seats are expected to be on offer for various engineering streams in the state this year. Last year, as many as 88,199 seats were available in various engineering colleges of which 78,729 seats were on offer in colleges affiliated to JNTUH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nearly-15k-seats-up-for-grabs-in-emerging-technologies/articleshow/77008866.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Vadodara||Case tally at 3,370 as 74 more test positive for nCov||Vadodara: With 74 more testing positive for Covid-19 in the city and district, the total number of cases in the city went up to 3,370 on Thursday. At 107 discharges on the same day, the number of recovered patients was also encouraging. According to details disclosed by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), as many as 522 tests were conducted since Wednesday evening. Of these, 21 cases were detected in the north zone, 17 in the west zone, 12 in the south zone and three in the east zone. The areas of Vadodara district outside VMC limits reported 20 new cases. The areas include Bajwa, Por, Dabhoi, Simli, Padra, Sansrod, Karjan and Jarod. One person from Bharuch too tested positive in Vadodara. After the large number of discharges on Thursday, the total number of persons under treatment reduced to 770 on Thursday from 803 on Wednesday. Those under treatment include 38 persons on ventilators or BIPAP machines as well as 125 on oxygen support. In the red zones of the city and district health teams detected 17 suspected Covid-19 cases. As many as 1,582 persons were quarantined in the city including 1,522 under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/case-tally-at-3370-as-74-more-test-positive-for-ncov/articleshow/77006199.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Man held for raping and impregnating minor daughter||TUTICORIN: A 45-year-old man was arrested for raping and impregnating his 14-year-old daughter in Tuticorin district. The incident came to light on Wednesday when the girl fell ill and was taken to the Pudur primary health centre (PHC). Since the girl is in her 7th month of pregnancy, doctors have expressed concern over terminating the pregnancy. The accused Karuppasamy, an alcoholic, is engaged in making coal from firewood. He is married to two sisters and a has daughter each through both wives. Both families live separately in a village near Pudur. The victim is the second wife’s daughter and is studying Class 9 in a government school. He mother is working as a labourer. According to police, preliminary inquiries with the girl revealed that she was raped by her father in an inebriated condition when she was alone in her house on December 14 and 15. He threatened to kill her if she told anyone. On Wednesday, she was taken to the Pudur PHC after falling sick. The PHC confirmed her pregnancy and she was referred to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital. Based on her statement, Karuppasamy was booked under sections 5(n) (relative of a child having a domestic relationship with a parent of the child commits penetrative sexual assault on such child), 5(l) (penetrative sexual assault on a child more than once), 5(j)(ii) (impregnating a girl child) and 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He was also booked under Section 506(i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. As the man went into hiding, a team led by the inspector of Ettayapuram police station, Kala arrested him from a hideout and handed him over to the Vilathikulam all women police station (AWPS). District child protection officer, B Jothikumar said the girl expressed willingness to abort the foetus after counselling. “But doctors said the baby has fully grown and it would be dangerous to carry out the procedure now. They have taken scans and other tests based on which they would be able to take a decision,” he said. The girl is weak and has a very less haemoglobin count, due to which she needs to be administered with blood. As she had cold at the time of admission, swab samples were collected from her for Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-raping-and-impregnating-minor-daughter/articleshow/77008861.cms||M K Ananth
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur boy scores 99.23%, is likely Maharashtra topper||NAGPUR: With a rock solid 99.23% in his kitty, local boy Chaitanya Iyer is most likely to be the overall state topper in HSC. A student of science stream at Ambedkar College, Chaitanya, was overjoyed to see his marks were more than he had expected. “I was expecting a good score, no doubt, but now being told that I might be the state topper is too surreal,” said an obviously beaming Chaitanya. The reason no one can really be sure of the ‘state topper’ tag is because Maharashtra government does not release a merit list. The toppers rankings are based solely on data shared either by schools or by students/parents. Scoring high is not new to Chaitanya. He had bagged 97.8% in his SSC (Std X) too. He’s pleased that his latest feat is doing the city proud. “I was born and brought up here, so feel proud to be a Nagpurian,” he said. Unlike most of his peers, Chaitanya is not looking to go for IIT or medical field. “I want to be an economist, but want an engineering degree. So there is an interesting dual degree in engineering and economics being offered at BITS-Pilani, which I am planning to study,” said Chaitanya. He has absolutely no plans for going abroad either for studies or work. “I love my country and want to serve it. It would be great if I can join the Indian Economic Service (IES) after finishing my studies,” said Chaitanya. The IES is an inter-ministerial and inter-departmental service. The posts are primarily located in ministries/ departments dealing with economic and social sectors in the Government of India. Chaitanya comes from a humble background, one which fosters self study. “My father is a professor and mother a homemaker. They never pressured me about studies or marks, and that helped me a lot,” said Chaitanya. Last year, he lost his maternal grandfather, and that came as a jolt. “It is his blessings due to which I have achieved these marks,” he added. To de-stress, Chaitanya loves to play the keyboard. “I love listening to AR Rahman’s music, and playing a mix of classical and modern music on my keyboard,” said Chaitanya. He gives credit to his college for helping him learn techniques of approaching the exam and time management. Kabir Rawlekar, vice-principal of Ambedkar College, said “Chaitanya was kind of an all-rounder. An extremely regular student and took active part in science exhibitions too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-boy-chaitanya-scores-99-23-is-likely-state-topper/articleshow/77008852.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: With no ministers, files stacking up in departments||JAIPUR: As Sachin Pilot has been removed as the minister for rural development and panchayati raj and with no minister at the helm of affairs now, a large number of files pertaining to questions raised in the state assembly, transfer/postings and policy decisions are getting stacked up at the department, according to officials. Pilot also held charge of Public Works Department (PWD). Apart from Pilot, Ramesh Chand Meena and Vishvendra Singh have also been removed as food and civil supplies and tourism ministers, respectively. According to officials, files are getting stacked up in these departments as well (PWD, food and civil supplies and tourism). Meanwhile, Pilot has sent all the files, marked to him, back to the departments. When there is no minister in a particular department, the files are automatically marked to the chief minister, said officials. A senior official in the government said, “It does affect the functioning of a department when there is no minister in-charge. Most of the departments are waiting for the appointment of new ministers for clearance of the files. The government should have appointed new ministers in vacant posts immediately.” “The files related to proposals to be sent to the finance department and DOP are usually forwarded to them after the approval of the minister. There is a Rs 66-crore watershed development fund, under which there will be a watershed bhavan (office and training centre) at every district headquarter. We cannot spend that money without the approval of the finance department. That file, too, has come back to the department from the former minister’s office,” said the official. “Also, files related to change in-service rules, up-gradation or creation of new posts, changing the guidelines/rules in the existing schemes/programmes or introducing new schemes are sent to DOP with the approval of the minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-no-ministers-files-stacking-up-in-depts/articleshow/77008883.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||BJP ally Beniwal accuses former CM Raje of helping Gehlot||Jaipur: Rashtriya Loktantrik Party national convenor Hanuman Beniwal has accused Vasundhara Raje of coming to the rescue of chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his government.In a series of tweets, he attacked Raje of coming to the aid of the beleaguered chief minister in the ongoing power struggle within the Congress.“Former CM Vasundhara Raje making a strong effort to save the minority government of Ashok Gehlot. Raje has also made calls to many Congress MLAs,” he claimed.“Vasundhara called her close friends in the Congress. She asked one Jat MLA each from Sikar and Nagaur districts asking to keep distance from Sachin Pilot”, tweeted the Nagaur MP who is an alliance partner of the BJP.In another tweet citing media reports he said, “Gehlot himself claimed that he had call recording (of the alleged deal) with him. Tapping phone is a violation of the rights given by the Constitution. Gehlot ji is doing such tricks which are not worthy of him,” said the Jat leader.Beniwal, a former BJP MLA was kicked out of the BJP in 2013 due to his antagonistic relations with the former chief minister in 2013. After parting ways with the BJP, he contested as an independent from the Khinvsar assembly seat in Nagaur in 2013 assembly election and won. He formed the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party in 2018 before the assembly elections. His party won in three assembly seats including himself.Considering his popularity among the youth in his community, the BJP had formed an alliance with him in the last parliamentary elections and he won the Nagaur seat.Beniwal’s allegations assumes importance in the light of the fact that Raje has been keeping a silence on the political development in her home state. Raje who is camping in Delhi was supposed to come to Jaipur on Wednesday but it was cancelled after Pilot ruled out an alliance with the BJP. Pilot had also in a lashed out at the Gehlot government for going all the way to Supreme Court in appealing against the high court order to save the bungalow allotted to the former chief minister at 13- Civil Lines despite the party opposing such a provision for former chief ministers. Pilot also attacked Gehlot for not holding an inquiry into the mining scam during Raje’s tenure accusing him of hand-in-glove with her.Two Raje loyalists question Pilot bungalow in DelhiAfter Sachin Pilot questioned the allotment of bungalow to former chief minister Raje, two of her loyalists on Thursday questioned Pilot for keeping a government bungalow in Delhi. They said the former chief minister was allotted bungalow as a senior legislator not as former chief minister.Two BJP MLAs, former minister Pratap Singh Singhvi and former speaker Kailash Meghwal, both from Raje camp said Pilot had a bungalow on 5-Canning Road and on what basis he claimed a high moral ground .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-ally-beniwal-accuses-former-cm-raje-of-helping-gehlot/articleshow/77008886.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 17, 2020||Rajkot||4.8 magnitude quake jolts Rajkot citizens from sleep||Rajkot: Residents of Rajkot were jolted out of their sleep after an earthquake of 4.8 intensity shook most parts of the city and villages of the district at 7:40am on Thursday. The epicentre of the tremor was in Bhayasar village, 19 km from Rajkot, according to the Institute of Seismological Research, Gujarat While there were no injuries to people, damage to properties were reported from some villages. The tremor was also felt in Amreli, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Jamnagar, Porbandar and Devbhumi Dwarka districts.“I was in deep sleep and heard a noise as if a big vehicle was passing by. By the time I could realize, I was already trembling in the bed. I rushed out of my apartment.” said Vijay Patel, a resident of Canal Road.The quake brought back memories of the tremor of 5.8 intensity that had jolted the state on the night of June 14. The epicentre of that quake was near Bhachau in Kutch.Rajkot Municipal Corporation issued the statement saying that there was no damage to the important installations. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal also directed all the city engineers to verify the condition of building structures. “All the structures like Aji-1 dam, Aji pumping station, filter plant, Nyari-1 dam, Gauridad sewage treatment plant, Raiyadhar and Ghanteshwar water treatment plants, Raiyadhar sewage treatment plant, city bus and BRTS bus stops have been checked and no damage has been found because of the quake.” Talking to TOI, AR Ranavasia, district development officer (DDO), Rajkot said, “Celling of a trust-run school in Kolithad village near Gondal collapsed while compound wall of Vasavad health centre also crashed. We have sent a team to verify if these properties were already damaged or the collapse was because of the quake.”Several houses also developed cracks in villages of Rajkot districts, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/4-8-magnitude-quake-jolts-rajkot-citizens-from-sleep/articleshow/77007144.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Congress, BJP lash out at KCR on Osmania ordeal||HYDERABAD: The two major opposition parties in the state highlighted the pathetic situation prevailing at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) on Thursday. During their visit to OGH, both Congress and BJP lashed out at chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for not taking steps to revamp the dilapidated hospital. Launching a scathing attack against KCR, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said that amenities at OGH should be improved on a war footing. “CM promised to reconstruct the hospital but he failed to do so,” said Sanjay, adding that the CM is not interested in the hospital construction as he would not get commission. TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded that a new building be constructed on OGH premises. “While protecting the heritage structures, the government should construct a new building on the same premises,” said Uttam, adding that he wanted to know why the government is not sanctioning Rs 500 crore for such an important structure. “For poor it is catch-22 situation. It’s high time a decision is taken for benefit of the poor,” a retired doctor of the hospital said. HRC takes note of reportMeanwhile, the state human rights commission (TSHRC) took suo motu cognizance of a TOI report about sewage entering into OGH and called for a report from the hospital superintendent by August 21. The HRC also took suo-moto cognizance of another report with respect to the death one P Ramkumar, a TDP party city secretary, allegedly due to delay in treatment at Chest hospital, Erragadda. The superintendent was told to file a report by August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-bjp-lash-out-at-kcr-on-osmania-ordeal/articleshow/77008888.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 17, 2020||Pune||23 policemen contract contagion over 24 hours||PUNE/PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: As many as 23 police personnel from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police, posted on Covid-19 bundobust duty in containment zones, have tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. So far, 247 of 349 police personnel, who tested positive since cases were reported in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, have been discharged post-recovery whereas 99 others are under treatment at different health care facilities. Pune additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “Eleven police personnel, including three each from the police headquarters and city traffic branch, are among the latest to test positive for the coronavirus. Of these, seven live in containment zones while four others are residents of non-containment zones.” Morale, who is supervising the health of police personnel, said, “We have started contact tracing of the policemen’s family members, colleagues, neighbours, friends, and others.” According to the officer, 225 policemen under Pune police have tested positive since the outbreak and 173 have been discharged after recovery, 49 are under treatment and three policemen have succumbed to the contagion.” In Pimpri Chinchwad, 124 police personnel have tested positive so far and 74 have recovered, while 50 remain under treatment, assistant commissioner of police RR Patil told TOI. Patil said, “We have tied up with five hospitals where our infected police personnel are being treated. We have reserved space at the Covid-19 care centre in Balewadi and have also rented out a couple of flats in Chakan for isolation of our staff from Chakan and nearby police stations, if required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/23-policemen-contract-contagion-over-24-hours/articleshow/77008884.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy district up to 6th position from 13th last year||TRICHY: With a pass percentage of 95.94, Trichy district has secured the sixth place among districts in the class XII state board examination results declared on Thursday, up from the 13th place it had to contend with last year. This was primarily due to the performance of government schools as well as students in the differently abled category. Out of the total 31,048 students who appeared for the examination in the district, 29,787 have passed. As usual, girls outnumbered boys in pass percentage with 97.50 % of them passing the exam compared to 93.99% boys. Expressing happiness at the results, district collector S Sivarasu said it was an additional 2.4% students who passed the examination which took the district to the sixth position. The district’s pass percentage last year was 93.56. This could not have been possible without the performance of government school students. Trichy is ranked third in terms of the pass percentage of government school students with 92.75. Out of 250 schools in the district, 82 have secured cent per cent results. Facing board examination for the first time after the new syllabus was introduced, it was challenging for the students as no blueprint was given. Saying that subject toppers are more in commerce and humanities than in science this year, a government school teacher from Adnanallur block said that the highest marks in science stream last year was over 500 marks out of 600. But this year it has come down to 437. However the highest mark in commerce is 519 this year. This year, questions in science subject were relatively tougher which brought down marks, said the head master of government model girls higher secondary school, S Anbusekaran. Science being concept-based, and unless students are thorough with them, they may face difficulty. Humanities is a mixture of theory and concept which gave them an advantage in scoring marks, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-district-up-to-6th-position-from-13th-last-yr/articleshow/77009252.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||ED quizzes former rly minister Bansal in ’13 posting case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has quizzed former Union railway minister and senior Congress member Pawan Bansal in an alleged “cash-for-posting” scandal involving his nephew Vijay Singla in which Rs 89 lakh was believed to have changed hands in 2013, reports Rohan Dua. Bansal, who was then the member of Parliament from Chandigarh, was questioned for more than eight hours at ED’s Chandigarh office in sector 18 on Wednesday. His quizzing comes seven years after cash was seized by the CBI from the office of Bansal's nephew. “We had summoned him under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. ED’s criminal case was filed based on the CBI's FIR and the chargesheet has already been submitted by them,” a top ED official told TOI on Thursday. Bansal was made a witness in the the chargesheet filed by CBI in the case. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-quizzes-former-rly-minister-bansal-in-13-posting-case/articleshow/77009702.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-recovered float plasma association in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Some of the Covid-19 patients, who have recovered, floated Telangana Plasma Donors’ Association (TPDA) on Thursday to create awareness among people to donate their plasma to save other Covid-19 patients. Gudur Narayana Reddy, president of the association. and also TPCC treasurer, said: “We have about 80 people in TPDA now. We want to increase the membership to 800 people so that those in need of plasma will get it in time without any cost,” he told TOI. After launching the association, the members met health minister Eatala Rajender to request him to frame guidelines for plasma donations in Telangana. They told the the minister that governments of Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Odisha and other states are taking steps to boost plasma therapy. The association also told the minister that they would rope in nearly 100 Telugu doctors settled in UK, Spain, Italy and USA to coordinate in tele-medicine for Covid-19 patients in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-recovered-float-plasma-assn/articleshow/77008906.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Opposition created hurdles for new buildings: Mins||HYDERABAD: Ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav and V Srinivas Goud on Thursday said that the Congress and BJP are responsible for the present condition of Osmania General Hospital (OGH) building. They said that the opposition parties had created legal hurdles for the government when it had wanted to construct two new buildings with 24 floors each. They said that the opposition is now against construction of the new secretariat. “I request the high court to take suo motu cognisance of the issue before any major mishap happens,” Srinivas Yadav said after inspecting the OGH along with officials. “Due to irresponsible opposition parties and also cut on the medical seats with the demolition of existing buildings, the government could not go ahead with demolition of OGH,” the minister said. After water entered into the hospital, the authorities have shifted all the patients to upper floors, he said. In a separate press meet, another minister, V Srinivas Goud said Congress and BJP were trying to politicise the issue of OGH and both the parties were responsible for the current condition of Osmania hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oppn-created-hurdles-for-new-bldgs-mins/articleshow/77008897.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 17, 2020||Delhi||NDMC extends Covid-19 testing to government offices and courts||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has initiated a drive early this week to send mobile teams to the ministries, the Supreme Court, Delhi high court and other important government offices. Health teams will cover all government complexes where public footfall is high so that timely detection can help in containing Covid-19 infections. The drive has started on the direction of the New Delhi district disaster management office, said an official. Health teams have so far arranged for antigen testing at the offices of the ministries of home affairs, textile, labour and employment, power, and water resources, and at Palika Bhawan in RK Puram, Lok Nayak Bhawan, the Supreme Court and Delhi high court. “If any result turns out to be suspicious, health teams conduct RT-PCR testing,” said an official. Mobile teams visit these places daily or on alternate days based on requirement. Till Friday, 643 tests have been conducted and 13 have been found positive. “To help health teams, teachers, lab technicians and staff from other departments are performing various duties such as supervising camps and on-the-ground coordination,” said an NDMC official. “We conduct tests of staff, lawyers, senior officials and others who want to use the facility.” The civic agency is also receiving requests from many other bodies such as Press Club of India to arrange for such camps, he added. NDMC has earlier started both antigen and RT-PCR testing in containment areas and buffer zones. Following encouraging response at its first antigen centre in Sarojini Nagar, it has opened up three more centres at Laxmi Bai Nagar, Malcha Marg and Moti Bagh. “Two of these are in our dispensaries and the one at Malcha Marg is a health centre. People living in nearby government quarters can get tested in these areas,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-extends-testing-to-govt-offices-and-courts/articleshow/77027259.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 17, 2020||Delhi||Truckloads of trouble: Bio-medical waste in open raises infection risk in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Ranjeet Kumar, a garbage collector, arrives early every morning at the garbage dump near Nangloi Railway Station. These days, he is chary about directly handling the trash in the dhalao there. For eight days now, he said, he has found biomedical waste packed in cardboard boxes dumped alongside the municipal waste at the dhalao. “It must be being brought at night,” said Kumar, combing through the solid waste. “I have been cautious from the beginning and steer clear of the biowaste mixed with regular garbage, but many others aren’t. They often tear the cardboard boxes and let out the hazardous waste.” TimesViewBiomedical waste can be a deadly super-spreader in its own way affecting dozens of rag pickers who, in turn, can infect their families. This would render all the hard work by health workers and administrations to contain the virus a waste. What is needed is not merely a standard operating procedure for disposal of such waste but effective monitoring to ensure it is followed.Used face masks, face shields and other hazardous biomedical waste thrown into the dump mixes with the municipal solid waste from nearby colonies, leaving trash collectors at the risk of contracting the novel coronavirus infection. The locals surmise that the biomedical waste is dumped at night or early morning by a quarantine facility or a hospital. Vinod Sharma, programme officer at Toxics Link, an NGO dealing with environmental poisoning, confirmed seeing the biomedical waste on Wednesday during a survey on plastic pollution. He said the dumping appeared to be a large-scale violation that could not be stemming from just one medical facility. “If you look at the quantity, it’s clear this is not coming from just one hospital or a quarantine facility, but from several,” noted Sharma. “Either this is being done illegally or the rules about disposal of biomedical hazards are being blatantly disregarded. This is a serious health risk to the sanitation workers and waste pickers and could well lead to community transmission of Covid-19 too.” Dinesh, who lives in a temple adjacent to the dumping site, said that he generally opens the shrine for people around 4am and has seen a truck come and dump cardboard boxes at the dhalao. “I take a bath around 3.30am and before I throw open the temple for early morning worshippers, I have spotted the truck bringing the hazardous waste,” he said, adding rather ruefully, “I have informed police, but as you can see nothing has been done.” TOI tried to contact North Delhi Municipal Corporation but received no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/truckloads-of-trouble-bio-med-waste-in-open-raises-infection-risk/articleshow/77008920.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 17, 2020||Rajkot||Man detained for allegedly raping his daughter in Gujarat||PALANPUR: A 45-year-old man was detained on Thursday for allegedly raping his 16-year-old daughter and impregnating her in Sapra village, some 15 km from Patan.On Wednesday last week, the girl complained to her mother about stomach ache. Her mother took her to the doctor who diagnosed the girl as pregnant. “After taking her into confidence, the mother made her daughter confide in her and she revealed that her father had been sexually assaulting her. He had also threatened her with dire consequences if she complained about it to anyone,” said SP Khare, inspector with Saraswati taluka police station. The woman then took her daughter to the police station and lodged the complaint against her father. The accused is an alcoholic who used to work as a labourer. The survivor’s mother works as a maid. “At present, we have detained the accused. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test,” added Khare. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-detained-for-allegedly-raping-his-daughter/articleshow/77007158.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cabinet nod to One Stop Shop for fast tracking investments||JAIPUR: For fast-tracking investment and capacity expansion proposals by facilitating time-bound approvals and clearances, the state cabinet has approved ‘One Stop Shop’ scheme, earlier known as single window clearance system. According to the scheme, entrepreneurs investing above Rs 10 crore will be able to get 98 types of clearances under one roof at the ‘One Stop Shop’ (OSS) under the Bureau of Investment Promotion of the industries department. Officers from 14 departments like industries, RIICO, energy, labour, urban development, local self-governance, pollution control board, consumer affairs, tourism, revenue, factories and boilers, public works and PHED will be deputed to the One Stop Shop cell and will ensure that investment-related issues concerning multiple departments are received and addressed at one location to avoid unnecessary delay in clearances. “Rajasthan government is committed to ensure a transparent and hassle-free ecosystem for investments coming to the state. Establishment of the OSS is in sequence with the various pro-industry measures taken by the government such as Rajasthan Industrial Development Policy (2019), Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme (2019) and MSME (Facilitation of Establishment and Operation) Act, 2019,” said Naresh Pal Gangwar, principal secretary, Industries. The state cabinet has recently approved amendments in the ‘The Rajasthan Enterprises Single Window Enabling and Clearance Act, 2011’ and provided for the constitution of a Board of Investment under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister for the purpose. Sources said issues related to large projects concerning land, incentive or disputes will be decided by the Board of Investment (BoI) so that high-value investments don’t face delays. The source said the BoI will have ministers of finance and industries as members along with the chief secretary and principal secretary of industries, while the Investment Commissioner will be the member secretary of the board. The board will decide issues which require consideration at government level. Suresh Agarwal, president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry said, “In the current situation, the government needs to be pro-active to restart the state’s economy and industry. Elimination of bureaucratic hurdles will certainly enhance the attractiveness of the state as an investment destination. Strong revival of industrial investment will be key to creating jobs, demand and replenishing state’s coffers.” Agarwal cited the response to the new MSME Act which has attracted over 5000 companies since it was launched in June last year. “These are small investments but the MSME Act reform has shown how industry comes forward if there is ease of doing business. We expect the OSS also creates that kind of comfort among investors,” added Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cabinet-nod-to-one-stop-shop-for-fast-tracking-investments/articleshow/77008892.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Shops in markets barricaded to maintain social distancing||MADURAI: Markets have been barricaded to reduce the risk of contact in Madurai. The move comes after Paravai market in the outskirts of the city produced a cluster and cases were reported in the Madurai Central vegetable and fruit markets People who went to the Anna Nagar farmers market were surprised to see barricades in front of each shop. Even though police personnel have been monitoring the crowds in these markets for over a month now, people still continue to violate safety norms. A market worker was even tested positive recently. Customers were made to stand between the barricades in a line. “It was a time-consuming process, but better as it gave a sense of safety. Otherwise, people tend to crowd around a single vendor,’’ said Venkat Prabu of Anna Nagar. This market is to be closed for the next two days for disinfectant purposes. The Mattuthavani vegetable market now operates with just 350 shops out of 700. President of the market, P S Murugan said that they are trying to minimize contact with the public to the best of their ability by functioning between 10 pm to 6 am for wholesale procurement and sales. Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to shift the Paravai market to the satellite town in Kappalur. President of the Paravai market, Manuel Jeyaraj, said that news of their market turning into a cluster had been unwarranted as the 20 people who were tested positive have recovered. “But now the district administration has decided to shift our 300 shops to the satellite town and we have agreed,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shops-in-mkts-barricaded-to-maintain-social-distancing/articleshow/77008909.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telanagana: Health workers on field visits to be armed with oximeters||HYDERABAD: After ramping up the Covid-19 tests by introducing the rapid antigen tests, the government has started distributing oximeters to health workers who go on field visits. The health workers who are engaged in door-to-door fever survey, will measure the oxygen levels of the people with the oximeters. A pulse oximeter is a tool to monitor oxygen saturation level and can pick up Covid-induced hypoxia (low oxygen levels in the blood) early. Many Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic turn critical suddenly with oxygen levels falling. Delhi and Tamil Nadu governments, besides others are advising the people to buy and use the oximeters . The Tamil Nadu government has been advocating the use of these kits and has so far procured 25,000 such kits. Doctors in the state are advising the people to have simple oximeters at home with which one can check oneself. Delhi government went one step ahead and supplied oximetres free of cost to mild and asymptomatic patients who are under home isolation. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed these pulse oximeters ‘‘suraksha kavach’‘ (protective shield) that have helped reduce Covid-19 cases in Delhi. However, the Telangana government is not distributing the oximeters to people and giving them only to the health workers. Apart from the oximeters, thermal scanners have also been given to the health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-workers-on-field-visits-to-be-armed-with-oximeters/articleshow/77008914.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 17, 2020||Rajkot||Lion trackers go on stike in Shetrunji division||Rajkot: Tracking of lions near Port Pipavav and the vulnerable railway line connecting the port is likely to be affected with nearly 24 trackers of Shetrunji division going on a strike on Thursday.The trackers are hired on contract by Gujarat State Lion Conservation Society, which is a part of the forest department, through third-party hiring. The trackers said they want to have direct contract with society and that no third-party should be involved in this crucial work. Shetrunji division was formed last year considering the increasing number of lions in Amreli. There are nearly 80 lions in this division.Shetrunji range covers Rajula, Jafrabad, Port Pipavav and Liliya in Amreli district and Jesar and Talaja in Bhavnagar district and all these areas fall in revenue (non-protected) area. According to sources, the major threat to lions here is the railway lion as the felines frequently saunter close to the tracks. These trackers play a major role in saving lions from going close to the railway line when trains are approaching. There have been several incidents where lions or their cubs have got crushed under the moving train. Also, it is usually during evening and late night that the lions move towards the track. These trackers inform higher officials about ill lions and accidents. When contacted, Nisha Raj, deputy conservator of forest, Shetrunji wildlife division said, “Their contracts are yet to be renewed by the wildlife circle office. We are trying to bring an amicable solution to their grievances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-trackers-go-on-stike-in-shetrunji-division/articleshow/77007187.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Madurai||TN CM condoles murders of armyman’s wife, mother||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday offered condolences to the family of armyman S Stephen, whose wife and mother were murdered in Sivaganga district on Tuesday, and announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the bereaved family from the chief minister’s general relief fund. Palaniswami also assured that the culprits will be arrested and severely punished. The CM said that he has instructed the police department in this connection. Stephen is serving in the Indian Army in Ladakh region while his father Santhiyagu is an ex-serviceman. On Tuesday, unidentified people murdered Stephen’s wife S Sneha, 28, and his mother S Rajakumari, 65, at their house in Mudukkoorani by beating them with iron rods and smothering them. Police suspect that the duo was murdered for gain as gold jewellery and cash were missing from the home. Santhiyagu stayed in his farmland the day the incident took place and the murders came to light on Wednesday morning when he returned. The Kalaiyarkovil police is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-condoles-murders-of-armymans-wife-mother/articleshow/77008911.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Open at once or lose licence: Government to Madurai private hospitals||MADURAI: The government has instructed private hospitals in Madurai, which remained closed during the pandemic period, to open immediately. Monitoring officer for Covid-19 in Madurai, Dr B Chandramohan, said the health department will issue notices to them to reopen, failing which they could lose their licences. He said that about 130 clinics which were closed in Madurai and not treating patients were being asked to start treatment again under the Clinical Establishment Act. They could apply for treating Covid patients. After immediate inspection, the recommendation will be sent to the director of medical services, who is the appropriate authority, and permission would be granted within two days if they were found fit. Dentists were one section who could not be accessed during the lockdown as they work in close proximity with their patients. This could be risky for both the dentists and their patients in terms of the spread of Covid. At present, dental clinics are allowed to operate in non-containment zones. They are allowed to manage dental emergencies and advised not to practise aerosol-generating procedures. They have to follow all standard precautions in preventing the spread of Covid-19, he said. All hospitals with ICUs and bed strength above 50 are being asked to initiate Covid management following all protocols. Currently, 25 hospitals have got approval through the DMS for Covid management and up to 10 are in the process of getting approval. All standard precautionary Covid protocols are to be followed and are inspected randomly. The hospitals also have to follow all SOPs including hand wash at entrance, social distancing, hand sanitizers and sensitisation of health workers regularly. Government doctors have welcomed the move as it would reduce their burden and they could very well concentrate on Covid-19 care. Even the GRH is seeing a large number of people coming for regular checkup, which could have been lessened if the smaller hospitals are opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/open-at-once-or-lose-licence-govt-to-madurai-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/77008919.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||April-June: Home sales drop by 94% in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic has hit real estate market in India very hard and Ahmedabad is no exception. The home sales in the city slumped by 94% and new project launches by 68% in April-June quarter mainly due to the Covid prompted lockdown. The Ahmedabad market saw only 252 residential units being sold in the second quarter of the current calendar year as against the sales of 3,987 units during the same period in 2019, says the latest report released by the real estate consultancy firm Knight Frank India. Similarly, the launch of new residential units also plummeted to 525 units in the second quarter from 1,641 units in the corresponding period last year. The erosion in second quarter sales has brought half-yearly sales in 2020 to its worst level in a decade. The housing sales declined by 69% to 2,520 during January-June 2020 from 8,212 units in the same period last year. During the same time, new launches came down 23% to 2,627 in H1 2020 as against 3,398 in January-June 2019, the report adds. “Negligible sales and sluggish demand resulted into weighted average price easing 1.9% to Rs 2,795 per square foot in H1 on year-on-year (YoY) basis. Ahmedabad market, however, has the lowest realty prices in India,” the report added. “The pandemic in H1 2020 has pushed developers to negotiate more aggressively with potential buyers on price and payment terms in order to sustain sales levels. Increasing incidences of buyers cancelling purchases due to fear of income loss and banks taking more stringent loan underwriting measures even with home buyers, have severely curtailed sales,” said Balbirsingh Khalsa, national director-industrial and logistics, Knight Frank India. Stating that Ahmedabad is among the most affordable residential markets among India’s top eight cities,” Khalsa added, “Developers in the city are well aware of the price sensitive nature of the market and have achieved a fair amount of success in liquidating inventory and maintaining financial health.” The unsold inventory in Ahmedabad market eased 3% to 9,744 units in Jan-June period. “Ahmedabad market has strong fundamentals with unsold inventory remaining very low. As the sentiment improves, this market will see a fast recovery. From the investment point of view, land and residential market in Ahmedabad is very good,” said a senior official of Knight Frank India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/april-june-home-sales-drop-by-94/articleshow/77008110.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Rajkot||Five arrested for murder over extramarital affair in Rapar||RAJKOT: Five accused in the case of murder in an extramarital affair were arrested on Thursday. In the case that happened at Lakadavandh village of Rapar taluka in Kutch district accused Dharma Koli along with his three sons — Satish, Gokal and Shiva and a nephew Haresh — had killed Babu Koli (32) on Wednesday afternoon on allegations of his extramarital affair with Dharma’s daughter Sita, said the police. However, no sooner the news of the brutal murder of her paramour had reached the 19-year-old woman, she too took her own life by hanging to death from the ceiling of her house on the same day. “After the complaint was lodged in the case, we went to Lakadavandh village and rounded up the accused. They will be formally arrested after they undergo Covid-19 test,” said B J Parmar, sub-inspector with Balasar police station. According to the police, deceased Sita’s family members were against her relationship with Babu as the latter was married. They tried to put an end to the relationship and had also met Babu’s family members on the issue. At the meeting, a compromise was struck that the persons concerned will sever all ties with each other and never even try to contact each other. But, Babu and Sita continued to talk over the phone. When her family came to know about their continuing the relationship, an angered Koli decided to teach Babu a lesson. And so, on that fateful day when Babu was working on a farm, the five accused attacked him with scythes, crowbar, iron pipes and bats, killing him on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-arrested-for-murder-over-extramarital-affair-in-rapar/articleshow/77007209.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Chennai hospital’s protocol helps handle labour of Covid-19 positive moms-to-be||CHENNAI: As many as 1,104 pregnant women who tested positive for Covid-19 have given birth at government hospitals across the state and were discharged from Covid wards following treatment. Of them, 374 were treated successfully at the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG) in Chennai. This included last-minute referrals from private hospitals and those referred from Chennai Corporation’s fever camps. The IOG’s Covid ward has so far recorded zero maternity deaths. Health minister C Vijayabaskar attributed it to a specialised admission and treatment protocol developed by the institute. Patients, who get admitted 10 days before the expected date of delivery are screened for Covid and sent to the ordinary labour ward only if they test negative. Moms-to-be who test positive are admitted to the Covid ward and during their labour, a sterile cloth separated the patient and the doctors, nurses assisting the delivery. “All women shout due to labour pains and this means more droplets containing the virus gets released into the room. The sterile cloth acts as a separation and an added layer of safety for the doctors and nurses,” said S Vijaya, director of IOG. All safety measures including this separation is used in cases of emergency admissions when there is no time to run Covid-19 tests prior to delivery. To reduce Covid-19 exposure of healthcare professionals, hospitals opt to perform cesareans (C-section) deliveries after waiting for 6-8 hours, compared to the usual 24-hours wait time. This has increased the cesarean rate from 30% to 50%, she added. A total of 491 pregnant women are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 across the state. In the case of newborns, around 10-12% test positive at comprehensive emergency obstetric and newborn care (CEMONC) centres across the state and efforts are taken to prevent the infants from contracting the infection from their mothers, said Vijayabaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-hosps-protocol-helps-handle-labour-of-ve-moms-to-be/articleshow/77008922.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Act on vigilance reports, FGG to govt||Hyderabad: Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has demanded that the Telangana government act on Vigilance Commission reports in around 150 corruption cases and 100 other irregularities cases. For the past several years, Vigilance Commission reports have been kept in cold storage. FGG had obtained replies from the general administration department (GAD), which says they were not submitted. FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said, “The Commission submits its annual reports in April to the governor and it is sent to GAD for action and then placed in the assembly. “In many cases, Vigilance Commission recommendations are rejected, but the report is not placed in the Assembly. Telangana Vigilance Commission manual is totally violated by not placing the reports. For the past eight years, FGG has been asking the government to place reports in the assembly, but no action has been taken,” the FGG chief said. “Earlier in 2013, principal secretary to the governor addressed a letter to the chief secretary to furnish action taken report. However, there was no action. FGG has now again written to the governor seeking intervention in the case,” Padmanabha Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/act-on-vigilance-reports-fgg-to-govt/articleshow/77008917.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 17, 2020||Trichy||14 deaths, 1,256 Covid-19 cases reported in south TN; it’s 6 & 226 in central TN||MADURAI/TRICHY: A total of 1,256 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the 10 southern districts of the state on Thursday taking the tally to 24,865. Thursday’s cases include only three imported cases, which is the lowest in a day in the region in more than two months. The region also reported 14 more deaths taking the toll past 300. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 226 cases taking the total tally to 5,789 in the eight districts on Thursday. State bulletin reports six more deaths in Trichy, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Karur districts. As many as 63 people died of Covid-19 in the region so far. As per the bulletin on Thursday, eight people – Madurai (3), Theni (2), Tuticorin (2) and Virudhunagar (1) – died on Tuesday. Madurai (134) has recorded the most number of deaths and has a death rate of 1.76%, followed by 39 deaths in Ramanathapuram. With 311 deaths, the death rate in south TN is 1.25%. This is an increase from 1.08% on July 6 when the total number of deaths was 138 against 12,675 cases. From the first death in Madurai on March 25 – that was also the first in the state – it took 101 days till July 3 to touch 100 deaths. But it took only eight days to cross 200 deaths on July 11 and just five days to cross 300 on Thursday. The highest number of cases was recorded in Madurai (267), which is the lowest for the district in the last six days. During this period it even crossed 450 cases a day twice. Tuticorin (171), Kanyakumari (146), Virudhunagar (145), Tirunelveli (130) and Dindigul (126) recorded more than 100 cases on Thursday. With 78 fresh cases, Theni (2,053) became the 6th in the region among districts to cross 2,000 cases. On the other hand, the number of active cases in Madurai came below 3,000 after nearly 10 days. On Thursday, the number of active cases was 2,929 while the number of discharged people (4,534) crossed 4,000 for the first time. Ramanathapuram (1,279) Dindigul (653) and Sivagangai (610) districts too have more discharged cases. The total discharged people in the region are 12,186 against 12,368 active cases. In the central region, a 60-year-old woman and a 70-year-old man from Trichy died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on July 14. A 65-year old man from Trichy passed away at MGMGH on July 15. All the three had diabetes mellitus. A 70-year-old man in the district with type-2 diabetes died at the government medical college hospital on July 14. He was admitted to the hospital on July 5 and tested positive on July 9. A 39-year-old man from Pudukottai with portal hypertension was also a casualty at Thanjavur government medical college on July 15. A 76-year-old man from Karur down with coronary artery disease also died at government medical college hospital in Karur on July 15. Trichy district recorded 94 cases making it on top of the list. The district tally of the positive cases touched 1902. The death toll in the district touched 30. Covid cases were also reported from Pudukottai (50), Thanjavur (25), Tiruvarur (20), Nagapattinam (8), Ariyalur (12), Perambalur (10), and Karur (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/14-deaths-1256-cases-reported-in-south-tn-its-6-226-in-central-tn/articleshow/77013687.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||With 1,676 new cases, tally in Telangana crosses 40,000, toll at 396||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 10 deaths and 1,676 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total tally of cases beyond the 40,000 mark. The cumulative total number of cases in the state is 41,018 while the death toll stands at 396. The state also set a new record by testing 14,027 samples on Thursday. So far, Telangana has tested 2,22,693 suspects. With the latest figures, about 18.85% of the total samples tested have turned positive for coronavirus, officials said. While there are 13,328 active cases in the state, the discharge rate is 67%. Meanwhile, the GHMC area saw 47 percent. The area had been recording over 90 percent of the cases up to last month. On Thursday, the three districts surrounding Hyderabad Ranga Reddy, Medchal and Sanga Reddy together saw 21 percent of the cases. “Cases are steadily rising in these areas, despite of very few testing facilities,” said an official from the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-1676-new-cases-tally-in-t-crosses-40k-toll-at-396/articleshow/77008103.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 17, 2020||Madurai||14 deaths, 1,256 Covid-19 cases reported in south TN; it’s 6 & 226 in central TN||MADURAI/TRICHY: A total of 1,256 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the 10 southern districts of the state on Thursday taking the tally to 24,865. Thursday’s cases include only three imported cases, which is the lowest in a day in the region in more than two months. The region also reported 14 more deaths taking the toll past 300. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 226 cases taking the total tally to 5,789 in the eight districts on Thursday. State bulletin reports six more deaths in Trichy, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Karur districts. As many as 63 people died of Covid-19 in the region so far. As per the bulletin on Thursday, eight people – Madurai (3), Theni (2), Tuticorin (2) and Virudhunagar (1) – died on Tuesday. Madurai (134) has recorded the most number of deaths and has a death rate of 1.76%, followed by 39 deaths in Ramanathapuram. With 311 deaths, the death rate in south TN is 1.25%. This is an increase from 1.08% on July 6 when the total number of deaths was 138 against 12,675 cases. From the first death in Madurai on March 25 – that was also the first in the state – it took 101 days till July 3 to touch 100 deaths. But it took only eight days to cross 200 deaths on July 11 and just five days to cross 300 on Thursday. The highest number of cases was recorded in Madurai (267), which is the lowest for the district in the last six days. During this period it even crossed 450 cases a day twice. Tuticorin (171), Kanyakumari (146), Virudhunagar (145), Tirunelveli (130) and Dindigul (126) recorded more than 100 cases on Thursday. With 78 fresh cases, Theni (2,053) became the 6th in the region among districts to cross 2,000 cases. On the other hand, the number of active cases in Madurai came below 3,000 after nearly 10 days. On Thursday, the number of active cases was 2,929 while the number of discharged people (4,534) crossed 4,000 for the first time. Ramanathapuram (1,279) Dindigul (653) and Sivagangai (610) districts too have more discharged cases. The total discharged people in the region are 12,186 against 12,368 active cases. In the central region, a 60-year-old woman and a 70-year-old man from Trichy died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on July 14. A 65-year old man from Trichy passed away at MGMGH on July 15. All the three had diabetes mellitus. A 70-year-old man in the district with type-2 diabetes died at the government medical college hospital on July 14. He was admitted to the hospital on July 5 and tested positive on July 9. A 39-year-old man from Pudukottai with portal hypertension was also a casualty at Thanjavur government medical college on July 15. A 76-year-old man from Karur down with coronary artery disease also died at government medical college hospital in Karur on July 15. Trichy district recorded 94 cases making it on top of the list. The district tally of the positive cases touched 1902. The death toll in the district touched 30. Covid cases were also reported from Pudukottai (50), Thanjavur (25), Tiruvarur (20), Nagapattinam (8), Ariyalur (12), Perambalur (10), and Karur (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14-deaths-1256-cases-reported-in-south-tn-its-6-226-in-central-tn/articleshow/77008926.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Patna||No postal ballots for voters above 65: EC||PATNA: Amending its earlier order, the Election Commission (EC) on Thursday announced that the postal ballots facility will not be extended to voters above the age of 65. It cited logistics, manpower constraints and Covid-19 safety concerns in its implementation in the coming Bihar polls. The facility will be limited to voters above the age of 80 and those engaged in essential services as well as Covid19 patients and suspected cases staying in quarantine. The EC had earlier recommended extension of the postal ballot facility to voters above the age of 65 to minimise their vulnerability and exposure to Covid-19 virus at the polling booths. The Union ministry of law and justice had notified the amended rules on June 16. In a press communique issued on Thursday, the EC said the decision was taken in view of the “constraints of logistics, manpower and safety protocols of the Covid19 pandemic”. The opposition parties had opposed the rule. Last week a senior RJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha wrote to the Election Commission registering the party’s serious objections over the amendments in the conduct of election rules by introducing the postal ballot system of voting for the people above 65 years of age without consultations. Talking to TOI over the phone, Jha said on Thursday that the RJD was very happy over the EC’s decision. “The EC should always keep in mind that any decision should be taken only after consultations with the political parties,” he added. The ruling BJP too welcomed the move. “BJP welcomes the decision of EC allowing postal ballot only to people above 80. RJD and Cong could have misused this facility as they were doing earlier by booth capturing,” said state BJP leader and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi. Around 34,000 new polling booths would have to be added in the state after the voters’ strength at each polling booth has been restricted to not more than 1,000 to minimise the chances of the voters getting infected with the virus. Similarly, 1.8 lakh additional polling personnel and a large number of vehicles would be required to deal with 1.06 lakh polling booths for the upcoming assembly poll as well as byelection in the state. “The new challenges came to light during frequent assessment of field preparations in the run up to the elections in the state,” the EC release issued by the Press Information Bureau revealed. The elections are due for October November this year. However, opposition parties, including RJD, have demanded to postpone the election in the wake of a surge in the Covid19 positive cases. The RJD has also got support from Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-postal-ballots-for-voters-above-65-ec/articleshow/77006616.cms||Ramashankar
July 17, 2020||Vadodara||Medical facilities holding up in Vadodara for now||Vadodara: While Vadodara may be staring at a major rise in Covid-19 cases as the viral infection spreads to new areas, availability of treatment may not be a major concern in the near future. Till Wednesday, 45% of beds in the city earmarked for Covid-19 were vacant. The administration handling the Covid-19 crisis had charted out a plan of increasing the number of beds in a phased manner in hospitals in the city as well as on its outskirts. Apart from the two government hospitals, it was ensured that private medical institutes as well as other public sector hospitals like the Railway Hospital, ESIS Hospital and Infectious Diseases Hospital provide free beds for treatment. The total number of beds stood at 2,528 till Wednesday and was increased to 3,000 from the same day. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 Vinod Rao said that the plan was to further raise the capacity to 5,000 in the first week of August. “Our projections and plans made in mid-April are turning out to be almost accurate,” he said. Rao added that out of the 1,388 patients in hospitals in the city, 212 are from outside the Vadodara district. He added that people from nearby areas were coming to the city for good services. Covid-19 patients from Ahmedabad, Surat, Bharuch, Anand, Kheda, Godhra, Mahisagar, Dahod, Narmada and Vapi districts have been admitted to city hospitals. The civic body in consultation with the association of private hospitals in the city has already fixed the rates for treatment of patients depending on the kind of hospital and the type of interventions that the patient might need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/medical-facilities-holding-up-in-vadodara-for-now/articleshow/77006220.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||Increase surveillance in five high viral load districts: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: The government will be increasing surveillance and contact tracing in five districts, including Lucknow which recorded the highest 308 Covid-19 cases in a day on Thursday, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Jhansi. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at a meeting on Thursday night in which he also added that rapid antigen testing should also be increased in these districts. The CM has also raised concerns about the increasing number of hotspots in the state, which by Thursday had touched 4,510. With 2,083 positive cases on Thursday, UP recorded its highest number of corona positive cases on a single day. During Thursday evening’s review, head of the pulmonary and critical care department in KGMU, Dr Ved Prakash, informed the CM that the number of cases was rising at present due to a high level of humidity in monsoon. He has also advised the CM that unlike the current protocol where asymptomatic patients are also being kept in institutional quarantine, those either not displaying symptoms or showing mild symptoms should be kept in home isolation. According to Dr Prakash, 80% of the cases are asymptomatic or mild, 15% are moderate and only 5% require critical care. A committee of directors and senior doctors from PGI, KGMU and RML will be constituted in the coming days to prepare a roadmap for arresting the rise in Covid-positive patients in the state. Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), said that there are currently 10.55 lakh houses under hotspot zones where 62 lakh people are under surveillance. “A detailed review will be carried out to analyse why cases are rising and how to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said. While reviewing the situation in the five sensitive districts, the CM stressed on strengthening the surveillance system to identify Covid-19 cases at the earliest so that they can be hospitalised on time, ensuring both timely treatment and preventing the virus from spreading to others. “In these five districts which have become areas of concern, contact tracing has to be increased to 100% and expedited to identify all those exposed to an infected person. While testing will be increased in these districts, antigen testing will help in showing results faster,” the official said. He added that the CM has also directed officials to keep L2 and L3 Covid hospitals free for serious cases and therefore, asymptomatic cases should only be referred to L1 hospitals. “Exception will only be made for those older than 65 years or those with comorbidities,” the official added. On Thursday, Jhansi reported 113 cases, followed by Varanasi with 78, Prayagraj with 56 and Kanpur City with 51 cases. The CM has also directed all nodal officers appointed for each of the 75 districts, one each from the administration and the police force, to reach their assigned districts latest by Friday night to be able to supervise the weekend restrictions which have been put in place from this month. The officials have been tasked with monitoring the special sanitation and sanitization drives, availability of potable water, condition of hospitals and implementation of rules. Fogging has to be done compulsorily in each district. Special attention will be given to police barracks to ensure that the infection does not spread among the police force. The CM has directed officials to create a protocol for quarantine in case a personnel has had to leave the barrack for any reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/increase-surveillance-in-five-high-viral-load-districts-cm/articleshow/77008939.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Tasmac employee with Covid-19 symptoms dies in Madurai GRH||MADURAI: The Tasmac Employees Union (TMC) on Thursday have condoled the death of their fellow worker who was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital with Covid-19 symptoms. According to the union’s press statement, vice president A Rajavel and state general secretary M Sivaprakasam have said that G Velmurugan, was working in the Madurai Northern district Tasmac shop number 5433 in Chittampatti as a salesman. He was admitted to the GRH with symptoms of Covid-19, but died even before his results were obtained. If the test result, expected to be given on Friday, prove him to be positive for the disease, Tasmac employees will protest and bring their plight to the attention of the state government, they said. Proper protection and compensation for the deceased employee have been urged from the Tasmac administration as all their lives are at risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tasmac-employee-with-covid-19-symptoms-dies-in-madurai-grh/articleshow/77008933.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Citing Covid-19 threat in jail, Saibaba moves HC for bail||Nagpur: As Covid-19 virus has breached the security barriers of Central Jail, Naxal ideologue GN Saibaba has approached Nagpur bench of Bombay high court seeking bail to save himself. In an urgent application moved before the division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar, the Delhi University professor cited his weak health and existing comorbidities, which make him vulnerable to the contagion. While issuing notices to the respondents, including Maharashtra government, the judges on Tuesday directed them to reply before July 24, fixed as the next date of hearing. Earlier, Saibaba’s mother G Suryavathi, wife AS Vasantha Kumari, and his other family members wrote a long letter to central and state governments on his plight, stating that the spread of coronavirus inside jail barracks is likely to be a “death sentence” for him. “We appeal to release him on bail or parole immediately, so that he will be provided appropriate medical treatment either at Hyderabad or Delhi, where family members are staying. Release all the incarcerated voices of democracy and uphold their right to life,” the letter said. In May, the wheelchair bound Saibaba moved a parole application before the HC through his brother to visit Hyderabad, citing his mother’s cancer. But after the prosecution led by special public prosecutor Prashant Sathianathan informed that the area in Cyberabad was declared as Covid containment zone, the plea was rejected. His brother applied again for parole almost a month ago, but there is no response from the concerned jail authorities, his family members said. According to Saibaba, who was awarded life term by the Gadchiroli court for anti-national activities, one prisoner from Anda Cell, where he was kept with 20 others, was found to be positive on July 8. “The disease has reached very close to me. It’s only a ‘matter of time’ since it reaches my cell. Even officers contracted the deadly virus and there is no special care or treatment to combat it. Despite several preventive measures, it infected hundreds of prisoners, including convicts, under trials and even the jail guards,” the 53-year-old said in his application. In conversation with his wife on July 6, Saibaba told her that once infected, he can’t recover and survive. He said that he was twice taken to Super Speciality Hospital (SSH) here during lockdown and advised to undergo more tests and also prescribed some pain killers. MRI scan and other tests were conducted, but reports have not been given so far. Even after several requests, the old diagnostic test reports since September 2018 also have not been provided, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citing-covid-19-threat-in-jail-saibaba-moves-hc-for-bail/articleshow/77021405.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 17, 2020||Trichy||Kin of victims relive pain of Kumbakonam fire tragedy||THANJAVUR: She was a kindergarten student when she lost her brothers aged eight and ten years in the 2004 Kumbakonam school fire tragedy which claimed 94 lives. But, on the 16th anniversary of the incident on Thursday, the girl, now a UG student at a private women’s college, says she misses the love, affection and care of her long-gone brothers very much. I Jansirani was three when the fire accident took place, when she was too young to understand what had happened or where her two brothers were. But as she grew up and reality dawned, she realised what she had lost, especially on seeing many siblings moving together. “Many of my classmates have brothers. Whenever they arrive at the college to drop and pick up my friends I feel a pain in my heart”, Jansirani said. Her father K Inbaraj, who lost sons I Aanadharaj and I Praveenraj who were studying in class V and III, appealed to the government to announce July 16 as Children Protection Day to create awareness among parents as well as school authorities on protecting students. “I lost both my kids in the incident, but that should not happen to anyone else. Announcing a day remembering the accident will create awareness on safety of students”, Inbaraj told TOI. For Antonydoss and Rosemary, who also lost their sons A Aravind, 10, a class V student, and A Anishkumar, 8, a class III student, in the accident, lamented that they have none to take care of them now. Though Antonydoss was a loadman and running his family with a meagre income, he nursed big dreams and spent all his earnings on the education of the boys. However, everything came down crashing all on a sudden for them, recalls Rosemary. “My husband lost his job as he met with an accident a year ago. We have neither money for food nor children to take care of us. If our children were alive, they might have started to earn. We would not have faced this present state of misery”, Rosemary told TOI. “It’s not only our fate, parents of many other victims will also be going through a similar situation,” she added. A total of 94 children were charred to death and 18 others grievously injured in the fire accident on July 16, 2004, at Krishna English Medium School in Kumbakonam which was blamed on short circuit. Three children escaped with minor injuries. Parents and relatives of the children who lost their lives paid their homage at a memorial in Kumbakonam on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kin-of-victims-relive-pain-of-kumbakonam-fire-tragedy/articleshow/77009258.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Unaided schools struggle to pay teachers’ salaries||Dharwad: With uncertainty over re-opening of schools continuing, private unaided schools in North Karnataka are struggling to pay salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff. Since classes have not resumed and online classes have no takers, many parents are not willing to pay the fees. While some managements of private schools have paid salaries of teachers for April, May and June, they say they are unable to pay from July onwards. Also, some temporary teachers are being removed from the job. Taking a cue from education minister S Sureshkumar, who has appealed to teachers of government schools to contribute their two days’ salary towards making payment to the staff of unaided schools, many private managing committees have asked the staff of aided schools to make the contribution. Some managing committees have cut the salaries of the unaided staff by 15-25%. “Unless the schools reopen and we start collecting fees, we can’t pay teachers’ salaries,” said a secretary of a private educational institution. Horatti opposes govt’s move Meanwhile, MLC and former education minister Basavaraj Horatti has taken serious exception to seeking contribution from teachers of aided schools. “Those running unaided English medium schools collect hefty fees from students and pay paltry sum to teachers. Now they should pay from their own funds and should not pressurize the aided teachers to contribute,” he told TOI. The Karnatak State Secondary Teachers’ Association will oppose the move to seek contribution from the teachers to pay the unaided teachers, Horatti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/unaided-schools-struggle-to-pay-teachers-salaries/articleshow/77008486.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Five IAS, three IPS officers transferred||PATNA: The state government transferred five IAS and three IPS officers on Thursday, including the DM of Lakhisarai and SP of Naugachia town in Bhagalpur. Lakhisarai DM Shobhendra Kumar Chaudhary has been posted as special secretary in the general administration department and he is being replaced by Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited managing director Sanjay Kumar Singh. Singh will also handle the additional charge of district settlement officer. IPRD director Pradeep Kumar Jha replaces Singh as managing director of BMSICL. Jha will hold the post of IPRD director as an additional charge. He will also continue to hold the additional charge of Bihar Samwad Samiti as MD. However, he has been relieved of his additional charge of special secretary in public health engineering department. Minor water resource department special secretary Gopal Meena has been posted as additional chief electoral officer. He was earlier handling it as an additional charge. Labour commissioner Rajita has also been posted as the additional CEO in the state election department. She has been relieved of the additional charge of posts of director of employment and training and additional chief executive officer of Bihar Skill Development Mission in the labour department. Special branch SP Swapna G Meshram has been posted as SP of Naugachia. Civil defence SP-cum-assistant director Mithilesh Kumar has been posted as principal of constable training school at Nathnagar in place of Vijay Prasad. Prasad has been posted in place of Kumar in civil defence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-ias-three-ips-officers-transferred/articleshow/77006683.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||NIMS nurses protest, demand pay hike||Hyderabad: Hundreds of nurses at the Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) protested on Thursday, demanding wage hike. The frontline contract nurses, who have been handling Covid-19 duties, have urged the state that their long-pending demand of salary hike to Rs 25,000 from Rs 17,500 (for staff with less than 5 years’ experience) and Rs 30,000 (over 5 years’ experience) be implemented at the earliest. “At least 15 of us have been infected. We are working under such trying circumstances but there is no consideration for us,” said Manmohan Reddy, a representative of the contract nurses. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nims-nurses-protest-demand-pay-hike/articleshow/77008116.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Rajkot||Seven loan sharks booked for money lender’s suicide||RAJKOT: Seven loan sharks were booked on Wednesday night for the alleged suicide abetment of a 48-year-old man in Rajkot. Ironically, the victim was also a money lender from whose house cops had recovered gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 1.56 crore. Against such a whopping amount, the victim owed the accused just Rs 3.50 lakh. Police said the victim identified as Hitesh Goraviya had hanged himself to death from the ceiling of the bathroom of his nephew Piyush Parekh on June 8. At Parekh’s house Goraviya had come to stay as a guest along with his family members. The police booked Bhabhalu Varu, Shailesh Mithapur, Shiva Varu, Alig Chandu, Pratap Chandu, Jairaj Chandu and Mangalu Chandu on the complaint of Goraviya’s wife Meena Goraviya. “In her complaint, Meena said that Hitesh owed the accused Rs 3.50 lakh that he had taken as a loan from them, for the recovery of which the accused were harassing him,” said an official from University police station. After Hitesh’s suicide, when the Amreli police raided his house in Nageshri village of Jafrabad taluka in Amreli district, they found gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 1.56 crore. It was found during the investigation that both Hitesh and his father Vaju Sheth worked as the money lenders in Nageshri village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-loan-sharks-booked-for-money-lenders-suicide/articleshow/77007220.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Madurai||62-year-old woman hacked to death, jewellery, cash stolen||MADURAI: A 62-year-old woman was hacked to death allegedly by armed burglars who decamped with a five-sovereign gold chain she was wearing and Rs 1 lakh cash from her house at Nehru Nagar in Palanganatham in the city on Thursday afternoon. The incident took place when the victim was alone in the house when her husband Thangam, who runs a tea shop, had gone for work. The victim, T Panchavarnam, who suffered multiple deep cuts behind her head, was found dead in a pool of blood. The incident came to light when Thangam came home for lunch around 1pm. Deputy commissioner of the city police (crime), K Palanikumar and SS Colony inspector Flower Sheela visited the spot. Since the house does not have CCTV cameras, efforts are on to collect footage from other CCTV cameras in the locality. Though a case was yet to be registered till evening, special teams were formed to search for the accused. Scientific officers were pressed into service to trace clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/62-yr-old-woman-hacked-to-death-jewellery-cash-stolen/articleshow/77008952.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Grave tale: Christians cremate their dead as Telangana cemeteries full||HYDERABAD: Overcrowded graveyards and failure to find a piece of land for a fresh cemetery is forcing many in Telangana’s Christian community to change the final rites of their dead. There have been a number of instances where the community has cremated those who have passed away. “We had to cremate two bodies in Erragadda area in the last 10 days as we could not find a piece of land for them,” said G Solomon Raj of the Christian Burial Grounds for Greater Hyderabad, an umbrella organisation of small and independent churches. The small and independent churches have been facing this problem for the past few years with Raj saying that in the last couple of years, several bodies have been cremated. Though there are several cemeteries in Greater Hyderabad belonging to various denominations of Christians, the burial space is almost exhausted, and in many cases old graves have been excavated again to provide space to the mortal remains of another family member. Pastor Mulkala Bhaskar of Bethel Bible Fellowship Church, Kompally, told TOI that 25-year-old N Babu was cremated in February at Smashana Vatika (cremation grounds) near Kompally bridge. “Initially, the Smashana Vatika management committee refused to allow a Christian body to be cremated but then gave permission after requests from community elders. We believe in burying our loved ones as we expect resurrection in the life hereafter, but circumstances have forced us to make changes. Babu and his parents were church members,” said Pastor Bhaskar. S Anand was also cremated at another Smashana Vatika in February. Rajanna, 50, was cremated in Parsigutta cremation grounds, said Pastor B Abraham of Christu Viswasa Pradhana Mandiram. “I had baptised Rajanna. His mother who died few years back, found place at the Narayanguda cemetery, but Rajanna did not,” Pastor Abraham said. The pastors and families of the deceased did not give full details in view of the issue being sensitive but said other communities in several cases, discretely allowed for cremation of Christians in Smashana Vatikas. In another case, a minor girl was buried in Smashana Vatika in August 2019. “One of the members of the management committee of the cremation grounds asked us to remove the coffin as it is not allowed in their cremation ground. The coffin was removed, and the girl was buried in the cremation ground,” said Pastor Talla Satyam of Mount Zion Church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grave-tale-christians-cremate-their-dead-as-t-cemeteries-full/articleshow/77009527.cms||Roushan Ali
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Only sought to denotify part of Vedanthangal sanctuary: TN government||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday informed the Madras high court that it has only sent a proposal to the central wildlife board to denotify a portion of Vedanthangal bird sanctuary and that unless it grants the nod, the state cannot proceed with the demarcation. The state made the submission on a PIL moved by advocate S Stalin Raja challenging the move. Recording the submission, the first bench of chief justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the petitioner to approach the central board for any relief and disposed the plea. According to the petitioner, the move has been proposed to benefit commercial and industrial development, including that of Sun Pharmaceuticals which has operations bordering the sanctuary. Since 1998, Vedanthangal tank and the area within 5km of its boundary have been a part of the wildlife sanctuary with full protection under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. But on January 23 relying on the notes put up by the principal chief conservator of forest and chief wildlife warden, the Tamil Nadu government tabled a proposal with the state board for wildlife to denotify an area contained in a circular band within 3km the tank, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/only-sought-to-denotify-part-of-vedanthangal-sanctuary-govt/articleshow/77008960.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||AP records 2,593 cases, 40 deaths on Thursday||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh registered 40 deaths and 2,593 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest ever single-day spike. While the coronavirus caseload rose to 38044, the Covid-19 toll has risen to 492. A total of 22,304 samples were tested between 9 am on Wednesday and 9 am on Thursday.Of them, 2,584 people from within the state and nine from other states tested positive for the pandemic virus. Eight deaths each were reported from East Godavari and Prakasam districts, while Chittoor district reported five deaths and Kadapa district four deaths. Three deaths each were reported from Anantapur, Guntur, Nellore and Visakhapatnam districts while one death each was reported from Kurnool, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. Two of the 13 districts in the state recorded 500 plus Covid-19 cases in a single day. Kurnool district registered 590 Covid-19 cases while East Godavari reported 500 cases. Except Visakhapatnam (81 cases), the remaining 12 districts in the state have registered more than 100 cases on Thursday. Altogether, 1,015 persons, including 943 from within the state, 29 from other states and 43 foreign returnees recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals on Thursday. The total number of discharged persons increased to 19,993 while the active Covid-19 cases now stand at 18,159.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-records-2593-cases-40-deaths/articleshow/77008122.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Rajkot||Couple end lives in Khambhalia taluka||RAJKOT: Realizing that there was no future to their relationship, a couple ended their lives by consuming pesticides in Goij village of Khambhalia taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Wednesday night. The deceased were identified as Mahendra Vijhoda (22) and Bhumi Madam (19). Mahendra used to work as a farm labourer. According to police, while Mahendra belonged to Dalit community from Goij village, Bhumi was an Ahir from Kothavisotri village of Khambhalia taluka. “Bhumi’s family members were dead against the relationship, owing to Mahendra’s lower-caste origins. Both knew that they will never succeed in getting her parents to agree to their marriage and so they decided to end their lives,” an official from Salaya police station said. “In their suicide note, the couple wrote: ‘We love each other, and as we can’t get united, we have decided to end our lives.’ The lovelorn duo was found tied to each other’s legs with the girl’s dupatta while an empty bottle of pesticide was found lying near the spot,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-end-lives-in-khambhalia-taluka/articleshow/77007240.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Shut abattoir, markets add to woes in Covid times||NEW DELHI: A month before Eid Al Adha, the day when goats are sacrificed by Muslim households, the livestock market at Ghazipur used to be alive with buyers and sellers. The festival is barely two weeks, but both the abattoir and the adjoining cattle market are shut, though East Delhi Municipal Corporation officials said the slaughterhouse could open next week. Besides the Covid lockdown restrictions, the abattoir has also been mired in the matter of extension of the 10-year lease and so remained closed since March. EDMC officials said that though the private concessionaire had been permitted now to start functioning with anti-Covid measures in place, there was some holdup due to the expiry of the lease. “The private company hasn’t restarted operations, and the cattle market can resume business only if the slaughterhouse is functioning,” said a civic official. “There was a demand for prolonging the lease, and a two-year extension has been granted.” Gulfam Qureshi, who heads the Livestock Market Traders’ Association, said a letter to this effect has been issued by EDMC. “I was present at the meeting when permission for operations of the slaughterhouse and livestock market was given,” he said. Mohammad Arshad Qureshi, who heads the Delhi Meat Merchants’ Association, claimed after the issuance of the letter that things are “likely to return to normalcy before Bakri Eid”. “So many livelihoods depend on business here,” he said, pointing out that people from Haryana, UP and Rajasthan came to Ghazipur to sell their animals, putting lakhs of goats, sheep and buffalos on sale every year. Gulfam Qureshi cautioned, “If the market does not open, it will lead to nuisance across Delhi as illegal meat markets are sure to crop up.” He said that if the private concessionaire still did not resume operations, the traders would gherao the EDMC headquarter on July 22. “The whole of India has opened up, but this facility has remained shut for four months,” Gulfam Qureshi said. “If the company doesn’t want to run the slaughterhouse, the municipal corporation should run it. It has an obligation to the public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shut-abattoir-mkts-add-to-woes-in-covid-times/articleshow/77027284.cms||Paras Singh
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt to move SC in Pakistan citizen custody case||AHMEDABAD: In response to the Pakistan High Commission’s habeas corpus petition for custody of its citizen, who could not leave India even after acquittal in a fake currency case, the state government on Thursday told the HC that it would challenge the acquittal before the Supreme Court. However, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria has asked the state government to explain why it took one year to decide to challenge the acquittal of the Pakistani national. The judges have sought detailed explanation in this regard. The HC has sought details from the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) Mumbai to explain why exit visa was not issued to the Pakistani citizen after acquittal. The case involves 28-year-old Sajjad Vora from Karachi, who had come to Surat to meet his relatives in 2016. He was allegedly found in possession of fake Indian currency at Surat railway station while the family was on its way to Mumbai. Vora was arrested, but acquitted in 2018 after a trial. The state government’s appeal as dismissed in July 2019 by the high court. After his acquittal, Vora requested the FRRO, Mumbai for exit visa because his visa had expired in 2017. FRRO insisted on an NOC from Surat railway police, which was not given to him and the FRRO did not issue him exit visa. Vora pproached the HC in June for directions to FRRO and other immigration authorities to facilitate his return. Meanwhile, the issue came to the notice of Pakistan government and its high commission approached the HC seeking custody of its national, who has been “illegally detained” in India against his will. The high commission stated that this absence of law in this case would “tarnish image of the nation”. It has alleged “subversion and erosion of law” in India in illegally detaining its citizen. It has also sought Rs 20 lakh compensation for Vora. The HC will hear the case further on July 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-move-sc-in-pak-citizen-custody-case/articleshow/77008289.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Madurai district is ahead in Covid-19 control, says minister||MADURAI: Madurai is leading other districts in terms of containing the Covid-19 disease as nearly 5,000 tests are being done per day, minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar has said. The minister inspected various works related to Covid-19 care, management and control in the district on Thursday. He said that the lockdown is being gradually eased in Madurai and the district administration had taken all steps to ensure that the people had access to their daily needs and essential commodities. People are also going about with their activities with ease, but opposition parties are trying to create panic among them. Parties which are not even lifting a finger to help the people, are finding fault in the government’s functioning. He also said that many Covid-19 deaths were because of patients having other comorbid conditions. The minister, along with the medical team including special officer Dr Marudhu Pandian inspected the Amma kitchen, where food is being prepared for Covid-19 patients, hospital workers and police personnel. They are given soup, ginger tea and boiled pulses everyday. Dr Pandian said that providing meals to the diseased was a challenge. The food has to be prepared hygienically with fresh vegetables, immunity boosters like pepper, garlic and cumin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-dist-is-ahead-in-covid-control-says-minister/articleshow/77008943.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||SC to examine validity of 52-year-old Kerala law prohibiting animal sacrifice in temples||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine the constitutional validity of a 52-year-old Kerala law that prohibits animal sacrifice in temples and issued notice to the Kerala government on petitions by priests alleging that it discriminated on the ground of religion, for it allowed sacrifice of animals by Muslims on Bakrid and in a ceremony in a particular church. Petitioners, through senior advocates K V Vishwanathan and V Giri, argued that the state law — Kerala Animals and Birds Sacrifices Prohibition Act, 1968 — was also repugnant to the central law on the issue, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, as the latter permitted animal sacrifice under customs of various religions. Though the bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, R S Reddy and A S Bopanna agreed to examine the validity of the state law, it said killing animals was permitted under the central law but cruelty was banned. Vishwanathan and Giri cited the example of periodic culling of stray dogs by almost all municipal authorities. The SC tagged the petition with pending appeals against judgments of the High Courts of Himachal Pradesh and Tripura banning animal sacrifice in temples. In its interim order, the SC had said in these cases, "If slaughter of animals is done for the purpose involved in the petitions, it shall be done in an area set up for the purpose by the municipal authorities." Petitioners challenging the Kerala law said it was unconstitutional as it singled out the Hindu community while giving permission to other religious groups to sacrifice animals and birds in connection with their religious customs. In addition to the reference to Bakrid when Muslims sacrifice animals, they mentioned the "well known Edappally St George Church where birds are sacrificed within the church premises and cooked and eaten in connection with a religious practice”. "The Kerala Act violates Article 15 of the Constitution as a state is discriminating solely on the basis of religion and singles out Hindu temples as a class to impose restriction without reasonable basis," the petitioners said. Section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty Act (PCA) says, "Nothing in this Act shall render it an offence to kill any animal in a manner required by religion of any community." They said it also violated the fundamental right to religion and religious practices of Hindu community guaranteed under the Constitution. The petitioners cited the SC's 2014 judgment in jallikattu case (bull running case) which said, "The PCA has been enacted with an object to safeguard the welfare of animals and evidently to cure some mischief and age-old practices, so as to bring into effect some type of reform based on eco-centric principles recognising intrinsic value and worth of animals. All the same, the Act has taken care of the religious practices of the community, while killing an animal vide Section 28 of the Act."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-examine-validity-of-52-year-old-kerala-law-prohibiting-animal-sacrifice-in-temples/articleshow/77009709.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Madurai sees small rise in pass percentage, but slips in rank||MADURAI: Despite a marginal increase in the overall pass percentage, with 94.42%, Madurai district dropped from 12th spot in district rankings in the Class XII state board exams last year to 13th this year. Further, only one centum (Chemistry) was scored by a student in science group in the district. A total of 61 centums were scored by students in various subjects, including 28 in commerce. As many as 56 of the 61 centums were in subjects of the third group — accountancy, commerce, business maths and economics. For the science (first) group, only one centum in Chemistry was scored. “During the past few years as well, it has become a norm for more centums to be scored by students of commerce. Further, we are seeing more and more bright students who score well in Class X choose commerce groups instead as it is easier to score than science group,” said the principal of a private matriculation school. As usual, girl students outperformed boys by securing a pass percentage of 96.8% against 91.6% of boys. As many as 120 schools including 78 matriculation schools secured 100% pass percentage. According to educational districtwise data in Madurai, 43 schools in Melur, 32 in Thirumangalam, 27 in Madurai and 18 in Usilampatti produced 100% results. Four government schools secured 100% pass percentage in Madurai district. With 70 schools in all, government schools in Madurai secured an overall pass percentage of 86.94%. As many as 123 of the total 129 differently-abled candidates who wrote the Class XII board exams passed in Madurai. Both IAB school for blind and YMCA school for the deaf secured 100% pass percentage. In IAB school, the top score by a student was 520/600 and 16 out of 26 students who appeared for the exam there scored above 400 marks. Four students from Madurai central prison appeared for the Class XII exams this year and all of them cleared. On Thursday, both district educational officials and school headmasters and principals were taken by surprise with the sudden announcement of the results and were left unprepared to gather and organise results. In southern districts, Virudhunagar secured fourth place in the overall districtwise rankings .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-sees-small-rise-in-pass-percentage-but-slips-in-rank/articleshow/77008966.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fill vacant forest dept posts at Gir immediately: MoEF||AHMEDABAD: The Union forest ministry committee report on lion deaths between January and May recommends the strengthening of field staff by filling the large number of vacancies on a priority basis. Positions of at least 250 beat guards and 85 foresters are vacant in the Gir (East) division, it says. Against the approved strength of 208 foresters for Gir (East) division, existing strength is only 110. There are only 279 forest guards against the approved strength of 540. In the case of the Junagadh wildlife circle, there are only 28 foresters against the sanctioned strength of 42 and 81 forest guards against the approved strength of 141. The report of the forest ministry committee said that in the calendar year 2020, the total number of lion deaths in the landscape till May 31, was 85, of which 59 occurred in the Gir (East) division, in Dhari. There are vacant positions in Gir sanctuary and the social forestry divisions. Officials said in areas outside the protected area, especially revenue areas, social forestry officials manage wildlife. The chief conservator of forests (social forestry) is also engaged in the management of lions. Officials said that social forestry divisions also have 30% vacancies. The department had a strong informer network which helps keep a track on lions but in recent times there have been issues between villagers and the officials, said sources. The central ministry report asked the state government to share daily reports on lion mortality in the Gir landscape. A clear standard operating procedure (SOP) needs to be developed with help from national institutions such as the IVRI and NIV, in coordination of Union forest ministry for prevention/prophylactic disease control. The report recommends setting up of a special team comprising of an immunologist, an epidemiologist, virologists, parasitologists, clinical experts and ecologists for field visits to ascertain the actual cause of the recent deaths. The committee recommended measures including expansion of the inviolate area by relocation of Maldhari nesses within the Gir protected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fill-vacant-forest-dept-posts-at-gir-immediately-moef/articleshow/77008124.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Rape-murder accused gives police the slip, nabbed later||TRICHY: An accused in the rape and murder of a 7-year-old girl in Pudukottai, who escaped from police custody on Thursday morning, was arrested by police late in the night. M Raja, escaped from police post custody from a hospital where he was brought for potency test. As police removed his handcuffs to attend nature’s call he escaped from the custody. While the test was to continue on Thursday he was made to stay in the hospital in the night. Two constables were guarding him. However, he escaped from the custody when his handcuffs were removed. He was hiding in a forest near Mullur in Pudukottai district after escaping from the hospital. It is also said that he was hiding in the hospital till afternoon as some of the hospital staff had spotted him on the hospital premises. According to police, on June 30, Raja, a flower seller, who was familiar to the girl, took her to an isolated place, raped her and murdered her. The girl’s body was found the following day. The man was arrested and was booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012 and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2018. Ganesh Nagar police have added Section 224 of the IPC (escaping from police custody) to the charges. Earlier in the day, Pudukottai district superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan has formed six special teams to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rape-murder-accused-gives-police-the-slip-nabbed-later/articleshow/77009283.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AU VC selection hit as elector refuses to join over Covid fears||Visakhapatnam: The Covid-19 outbreak has hampered the Andhra University vice-chancellor selection process. A member of the search committee from another state is reluctant to attend the committee meetings due to the rising number of cases in the state. This has forced the officials concerned to look for a new nominee to induct into the three-member search committee. It comprises members, nominated one each by the state government, executive council and the University Grants Commission. After the then incumbent vice-chancellor Prof G Nageswara Rao’s tenure came to an end in July 2019, senior faculty member at the department of computer science and systems engineering Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy was given the additional charge as the vice-chancellor on July 17, 2019. Consequently, the state government invited applications for the post of vice-chancellor and constituted a committee in August last year to select three suitable candidates. But for reasons unknown, the state government issued a second notification in January 2020 by overriding the earlier notification inviting applications for the AU vice-chancellor post. The notification was ollowed up by the setting up of a new search committee in March 2020. The three-member committee has been tasked with selecting three names after scrutinising the applications and send them to the state government. Consequently, the government will forward the said panel to the chancellor, who shall appoint the vice-chancellor on the recommendation of the government. But right from day one of the constitution of the committee on March 23, the lockdown has become a hindrance to convene the meetings to deliberate on the candidature of the applicants. According to an Andhra University source, the selection process may begin only after induction of the new nominee, as one of the members made it clear that he cannot attend the meetings. Now, the officials are hunting for a new nominee for the committee, said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/au-vc-selection-hit-as-elector-refuses-to-join-over-covid-fears/articleshow/76986734.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Apply online to Madurai arts and science colleges||MADURAI: For the first time, various arts and science colleges across Madurai district will be completely having their application processes online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Immediately after the Class XII state board exams were declared on Thursday, all arts and science colleges across the state began the sale of online applications. “Last year, we had both online and offline admissions but this year, the admission process is 100% online. Even before the results, we had a system for applying online. Students can enrol their names on our website after which we will give them a password and ID. Now that the results are announced, students can upload their marks,” principal of The American College, Davamani M Christober said. The college has already received 6,000 applications. Christober said the demand was as usual more for commerce and arts courses, followed by science courses and that a tough competition for seats is expected. “However, we also saw increased demand for relatively rarer courses like microbiology and food science. Microbiology has started gaining attention due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Two sought after women’s colleges in Madurai, Lady Doak College and Fatima College also began issuing their applications online from Thursday. The government arts colleges in Madurai are also taking their admission process online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/apply-online-to-madurai-arts-and-science-colleges/articleshow/77008957.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Allahabad||3 cops injured after police team attacked in Pratapgarh, 11 held||PRAYAGRAJ: Close on the heels of Bikru ambush in which eight cops were killed, a police team was attacked when it went to Bhavdaspur village under Sangramgarh police station in Pratapgarh district late on Wednesday evening on getting information about a clash between two groups. Three policemen were injured in the attack. An FIR has been filed and 11 accused have been arrested. SP Pratapgarh Abhishek Singh told TOI that police have arrested 11 persons involved in the attack. Those arrested include Ajay Kumar, Sunil Kumar, Maan Singh Patel, Sandeep Patel, Sunil Saroj, Raj Saroj, Devraj Saroj, Harilal Saroj, Nanhelal Saroj, Ram Kripal and Raju Gautam. The SP said three police teams are conducting raids to arrest the absconding accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3-cops-injured-after-police-team-attacked-in-pratapgarh-11-held/articleshow/77008965.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC asks government to test all IMH inmates for Covid-19 in 1 week||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Thursday directed the state government to test all 800 inmates and staff of the Institute of Mental Health in Kilpauk for Covid-19 within a week. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha also directed the state government to provide exclusive care and treatment to the inmates if they are tested positive. The court passed the order while disposing of a PIL moved by the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC), seeking immediate Covid-19 care for inpatients of the institute. According to the petitioner, a cook working in the institution was tested positive followed by two wardens and 3 postgraduate students and they were admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Subsequently, the director of IMH tested positive and is under home isolation, the petitioner said, adding that it was imperative that all inmates and staff be tested for Covid-19, since most of them cannot communicate their symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-asks-govt-to-test-all-imh-inmates-for-covid-in-1-wk/articleshow/77008971.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A Covid worker per patient to stave off death||NEW DELHI: Every critical Covid-19 patient admitted in a Delhi hospital may now be allocated one health worker round the clock who will closely monitor the person. This is one of the many interventions that Delhi government planned to reduce the mortality rate. The state health and family welfare department has issued an advisory to all hospitals and autonomous centres under Delhi government, apart from all private hospitals, with an illustrative list of interventions involving end-to-end in-hospital management. The list of things that hospitals have to take action on begins from the moment a Covid-19 patient enters the hospital. As most are rushed to a hospital following breathlessness, hospitals have been asked to ensure monitoring of oxygenation status of patients in the holding area. Other interventions include effective triaging, or determining priority in care needed, with high priority accorded to high-risk individuals like the elderly, pregnant and paediatric patients, immune-suppressed patients with co-morbidities, cancer patients and transplant patients. Hospitals will have to minimise the time taken for admission procedures as much as possible and a dedicated, well-trained team should be made available round the clock for transportation of patients to appropriate treatment zones without delay. The next step is ‘clinical management’ during which the clinical guidelines given by the Union health ministry have to be followed. This includes oxygen therapy in a staged manner. Interventions include real-time monitoring of oxygen saturation and early warning scores that facilitate management when oxygen saturation falls. Hospitals will have to give hands-on orientation training to all healthcare workers engaged in Covid care. Adequate attention will have to be given to the management of co-morbidities. The advisory also suggests standardisation of investigation to prevent incomplete sampling, while advising close monitoring of the clinical condition of Covid-19 patients by specialists and senior residents at regular intervals and tele-consultation with experts from AIIMS, if required. As most critical Covid patients develop acute kidney injury, the advisory asks for continuous renal replacement therapy or sustained low efficiency dialysis with technicians to be made available. Separate interventions are part of the advisory for ‘critical care’, which includes the recommendation that every critical patient may be allocated one healthcare worker round the clock who will closely monitor his or her health. Hands-on training in critical care has to be given to doctors, nursing officer and technicians. For better inter-departmental co-ordination when it comes to critical care, the advisory recommends forming a single command and control structure. The advisory also recommends that various teams may be formed from the available pool of human resources, based on their expertise and the level of care to be provided to Covid-19 patients. For overall ‘Hospital Management’, the advisory says that proper asepsis (absence of bacteria, viruses etc.) should be maintained in all hospital areas for prevention of infection and checklists or charts can be maintained to ensure this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-covid-worker-per-patient-to-stave-off-death/articleshow/77008996.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man booked for his own death in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A man from Mehsana town was booked for his own death by Kalol taluka police after he died when his scooter hit a herd of wild boars in Veda village of Kalol in Gandhinagar. According to the FIR filed with Kalol taluka police, the deceased was identified as Sanjay Patel, resident of Saldi village in Mehsana district, who worked at a private firm. Sanjay’s father Ambalal Patel, a farmer, said in his statement before Kalol taluka police that his son was riding his scooter on Wednesday morning. When he was passing from Veda village in Kalol, a herd of wild boars suddenly came on his way. Sanjay rammed into them and slipped on road. This has been stated by a potter who witnessed the accident and called up ambulance. After some treatment, Patel was declared dead on Wednesday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-his-own-death/articleshow/77008130.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kanpur||Serial audio exposes: Don aide’s wife mobilised men to take sniper position||KANPUR: The serial tape exposes on the midnight ambush in Bikru village has again unearthed the role of women folk in destroying evidence, peddling don Dubey’s messages and misleading cops after the carnage. On Thursday, a fresh audio clip surfaced in which a woman can be heard asking her father-in-law Prem Prakash Pandey to quickly reach home and take sniper position on rooftops. The voice in the 33-second audio clip is said to be that of Manu, wife of Vikas’ aide Sashikant Pandey, who was arrested on Tuesday. Manu was taken into custody on Wednesday following surfacing of back-to-back audio clips in which she was found conniving with the gangster and his aides. TOI, however, cannot verify the authenticity of the clips though Manu admitted to reporters on Wednesday it was her voice in the two earlier clips that went viral. In the first call recording, Manu is heard enquiring about her father-in-law Prem Prakash Pandey’s location. When informed that he’s in neighbouring Dibba Newada village, she requests him to rush home as Vikas Dubey had ordered menfolk to climb atop houses and take position with rifles due to an impending police raid. In another 22-second audio tape, Pandey can be heard conveying the don’s directives to his son, Sashikant. He’s heard asking Sashikant to immediately contact him on his mobile. Police said, the conversation seems to be just hours before the ambush, in which eight policemen including DSP Devendra Mishra were killed. Speaking to TOI, a police officer said, investigations revealed DSP Devendra Mishra had taken refuge in courtyard of Manu’s house to skirt the barrage of bullets from rooftops, but was killed after Manu apprised the gangster’s henchmen about the police officer’s location. In the first viral audio on July 14, Manu could be heard admitting Dubey’s men had killed policemen and dumped three bodies near her door. She’s also heard discussing ways to dispose her mobile phones and mislead cops. “Two men died at my door, while another man died in my courtyard. Everyone has ran away, what will I say when police arrive,” she is heard telling her ‘bhabi’. Similarly, in another audio, a call recording between Manu and her brother went viral on Wednesday. In the conversation, Manu is heard telling her brother about destroying a SIM card and is repeatedly told to delete call details from his phone as well. Manu’s father-in-law Prem Prakash Pandey was gunned down by police in an encounter, six hours after the Bikru ambush, while her husband, Sashikant was arrested on Tuesday. Mobile phone of wives and women members of all 11 on-the-run accused have been seized by police. “Going by conversations in audio clips, there is ample evidence against Manu and we are questioning and corroborating her role in the Bikru ambush. We are going through call detail record of their cell phones to establish their links with slain gangster Vikas Dubey,” said SP rural Brijesh Kumar Srivastava while talking to reporters. Police had deferred the decision to free slain Dubey aide, Amar’s wife Khushi, who is currently in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/serial-audio-exposes-don-aides-wife-mobilised-men-to-take-sniper-position/articleshow/77008986.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Amaravati land scam: Probe reveals web records altered||Hyderabad: Arrest of two key accused in the Amaravati land scam has unearthed the modus operandi of how the assigned lands were sold and used for land pooling. The Thullur police had on Wednesday arrested Anne Sudhir Babu, a retired tehsildar, and Gummadi Suresh, a real estate businessman. In the remand report submitted in the court, the police explained that fabricated online land records were used for wrongful transfer of lands belonging to the landless people from scheduled caste communities. In Pedalanka of Rayapudi village, around 7.4 acre was surrendered to the state government under land ceiling process. Police said that one Yalamanchali Suraiah and his two sons illegally got the land assigned to SCs by getting it registered in favour of Gummadi Suresh, posing as if it was their own. Gummadi Suresh, in turn, executed a sale deed in 2016 to Valluri Srinivasa Babu as GPA holder. For registration, the accused submitted pattadar passbook, title deed and other documents issued by the then tehsildar Anne Sudhir Babu to support their claim. Sudhir Babu was accused him of creating false documents by making changes in revenue records in connivance with Gummadi Suresh and others. Sudhir Babu issued six different reports with different dates to CRDA, changing the classification from “assigned land” to “patta land” and then from “patta land” to “assigned land” as a cover-up operation. The third accused Valluri Srinivasa Babu, who is yet to be arrested, offered the assigned land to CRDA for pooling to grab the benefits (returnable plots/annuity) under land pooling scheme. Police said this case is the tip of the iceberg and hundreds of acres of land have been transferred using similar methods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amaravati-land-scam-probe-reveals-web-records-altered/articleshow/77008128.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 17, 2020||Madurai||Twins top school amid poverty, sick mom||MADURAI: They hailed from a poor family and also had to take care of a mother suffering from learning difficulties, but when the results of Class XII board exams were out, the twins were top scorers in their schools. Now, carrying big dreams to be a doctor and a chartered accountant, R Sundararajan and R Meenakshi hope to become first generation graduates. Studying in VHN higher secondary school for boys and girls respectively, Sundararajan secured 532/600 and Meenakshi, 556/600 marks in the exam. Both were Tamil medium students — Sundararajan studied science group with biology and maths and Meenakshi enrolled for commerce with business maths. Sundararajan top-scored among Tamil medium science group students in his school while Meenakshi ranked school first. “I failed in Class X while my wife Jayalakshmi did not study beyond Class V. Since 2008, my wife has been suffering from mental illness and requires medication. It is a struggle for us as we have to handle her if she throws a fit and get her to take her medication. I could do little to nothing to help my children study,” said Radhakrishnan N, father of the twins. He is a supplier for a private tea company and earns around Rs 10,000 per month, the only source of income for the family. “We don’t have anyone to teach us at home and study by ourselves. Our school teachers taught us well and we were able to do well. I want to be a doctor and am preparing for Neet now,” said Sundararajan. Inspired by her father, Meenakshi wants to be a chartered accountant. Both students have also been school toppers in their Class X exams as well. “I couldn’t be prouder of my children who have put in so much hard work, which is why I do whatever I can to help them continue studies. However, now with Covid-19 pandemic too, I’m not sure how far I’ll be able to support their higher studies but I want to make sure they continue,” said Radhakrishnan. He also has an elder daughter, R Mala, who is now studying first year at Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/twins-top-school-amid-poverty-sick-mom/articleshow/77008973.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: P Varavara Rao tests +ve in jail, family urges govt to release him||MUMBAI: P Varavara Rao, the 79-year-old poet and activist who has been in jail for nearly two years in the Elgar Parishad case, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, sparking calls from his family and admirers for his release. Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital on Monday night after he fell ill and underwent a series of tests. Hospital authorities said he was shifted to St George’s Hospital on Thursday evening as JJ is a non-Covid hospital. “He is not showing any symptoms and is stable,” hospital authorities said. Rao’s family visited him in hospital on Wednesday after arriving from Hyderabad and was appalled by his condition. They alleged that his bed and clothes were soiled. The family said he was unable to recognise his wife or his daughters. “We have repeatedly approached police, Telangana, Maharashtra state governments, central government and even courts seeking Mr Varavara Rao’s release from prison on health grounds in view of the pandemic. Unfortunately our pleas were rejected. After coming to know that he tested positive for Covid-19, the entire family is in shock,” Rao’s son-in-law and professor at the English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad, K Satyanarayana said. Rao is lodged at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. This is the second time he was taken to hospital since the case was transferred to a city court. In February, Rao and the other accused in the Elgar Parishad case were moved from Yerwada jail in Pune to the Navi Mumbai prison. Rao’s pleas for interim bail, citing his susceptibility to the virus due to his age and ailments, have twice been rejected by the special NIA court. Rao’s defence has told the court that he was suffering from several ailments including a corona artery disease and hypertension. His defence team added that they will inform the Bombay high court about his diagnosis on Friday when his bail plea comes up for hearing. The trial in the Elgar case is yet to begin, but Rao and others have been charged with conspiracy under the UAPA. Earlier this month, Rao’s wife P Hemalatha (72) and daughters P Sahaja, P Anala and P Pavana had held an online press conference. They said they feared for his life due to his deteriorating health and the state’s negligence. The family was disturbed after Rao grew incoherent and seemingly hallucinated while speaking to them over the phone from Taloja jail. They said his co-accused and companion, Vernon Gonsalves, took the phone from him and informed them that Rao was unable to walk, use the toilet or brush his teeth on his own. In tears, Rao’s nephew N Venugopal had said his uncle’s brain was being damaged due to lack of adequate care. “The state is trying to kill him. We are not even asking for bail right now. Our immediate demand is get him better medical care or leave him in the family’s care, family will join him in a better hospital... Please don’t kill him in jail,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/varavara-tests-ve-in-jail-family-urges-govt-to-release-him/articleshow/77009549.cms||Rebecca Samervel
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Big cat’s odyssey in Telangana districts for 2 months, yet to find territory||HYDERABAD: A tiger, which had migrated from Tadoba tiger reserve in Maharashtra into Telangana, is moving around for two months in Asifabad and Kumarambheem, searching for a territory. While the forest department officials, who have named the tiger Asifabad 2 (A2), are confident that the tiger will soon find a territory in the state’s Kawal tiger reserve, concerns are also being raised about the two-lane road at Mancherial and Maharashtra-Telangana border acting as a major obstacle for the big cat to enter Kawal tiger reserve. “The male tiger A2 is not able to find a place to settle because the territories are occupied by other males. And unfortunately, it has not reached Kawal due to the Mancherial-Chandrapur road. It is not able to cross the road because of constant human activity and traffic. It will be moving until it finds a territory and once it reaches Kawal, it will have a lot of habitat available,” said a source close to the forest department. The tiger entered Khagaznagar in the state during April by crossing the Pranahitha river. While confirming that A2 is still on the move for territory, Adilabad divisional forest officer B Prabhakar said: “The tiger has still not reached Kawal. Our field officers are constantly monitoring its movement.” When asked if the two-lane road is acting as an obstacle for tigers migrating into the state, Prabhakar said: “There is a proposal to make this inter-state road into a four lane and since it is in the tiger corridor, officials from National Tiger Conservation Authority have visited the place to draw up a plan to mitigate the problem in case the road is widened.” Clearance has been given by Ministry of Environment and Forests for widening a 94.6-km-long stretch of road connecting Mancherial and Chandrapur in Maharashtra from two lanes to four lanes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/big-cats-odyssey-in-t-dists-for-2-months-yet-to-find-territory/articleshow/77008134.cms||Moulika.KV
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: AMC wants GMRC to repair roads along metro corridor||AHMEDABAD: The AMC has decided to direct the Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation Limited to immediately take up the resurfacing of the bad roads along the metro corridor which is under construction. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that during a meeting with the GMRC officials, the issue of roads damaged due to metro rail project work was raised. The recently completed road from Gurukul to Manav Mandir is in bad shape. “The GMRC will be asked to resurface the stretch immediately,” said Bhatt. On cave-ins, Bhatt said that he does not have the number of cave-ins that have been reported in the city since June, but said that the majority of them are reported on old drainage or drinking water lines. He said the administration has been attending to all cave-ins within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-wants-gmrc-to-repair-roads-along-metro-corridor/articleshow/77008136.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Goa governor: CM Pramod Sawant must get Covid act together, Delhi keeping an eye||PANAJI: In a scathing indictment of Pramod Sawant-led government over the mismanagement of the Covid situation in the state, governor Satya Pal Malik on Thursday said the government had erred in taking the correct decisions and warned the chief minister that Delhi was keeping a close watch on Goa’s Covid situation and Sawant should “pull up his socks”. “The main problem is that we got satisfied at a time when we should not have been satisfied. When people were calling for a lockdown in Vasco, we did not do it. Now that it has increased, we are going for a lockdown. This is an error of judgement,” Malik said. TOI on Thursday had pointed out how Sawant refused to lock down the port town—the epicentre of local transmission—despite his ministers, councillors and locals calling for it. “Mangor Hill is responsible for the spread today. If we had done a lockdown, things would have been different,” he said. But Malik also clarified that he does not take these decisions and “I cannot intervene in the day-to-day functioning of the government”. Malik also said the deaths taking place due to Covid cannot be simply classified as comorbid deaths and the government cannot wash its hands off. “If a cancer patient gets Covid and he is sent to the Covid hospital, he is treated with paracetamol tablets. This cannot continue. I have given clear instructions to the government to treat patients with comorbidities properly and not put them under a similar treatment like the other patients,” he told TOI. Malik said, in his review meeting with Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane, he also raised his concerns over the entire management of the pandemic in the tiniest state. “There was a problem with the quality of food being provided at Covid care centres. There was no proper system in place to supply essential commodities at Mangor Hill. In Covid hospital also, they were not clear about anything,” he said. TOI had highlighted how in the Covid care centres, patients were themselves cleaning the toilets and the waste was being piled with no one to clear it. “I enquired with them whether essential commodities are reaching micro and containment zones and if yes, then what was the reason for agitation at Mangor Hill and Zuari Nagar,” Malik said. He also asked whether the government had thought of any scheme for the daily labourers who are in the containment zone. Malik said he asked Sawant whether there is any proposal to close Verna industrial estate, which as TOI had pointed out was the new epicentre for the pandemic and the route for Covid transmission in the state. “Will it not be advisable to impose a lockdown,” he said. In his review meeting, which was also attended by chief secretary Parimal Rai and health secretary Nila Mohanan, Malik also took stock of the health infrastructure in the state and asked them why there was a delay in picking up Covid positive patients and transferring them to the Covid hospital or care centres. “I have also enquired whether the government has adequate number of doctors and paramedic staff and whether they have all the facilities like ICUs, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, anti-virus drugs approved by ICMR,” he said. The governor also enquired about the plasma therapy and the time taken for testing and sending the report. Malik also enquire about the number of Covid care centres in the state, their capacity and where they are located and said that each taluka should at least have one care centre. The governor also wanted to know the government’s plan on whether there was any new Covid hospital in the offing, if the current hospital was filled, and whether there were enough Covid ambulances and hearse vans and whether they were provided free of cost. Malik said he was not saying that the government is not doing good work. “Departments, doctors, health minister… everybody is working day and night, but there are certain other things which has to be taken care of and that I have suggested,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-sawant-must-get-covid-act-together-delhi-keeping-an-eye/articleshow/77008999.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Delhi||In the lurch: Father of Covid-19 positive doctor asks Delhi government to help out||NEW DELHI: The father of a 28-year-old doctor admitted to the ICU of a private hospital has appealed for waiver of his Covid-19 treatment cost. In a letter to the hospital, the doctor’s father stated that his son contracted Covid-19 while treating patients at Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital (BSA). “My son was working day and night to save lives. But today, when he is himself infected and battling for life, there is no government support for him,” the doctor’s father told TOI. The doctor, who tested positive for Covid-19 on June 27, was initially admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital. However, his family wasn’t satisfied with the treatment and shifted him to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) on July 8. “It’s been more than a week and my son is still in the ICU. The cost of treatment has crossed Rs 3 lakh. Where do I bring so much money from? I am a poor farmer from Neemuch district in Madhya Pradesh. I want the government to help us,” his father said. The condition of the doctor is stable. An official at SGRH said there was significant improvement in his condition, but complete recovery would take time. “We will do everything possible to support the family,” he added. Dr Vijay Gurjar, assistant professor of geriatric medicine at AIIMS, said the resident doctor’s association of BSA had raised funds for initial cost of treatment. “They have done a commendable job. But where is the government? The government should bear the cost of treatment of all healthcare workers who get affected by Covid-19, whether it is in private or public hospitals. They are putting their lives at risk to save others,” he added. Sources said the resident doctors have submitted a request to Delhi government, which runs BSA Hospital, for bearing the doctor’s cost of treatment. “A final nod is awaited,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-the-lurch-father-of-covid-ve-doctor-asks-govt-to-help-out/articleshow/77027319.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||Thane conduit supplied 1,000 cartridges to Bikru gangster||LUCKNOW: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide Arvind Tripathi alias Guddan, arrested from Thane by Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), has admitted to supplying 1,000 cartridges to the don in over six months. Guddan also told interrogators he spoke to Vikas hours before the ganglord and his men murdered 8 policemen in Bikru village. Police, meanwhile, said there were 18 licensed guns in Bikru village and firearms of 14 residents are being examined to confirm if they were used in the attack. Police procured call detail records of Guddan and Dubey an hour before the ambush in Bikru . “Guddan has three gun licences, of which two are registered in his name and one in the name of his wife Kanchan, who is gram pradhan of Kudhwa village,” said a senior police officer, monitoring the investigation. Police officials found 1,000 cartridges were procured from two gun houses in Kanpur in a span of six months in violation of rules. As per Arms Act rules, only 100 cartridges can be procured in a year for rifles and 25 for revolvers, across India. Additional superintendent of police, rural, Brajesh Srivastava said, “We are probing the number of cartridges procured by Guddan in last six months. Two owners of gun houses are under scanner. All three weapons of Guddan have been seized, sealed and sent for forensic examination.” We also have some electronic evidence of Guddan’s involvement, but more proofs is being collected, he added. Bilhaur circle officer Santosh Singh told TOI, “There are 18 villagers in Bikru who have gun licences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/thane-conduit-supplied-1000-cartridges-to-bikru-gangster/articleshow/77009008.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Around 85% candidates take KEAM entrance examination||Thiruvananthapuram: At least 85% candidates registered for the KEAM entrance examination appeared for the test held at 342 centres in the state, Delhi, Mumbai and the UAE. The examination, claimed authorities, went off smoothly barring isolated hiccups of negligible nature. “No major issues were reported from anywhere as students, parents, officials and volunteers took extra care in holding the examination under strict vigil. On an average, at least 85% candidates have taken the test. While the turnout in Delhi and Mumbai were close to 50%, that of the UAE was 90%. There need not to be much worry about the slump in student participation in Delhi and Mumbai, considering the much serious Covid-19 situation prevalent there,” commissioner for entrance examination A Geetha told TOI. The state government on Wednesday, after much discussions, had permitted three Covid-19 positive students —one from Kottayam and two from Alappuzha— to take the examination from the hospitals they were admitted to. However, by morning, the student from Kottayam decided not to attend the examination, but a fresh request came up from Pathanamthitta district. Arrangements were made for that candidate too. The student took the entrance testat Pathanathitta general hospital. Sealed question paper packets of 20 booklets were handed over to the hospitals where the students took the examination under camera surveillance and nurses doubled up as invigilators. In sensitive places such as Poonthura, where the outbreak the disease has reached astronomical numbers in the last few weeks, special arrangements were made for students to appear for the test. PPE kit-wearing invigilators supervised the test. The test was conducted braving demands for putting off the examination to a later date as the critics, students and their parents felt the conduct of the same in the thick of the pandemic spread might put in risk the health of over 1 lakh students and all those who are involved in the process. 2 take test at Alappuzha MCH Two students attended KEAM 2020-21 from Alappuzha medical college hospital. Of them, one returned to Alappuzha from Kuwait a few weeks ago to appear for KEAM 2020-21. But three days ago, he tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Alappuzha MCH. The second student is undergoing treatment in Covid First Line Treatment Centre, (CFLTC) Kayamkulam. The students took the test in a specially-arranged room. MCH deputy superintendent A Abdul Salam and nursing officer Revamma made all the arrangements for the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/around-85-candidates-take-keam-entrance-examination/articleshow/77007298.cms||B S Anilkumar
July 17, 2020||Puducherry||Italian architect behind Matrimandir dies of Covid-19 in Puducherry||PUDUCHERRY: Paolo Tommasi, 92, an Italian architect who played a crucial role in designing the Matrimandir and the gardens surrounding it in the international township Auroville, died of Covid-19 on Thursday in Puducherry. He was a resident of Sri Aurobindo Ashram in the Union territory and was admitted to Jipmer after he tested positive in the last week of June. Born in Ancona, Italy, Paolo emerged as a leading architect in Europe in the 1950s. He had a true passion for architectural interiors, design, theatre and painting. Paolo visited India in his thirties and met Sri Aurobindo’s spiritual collaborator Mirra Alfassa, fondly revered as the Mother, just before the inauguration of Auroville in 1968. He played a crucial role in assisting French architect Roger Anger in designing the Matrimandir and later proposed elaborate designs for the 12 gardens surrounding Matrimandir. He also offered his advice on design aesthetics and development of the township. Paolo permanently settled in Puducherry in 2010 and continued his artwork. His sketches and paintings were displayed in in various galleries around the world and Auroville. On his connection with Puducherry, Paolo had said, “In no other places do I feel my soul reawaken and do I achieve that inner work that gives meaning to my life: becoming more aware of myself and the mystery that surrounds us”. He remained stable on mask ventilation during the initial days of treatment but his condition deteriorated rapidly and he needed intubation on Wednesday, Auroville sources said. The last rites ceremony will be held on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/italian-architect-behind-matrimandir-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77009000.cms||Bosco Dominique
July 17, 2020||Vadodara||MSU extends online admission process||VADODARA: MS University (MSU) has extended date for submitting online application forms for graduate courses to July 31. The dates were extended on Wednesday so that students from Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) can also apply. The class XII results of CBSE were announced on July 13. Earlier, the last day for online applications was Wednesday. Until last year students had to fill the application forms and pay fees online. The students had to visit the faculty in person with the fees receipt to complete the process. However, students, this year, will have to complete the entire process online. Students can complete their forms online by midnight of July 31 and the payment of fees will have to be done by 6.10 pm on August 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-extends-online-admission-process/articleshow/77006231.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Class XII supplementary exam likely from Aug 6||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has announced the tentative dates for the Class XII supplementary exams, known as ‘June exam’. The exam is tentatively scheduled to begin from August 6. It can also be answered by those students who found themselves stranded during the rescheduled Class XII 2020 exam papers held from May 20 to 22 due to the lockdown. Students will be able to apply online for the exam from July 17 to 27. Fees also will be accepted through e-payment, the board has said. Those who have cleared Class XII exam but want to improve their scores can also appear for the ‘June’ exam. Board officials had earlier said that they expect around 1,000 to 1,500 students to appear for this test. The board has said that students will also be able to download their hall tickets online. It has said that it will be responsibility of the students’ respective school heads to pick and drop students to and from the examination centres by ensuring that social distancing, wearing of face masks and other such norms are followed. “If any student resides in a containment area, the centre conductor should be informed for appropriate action,” the school heads have been told by Goa Board. The board has said that conductors will have to make provision for a separate block for sick candidates. “N-95 face mask, head and face cover, disposal gloves, hand sanitisers shall be provided to staff involved in examination work. Maintain block strength of 12 students. Strictly carry out thermal screening of all candidates. The conductor to allow students to carry transparent water bottles, sanitisers in the examination hall. The face mask is compulsory for the candidates. Examination blocks to be sanitized before the commencement of the examination,” conductors have been told by Goa Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-xii-supplementary-exam-likely-from-aug-6/articleshow/77009011.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Bitcoin scam on twitter: India may be ‘next target’||MUMBAI: Maharashtra cyber department has told Twitter India to inform it of any cyber security breach that may target Indians and prominent Indian handles. Prominent international personalities’ handles, with millions of followers, tweeted a crypto currency scam, which asked users to send bitcoins, and the person tweeting would send back double the amount. Many users fell prey to the scam. State cyber department superintendent of police Balsing Rajput said due to the scale of the attack, twitter disabled some features for few hours. Twitter support found the cause of the attack to be a social engineering attack. Accounts of some employees having access to internal tools were compromised, which led to hackers gaining control of prominent handles. A department analysis found the hackers could try to gain access to prominent Indian twitter profiles similarly. It is likely that it can be used for malicious intent like spreading fake news and misinformation. “In times of pandemic, any such hacking can cause widespread rumours and lead to chaos. Citizens should be alert and not blindly trust any tweet,” said Rajput. The department urged other social media platforms to be alert and inform it in case of a breach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bitcoin-scam-on-twitter-india-may-be-next-target/articleshow/77007969.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
July 17, 2020||Goa||Online learning, tests planned under centralised system||PANAJI: The directorate of higher education (DHE) has introduced for the first time this year centralised online admissions to general stream degree programmes, which began on July 15. The directorate has put in place an integrated academic information management system (IAIMS), under which centralised admissions are possible. But, DHE officials, state that this is only one of the 34 modules to be implemented in colleges across the state under the system. Once colleges begin the new academic year 2020-21, the IAIMS will help teachers share their course content online with students through this system and even internal tests can be held using it by the respective subject teacher in each college. “Once students’ admissions are confirmed, they will get access to the system, where they can log in using their email IDs. Even parents will be able to access things like attendance of the student. The students’ library records will be available and teachers will be able to hold internal exams using it,” said DHE official Mahadev Gawas. The IAIMS will be available to the government as well as aided institutions across Goa. With DHE having received the applications for admissions online this year, entire student data will be available at the click of the mouse to the state government ensuring better planning and management. Faculty records too will be available online to DHE and colleges. “Admissions is only one of the modules that we have started with in this pilot project. Once the academic year begins, teachers will be able to carry out their entire class and course management work through this system. Teachers can allot assignments online and students will be able to upload them on this system itself for the teacher to access,” said Gawas. Covid-19 cases in Goa are on the rise, and realising that classroom teaching may be a distant dream, DHE has responded by implementing the IAIMS. DHE has already begun work to convert at least 40% of the syllabus to e-content before the academic year can begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-learning-tests-planned-under-centralised-system/articleshow/77009006.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Permanent decorative lighting for Nehru Bridge||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has sanctioned some development as well as beautification projects. The standing committee decided to have decorative lighting on Nehru Bridge as a permanent feature and to renovate the roads leading to the airport. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that on Thursday projects of over Rs 200 crore were cleared by the standing committee. It was decided that Nehru Bridge will also have decorative lights similar to those installed at the Kankaria lakefront. The contract for operation and maintenance has been awarded for the next five years, Bhatt said, adding the cost for lighting up Nehru Bridge will be Rs 1 crore. Bhatt said the road from Shahibaug to airport and another one from Sardarnagar to airport will also be given a facelift at the project cost of Rs 75 lakh. Work will begin soon, and the work order to the contractor will be given immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/permanent-decorative-lighting-for-nehru-bridge/articleshow/77008147.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad office space absorption zero in Apr-June||HYDERABAD: At the top of its game in 2019, Hyderabad’s office space absorption dropped to zero between April and June of 2020, owing to the outbreak, show latest real estate reports. During the corresponding period last year, the city had netted about a million sft of business. Covid also deferred proposed transactions of anywhere between 5 and 6 million square feet (sft) that were expected to materialise this time, said industry sources. “They have been deferred in the short-term as tenants are focused on cost savings and are re-evaluating space strategies,” a prominent realtor explained. Among the worst hit was the co-working industry, with Knight Frank’s India Real Estate report released on Thursday, pegging the drop in absorption in this segment to 75% between January and June 2020, over same period last year. “Impact of pandemic is evident with pre-commitment deals coming under pause mode. There is delay in upcoming supply due to near-halt situation in construction activity. Mobilisation of labour and finance, adherence to Covid protocols and timely government approvals are likely to be challenges for developers,” said Samson Arthur, branch director of Knight Frank India, while maintaining that the city, despite the lows, was better positioned than most other metros, through lockdown. This was reiterated in another report by Cushman & Wakefield, which stated that Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai were most active leasing markets even through troubled times. According to its report, Mumbai, Delhi-NCR and Ahmedabad, on the other hand, faced a steep drop of 67.2%, 78.8% and 89.8% in office space absorption during January to June. “Though we expect leasing activity to remain sluggish in the short-term, Bengaluru and Hyderabad will be first ones to bounce back. Hyderabad is best positioned in terms of favourable real estate costs, talent pool availability and infrastructure,” said Veera Babu, MD of Cushman & Wakefield.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-office-space-absorption-zero-in-apr-june/articleshow/77008151.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: One lakh saplings to be planted in an hour||HYDERABAD: The district administration of Jayashankar Bhoopalpally will plant one lakh saplings in an hour. District collector Mod Abdul Azeem said the ‘linear plantation’ will be taken up along a 73 km stretch of road from 10 am. The date of the programme is to be fixed. Jayashankar Bhoopalpally district initially planned 62 lakh as the target but subsequently revised it to 80 lakh. Saplings are being planted in burial grounds and cremation grounds too. “The public comes to these places to perform the last rites of the dead. People leave the place immediately after the rites are performed. But these places should be developed in such a manner that people should also be able to sit there if they want to spend some time,” he said after a meeting with officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-lakh-saplings-to-be-planted-in-an-hr/articleshow/77008146.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||LMA to close roads in Bolarum, Trimulgherry starting July 18||Secunderabad: Following a sharp spike in Covid-19 positive cases, the Local Military Authority (LMA) has decided to close roads in Secunderabad military station area from July 18. The roads in the military establishment of Bolarum and Trimulgherry will remain out of bounds for people for 11 days till July 28. In an official release on Thursday, the LMA said: “Keeping in view of the heavy spread of Covid-19 coupled with concerns of safety of all defence personnel, families and civilians, we have sanctioned closure of the road in the military establishment of Bolarum and Trimulgherry. This order will be effective from 6 am on July 18 to 11 pm on July 28.” The LMA said ambulances or emergency medical cases would be allowed through the road after proper checkings and verifications. It urged the citizens to “cooperate with the military authorities” to contain the spread of the pandemic. However, the defence authorities were not clear as to which road would be closed for 11 days in their official release. LMA has already closed some roads leading to Allahabad Gate, Wellington Road, Gough Road, near Safilguda railway station, Bolarum and Yapral. Civilian traffic is restricted for two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening. Residents are worried as they will have to take a detour of at least five to eight km to reach their houses or workplaces once the road is made out of bounds. It is estimated that nearly 50,000 commuters using the road would be hit from Saturday. Several complaints on the road closures were made during ‘Meet your SCB vice- president’ programme. SCB vice-president J Rama Krishna said nearly 40 complaints were filed from residents of Yapral, Safilguda and surrounding areas on road closures and LMA curbs. Meanwhile, Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad has flayed LMA decision, saying this arbitrary decision would affect 15% of city population, which resides in northeastern parts. “Women, elderly and sick people will be the worst-hit,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lma-to-close-roads-in-bolarum-trimulgherry-starting-july-18/articleshow/77008172.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Online UG admission to start from August 10||KOLKATA: A day before the state board higher secondary results, the higher education department has instructed that admission to all UG courses (honours and general) in the state-funded higher education institutions in West Bengal for the 2020-2021 academic session will begin online from August 10. The entire admission process will be online. A higher education department official said colleges are concerned about the admission process since educational institutions will require a minimum number of staffers to visit the campuses and work in coordination to put the system online. “Thus, we shall begin the admission process from August 10. This will give the colleges additional time to understand how the Covid crisis is progressing. Also, HS candidates will get their marksheets and certificates July 31 onwards, which is important before beginning the college applications,” the official pointed out. The government has put in place the infrastructure required for the online admission system. After students submit the form and the application fee, the merit list will be published. “Prospective students can’t be called for counselling or verification of documents during the process of admission. No physical presence will be required at the colleges or universities. All eligible applicants will be informed directly by the college authorities through a letter, e-mail or via telecommunication. Fees will have to be paid online or at designated banks, not physically at the colleges. The lists of eligible applicants will be handed over to the designated bank branches for verification during payment of fees. The banks will receive admission fees based on the merit list,” the official added. The applicants will have to upload all the documents online. Verification of the documents will be done only when the students report for the classes in due course. Admissions may be cancelled if the documents are found not in conformity with the declaration in the forms submitted online. “Everyone has to abide by the Covid-19 protocol. Also, the vice-chancellors of all state-aided universities will take the necessary steps to ensure social-distancing norms and other rules set by the state are followed,” the official said. Several private colleges in the state, like Shri Shikshayatan College, Scottish Church College, St Xavier’s College (autonomous), The Bhawanipur Education Society College and others, have set their criteria and already invited applications. A state university VC said, “We are yet to hold the admissions committee meetings and syndicate meeting to determine the UG admission criteria.” He added that academic activities will be suspended for some time. “We are worried about how to hold the entrance tests for subjects which require to test a candidate’s basic knowledge,” he added. The state will inform about the PG admissions later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-ug-admission-to-start-from-august-10/articleshow/77008169.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 17, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD urged to suspend pilgrim worship in Tirumala||TIRUPATI: Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanams chairman YV Subba Reddy on Thursday made it clear that pilgrim worship will continue at the Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala, despite around 140 employees of the temple body, including 14 priests, testing positive for Covid-19 since the reopening of the temple on June 11. Medical and religious experts, however, want the richest temple body in the country to reconsider its decision in view of the rising number of cases across the state. Dr Krishna Prasanthi, vice-chairperson of Association of Physicians of India (AP chapter), said while the TTD is doing its best to check the spread of the virus in Tirumala, the tests being conducted on devotees are less than 0.30% of the overall pilgrim footfall. “TTD itself said that about 2,50,176 devotees visited the temple in the first month after it reopened, while only about 631 tests were carried out on devotees till July 10, which is paltry. This doesn’t give a clear picture whether all devotees who visited Tirumala were Covid-19 negative. With a majority of cases being reported in the state being asymptomatic, it is difficult to identify and isolate suspects. Ideally, the TTD should consider suspending pilgrim worship for at least two weeks till the situation improves,” she told TOI. Temples Protection Movement convenor Chilkur Rangarajan too felt the TTD should suspend pilgrim worship for some time in view of the rising number of cases in recent days. “The TTD has made the best of arrangements for devotees as per Covid-19 norms. But with so many employees and priests testing positive despite the best of arrangements, the TTD should take a call on whether to keep the temple open in the best interests of all. The Lord’s rituals could be affected if more priests get infected,” Rangarajan said. Meanwhile, agama advisor and honorary chief priest AV Ramana Deekshitulu took to Twitter, urging chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to intervene. “15 out of 50 archakas corona positive, 25 results awaited. TTD EO and AEO refuse to stop darshans... Disaster if this continues. Please take action,” Deekshitulu tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-urged-to-suspend-pilgrim-worship-in-tirumala/articleshow/77007311.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||Eye on polls, government readies roadmap for development in Purvanchal & Bundelkhand||LUCKNOW: Gearing up for the 2022 Assembly elections, the BJP government has stepped up development activities by pooling in funds in development boards constituted for socio-economically backward Purvanchal and Bundelkhand regions. Boards for these regions were constituted and approved by the state cabinet two years ago. According to a series of communiques sent by PWD to the chief development officers (CDOs) of Gonda, Jaunpur, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur and Siddharthnagar, the state government has earmarked a slew of funds for development of roads in districts coming under the Purvanchal Development Board. For Bundelkhand, the government has kickstarted development activities by earmarking funds for development of district roads in Banda. A senior PWD official said a host of projects got affected due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Road construction needs to be stepped up in economically backward regions,” he said. As per the state government guidelines, funds would be utilized in road construction projects only. Any diversion of funds would amount to financial anomaly on the part of district administration. Development activities would be carried out as per the rules framed by the state government on March 24, when lockdown was imposed. Special instructions have been issued to CDOs who would keep a close watch on development activities and ensure that government funds are not misused. The CDOs have also been asked to ensure quality in construction work and that there is no duplicacy of funds for the same project. Administrative officials of districts concerned have also been asked to ensure that funds allocated in the past are fully utilised and proper inspection of sites is conducted. Funds will not be availed in one go but as per requirement. District officials have also been asked to get the drawing/design of the project approved by a competent authority. The project will be examined by the execution agency and a report will be sent to the principal secretary, public works department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eye-on-polls-govt-readies-roadmap-for-devpt-in-purvanchal-bundelkhand/articleshow/77009025.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Girl’s phone number posted on Facebook, FIR filed||AHMEDABAD: A 21-year-old woman from Nava Vadaj, a second-year BCom student, lodged a complaint at the cybercrime police station on Tuesday stating that her private phone number and lewd comments about her have been published on a comment box of the Facebook account of a person named Sunil Bhavani. According to the FIR, she started receiving lewd calls and messages seeking sexual favours in November. “From the callers, she learned that her number had been published in a comment box on the said Facebook account. She checked this and found it to be true,” said cybercrime police official. The complainant stated that she doesn’t know anyone named Sunil Bhavani nor was the account on her Facebook friend list. “She has alleged that the aforesaid Facebook account holder has been harassing her since November 2019 by publishing her personal details on his account. We have asked for the IP log address of the Facebook account and will soon will nab the the accused,” said a cybercrime official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girls-phone-number-posted-on-fb-fir-filed/articleshow/77008179.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC gives nod to parking under 18 overbridges in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Thursday decided to give parking rights under 18 overbridges in the city. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the committee has decided the rates and the parking contract will be given on revenue sharing model. The new 18 parking spots will add parking for 6,500 two-wheelers and 770 cars. The 18 overbridges include the newly constructed one on Ashram Road at the Income Tax Circle. The AMC has also decided to use the spaces under flyovers for parking as vendors were using them and adding to traffic woes. AMC officials said that the creation of parking spaces will ensure that no vendor finds space under bridges and if a contractor was found allowing vendors, his contract may be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-gives-nod-to-parking-under-18-overbridges-in-city/articleshow/77008158.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid: Telangana marks 3 hospitals for treatment of lawyers||HYDERABAD: Responding to the initiative taken by Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan, state government on Thursday night announced that it has earmarked three hospitals for treating advocates hit by Covid-19. Advocate General B S Prasad told the media that the state has identified Kamineni hospital, LB Nagar, Malla Reddy institute of medical sciences, Suraram and Telangana Institute of medical sciences, Gachibowli for the purpose. “Treatment for serious cases will be extended by Kamineni and Malla Reddy hospitals while the moderate ones will be treated at TIMS, Gachibowli,” the AG said. In districts, DMHO and district legal services authorities will coordinate to extend the medical services to the advocates to treat them at relevant hospitals or to shift them to Hyderabad. A nodal officer from the state will coordinate with the bar council, the state and the hospitals. AG Prasad thanked the Chief Justice for taking the initiative to help the legal fraternity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-marks-3-hosps-for-treatment-of-lawyers/articleshow/77008166.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Schools can reappoint contract teachers||Panaji: As recruitment by government is on hold, the directorate of education has given permission for teachers to be appointed on contractual or lecture basis in government and government aided schools till the end of the academic year 2020-21. “Due to rise in Covid-19 cases across the nation, there has been continuous lockdown since March 2020. In order to efficiently manage the financial affairs of the state, the government has decided to defer the recruitment in all government departments upto December 2020,” education director Vandana Rao has said to schools. She has said that in the interest of students, it has therefore been decided to reappoint teachers on contractual or lecture basis with effect from June 4 in all government and government aided primary, secondary, higher secondary and special schools. The state government has imposed austerity measures due to the financial in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, and has hence deferred recruitments in all departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-can-reappoint-contract-teachers/articleshow/77009017.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||RGCB’s rapid antibody card gets regulatory nod||Thiruvananthapuram: A cost-effective rapid antibody card, developed indigenously by Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) has obtained manufacturing licence by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSO). The rapid antibody card will help study the presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies, with 100% sensitivity and 98% specificity. It has the advantages of being cost-effective, sensitive, and rapid. It also facilitates testing of a large number of samples at any level of clinical setting, public health centres and hospitals. The RGCB also received licence for manufacturing two more products — viral transport media (VTM) kit and a viral RNA extraction kit. The other products of RGCB —antigen detection system, ELISA and PCR kits— are under various stages of approval from the regulatory authorities. The VTM kit is suitable for collection, transportation, maintenance and long-term storage of viral specimens. It helps preserve the viability of viruses for up to 72 hours at refrigerated temperatures. The swabs have been designed ergonomically with a pre-moulded breakpoint on their shaft. The RNA kit facilitates fast manual isolation of viral RNA from the swab. The process takes only 25 to 30 minutes to extract 95% yield of RNA. It also has the price advantage as it is manufactured using raw material available in India. These products have been developed by RGCB in partnership with Sperogenx Biosciences Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru, and POCT Services, New Delhi, under SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic umbrella. Of these, VTM and RNA kits have already been test-marketed. Sperogenx is the development partner and POCT the commercial partner. The RGCB, in collaboration with POCT, is developing the ELISA kit that can be produced at a low cost. This is affordable and easy-to-use, and can be done in a resource-limited setting for a serological assay in multiple analyses at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rgcbs-rapid-antibody-card-gets-regulatory-nod/articleshow/77007325.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Be honest on secretariat report, Telangana HC tells PCB||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday rejected the reports of Telanagana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) and the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), saying it wants honest answers on whether preparation of land forms part of constructing a new project such as the new secretariat complex. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy lamented that they were getting clever replies instead of honest answers when they are faced with a first-of-its-kind legal question if preparation of land is part of a new project The bench was hearing a petition filed by professor PL Vishweshwar Rao of Telangana Jana Samithi and Cheruku Sudhakar of Telangana Inti Party. While the PCB spoke about the approval it accorded for demolition, the SEIAA said that it did not accord any environment clearance for the secretariat project. “None of them has answered our query whether preparing the land can be described as the first step of the new project requiring prior EC,” judges said. Ministry of environment and forestry rules say that constructions that occupy a space of 20,000 square meters to 1.5 lakh square meters fall under purview of category-B projects and construction of a new secretariat comes under this category. “None of the cited judgments of NGT, high courts and SC has dealt with this preparation of land subject. Hence, we presume that this is the first case in the country raising important legal questions,” the judges said. “This is all the more the reason why we are expecting a honest assistance to court.” Advocate General BS Prasad reiterated that what the government was doing now pertains to demolition and they had obtained permit from local authorities and PCB to deal with construction and demolition waste. “Since the question of raising a structure is not immediate concern, government need not obtain any permit for a new construction now,” AG argued. However, the judges asked assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao to ascertain it from the MoEF by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-honest-on-sectt-report-hc-tells-pcb/articleshow/77008161.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||‘182 univs have completed exams, 177 yet to decide’||NEW DELHI: As of Wednesday, 182 universities had already completed their examinations via online and offline mode, while 177 others are yet to decide on the conduct of examinations, the University Grants Commission said on Thursday. Universities and higher education institutions are expected to conduct the final year examinations by September-end either offline, online or in the blended mode. According to UGC, 234 are planning to conduct the final year exams in August and September, which cumulatively makes 454 universities which have either conducted examinations or are planning to conduct them. The disruption of academic activities from mid-March due to COVID-19 and subsequent lock down of campuses across the country has adversely affected the conduct of examinations across the country. The UGC on April 29, 2020 issued guidelines wherein it stated that first and second year examinations to be cancelled and students to be promoted based on previous semester/ year performances and/ or internal assessments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/182-univs-have-completed-exams-177-yet-to-decide/articleshow/77009714.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kanpur||2,083 Covid-19 cases take UP tally to 43,500||LUCKNOW: For the first time, Uttar Pradesh recorded over 2,000 new Covid cases in 24 hours. The total for this week has already crossed 7,000. With 2,083 new cases, the coronavirus tally for the state jumped to 43,554 on Thursday. “The number of active infections in the state now stands at 15,720,” stated additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit MohanPrasad. “The rising number of cases in some big cities of the state, including Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur besides NCR districts, is bothering us. In fact, we are brain-storming over the situation in these districts to improvise our strategy,” Prasad said. The state’s official Covid-19 bulletin revealed that the cluster comprising Lucknow (308), Ghaziabad (179), Gautam Budh Nagar (143), Jhansi (113), Varanasi (78), Prayagraj (56), Kanpur (51), and Gorakhpur (49) accounted for nearly 47% (or 977) of the cases reported in the past 24 hours. Covid-19 spikes were reported in Chandauli (100), Ballia (67), Meerut (63), Moradabad (59), Hardoi (58) and Sonbhadra (52. Prasad also stated that as many as 34 lives were lost to coronavirus infection in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,046. The number was deaths were highest in 24 hours. The state also recorded 932 recoveries, taking the total number to 26,675. The data revealed that Kanpur is now home to most Covid deaths in the state. With nine fresh casualties, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in Kanpur reached 102. Agra follows with total of 96, including one on Thursday.Meerut ranks third with 93 deaths. Deaths were also reported in 16 districts. Three deaths each were reported in Lucknow and Prayagraj, while Gautam Budh Nagar, Ballia, Jaunpur and Varanasi reported two deaths each. Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Moradabad,Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Amroha, Etawah, Fatehpur and Mirzapur saw one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2083-cases-take-up-tally-to-43-5k/articleshow/77011846.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 17, 2020||Kochi||With 722 new Covid-19 cases, Kerala hits 10,000-mark on total infections||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid cases in Kerala crossed the 10,000-mark as 722 new cases were reported on Thursday. Now, the total cases have risen to 10,275, of which 5,372 are active. Thiruvananthapuram has 1,279 active cases. Of the new cases, 481 are contact cases and source in 34 cases are not known. The capital continues to be the hotspot with 317 contact cases. Ernakulam reported 50 contact cases followed by Kollam (24), Pathanamthitta (20), Idukki (13), Kasaragod (11), Thrissur (8), Kozhikode (8) and Kannur (8), Alappuzha (7) and Kottayam (7), Malappuram (6), Palakkad (2). Among the contact cases, 12 are health workers, including five doctors from Thiruvananthapuram MCH. Five BSF and three ITBP personnel also were infected via contact. Among the new positive cases, 339 are from the capital, 57 from Ernakulam, 42 each from Kollam and Malappuram, 39 from Pathanamthitta, 33 from Kozhikode, 32 from Thrissur, 26 from Idukki, 25 from Palakkad, 23 from Kannur, 20 from Alappuzha, 18 from Kasaragod, 13 each from Kottayam and Wayanad. Two more deaths were reported in state. B Anish (39), who died in Thrissur and Mohammed Salik (25), who died in Kannur, tested positive. With this, the total number of deaths that occurred in state rose to 38. Among the new cases reported, 157 came from abroad and 62 from other states. In the past 24 hours, 16,052 samples were tested. Till date 2,68,128 samples were sent for testing of which 7,797 results are pending. Also, 85,767 samples were taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure as part of sentinel surveillance of which 81,543 samples tested negative. At present 1,83,900 persons are placed under surveillance, of which 1,78,468 are in home/institutional quarantine and 5,432 are admitted in designated isolation facilities. CM Pinarayi Vijayan said the situation in capital is alarming as contact cases have increased rapidly. Apart from the clusters in coastal region, the new concern is a hypermarket where 78 positive cases were detected among employees. More results are pending and it has been found that all the employees are from Tamil Nadu. At present, Kerala has 10 large, community clusters and a total of 84 clusters which include minor ones too. “People should learn from the situation in capital and be aware that the disease is spreading and anyone can get it. Hence, social distancing, wearing masks and break the chain can prevent this spread,” he said. All district administrations have begun steps to set up first-line treatment centres at the panchayat-level. For this, government has sanctioned Rs 10 crore each to all collectors. Local bodies have also been asked to utilize their plan fund for the purpose. It has been decided to increase the manpower in the health sector as more treatment centres are being opened. There will be a need to increase testing and health department will need the support of private sector to carry out the massive exercise, said Vijayan. Government has also decided to open special quarantine facilities exclusively for policemen in all districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/with-722-new-cases-state-hits-10k-mark-on-total-infections/articleshow/77007333.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||2,083 Covid-19 cases take UP tally to 43,500||LUCKNOW: For the first time, Uttar Pradesh recorded over 2,000 new Covid cases in 24 hours. The total for this week has already crossed 7,000. With 2,083 new cases, the coronavirus tally for the state jumped to 43,554 on Thursday. “The number of active infections in the state now stands at 15,720,” stated additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit MohanPrasad. “The rising number of cases in some big cities of the state, including Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur besides NCR districts, is bothering us. In fact, we are brain-storming over the situation in these districts to improvise our strategy,” Prasad said. The state’s official Covid-19 bulletin revealed that the cluster comprising Lucknow (308), Ghaziabad (179), Gautam Budh Nagar (143), Jhansi (113), Varanasi (78), Prayagraj (56), Kanpur (51), and Gorakhpur (49) accounted for nearly 47% (or 977) of the cases reported in the past 24 hours. Covid-19 spikes were reported in Chandauli (100), Ballia (67), Meerut (63), Moradabad (59), Hardoi (58) and Sonbhadra (52. Prasad also stated that as many as 34 lives were lost to coronavirus infection in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,046. The number was deaths were highest in 24 hours. The state also recorded 932 recoveries, taking the total number to 26,675. The data revealed that Kanpur is now home to most Covid deaths in the state. With nine fresh casualties, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in Kanpur reached 102. Agra follows with total of 96, including one on Thursday.Meerut ranks third with 93 deaths. Deaths were also reported in 16 districts. Three deaths each were reported in Lucknow and Prayagraj, while Gautam Budh Nagar, Ballia, Jaunpur and Varanasi reported two deaths each. Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Moradabad,Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Amroha, Etawah, Fatehpur and Mirzapur saw one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2083-cases-take-up-tally-to-43-5k/articleshow/77009037.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 17, 2020||Goa||‘Don’t use lockdown for destruction’||Panaji: The state authorities should not use the three-day lockdown for environmentally destructive purposes, said Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco in a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant. The Congress MLA said that many Goans are concerned that during the lockdown illegal mining, cutting of forest cover, hill cutting and land filling would take place in Goa. “On behalf of Goemkars, I appeal to your good self not to continue with the so-called haphazard development during the lockdown period and janta curfew whose only objective is to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said Lourenco. He also said that the lockdown should be extended for eight days to avoid community transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-use-lockdown-for-destruction/articleshow/77009036.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Allahabad||2,083 Covid-19 cases take UP tally to 43,500||LUCKNOW: For the first time, Uttar Pradesh recorded over 2,000 new Covid cases in 24 hours. The total for this week has already crossed 7,000. With 2,083 new cases, the coronavirus tally for the state jumped to 43,554 on Thursday. “The number of active infections in the state now stands at 15,720,” stated additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit MohanPrasad. “The rising number of cases in some big cities of the state, including Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur besides NCR districts, is bothering us. In fact, we are brain-storming over the situation in these districts to improvise our strategy,” Prasad said. The state’s official Covid-19 bulletin revealed that the cluster comprising Lucknow (308), Ghaziabad (179), Gautam Budh Nagar (143), Jhansi (113), Varanasi (78), Prayagraj (56), Kanpur (51), and Gorakhpur (49) accounted for nearly 47% (or 977) of the cases reported in the past 24 hours. Covid-19 spikes were reported in Chandauli (100), Ballia (67), Meerut (63), Moradabad (59), Hardoi (58) and Sonbhadra (52. Prasad also stated that as many as 34 lives were lost to coronavirus infection in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,046. The number was deaths were highest in 24 hours. The state also recorded 932 recoveries, taking the total number to 26,675. The data revealed that Kanpur is now home to most Covid deaths in the state. With nine fresh casualties, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in Kanpur reached 102. Agra follows with total of 96, including one on Thursday.Meerut ranks third with 93 deaths. Deaths were also reported in 16 districts. Three deaths each were reported in Lucknow and Prayagraj, while Gautam Budh Nagar, Ballia, Jaunpur and Varanasi reported two deaths each. Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Moradabad,Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Amroha, Etawah, Fatehpur and Mirzapur saw one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2083-cases-take-up-tally-to-43-5k/articleshow/77011847.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 17, 2020||Goa||Goa governor: CM’s statement on media irresponsible and mischievous||PANAJI: Governor Satya Pal Malik on Thursday came down heavily on chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement to reporters that he (Malik) was critical of media’s “wrong” coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state and said Sawant’s remark was “irresponsible and mischievous”. “In my 50 years of political life, I have never criticised the Press because Press is our strength and we get real feedback from the Press. It was irresponsible… he (Sawant) has done mischief,” Malik told TOI. “I vehemently deny his statement. I want to reiterate that Press is our strength and knowledge is power. And knowledge we get from the Press,” he said. Sawant, who had met the governor along with health minister Vishwajit Rane to brief him about the Covid situation in the state, told reporters after the meeting that Malik was concerned about the “wrong picture” being painted by the media. “This was a review meeting of the Covid situation in the state. There is lot of wrong information being circulated in the media. We gave him the correct picture. Governor said we are doing a lot of good work, but social media, print media and electronic media is painting a wrong picture. Governor felt media has to show all the good work and wondered why wrong news is all over the place,” Sawant told reporters. Asked whether the governor was specifically referring to social media posts or mainstream media, Sawant said it was “all media”. Sawant, who was also accompanied by chief secretary Parimal Rai and secretary (health) Nila Mohanan, said: “The health secretary told the governor that despite giving daily updates, wrong information is being circulated (in the media).” The chief minister did not specify which ‘wrong news’ had found mention in mainstream publications or news channels and instead said: “That’s what he said. You ask him (governor). His Excellency will tell you. Sometimes the opposition makes wrong claims and you broadcast it. You are not to be blamed. The governor must have seen that.” The meeting with the governor comes a day after Sawant announced a three-day lockdown from Thursday night and a night curfew from 8pm to 6am till August 10. Goa has seen an increasing number of Covid positive cases and deaths in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/malik-cms-statement-on-media-irresponsible-and-mischievous/articleshow/77009016.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Revenue dept sets the ball rolling for dist reorganisation||Amaravati: With the government set to reorganise the districts on the basis of Lok Sabha constituencies, the revenue department is gearing up to make field-level arrangements. Following the decision, several districts will undergo complete socio-geographical and political changes. Districts such as Guntur, Krishna, East Godavari and West Godavari, which command a larger political clout, are likely to diminish in stature after the creation of new districts. Although, the formation of new districts is likely to create hurdles in reaching the district headquarter town, the chief minister has set all apprehensions aside stating that people would get used to the new system once created. The chief minister is believed to have agreed to making Araku Lok Sabha constituency into two districts keeping in view the geographical disadvantages of the tribals. “I have been advocating creation of smaller districts for long. I must thank chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy for taking a firm decision on the issue as smaller districts will take the governance to the door-steps of the people,” said MLC Dokka Manikyavaraprasad. Analysts say that the creation of new districts along with providing administrative convenience to officials as well as people is likely to change political equations in many districts. The new districts are likely to end the dominance of upper-caste communities in many areas as it gives an opportunity to new leadership to emerge. “It will also create new infrastructure like roads and transport connectivity to the district headquarter and help flourish real estate sector,” said an analyst. The revenue department has carried out a study on creation of new districts soon after YSRC came to power. The department proposed to create a few new revenue divisions and new mandal headquarters before setting up the district headquarters. Sources said that the department is of the view that each district comprising seven assembly segments of Lok Sabha constituency should have at least two revenue divisions. The department had also suggested splitting bigger mandals into two or three smaller mandals. “The creation of new revenue divisions and new mandals might easily allay the fears about district headquarter being situated far away,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/revenue-dept-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-dist-reorganisation/articleshow/77007321.cms||Samdani MN
July 17, 2020||Indore||Fall in mortality rate due to Kill Corona drive: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said, largescale testing was conducted in the state during the door-to-door ‘Kill Corona’ campaign. Every patient is being identified and treated, he said, adding that due to the massive scale of testing the mortality rate in the state has declined. He said, a few districts have seen a spurt in cases. Keeping in view the situation, district-wise strategy should be prepared to eliminate coronavirus pandemic in the state. He said that officers in-charge must tour their districts and take effective steps to curb coronavirus in coordination with district crisis management. Reviewing the coronavirus situation in the state through video conferencing under the ‘Kill Corona’ campaign, the CM said that health survey of 95% of the state has been completed. Under the campaign, samples of 1,00,679 people have been taken, out of which 1,831 people have been found corona positive. The positivity rate is currently at 1.73%, he said. During the review of Tikamgarh district, it was found that positivity rate of coronavirus cases in the district was high after which Chouhan instructed officials to take strict measures in the infected areas. After the review of Rewa, Chouhan instructed that attention should be paid to isolation after ‘contact-tracing’ of corona- infected patients. In case, houses are small and there is no arrangement for quarantine, then people should be kept under institutional quarantine, he said. Additional chief secretary of health Mohd. Suleman informed that the mortality rate has declined by 1% in the state in the last 15 days. The current mortality rate of Madhya Pradesh is 3.38%. The number of corona tests in Madhya Pradesh has increased and 6726 tests per 10 lakh population are being conducted in the state. The positivity rate of the state is 3.68% and recovery rate is 69.3%.  CM Chouhan congratulated the team of Ujjain district which has seen a constant decline in corona infection. He instructed officials to take special precautions as infections shot up in Gwalior after a decline. Six new cases of corona have come to the fore in Ujjain, whereas 121 new cases were reported in Gwalior.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/fall-in-mortality-rate-due-to-kill-corona-cm/articleshow/77011493.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC adjourns pleas on exams for undergrad, PG medical courses||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Thursday adjourned hearing of two petitions in favour of and against conduct of exams of undergraduate and post-graduate medical courses to see the outcome of a PIL that challenged a state government decision not to hold exams. The PIL will be heard by a bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta on Friday. A bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Nitin Borkar heard a petition by 25 students in the state opposing exams, while another bench of Justices Ramesh Dhanuka and V G Bisht heard a petition by Dr Nishant Gobbar, a topper, seeking a direction to the state and Maharashtra University of Health Sciences to hold exams, as it was mandatory for getting a super-speciality seat at PGIMER, Chandigarh. The students’ petition said the decision to conduct theory and practical exams was “nothing but a self-inviting threat” to their lives and of other students. Their advocate said they were “scattered all over the country” and have to travel from other states which are under complete lockdown and have to undergo 14-day quarantine. After government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade informed eh court about the PIL, the judges posted the hearing on July 23 and directed that a copy of he CJ’s order be placed before it. In Gobbar’s petition, judges were told by assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan that another bench had adjourned hearing of a petition against exams due to the PIL. The judges then posted the hearing to July 24. MUHS advocate also told the court VCs of health science universities were meeting today to decide on exams. Gobbar’s advocate said despite HC’s July 9 order, PGIMER had cancelled his provisional admission. The judges directed restoration of his provisional admission. Rosy Sequeira||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-adjourns-pleas-on-exams-for-undergrad-pg-med-courses/articleshow/77007974.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||One year since its inception, NRI women cell handles 101 petitions||HYDERABAD: A year after its launch, NRI Women Safety Cell has handled 101 petitions from victims whose husbands or in-laws are non resident Indians (NRIs). Despite the prevailing situation due to pandemic, the NRI cell has taken up a review of all the cases to ensure that there are no loose strings in investigation. The NRI cell was inaugurated by DGP M Mahendar Reddy on July 17, 2019, at the office of IG women safety wing to focus on cases where NRI spouses or relatives are the prime accused. The NRI cell has been receiving petitions from the victims, mostly related to domestic and dowry harassment. The cell also receives information from police stations whenever a complaint is lodged by the victims against NRI husbands and in-laws. “The staff at the NRI cell follow specifically formed SOP. They collect information from the petitioner in a specific format and help them in the registration of the case. After the case is registered, NRI cell staff frequently reviews the status in presence of panel of experts and follows it up with both the complainant as well as the investigating officer,” DIG women safety wing, B Sumathi said. The NRI cell in coordination with Regional Passport Office (RPO), National Commission for Women (NCW), ministry of external affairs (MEA), ministry of home affairs (MHA) and Telangana’s general administration department (GAD) has managed to ensure that Look Out Circulars were issued against eight accused and in seven cases, passports of the offenders were deposited in courts. Parents of a US based NRI were sentenced to two years imprisonment in a dowry harassment case of 2009 due to the efforts of NRI cell and the CID. After the registration of case, the accused did not come to India and NRI Cell ensured that LOC is maintained against the absconding accused and NBW is also pending against him, so that he could be arrested upon entry into the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-year-since-its-inception-nri-cell-handles-101-petitions/articleshow/77008182.cms||Mahesh Buddi
July 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stranded AP seafarer yearns to return home||HYDERABAD: A seafarer from Andhra Pradesh, who escaped from Somalian pirates aboard a ship near Nigeria last year, is desperately seeking help to return home. Twenty four-year-old Jarjana Sankara Rao is stranded on MT Apecus at Bonny Island anchorage in Nigeria. Shankara Rao has written to director-general of shipping, government of India, Amitabh Kumar to help him out of a situation. “My sufferings are plenty. I am mentally and physically broke,” Sankara Rao, who hails from Vizianagaram, told TOI from the ship. Explaining his ordeal, Rao said: “I have been on the sea for the last 21 months. There is a limit to one’s endurance.” A Nigerian and two Ghana seafarers are with him on the vessel. “I will be in danger if I step out of the ship,” Sankara Rao pointed out. He boarded the ship on November 23, 2018. Five Indian crew members were kidnapped by the pirates on the oil tanker on April 19, 2019. Displaying presence of mind, Sankara Rao hid in the engine room. The Indians were released on June 27 after spending 70 days in captivity. After the pirates left, the ship was steered to Bonny anchorage. But, it was seized and rest of the crew were arrested later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stranded-ap-seafarer-yearns-to-return-home/articleshow/77008185.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 17, 2020||Goa||Congress seeks urgent hearing from apex court||Panaji: Goa state Congress president Girish Chodankar has approached the Supreme Court seeking an urgent hearing in a plea filed against the speaker of Goa assembly for expediting disqualification petition filed against ten Congress MLAs who joined BJP a year ago. Around four weeks ago, the Supreme Court had directed Goa assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar’ and 10 MLAs to respond to the petition moved against them. “In compliance with the directions passed by the court in its order dated June 20, the writ petition ought to have been listed for hearing on or around July 17,” said Chodankar. He has sought an urgent listing of the matter since the case has not been listed in the court registry despite the “specific directions of the court” and the date has been pushed to August 7. The petitioner's advocate Sahil Tagotra has appealed to the registrar of the Supreme Court to list the case for hearing before July 20. Tagotra pointed out that Patnekar has failed to decide on the disqualification petition for more than nine months. “Any additional delay in listing the matter, despite specific directions of the court to list the same will irreversibly prejudice the petitioner’s case and cause a loss to the public exchequer,” said Tagotra in the letter to the registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-seeks-urgent-hearing-from-apex-court/articleshow/77009031.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||Fall in mortality rate due to Kill Corona drive: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said, largescale testing was conducted in the state during the door-to-door ‘Kill Corona’ campaign. Every patient is being identified and treated, he said, adding that due to the massive scale of testing the mortality rate in the state has declined. He said, a few districts have seen a spurt in cases. Keeping in view the situation, district-wise strategy should be prepared to eliminate coronavirus pandemic in the state. He said that officers in-charge must tour their districts and take effective steps to curb coronavirus in coordination with district crisis management. Reviewing the coronavirus situation in the state through video conferencing under the ‘Kill Corona’ campaign, the CM said that health survey of 95% of the state has been completed. Under the campaign, samples of 1,00,679 people have been taken, out of which 1,831 people have been found corona positive. The positivity rate is currently at 1.73%, he said. During the review of Tikamgarh district, it was found that positivity rate of coronavirus cases in the district was high after which Chouhan instructed officials to take strict measures in the infected areas. After the review of Rewa, Chouhan instructed that attention should be paid to isolation after ‘contact-tracing’ of corona- infected patients. In case, houses are small and there is no arrangement for quarantine, then people should be kept under institutional quarantine, he said. Additional chief secretary of health Mohd. Suleman informed that the mortality rate has declined by 1% in the state in the last 15 days. The current mortality rate of Madhya Pradesh is 3.38%. The number of corona tests in Madhya Pradesh has increased and 6726 tests per 10 lakh population are being conducted in the state. The positivity rate of the state is 3.68% and recovery rate is 69.3%.  CM Chouhan congratulated the team of Ujjain district which has seen a constant decline in corona infection. He instructed officials to take special precautions as infections shot up in Gwalior after a decline. Six new cases of corona have come to the fore in Ujjain, whereas 121 new cases were reported in Gwalior.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fall-in-mortality-rate-due-to-kill-corona-cm/articleshow/77007329.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Varanasi||2,083 Covid-19 cases take UP tally to 43,500||LUCKNOW: For the first time, Uttar Pradesh recorded over 2,000 new Covid cases in 24 hours. The total for this week has already crossed 7,000. With 2,083 new cases, the coronavirus tally for the state jumped to 43,554 on Thursday. “The number of active infections in the state now stands at 15,720,” stated additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit MohanPrasad. “The rising number of cases in some big cities of the state, including Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur besides NCR districts, is bothering us. In fact, we are brain-storming over the situation in these districts to improvise our strategy,” Prasad said. The state’s official Covid-19 bulletin revealed that the cluster comprising Lucknow (308), Ghaziabad (179), Gautam Budh Nagar (143), Jhansi (113), Varanasi (78), Prayagraj (56), Kanpur (51), and Gorakhpur (49) accounted for nearly 47% (or 977) of the cases reported in the past 24 hours. Covid-19 spikes were reported in Chandauli (100), Ballia (67), Meerut (63), Moradabad (59), Hardoi (58) and Sonbhadra (52. Prasad also stated that as many as 34 lives were lost to coronavirus infection in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,046. The number was deaths were highest in 24 hours. The state also recorded 932 recoveries, taking the total number to 26,675. The data revealed that Kanpur is now home to most Covid deaths in the state. With nine fresh casualties, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in Kanpur reached 102. Agra follows with total of 96, including one on Thursday.Meerut ranks third with 93 deaths. Deaths were also reported in 16 districts. Three deaths each were reported in Lucknow and Prayagraj, while Gautam Budh Nagar, Ballia, Jaunpur and Varanasi reported two deaths each. Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Moradabad,Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Amroha, Etawah, Fatehpur and Mirzapur saw one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2083-cases-take-up-tally-to-43-5k/articleshow/77011845.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 17, 2020||India||Update antigen testing data in real time: ICMR||NEW DELHI: In a letter to all states and UTs, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava has said that with the use of rapid antigen tests, more and more tests are being carried out and therefore it is necessary that all testing data is uploaded on the ICMR database on real time basis and all positive cases are brought to the authorities for isolation, quarantine or treatment. “All government hospitals/labs as well as all private NABH/NABL hospitals/labs may initiate antigen testing and apply for obtaining log in credentials for data entry into the ICMR portal.” In an effort to facilitate and further liberalise testing, ICMR has generated five common log in credentials for each district of each State/ UT, which may be shared with all government and private facilities selected for antigen testing. The ICMR DG said that to ensure that testing is further enhanced and reporting of the same is done seamlessly states should identify all government and private facilities that would be providing Covid-19 diagnosis through antigen-based assays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/update-antigen-testing-data-in-real-time-icmr/articleshow/77009715.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||GPSC defers computer tests for various posts||PANAJI: Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) has decided to postpone the computer-based recruitment test (CBRT) for various posts in the government department owing to rising Covid-19 cases in the state. A new date for the tests will be announced by the commission for the 233 posts, for which it received almost 6,500 applications. GPSC chairman Jose Manual Noronha said the various openings are in higher education, civil aviation, health services, dental college, medical college, mines and geology, skill training, animal husbandry and veterinary services, agriculture department etc. The commission had made arrangements for the conduct of these examinations on August 1, 2 and 16 following the standard operating procedure (SOPs). It even planned for allowing only 10 to 12 candidates per computer laboratory. The junior scale officers (JSO) examination will only be held once colleges are reopened. Meanwhile, the commission held twelve departmental promotion committee meetings on Thursday wherein names of six persons were recommended to the government for the post of joint directors in accounts department through promotions. The commission also promoted an officer as superintending engineer, two as executive engineers and one as the chief chemist in the public works department. The commission also recommended promotion of an officer as deputy director of agriculture, four as assistant directors of agriculture and three as agriculture officers. The period of probation was also cancelled for a total of 17 ayurvedic practitioners in the department of health services while two were promoted to the post of assistant information officers in the department of information and publicity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gpsc-defers-computer-tests-for-various-posts/articleshow/77009042.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kalari Sanghams fall silent in the face of invisible enemy||Kozhikode: The Kalari Sanghams in the state have fallen silent with the Covid-19 pandemic stifling the swish and clash of swords and sticks. The Karkkadakam month which began on Thursday used to be the high point of both Kalari training and treatment in the around 400 Kalari training centres which have been keeping alive the state’s own traditional martial art tradition. But, most of the Kalari Sanghams in the state have not commenced training after lockdown kicked in. “We used to train around 200 students annually and at any given time, there used to be around 80 students. But following the lockdown, we have discontinued the classes as it is difficult to maintain social distancing while imparting the lessons,” Sudhakaran Gurukkal of CVN Kalari at Edakkad near Kozhikode, said. Gurukkal, who have been running the Kalari training centre from 1995 onwards, said the arrivals of foreign students this year had declined even some time before the lockdown. “We used to have around 12 foreign students here but this year the numbers were on a decline even before the Covid-19 outbreak,” he added. He said it takes up to six years for a student to master Kalari while foreign students have been undertaking intensive courses of two years duration for which they come in multiple three-month long visits. Sudhakaran Gurukkal said the Kalari treatments at the centres have also been hit following Covid-19 restrictions as treatments like Uzhichil (massage) involves body contact. “Karkkadakam month used to be the popular time for such treatments. But this year the authorities have advised against carrying out treatments involving body contact and we cannot do Uzhichil without contact,” he added. Gurukkal, who is the state president of the Kalaripayattu Federation of India, said though there are around 400 Kalari Sanghams in the state, main training centres accounted for just around 50. Rajan Gurukkal, who has been running the Dhanwanthari Kalari Sanghom at Kanayagode in Kozhikode, said he has informed his around 110 students in the two Kalaris that the classes would start only when the schools reopen after the Covid- 19 situation normalises. “We used to conduct classes over the three months from June and had classes during six days a week, but this season we have not commenced training,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kalari-sanghams-fall-silent-in-the-face-of-invisible-enemy/articleshow/77007344.cms||K R Rajeev
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||‘Key Covid medicines’ reach Kolkata, to aid treatment||KOLKATA: In a respite to Covid patients and doctors in Bengal, at least 2,400 vials of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab from two pharmaceutical companies reached the city on Thursday. Around 500 vials of Remdesivir, the only drug approved by the USFDA for Emergency Use Authorisation treatment of Covid-19 patients, have already reached the city hospitals. Industry sources said Tocilizumab is being supplied to institutions on a requirement basis. “Doctors are placing requirements with the hospitals, who, in turn, are placing orders with pharmaceutical companies. The medicine is being supplied directly to the hospitals through institutional stockists,” said Sajal Ganguly, president of the Bengal Chemist and Druggists Association. The hospitals are also maintaining a protocol where each vial is accounted for. They are also maintaining a record of consent by patients. According to Ganguly, however, there is no way the medicines will be supplied through normal distribution chain any time soon. “There is a demand for Remdesivir and Tocilizumab from across hospitals,” Ganguly added. “One has to keep in mind that few strongly advocated dataset are available to suggest when the drugs should be administered and at what dosage. There are reports in journals that suggest efficacy of Remdesivir, but they are too preliminary to suggest any definite efficacy,” said Jyotishka Pal, senior consultant, RTIICS. Tocilizumab has been found effective with timely administration to calm the “cytokine storm” caused by the immune system’s overreaction to coronavirus. “There has not been any randomized control trial for Tocilizumab. Remdesivir has gone through randomized control trial and shown efficacy. We are using Tocilizumab on and off if certain criteria are met,” said Sumit Sengupta, consultant respiratory physician with AMRI Hospitals. Doctors have another word of caution. “If you start with Remdesivir and find no supply after a few days, you should not switch drugs,” Pal warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/key-covid-meds-reach-city-to-aid-treatment/articleshow/77008220.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 17, 2020||Kochi||Fire at warehouse hits UAE expats||Kochi: Scores of non-resident Keralites who left UAE in distress because of loss of jobs and concerns over the economic downturn caused by the coronavirus situation are in a terrible shock after they lost many valuables and household items in a warehouse fire in Dubai. The valuables, bought using their savings during the course of expat life, include furniture, electronic gadgets, dresses, and articles of interior decor. The total losses suffered would amount to several crores. The devastating fire occured at the Dubai warehouse of Ruby Cargo on July 6 but many who had booked shipments were allegedly kept in the dark by the company. An investigation by Dubai Police and civil defense is currently on. “The incident happened on July 6 but was informed only after I called up the office of Ruby Cargo days later to know when it would be shipped. It was a huge shock. I got a formal email only on July 13,” says Santhosh Kumar, who took a repatriation flight to Kerala on June 30 after giving up his job as an artist in a daily newspaper. Kumar, who had packed two jumbo boxes, with expensive electronic gadgets, says his losses would come to around Rs 20 lakh. “I had also specifically asked them about the insurance but they dissuaded me,” says Kumar, who now suspects foul play as the company claimed total loss. Many expats decided to ship the furniture because there were no takers for such goods. Jayanarayanan, a Palakkad native who lost goods worth around Rs 14 lakh, said he visited the site on July 9 along with a friend after they learned about the fire. “There were not many charred remains at the site and many boxes like ours had utensils such as steel plates which would not burn easily,” says Jayanarayanan, who retired as a manager with a petroleum company after 14 years of work. Ruby Cargo returned 5,650 dirhams they had charged him for the shipment, but he is not sure whether others have been reimbursed too. Vikraman S, a resident of Abu Dhabi, who shifted back to Varkala lost household equipment worth around Rs 20 lakh, believes that the fire was due to natural causes. “I migrated to the UAE in the early eighties and have known the company ever since. I don’t think there is a reason to disbelieve them. It is unlikely that they would do such a thing when their business is booming,” he said. An email sent to Ruby Cargo officials seeking their version was not answered. “There are people who lost their jobs during the pandemic and those who left their jobs and were planning to settle down in Kerala. As per my knowledge there are at least 80 people who have been affected and we are now trying to trace all of them,” says Santhosh Kumar, who has now formed a WhatsApp group to bring together people who have suffered losses and seek damages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fire-at-warehouse-hits-uae-expats/articleshow/77007358.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Spate of deaths by suicide at AIIMS cause for concern||NEW DELHI: The body of a 32-year-old man was found hanging with a plastic pipe used with glucose bottles in the bathroom of the emergency wing of AIIMS on Wednesday. Sources said the deceased, a resident of Satna district in Madhya Pradesh, had undergone intestinal surgery at the hospital last year and had come for follow-up. He was admitted to the trauma surgery department around 10pm and was to be shifted to the ward when he went missing from admission area. Later, the hospital staff found his body hanging in the bathroom. No suicide note was found. In the past 41 days, AIIMS has witnessed four deaths by suicide. This includes the death of a hospital doctor undergoing treatment for depression, a journalist admitted to the trauma centre for Covid-19, and another patient suspected of depression over a five-year-old ailment. While the hospital said it had increased security and CCTV monitoring to prevent such incidents, doctors said psycho-social support was needed too. “Getting admitted to a hospital for chronic or acute illness is known to cause anxiety. The Covid crisis has made it worse. Everyone, including healthcare workers, are very anxious and under stress. All this could be leading to such incidents,” said Dr Sudhir Gupta, professor and head of forensic sciences at AIIMS. Gupta’s department is planning to conduct a study of the reasons behind the spate of suicides during the Covid outbreak. Apart from AIIMS, increased rate of suicide has also been reported among patients in other hospitals across the country. AIIMS said the department of psychiatry had started a tele-counselling service for all Covid-19 patients at the hospital. “Additionally, 15 residents from the psychiatry department are being deployed daily in the Covid wards for screening patients for mental health issues and counselling, if needed,” said a senior official. Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor of psychiatry at AIIMS, said early identification of people with known or underlying mental health illnesses was one of the ways to reduce deaths by suicide. “We also need to take care of social disintegration caused due to the Covid outbreak,” he added. Recently, TOI had reported how the doctor’s touch, which was most reassuring for a patient, had gone missing due to distance being maintained because of the Covid scare. This, psychiatrists pointed out, could exacerbate distress and anxiety among the ill. In the case of Covid-19 patients, this could lead to a feeling of neglect, Sagar pointed out. Unlike a normal hospital ward, where adjacent beds are kept closer, the Covid protocol mandates a minimum distance of one metre between adjacent beds. Also, all patients have to wear a triple-layer surgical mask at all times. “Those with existing mental health issues like depression are most vulnerable. Elderly people living in loneliness and isolation might also get extreme suicidal thoughts. For example, I have a stable job and regular income, but because of the Covid crisis I’m unable to do surgeries. This has been leading to frustration,” said a senior doctor, who did not want to be quoted. Watch 4 deaths by suicide in less than 2 months raises concern at AIIMS Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spate-of-deaths-by-suicide-at-aiims-cause-for-concern/articleshow/77008188.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 17, 2020||Goa||Mining case in SC fails to come up for hearing||PANAJI: Uncertainty continues to prevail over the resumption of mining in Goa as the crucial case filed by mining companies could not come up for hearing on Thursday before the Supreme Court. The mining companies and the dependants, including the state government, are hoping for commencement of iron ore extraction in the state to boost the economy. The Goa mining matter was expected to be taken up by the court on July 16. Advocate general Devidas Pangam said that the matter is likely to come up in this month itself. “There is a possibility that both mining matters, including the state government review petition against the apex court order of February 2018 may be clubbed together,” Pangam said The last hearing was scheduled on April 21, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the matter could not be taken up. Two mining companies have approached the apex court for extension of mining leases till 2037. The companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) after the high court of Bombay at Goa had dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese era, the appellants were granted mining concessions which were converted into mining leases under the abolition act. The SLP stated the abolition act should be made application from 1987 instead of 1961. Mining in Goa came to an halt in March 15, 2018 following the Supreme Court decision to quash the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The state government before the apex court had said that the companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, they are entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-case-in-sc-fails-to-come-up-for-hearing/articleshow/77009046.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Engineering colleges in Telangana to open from August 17||HYDERABAD: The new academic year for engineering students will begin on August 17, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao announced on Thursday.  It means that engineering colleges can start classes for second, third and fourth year students but first year classes are expected to begin only from November 1 after the conduct of the EAMCET exam either in the last week of August or the first week of September. The government has also decided to conduct examinations for final year students of engineering, graduation and post-graduation courses as per the Centre and UGC guidelines while promoting the others.  CM held a review meet with education minister Sabita Indra Reddy, chief secretary Somesh Kumar, special chief secretary Chitra Ramachandran and collegiate education commissioner Navin Mittal to discuss the academic year for schools, revision of syllabus and impact of pandemic. The government wants to wait for Centre’s guidelines on reopening schools. “The government is preparing combined entrance tests schedule so that students will not lose their precious academic year,” CM said. He also announced that a long-term strategy would be prepared to strengthen the government educational institutions in the state. “Government has been focussing on one sector after other sice state formation. The focus was initially on power, irrigation, drinking water and agriculture. Now focus will be on revamping education and revenue departments,” Chandrasekhar Rao said. KCR added that orphaned girls are studying up to 10th standard in Kasturba schools and the government will take responsibility of their further education, the CM said. KCR instructed officials to hold a workshop on the present situation of government schools, colleges and other educational institutions and as to what measures should be taken to make them great institutions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engineering-colleges-to-open-from-august-17/articleshow/77008192.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh tops national chart with highest infant deaths in 2019-20||BHOPAL: In yet another indicator of poor health, Madhya Pradesh has found itself at the bottom of the list of states with maximum number of infant deaths — 31,586 — in 2019-20, says a report of Health Management Information System (HMIS) of the National Health Mission. State capital, Bhopal, tops the list of the districts with the maximum infant deaths — 1,431. Other BIMARU states like UP, Bihar and Chhattisgarh have performed comparitively better, recording lesser number of infant deaths. The Sample Registration System (SRS) statistical report of 2018 — released in June this year — had said that MP has the highest infant mortality rate (IMR) of 48. This means 48 children out of 1,000 live births died in the state within one year. The national average for the IMR in this period was 32. This survey was based on a three-year data for the period of 2016 to 2018. The HMIS portal is termed as “a gateway to a wealth of information regarding the health indicators of India” and the information available on this portal is derived from the data uploaded by the states. “HMIS data is specifically designed to support planning, management and decision making,” officials in the National Health Mission said. Referring to the recent IMR data of 48 in Madhya Pradesh, child health activist Arvind Mishra said, “If this is compared with the HMIS infant deaths reported in Madhya Pradesh, it seems there is misreporting of data also. This number of infant deaths (31,586) should actually be much more, maybe double.” This again means, he said, the next IMR report will place Madhya Pradesh at the bottom of the chart. In the HMIS data for 2019-20, all the neighbours of Madhya Pradesh have performed well. Against 31,586 infant deaths in MP, UP registered only 11,288 while Bihar and Chattisgarh registered 8,913 and 7,868 infant deaths. Further analysis of the HMIS data revealed that the maximum number of infant deaths — 1,431 — in the period took place in Bhopal district. It is followed by Satna and Chattarpur — both the districts are notorious for malnutrition and related ailments. According to the HMIS data, 6,122 children died within 24 hours of their birth. The poor health care system in Madhya Pradesh is believed to be the reason behind the large number of infant deaths. Criticising the healthcare system of Madhya Pradesh, a report of the Comptroller and Auditor General CAG) remarked in 2017, “the shortfalls in providing maternal, child and reproductive healthcare services resulted in failure of state in achieving targets for IMR, MMR and TFR”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-tops-national-chart-with-highest-infant-deaths-in-2019-20/articleshow/77007337.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
July 17, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh tops national chart with highest infant deaths in 2019-20||BHOPAL: In yet another indicator of poor health, Madhya Pradesh has found itself at the bottom of the list of states with maximum number of infant deaths — 31,586 — in 2019-20, says a report of Health Management Information System (HMIS) of the National Health Mission. State capital, Bhopal, tops the list of the districts with the maximum infant deaths — 1,431. Other BIMARU states like UP, Bihar and Chhattisgarh have performed comparitively better, recording lesser number of infant deaths. The Sample Registration System (SRS) statistical report of 2018 — released in June this year — had said that MP has the highest infant mortality rate (IMR) of 48. This means 48 children out of 1,000 live births died in the state within one year. The national average for the IMR in this period was 32. This survey was based on a three-year data for the period of 2016 to 2018. The HMIS portal is termed as “a gateway to a wealth of information regarding the health indicators of India” and the information available on this portal is derived from the data uploaded by the states. “HMIS data is specifically designed to support planning, management and decision making,” officials in the National Health Mission said. Referring to the recent IMR data of 48 in Madhya Pradesh, child health activist Arvind Mishra said, “If this is compared with the HMIS infant deaths reported in Madhya Pradesh, it seems there is misreporting of data also. This number of infant deaths (31,586) should actually be much more, maybe double.” This again means, he said, the next IMR report will place Madhya Pradesh at the bottom of the chart. In the HMIS data for 2019-20, all the neighbours of Madhya Pradesh have performed well. Against 31,586 infant deaths in MP, UP registered only 11,288 while Bihar and Chattisgarh registered 8,913 and 7,868 infant deaths. Further analysis of the HMIS data revealed that the maximum number of infant deaths — 1,431 — in the period took place in Bhopal district. It is followed by Satna and Chattarpur — both the districts are notorious for malnutrition and related ailments. According to the HMIS data, 6,122 children died within 24 hours of their birth. The poor health care system in Madhya Pradesh is believed to be the reason behind the large number of infant deaths. Criticising the healthcare system of Madhya Pradesh, a report of the Comptroller and Auditor General CAG) remarked in 2017, “the shortfalls in providing maternal, child and reproductive healthcare services resulted in failure of state in achieving targets for IMR, MMR and TFR”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/state-tops-national-chart-with-highest-infant-deaths-in-2019-20/articleshow/77011335.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
July 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Delegation of TDP MPs meets President Ram Nath Kovind||AMARAVATI: A delegation of TDP MPs met President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi on Thursday and complained against the YSRC government. They alleged that the state government is relentlessly pursuing anti-people policies and in the process pushing the state towards jungle raj. The TDP MPs urged the President to take action accordingly. In order to restore the constitutional machinery of the state, it is significant that the government of India intervene,” the MPs said. They have also demanded that the Centre should conduct an inquiry into the irregularities. TD Parliamentary party leader Galla Jayadev claimed that that YSRC leaders are indulging in corruption in sand, land, liquor, and mines. He also alleged that the government is attacking TDP leaders and cadre psychologically, financially and physically, apart from threatening them with false cases for raising their voice against it. Vijayawada MP Kesineni Nani said the ruling party is undermining the voice of the opposition in a democratic polity through extra-legal measures, which is in violation of the constitutional provisions. Later, the MPs met Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Thomar and lodged a complaint that the state government is not releasing NREGS funds to the agencies even a year after the Centre released the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/delegation-of-tdp-mps-meets-prez/articleshow/77007365.cms||Samdani MN
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal paan sellers in the red as sales drop by 65%||BHOPAL: A place where Bhopalis would share stories over a ‘meetha’ or ‘banarasi’, the paan shops of the state capital have fallen silent. The paan sellers’s earnings have taken a serious hit as residents are keeping away from the traditional after-meal mouth freshener. This has resulted in drop in sale of paan by almost 60% to 65% after the lockdown. Nikhil Sharma, who used to eat pan every day says, “Paan is like a meal for me. Before lockdown, I never imagined my days without it, but ever since the lockdown has been imposed, I have stopped eating paan. My family members and friends have told me that it could land me in trouble if I eat paan during the ongoing situation.” Vikas Gupta, a businessman said, “I have been eating paan for almost 35 years. I had never thought of a day without having paan before the lockdown. Earlier, I could not eat as shops were closed. Later, my craving subsided.” Paan shopkeepers claimed that the sale has dropped drastically. “Who will eat paan in such a situation? I have even stopped buying paan from dealers. My sale has gone down by almost 70%,” said Pramod Sahu, a shopkeeper in Kolar locality. When asked the reason for such a drastic decline in sale, he said, “Spitting has been strictly banned by BMC. Several of my customers who used to come earlier were fined as they were found spitting paan. This is good for the citizens due to which people have voluntarily stopped eating paan.” Another shop owner from Arera Colony area, Anurag Yadav said, “Major impact has been on masala paan which people do not swallow after eating. Even the availability in the wholesale market is low.” In the fight against Covid, last month, the Bhopal Municipal Corporation had launched a drive to impose fines on those found spitting. On an average, fines of Rs30,000 to Rs70,000 are being collected by the civic body daily. Fine for spitting in public is Rs1,000. Other sanitisation and hygiene norms under Swach Bharat mission remain the same. BMC fines for spitting and not wearing masks, came in the backdrop of the government orders to take preventive measures o prohibit the use and spitting of chewing smokeless tobacco products in public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/paan-sellers-in-the-red-as-sales-drop-by-65/articleshow/77007362.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal Old Beet bazar to stay shut||Warangal: Business establishments and whole sale markets in Warangal city have decided to stay shut in view of the rising Covid-19 cases across the state. The decision was taken in a meeting of traders at the Old Beet bazar on Friday. In the last fortnight, around 400 cases were reported from the business area of of the city. Eleven deaths were also reported from there. - Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-old-beet-bazar-to-stay-shut/articleshow/77008219.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 17, 2020||Kochi||Poor connectivity worries Cusat students from Kashmir||KOCHI: Even as Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) on Tuesday announced the postponement of online semester examinations for BTech and other part-time courses following social-media outrage, students from Kashmir and Ladakh regions are not certain of being able to take the tests when new dates are announced. For the nearly 25 students, pursuing various BTech courses at the university, from Kashmir and Ladakh, internet connectivity back home is poor at best, and that too when it is not shut down which is the case on most days. These students have hardly attended online sessions due to the connectivity issues and are now worried about attending the online exam, which requires them to be live on video conference for two hours to viva voce and upload answer sheets. Ather Hussain, a sixth semester BTech computer science student and native of Baramulla in Kashmir, has been travelling around 20km to neighbouring Bandipora district on most days over the last two months for uninterrupted internet connectivity. His village is just 40km from the Indo-Pak border and most days the area witnesses complete internet shutdown. He has to make do with a 2G connection, as government has suspended high-speed internet in Kashmir, but that allows him to download videos and PDF files provided by the varsity. Stanzin Phandy, another BTech student and resident of Ladakh, has hardly attended online sessions due to the frequent shutdowns. The border clash with China has only made matters worse. Moreover, most of the villages in Kashmir have been declared Covid-19 hotspots, making travel riskier. These students had left for home before the Janata Curfew on March 22 and most had to leave study materials behind. “It takes more than 30 minutes to download a 10MB video and I missed most of the online classes due to the internet shutdown. How am I supposed to write the online exam in this situation? When I tried to apprise my teachers about the situation, they asked me to move to a place where connectivity is strong. Even if the exams are postponed, it won’t make any difference for us unless we can get back to Kochi, which is not going to happen for a while. If we miss the exam it will affect our placement opportunities,” said Ather. Students had staged online campaigns demanding cancellation of the online exams citing uncovered portions and the short notice for exams. The Twitter hashtag #cusatexam saw more than 500,000 posts and comments. The varsity, however, cited the spike in Covid-19 cases for the postponement and said new dates will be announced shortly. It said exams cannot be cancelled as most students want them to be completed soon. “We have postponed the exams but cancelling them is not an option as more than 90% students support their conduct online. More than 90% of portions were completed before the lockdown. The concerns of the students from Kashmir and Ladakh are genuine and we will give them a chance to write the exams later. It is being discussed by the governing body,” a Cusat official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/poor-connectivity-worries-cusat-students-from-kashmir/articleshow/77007366.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 17, 2020||Goa||Two more Covid deaths in Goa, over 150 new cases||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid death count shot to 20 on Thursday with two women from Vasco succumbing to the virus. The state’s Covid tally of active cases touched 1,271 with 157 new infections and 143 recoveries. A 55-year-old woman from New Vaddem died in the evening while, the second fatality — a 67-year-old woman from Zuarinagar, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease along with other comorbidities, died at 8.20 pm. Both were undergoing treatment at the ESI hospital in Margao. The port town, which has seen the highest number of Covid cases since the first week of June, reported 15 deaths. Meanwhile, Panaji saw its tally increase to seven with new infections reported. A constable on duty at the chief minister’s official residence at Altinho-Panaji tested positive on Thursday. Many staffers posted at the CM’s bungalow, who had come in contact with the constable, were tested. Fumigation was also carried out at the CM’s Altinho residence. The constable’s father, wife, and children have also tested positive. Another cop posted at the human rights commission has also tested positive. The capital’s suburb, Porvorim reported seven cases. A health official said two cases were linked to Tulip Diagnostic, which has 136 of its employees testing positive since last week. The two contacts live in a mega housing complex in Porvorim. One man tested positive after he came with complaints of respiratory illness, the health official said. He said they have been able to trace all new cases (contacts) reported to them during the day, except for one. Health workers were unable to trace one, a woman, due to incorrect address. She could not be reached on her cell phone either. “Nonetheless, we will track her by tomorrow morning,” the official said. Vasco’s hotspots — Zuarinagar and Khariawada — witnessed a spike for yet another day, with a total of 63 new cases. Chimbel crossed the 100-mark with 11 new infections during the day, while isolated cases were reported from Anjuna and Arpora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-more-covid-deaths-in-state-over-150-new-cases/articleshow/77009044.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC gears up to rejuvenate 39 lakes under 13 packages||HYDERABAD: GHMC is gearing up to rejuvenate 39 lakes by removing water hyacinth with Rs 3,112 lakh. GHMC standing committee on Thursday approved the agenda to rejuvenate 39 lakes under 13 packages. The lakes will be rejuvenated phase wise and the action plan has been rolled out for its restoration and maintenance for the next three years. Hakeempet Kunta, Katora House(Karwan), Nallagandla Cheruvu and Thammidi Kunta (Chanda Nagar) are some of the lakes which are getting a facelift. “Out of the 13 packages, nine packages were approved by the committee, four were approved by GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. Proposal to remove water hyacinth from Miralam Tank and its maintenance (for three years) with Rs 950 lakh was sent to state government for approval,” said a GHMC official. As per the contract, the agency should clean the lake by removing water hyacinth and the waste should be transported to municipal solid waste treatment plant located in Jawahar Nagar. Cleaning and transportation activity will be done for three years by the agencies. After the standing committee meeting, another meeting was held at GHMC head office where civic officials were directed by Hyderabad Mayor, Bonthu Rammohan to speed up works pertaining to bus shelters and public washrooms. “Out of the 347 new bus shelters being built, construction of 90 bus shelters has completed. By August 15, we want to complete the construction of 3,000 public washrooms,” said Rammohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-gears-up-to-rejuvenate-39-lakes-under-13-packages/articleshow/77008217.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Goa govt caps traffic sentinel’s returns||PANAJI: Government has decided to re-introduce traffic sentinel scheme in a revised format starting January 1, 2021. It was approved in the cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Till the revised scheme comes into effect, the existing scheme has been kept in abeyance with immediate effect. An official said it has been decided to keep the scheme on hold till the end of the year as it was felt that the substantial financial liability incurred in the implementation of the scheme would affect its self-sustainability in the pandemic situation. It was introduced in November 2017 to reduce traffic violations with active participation of people and to create traffic sense amongst various sections of road users through community policing. It also aimed to persecute traffic violators through violations reported on sentinel app by enrolled traffic sentinels. Though introduced with a noble motive, it became a source of controversy with complaints pouring in about mischief by some sentinels, and people being persecuted for minor violations. There was growing demand that it be dropped completely. The official said they decided to revise it since it was noticed that for some of the sentinels it turned out to be a means of earnings with them accumulating points entailing substantial amounts to sentinels. “The scheme has been revised by capping the number of points to be accumulated by any sentinel and to reduce the weightage of the points for reporting different types of traffic violations,” he said. Accordingly, under the changed scheme, points awarded to various traffic violations to be reported by sentinels have been reduced. Reporting traffic violations for which a sentinel can get reward points are driving against the flow of traffic, parking on footpath or zebra crossing, triple riding, improper number plate, driving without seat belt, riding without helmet, using vehicle with tinted glasses, using phone while riding or driving, red light jumping and dangerous driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-caps-traffic-sentinels-returns/articleshow/77009049.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Vijai: Judicial inquiry needed into govt’s refusal for Vasco lockdown||Margao: President of Goa Forward Party (GFP) Vijai Sardesai on Thursday demanded a judicial inquiry into the government’s refusal to impose a lockdown in Vasco during the initial phases of the outbreak in the port town despite a demand from the elected representatives of the area. “There should be an investigation into the exchange of communication within the government. The government was only concerned about coal and iron ore transportation and not at all about the lives of the people,” Sardesai told reporters. He also came down heavily on the government for dismissing covid deaths to comorbid conditions of the patient. The Fatorda MLA also questioned the wisdom of the government in having a three-day lockdown when the incubation period of the virus was itself 14 days. Terming the decision “a thoughtless gimmick,” Sardesai said the lockdown was nothing but “politics over essential commodities.” He also advised the chief minister to get himself tested for Covid-19 as a policeman deployed in his office has tested positive. He also underscored the need for bringing in a contract farming law in the state with a view to bringing barren land into cultivation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vijai-judicial-inquiry-needed-into-govts-refusal-for-vasco-lockdown/articleshow/77009055.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Vadodara||Rape-accused priest denied bail by court||VADODARA: A sessions court rejected bail plea of rape accused Dr Prashant Upadhyay, priest of Shri Baglamukhi Brahmastra Vidya Mandir. He is accused of raping a married woman in March. Upadhyay, who had first come under scanner for cheating his follower, had filed a bail application on July 4 as his custodial interrogation would not be necessary since the chargesheet in the case has already been submitted in the court. Upadhyay also said that the physical relationship with the 28-year-old complainant was consensual and for three years she did not approach police against him. The bail was, however, opposed by police through an affidavit which was upheld by the court of additional sessions judge H G Pandya. “The accused has done a shameful act as the complainant used to look up to him as a ‘guru’ and had gone to him to share her household issues. The court also considered the argument that in the past a case of cheating and assault was also registered against him,” said district government pleader Anil Desai. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rape-accused-priest-denied-bail-by-court/articleshow/77006394.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||PM’s Ayodhya itinerary for ‘bhoomi pujan’ being finalised||AYODHYA: The broad contours of temple construction and the security blueprint of Ramjanmabhoomi, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Ayodhya schedule for bhoomi pujan is being chalked out at the four-day brainstorming session at Faizabad Circuit House with PM’s former principal secretary and chairman of temple construction committee, Nripendra Mishra, camping in Ayodhya with Temple Trust members since Wednesday. However, there’s no official word on the PM’s visit. The Covid-19 pandemic has spurred Trust members to seek an early ‘bhoomi pujan’ (foundation-laying ceremony) and this was reiterated in a letter to the prime minister by Trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das this week. A tentative Ayodhya itinerary of PM Modi between July-end and August first week is being hammered out, though a digital inauguration is not completely ruled out, sources in the Temple Trust told TOI on Thursday. On Thursday, PM Modi’s aide Nripendra Mishra, former security in charge of PM and current security advisor to Ramjanmabhoomi, K K Sharma met Temple Trust members, including Anil Mishra, former royal Bimlendra Mishra and Trust secretary Champat Rai. District officials, including the DM and SSP were also present. Talking to TOI, Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, official spokesman of Trust president Nritya Gopal Das, said, “The mahant had written to the PM, inviting him to conduct the bhoomi pujan the sanctum sanctorum at the earliest.” Talking to TOI, BJP MLA from Ayodhya, Ved Prakash Gupta, said, “Efforts are on to bring the prime minister to Ayodhya to lay the adhaar shila (foundation) of Ram temple. The PM’s visit and the Ram temple will change Ayodhya’s destiny and turn the temple town to India’s Vatican.” However, Temple Trust president Mahant Nritya Gopal Das and member Mahant Dhinendra Das were not present at the key meeting at Faizabad Circuit House on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pms-ayodhya-itinerary-for-bhoomi-pujan-being-finalised/articleshow/77009054.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man booked for more than 20 people at mother’s funeral||AHMEDABAD: Sympathy by relatives put a man in the dock as cops booked him for gathering 24 persons in his mother’s funeral procession in the Saraspur area on Wednesday. According to city police commissioner’s notification, only 20 persons are allowed in funeral procession or crematorium. The FIR filed by unarmed head constable, Anil Sonji, of Shaherkotda police, states they got an input that some persons had gathered illegally at Potalia crematorium in Saraspur. A team of Shaherkotda police rushed to the crematorium and found 24 persons gathered for the last rites of one Motiben Patni, resident of Bordiwadnagar in Saraspur, who died at the age of 85. Cops booked her son Babu Patni, a vegetable vendor, for violation of police notification which bars gatherings of more than 20 persons at funeral procession or last rites between July 1 and July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-more-than-20-people-at-mothers-funeral/articleshow/77008226.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Kamal Nath forms panel to probe Dalit couple’s suicide bid||BHOPAL: State Congress president Kamal Nath on Thursday constituted a seven-member team to probe the incident which led to the alleged suicide attempt by a Dalit couple during an anti-encroachment drive on the outskirts of Guna on Tuesday. The committee will go to Guna on Saturday and later submit its report to him. Ahead of the state assembly bypolls, the Guna incident has grabbed considerable political attention from Bhopal to New Delhi. Former AICC president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday tweeted a video showing police excesses during the eviction process. He said, “Our fight is against this mentality and injustice.” Here in the state capital, Nath constituted the seven-member probe committee, which includes former home minister Bala Bachchan, Jaivardhan Singh, Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiyya, PCC working president Surendra Choudhary, Manawar MLA Dr Hiralal Alawa and former Bhopal mayor Vibha Patel. State Congress on Thursday took to Twitter and said, “Our party has always supported the poor and marginalised farmers in their daily struggle. This inhuman act of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government has exposed its dictatorial streak. This fight will be the beginning of the end of Shivraj’s government.” Congress party in New Delhi also took to Twitter and said, “It’s not a coincidence that BJP-ruled states top the charts in crimes against SC/STs across the country. The anti-poor and anti-minority mindsets are an intrinsic part of their hate-filled ideology.” Congress said in 2018, there were 11,924 incidents of atrocities against Dalits in UP, 7,061 in Bihar and 4,753 in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-forms-panel-to-probe-dalit-couples-suicide-bid/articleshow/77007387.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Kolkata gets 2 more safe homes in Kasba and Santoshpur||KOLKATA: The state government is setting up more safe homes for asymptomatic Covid patients who do not require hospital care.  On Thursday, it was decided that Gitanjali Stadium at Kasba and Kishore Bharati Stadium at Santoshpur would be turned into safe homes to be run by the government. With the number of cases rising, private hospitals are running out of beds. The bed occupancy in government facilities across the city is also on the rise with pressure on hospitals like Medical College Kolkata. “There are many patients who do not need to be admitted in hospitals. But they do not have proper home isolation facilities and cannot afford the satellite health facilities run by private hospitals. These safe homes are meant for them,” said a source at the health department. The responsibility of setting up the safe home at Gitanjali Stadium has been given to the KMDA while the state PWD will take care of the other home at Kishore Baharati Stadium. The government healthcare workers like nurses will be posted at the safe homes where doctors will visit regularly to check the patients. If they feel at any moment that any patient needs hospitalisation, arrangement will be made. Patients can also have home-cooked food to be delivered by family members, if they want. With the two at Gitanjali Stadium and Kishore Baharati Stadium, the city will have five safe homes. The third home at Anandapur was inaugurated by Firhad Hakim three days ago while the other two homes are located at Tangra and New Town. Sources said the government might convert a few more stadiums and sports complexes into safe homes. Currently, the state has got 106 safe homes across the state. Kolkata has 4,512 active cases — higher than any other district. Out of the 1690 fresh cases on Thursday, 496 were from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-gets-2-more-safe-homes-in-kasba-and-santoshpur/articleshow/77008228.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 17, 2020||Goa||95% applications for admissions in Goa colleges||PANAJI: Within the first two days of the online admissions to first year degree programmes being launched, the directorate of higher education (DHE) had already received nearly 95% of applications from students. The DHE had received applications from 10,735 students across the general stream programmes for the 30-odd colleges in Goa. The flood of applications even surprised the officials as this is the first time Goa is holding centralised admission process to general stream colleges. Around 15,000 students have cleared the Class XII state board exams this year and another 1,000 from central boards. Every year, less than 13,000 students apply to general stream colleges in the state. This means that the largest bulk has already submitted their applications through the new online process. The DHE’s portal though will be open to receive applications up to July 23, and this is only the first round of admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/95-applications-for-admissions/articleshow/77009052.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia condemns Guna incident, says it’s serious||BHOPAL: BJP rejected Congress’s allegations of ‘jungle raj’ in Madhya Pradesh and said that as soon as the government came to know about the Guna incident, the district collector, SP and IGP were removed. BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who was a four-time Lok Sabha member from Guna, took cognizance of the incident and said it was very serious. He said he spoke to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday. “The incident in Guna is very unfortunate. I spoke to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and requested him to take stringent action against the insensible policemen. The chief minister has ordered the removal of the officials responsible in the case with immediate effect,” tweeted Scindia. Scindia said, “The Guna SP and district collector have been removed, and inquiry has been sought into the incident. I am confident that action will be taken against all those who are responsible for the heinous act.” Home minister Narottam Mishra also rejected Rahul Gandhi’s allegations and said that during the erstwhile Congress government, criminals were never caught, but given protection. “When it was Rahul Gandhi’s government in Madhya Pradesh, officers were posted under a prepaid system. Congress government miserably failed, which was highlighted by the kidnapping and murder of twins in Satna district. In Guna, as soon as we got to know of the incident, the district collector, SP and IG were removed,” said Mishra, when asked about Rahul’s tweet on the Guna incident. A Dalit couple consumed poison after they were allegedly manhandled by cops during an anti-encroachment drive in Guna district, on Tuesday. The state government has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident. However, Congress and BJP were involved in war of words after the incident. On Congress’s allegations, Mishra said, “In Madhya Pradesh, we have rule of law. People who don’t abide by the law will be sent to jail. During the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government, criminals were never caught and were given protection. Now, we take immediate action and even big officers are also not spared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-condemns-guna-incident-says-its-serious/articleshow/77007401.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 17, 2020||Trichy||Kumbakonam turns hotspot, vegetable market sealed, around 500 screened||THANJAVUR: The district administration has declared Kumbakonam, the entry point to Thanjavur district, a Covid-19 hotspot, and ordered to shut down the vegetable market at Darasuram in Kumbakonam temporarily for the second time after May 12. Meanwhile, around 20 people from the market tested positive for Covid-19 leading medical staff to conduct a swab test for 300 people who had contacted the traders and vendors. Meanwhile, officials have also decided to take test for another 300 people who had visited the market. Among them 200 people were screened today. District collector M Govinda Rao inspected the market and the surrounding areas after instructing authorities to close down the area. Thanjavur district recorded 738 Covid-19 positive cases as on Tuesday. Of them, a considerable number of cases have emerged from Kumbakonam and its surrounding areas. Since Anaikkarai and Neelathanallur were the main entry point of the district, almost all the people who returned from various parts of the state, particularly from Chennai, take these routes to reach Kumbakonam by road. The first Covid-19 case was registered from Kumbakonam in the district. Many people escape the check-posts and sneak into the town without screening, sources said. Darasuram vegetable market located in Kumbakonam is the biggest markets in the central region next to Gandhi Market in Trichy. Around 900 shops are there and it handles around 300 tonnes of vegetables every day, sources said. Despite the efforts by the officials and police, traders, shop keepers and customers often flout social distancing norms. Moreover, the influx of Chennai returnees also added to the woes. District collector said that after three people from the market tested positive a few days ago, health officials screened 300 people. Of them, 20 tested positive. Their contact list has been prepared and 300 more people will also be tested, he said. “Out of the 738 positive cases, 129 are from Kumbakonam. So, officials are asked to enforce the standard norms among the general public as well as among the traders to combat the virus,” he added. The collector also ordered to shut two Tasmac outlets functioning near the market area. Meanwhile, traders have proposed a week-long total lockdown in Kumbakonam to contain the virus. At a meeting on Wednesday, the functionaries of traders’ associations have decided to go for a full lockdown and also conveyed their decision to the commissioner of Kumbakonam municipality S Lakhsmi. Traders told her to enforce the lockdown for a week from July 19 assuring their full cooperation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kumbakonam-turns-hotspot-veg-market-sealed-around-500-screened/articleshow/77002781.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||Kathak, theatre fest go online||LUCKNOW: Cultural activities are being resumed in the city, though in virtual space, post the lockdown. Rashtriya Kathak Sansthan and UP culture department are organising a kathak programme on Sansthan’s Facebook page at 4pm on Friday. Dancers Janhvi, Monika, Jayshree, and Sarita Srivastava (who is also secretary of Rashtriya Kathak Sansthan) will perform in the programme. In a first, Bhartendu Natya Akademi is also hosting a virtual three-day theatre festival. Titled ‘Rang Jharokha’, the festival will begin on Friday. Enacted by students of the performing arts institute, the plays being staged will revolve around the coronavirus pandemic and how people are affected by it. The festival will be streamed live on BNA’s official YouTube and Facebook page every day from July 17-July 19 at 9pm. “All plays are light and humourous, based on coronavirus. The students have prepared for it taking due safety precautions. If this fest is a success then we will plan more such virtual fests,” said BNA chairman Ramesh Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kathak-theatre-fest-go-online/articleshow/77009064.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man sets his house on fire in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 28-year-old man from the Sabarmati area on Thursday set afire in his own house as he was aggrieved with his brother who had put his articles at the former’s house. This caused his brother a loss of around Rs 1 lakh. Hasmukh Jadhav, 40, a resident of Sabarmati, said that Bharat Jadhav, 28, had set afire the articles to cause him harm. Hasmukh said that Bharat had last year stabbed another brother over possession of their house. After that Hasmukh left the house and began staying at a rented house. On Thursday he learned the house was on fire. When he reached there, Bharat told him that he had set the house on fire as Hasmukh had put some of his articles in his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-sets-his-house-on-fire/articleshow/77008230.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Pay salary through ownfund, DoE tells schools||PANAJI: All aided schools have been asked by the directorate of education (DoE) to pay salaries for the month of July of their teachers from the institution managements’ own funds for now. This arrangement had to be made after a staff member at the DoE headquarters in Porvorim tested positive for Covid-19 last week and all colleagues from the two sections have since been home quarantined. “All the heads of management of aided, primary, secondary and higher secondary schools are hereby enjoined upon to disburse the salary of their respective staff members from their own funds as per the rule 62 of Goa Daman and Diu School Education Act 1964 and Rules 1986,” director Vandana Rao has said. Rao has said that the arrangement is temporary in nature. “This arrangement has been done temporarily under inevitable circumstances not to hamper the salary disbursement of staff, since one of the staff members has been tested positive for Covid-19 and others, who are working in grant-in-aid I and II sections, which handles the work of processing the salary bills, have been under home quarantine as per the advice of the doctor,” said Rao. There are around 800 government aided primary, secondary and higher secondary schools in the state with thousands of staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-salary-through-ownfund-doe-tells-schools/articleshow/77009053.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||CESC offers installment scheme||KOLKATA: Inundated with consumer complaints over astronomical electricity bills for June, CESC has decided to offer an installment scheme to pay over three months. While the first tranche will have to be paid within the due date, which has been extended by 10 days, the rest have to be paid alongside the payments for July and August. “The bill for June has been unusually high due to the addition of the arrears from the consumption in April and May, and in some instances, even March. We recognize the problem that many are facing in coughing up the amount and have decided to offer customers an installment scheme,” said CESC managing director (distribution) Debasish Banerjee. The announcement came on a day when state power minister Sovondeb Chattapadhyay declared he had received a bill for Rs 11,000. On inquiring, CESC vice-president (distribution) Avijit Ghosh explained that since meter reading had not taken place between March 24 and June 7, provisional bills were raised on the basis of average consumption of the previous six months. Initially, CESE had billed consumers whose meter had not been read in March according to the March 2019 bill. But, subsequently, CESC said the electricity regulator asked it to compute the bill according to the previous six months’ average consumption. “Since there were winter months, the provision bills were low. So when the meter was read in June or July, it contained the units that had been consumed in the previous two or three months but had not been billed then,” an official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cesc-offers-instalment-scheme/articleshow/77008232.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||Online classes affecting eyes, health: Toppers||LUCKNOW: Online learning may appear to be the only option in corona times, but long screentime and sitting before devices would result in permanent headache and health problems would arise if this continues for long, said high-scorers of CBSE class X exams. TOI spoke to several school toppers in the city who scored 96% and above. “Coaching and classes, both in online mode, are taxing for health. There is no option due to the pandemic, but if the present schedule continues persistent headache will become part of life,” said Mayank Agarwal of Montfort Inter College. Another school topper Priyanshi Agrawal of Central Academy said, “Technical glitches play the villain during online classes. It can be beneficial if recorded lectures are provided to students with proper specifications so that no one misses anything.” Sharing same views, Samridhi Chaurasiya of Red Rose Senior Secondary School said, “Long online classes are causing pain and swelling in eyes which are glued to the screen for five-six hours continuously. Eye dryness, irritation and health issues like back pain take the front seat during online classes.” Anjaneya Raj Garg of Study Hall said, “This online learning has disturbed our healthy schedule and we are having a sedentary lifestyle due to it which is not good for us at this age in our growing years.” Shivakant Tiwari of Central Academy, Vikas Nagar, also expressed concerns about adverse impact on eyes and other health issues. Krashika Singh of Amity International School and Sanya Lakhanpal of Delhi Public School, Shaheed Path, said regular breaks and classes on alternate days would be a good solution as it will provide relief for eyes and freedom from bad posture as well. Supriya Raghuvansh, student of Delhi Public School, Eldeco, said, “I used to get tired of studies before lockdown and wanted to use my phone, but now I am tired of using my phone and don’t feel like even looking at it. Parents of most of my classmates are concerned about our long screentime and its bad effect on our health.” Similar sentiments were shared by Yashasvi Chaudhari of Lucknow Public School, Southcity and Bhavya Manchanda of Delhi Public School, Indira Nagar. “Students living in remote areas do not have proper connectivity and struggle during online class. Noise and other distractions in homes make it tough for us to concentrate during class,” said Nirbheeka of Millennium School. Harshit Kandpal, student of Army Public School, said, “Online classes are the only option right now, besides we save the time we used to spend travelling every day. The classes can be better if each student is asked to switch on the cameras.” “Every student should be asked some questions to make the class interactive,” said Priyanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-classes-affecting-eyes-health-toppers/articleshow/77009076.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Revised paper pattern lifts HSC score to 5-year high||MUMBAI: In line with the state’s trend, the Mumbai division, which includes Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad, recorded its best performance in five years with a success rate of 85.8% and a 40% jump in the number of high scorers to 3,109. Board officials attributed the improved performance to a changed paper pattern. State board secretary Ashok Bhosale told TOI: “From this year, the difficulty level of questions has changed. We have high, medium and low difficulty levels segregated across a question paper. Plus, the type of questions include objective, descriptive, multiple choice and those that judge a student’s skills. The changes have been made to match the syllabus and style of competitive exams.” He said the revised pattern added 25% objective type, multiple choice questions. This year on, students also got marks and not grades for EVS, taking their grand total to 650 from 600. The HSC syllabus is due to be revamped next year. As Mumbai further slipped to the last on the list of divisions, board officials blamed the high number of candidates and improved vigilance during exams. “We have the least instances of malpractice, which ensures every student writes the exams in the fairest manner. Additionally, the size of the division is the largest and the performance gets weighed down by a high number of repeaters too,” said Sandeep Sangave, secretary of the board’s Mumbai division. Among fresh candidates in Mumbai, the success rate was 89.4%, up from last year’s 83.9%. For repeat candidates, success rate was as low as 42.9% though.  The Konkan division, which was at the top of the table with a success rate of 94.7%, had 30,143 candidates while the Mumbai division had 3.1 lakh. Most colleges across the city reported improved results with not only more students scoring above 90% but also reporting a better top score. For instance, at N M College of Commerce, Vile Parle, the number of 90% and above scorers rose to 384 from 363 last year. Shobhana Vasudevan, principal of R A Podar College, Matunga, said their results have improved too. While the board doesn’t announce a merit list, the highest score in Mumbai TOI could trace on Thursday was 98.8% in commerce—higher than last year’s 97.2%. High scores across streams saw a jump but stayed lower than the near-perfect results of ISC and CBSE toppers. Meanwhile, continuing the trend, in Mumbai, the success rate for girls was 85.7%, almost 9.6% higher than boys. While the board conducted all HSC exams before the Covid lockdown, evaluation was hit. The board had to find ways to reach out to teachers living in Covid red zones, collect answer sheets from post offices during the lockdown and from districts like Nandurbar and Chandrapur. Many teachers were unable to submit answer sheets. State board chairperson Shakuntala Kale said, “Our divisional secretaries and board employees travelled to remote locations to ensure answer sheets were collected from every assessor.” (With inputs from Swati Shinde Gole & Ardhra Nair)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/revised-paper-pattern-lifts-hsc-score-to-5-yr-high/articleshow/77008413.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||20 days on, civic admn yet to implement GB rulings||Nagpur: Even after passage of 20 days, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe is yet to implement the rulings passed by mayor Sandip Joshi in the historic five-day marathon general body (GB) meeting concluded on June 26. Joshi, in a letter on July 15, has sought information from Mundhe why the civic administration has not implemented the rulings including suspension of deputy chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar and his wife Dr Shilu, a doctor practising in NMC-run Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya. The mayor had issued nine rulings including directing the administration to approach the state government to withdraw an FIR registered against Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane, formation of standing committee chairman-led committee to inquire into the allegations of violations in renovation and converting five NMC-run hospitals into Covid care centres. Joshi had also constituted a one-member chief engineer’s committee to inquire into frequent repairs of chambers and money spent under this head. The committee was supposed to complete the inquiry and table its report within 15 days. Taking note of objections raised by many corporators, the mayor had also sought report on promotion of Pramod Hiwase from driver to municipal commissioner’s personal assistant. The letter pointed out that chief medical officer Dr Sawai failed to obey mayor’s instructions to investigate one NMC doctor from Jafri Hospital who was facing charges of issuing medical certificates in lieu of money. The chief accounts and finance department too failed to take disciplinary action against an official who had allegedly kept pending a file pertaining to LED lights for 135 days. The administration could not reply as to why it had bypassed and did not share information about the status of development works with the standing committee. It also failed to submit its say on municipal commissioner Mundhe and an additional municipal commissioner availing leave without the nod of standing committee by July 6, the letter stated. Mundhe was not available for comments though on June 26 he had told TOI that he would not implement the mayor’s rulings terming them illegal. A senior NMC official admitted the delay and said it was on account of yet-to-be-prepared minutes of the marathon GB meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/20-days-on-civic-admn-yet-to-implement-gb-rulings/articleshow/77008238.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 17, 2020||Nashik||Less load on Jalgaon’s quarantine centres||NASHIK: The Jalgaon Municipal Corporation (JMC) has started conducting novel coronavirus tests using the 1,500 antigen test kits that it received from the state government a couple of days back. Jalgaon is one of major Covid-19 hotspots in the district. It has registered over 1,654 Covid positive cases so far, of which, 698 are active ones. A total of 68 patients have succumbed to the infection in Jalgaon. “The antigen tests are helping the civic body to reduce patient load at the four quarantine centres in the city by almost one-thirdt. These four centres have 530 beds in total and suspected Covid patients are kept there while their lab reports are awaited,” civic officials said. According to JMC officials, since the results of antigen tests are available within an hour, those testing negative are being discharged within a few hours. For those testing, positive, immediate treatment is started. “So far, we used to keep the patients in the centres for at least a day or two before the lab test reports were generated using the real time (RT) PCR technique. The antigen test kits are proving to be a boon both for the civic body and the patients,” added JMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/less-load-on-jalgaons-quarantine-centres/articleshow/77006068.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||General infections down, thanks to less eating out and indoor lifestyle||Nagpur: Precautions taken by people and forced confinement at homes has brought down the number of general infections and illnesses in the city. Doctors say shunning outside food and indoor lifestyle has led to a drop in stomach infections like cholera, typhoid, gastro enteritis, diarrhoea, viral hepatitis A, viral hepatitis B, food poisoning, cough, and cold. The cases have remained near-zero not just during the last three months but even after the onset of the rainy season. As per Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) health department epidemic report for 34 infectious diseases, just four cases, two each of AFP (acute flaccid paralysis) and measles, were reported from April to June this year. Against this, the department had recorded 418 cases during April to June in 2019. Another major reason for the drop in infectious diseases is access to clean source of water. As per the report, water samples collected to investigate sources of infection were found to be less contaminated this year. Just 2.9% out of 990 water samples were contaminated in April, followed by 2.3% in May and 2.6% for 1,000 samples in June. The ratio was 9.90%, 9.41% and 10.08% respectively during 2019. The contamination rate was higher even for fewer samples collected last year. The data has been gathered from all government and private hospitals within municipal limits. Based on the data collected, the report is prepared from April to March each year. Officials said the pattern is likely to be the same for July, while it may show a similar graph like previous year if people throw caution to the winds as lockdown is lifted. Dr Ramesh Mundle, who is professor of medicine at Lata Mangeshkar Medical Hospital, said people have become more hygiene-oriented which has led to them falling sick fewer times. “Besides this, roadside food is not available so people are eating at home, washing vegetables properly and maintaining good personal hygiene. This is a good achievement during lockdown,” he said Dr Mundle said last year OPDs would remain full with complaints of dehydration and stomach infections. OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar too said that lesser eating out and lifestyle changes have brought down general infection rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/general-infections-down-thanks-to-less-eating-out-and-indoor-lifestyle/articleshow/77008247.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 claims former UP minister’s life||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party leader and former minister Ghura Ram (63) died due to respiratory failure triggered by the novel coronavirus infection at KGMU on Thursday after being shifted from a hospital in Ballia. Two more patients referred to Lucknow hospital from other districts succumbed to the infection. Ram was the second politician after former deputy mayor Abhay Seth to have died in the city while undergoing treatment. Ram was admitted to a private hospital in Ballia on July 14 after he complained of breathing difficulty and was referred to KGMU on Wednesday. “He was admitted in a critical condition on Wednesday night. He was diabetic and his lungs were damaged significantly. He was kept in ICU, but his blood oxygen level kept dropping as his lungs gradually failed,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. Another death was of a woman patient from Ambedkarnagar. “She also had a heart condition, besides Covid-19 had damaged her lungs that led to cardiac arrest,” said Dr Singh. A male patient from Barabanki died at RMLIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-claims-former-up-ministers-life/articleshow/77009081.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nashik||4,266 beds for Covid patients in Nashik hospitals||NASHIK: With the projection of rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started planning for more beds to treat Covid-19 patients in the city. The state health assurance panel has projected that the tally of the positive patients in the city may cross the 8,000-mark by July 31. Accordingly, the municipal corporation has began increasing the bed capacity in municipal, government and private hospitals in the city. So far, the tally of Covid-19 patients in Nashik city has reached 4,834 with 193 deaths. Of these, 3,094 patients have been discharged after recovery. At present, the city has a total of 1,547 active patients. In the last 15 days, the NMC has increased the total number of beds in the city from 2,400 beds to 4,266. This includes 357 ICU beds. Of the total number of beds, 1,926 belong to NMC hospitals while the remaining ones are private. At present, 1,394 of the total beds are occupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4266-beds-for-covid-patients-in-city-hosps/articleshow/77006076.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Flyer hides Covid positive report, lands in Kolkata||KOLKATA: An asymptomatic novel coronavirus patient flew down to Kolkata airport from Delhi via Guwahati with a Covid “Positive” test report in his pocket on Tuesday. The youth had flown from Delhi to Guwahati, from where he took another flight to reach the city. The incident happened exactly a month after two asymptomatic engineers from Chennai had landed in Kolkata airport and hired a cab to reach their hometown, Midnapore, and gone straight to a local Covid hospital, seeking admission by showing their positive certificates. On Tuesday, the patient, a youth, came out of the airport with other passengers and after passing the thermal gun check, went straight to a health department official, seeking admission at a government quarantine centre. The official said that since his temperature was below 99°C and he had no other symptoms, he didn’t require quantization. The youth showed a a test report that stated him as Covid positive. The youth was admitted to a quarantine centre. The airline officials are tracing the passengers who travelled with him. Meanwhile on Thursday, the airport’s administrative building was closed for a day and all the floors were sanitized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyer-hides-ve-report-lands-in-kol/articleshow/77008243.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Valshem farmer’s daughter scores 94.6% at CBSE’s Class X exams||Panaji: The daughter of paddy farmer Ramakant and Lata Gaonkar, from a remote hamlet Valshem in Sanguem, Vaibhavi scored 94.6% at the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) Class X exams. But the determined teenager, who has stood second in her residential school Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), Canacona, said she had expected to do better. Vaibhavi, also a table tennis player who has represented Goa at the nationals, now has her sights set on cracking the IIT JEE. After clearing a test, she has already been selected by Dakshina Foundation for free coaching to crack the IIT JEE, no small feat for a girl from a hamlet so remote, that it is virtually unknown. Once the travel restrictions ease, Vaibhavi will be traveling to Hyderabad to train over two years, simultaneous to her higher secondary education at a JNV near the city. “I was studying at a government school in Kurdi, Sanguem, when my uncle’s daughter, who was already at JNV Canacona, told my parents that joining there will help my academics. I answered a test and got through and joined the residential school from Class VI. In Class X, after school hours, I had four to five hours for self-study and I put in my best efforts,” said Vaibhavi, the second of four siblings. Though of a tender age when she joined the residential school, away from her family, in another taluka, Vaibhavi said she received the right support from her teachers and exposure to sports too here. “Our teachers were very good. I could easily understand what they were teaching in class. My friends at the hostel and our housemistress were a great support,” said the teenager, who has a score of 473 out of 500 at the Class X exams. From JNV, Canacona, 77 students appeared for the Class X exam and all cleared it, with 38 scoring distinction and 66 a first class, said school principal Animesh Pal. “The school’s average score was 74.6%. Shivam U Mahto was the school topper with 95.8%. Another student Param Jadhav scored 93%. As per Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti’s police, more than 75% of our children come from rural areas. They are very sincere and maintained continuity in their study,” said the principal. Till the time Vaibhavi can travel to Hyderabad, online coaching has already begun for her. She said she is struggling on account of poor internet connectivity in her village. While Vaibhavi is focused on her engineering dream, her mother Lata said, “We have full faith in her abilities. She can be anything she wants, she has our full support. We just want her to, and we know she will, achieve great things and put our small village on the map.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/valshem-farmers-daughter-scores-94-6-at-cbses-class-x-exams/articleshow/77009071.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 17, 2020||India||India, US energy talks to focus on gas trade, investment||NEW DELHI: India and the US will hold the second ministerial meeting on strategic energy partnership on Friday in the backdrop of the global energy market trying to recover from the impact of a historic price crash and record slump in demand due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan will co-chair the virtual meeting with US energy secretary Dan Brouillette. The meeting, originally scheduled to be held in Washington in April this year but postponed due to the pandemic, is expected to focus on natural gas and India's expanding market for the clean-burning fuel. India had in February 2018 elevated the India-US Energy Dialogue to a Strategic Energy Partnership (SEP). The SEP was formally announced during the visit of Prime minister Narendra Modi to the US in June 2017. The first ministerial meeting was held in New Delhi on April 17, 2018 between Pradhan and the then US energy secretary Rick Perry. A joint gas task force (GTF) was also set up under the umbrella of the energy partnership. The partnership was established to develop innovative policy recommendations for New Delhi to bolster the government's vision for natural gas in India's economy and seeks to advance the strategic and economic interests of both countries. The GTF had identified three areas that need to be addressed to expand gas use in India and trade with the US. These are, pricing -- markets and regulation, strengthening of gas infrastructure and stimulating natural gas demand growth. Pradhan chaired an industry-level interaction organized by the partnership on Tuesday ahead of the official talks. During the interaction, he invited US companies and investors to engage with India and invest in new opportunities in the country. He said that there have been a few collaborative efforts between Indian and American companies in this sector but it is far below the potential. Even during these challenging times, India and the US have been working in close collaboration, be it in stabilizing global energy markets or in collaborative efforts to address COVID-19, he said. "In today's turbulent world, one constant is - and always will be - the strength of our bilateral partnership." Pradhan said that cooperation in natural gas sector has been identified as a priority area, the statement said, adding that he also mentioned about several upcoming new opportunities in the field of LNG bunkering, LNG ISO container development, petrochemicals, bio-fuels, and compressed biogas in the Indian energy sector. Pradhan also talked about the far-reaching changes and policy reforms underway in the exploration and production sector in India. He said India will see an investment of over $118 billion in oil and gas exploration as well as in setting up natural gas infrastructure, including the development of gas supply and distribution networks, in the next five years as the country gears up to meet the needs of a fast-growing economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-us-energy-talks-to-focus-on-gas-trade-investment/articleshow/77009721.cms||Sanjay Dutta
July 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Rowdy sheeter jumps bail, held||Mangaluru: City police arrested a rowdy sheeter for jumping bail and other crimes here on Thursday. The arrested is Shameer Katipalla, 31, a member of the infamous Target gang and one of the accused in the Derlakatte rape case. Police said Shameer, who was arrested for assaulting police personnel and involved in many other crimes, was out of jail six months ago. Police said shameer was out of the crime world for a brief period and resumed his old habits a few days ago. He was booked for dacoity and robbery in Panambur. He alsong with four others involved in crime and some of his accomplices were arrested a few days ago. Police added that Shameer was not attending court proceeding and there were court warrants against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rowdy-sheeter-jumps-bail-held/articleshow/77008319.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||Teen Girl With TB Among Three Victims||Lucknow: An 18-year-old girl was among three patients who lost the battle with Covid-19 on Thursday, mounting the toll to 43. Of these, 14 patients have died in the past five days with an average of nearly three deaths daily. The surge in the transmission rate in July has led to death of 23 patients from the city so far, which is more than the toll reported in the four months after the outbreak. Most deaths earlier were of elderly people with comorbidity, but in the past five days, nearly 50% of the total casualties were people below 50 years. On Thursday, the teenager from Indiranagar died during treatment at KGMU. “The girl was admitted on Wednesday afternoon with breathing difficulty and diagnosed with Covid-19. She also had TB which coupled with Covid-19 had severely damaged her lungs,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. A 70-year-old man, retired principal of a government college and resident of Tedhipulia, died in RSM hospital. “He had high blood pressure and died due to cardiac arrest because of damage to the lungs,” said Dr Sumit Kumar Maharaj, RSM hospital. A 65-year old man from Mawaiyya died due to pneumonia caused by Covid-19 at Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital. He was also suffering from severe jaundice and put on a ventilator, said Prof MM Faridi, principal of the college. Apart from city residents, about a dozen patients referred from other districts have died during treatment in Lucknow hospitals this month. However, these casualties are not counted in the city list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teen-girl-with-tb-among-three-victims/articleshow/77009086.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 17, 2020||Mysuru||Running pre-schools turns an unviable proposition for owners||Mysuru: The enforcement of another lockdown in various parts of the state has only served to heighten the anxiety among stakeholders in the education sector, who have been hoping for an end to the uncertainty. With the government having decided against opening pre-schools, owners of these institutions including those that are within the umbrella of major franchises, are looking for a way to cut their losses. Many such owners are contemplating renting the buildings that the schools are operating out of, with the chances of admissions resuming for the 2020-21 academic year growing increasingly dim with each passing day. Consequently, many establishments have decided to shut the schools till the start of the next academic year. Many owners are renting their buildings and the premises for various purposes, with many of them turning into temporary stockyards. A pre-school owner in Mysuru said that he was willing to offer the space to tenants who wished to use it for a limited period. “I am hopeful of the situation improving for the better by 2021,” he added. Girish Baga, who is associated with management of a pre-school chain in Mysuru, was less optimistic in his estimation. He opined that nearly 80% of the pre-schools that would shut owing to lack of admissions this year were unlikely to reopen. “Many pre-schools are run by homemakers, who run them out of small rented houses or small buildings. The situation being as grim as it is, many owners are finding it hard to pay rent for these structures,” Baga said. Officials in the department of public instruction (DPI), however, said that they had no information pertaining to these developments since pre-schools were not registered with the government. Mysuru district convener of the Karnataka Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools Santosh Kumar admitted that keeping pre-schools running in the current financial scenario had become an unviable proposition. The association general secretary D Shashi Lumar said that, among the hundreds of pre-schools that had been forced to shut shop were those that were part of very reputed franchises. “But many owners are exploring various business opportunities to remain afloat till the situation returns to normal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/running-pre-schools-turns-an-unviable-proposition-for-owners/articleshow/77008456.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: ‘Army man,’ friends attack cops over wearing masks||VADODARA: A person claiming to be an army man was detained and his friend was booked for getting into a brawl with policemen in Chhota Udepur town on Thursday morning. The accused Anish Rathwa and his pillion rider friend Chhagan Rathwa were stopped at a police point as Chhagan was not wearing a facemask. The cops asked Anish to show his driving license and his bike’s registration card and also asked Chhagan the reason for not wearing mask. On hearing the policemen, Anish lost his cool, identified himself as an army man and refused to show any documents. Anish instead questioned the cops and then held collars of one of them. As police too retaliated, Chhagan also got into scuffle with one of them. Police claimed that the duo tore the buttons of their shirts. When Anish was being pushed in the police car, Chhagan managed to escape from there. It took three cops to make Anish sit in the car as he fought back with all his might and also hurled abuses at them. An offence of assault, hurting a public servant, deterring a public servant from performing duties and violation of public notification was registered against the duo. “We are trying to verify if the accused is really from the Army as we did not find any identity card on him. We are also searching for his accomplice,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/army-man-friends-attack-cops-over-wearing-masks/articleshow/77006371.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Net on Maa to prevent kite thread accidents||Kolkata: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) is taking up a pilot project to fix net wires on a certain stretch of Maa flyover to prevent the accidents involving kite threads. The authorities have floated tenders to engage an agency for the work that needs to be completed within one month from the date of commencement. The estimated project cost has been pegged at around Rs 1.2 lakh. Officials said that they are taking up a small stretch of the flyover over Park Circus 4 No. bridge area, from where most kite thread accidents are reported. As per plans height poles will come up on both sides of the flyover near the crash barriers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/net-on-maa-to-prevent-kite-thread-accidents/articleshow/77008268.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Police take ‘Zindagi’ helpline 1096 campaign to social media||AHMEDABAD: Looking at the rising number of suicides, the city police are now promoting the 1096 Zindagi helpline on social media. Daily, two to three suicides are reported in the city, cops said. City police commissioner Ashish Bhatia said to reduce the number of suicides they have pitched the ‘Zindagi’ helpline 1096 campaign on social media. “We are campaigning that even if you get a thought of committing suicide call up helpline number 1096. The experts sitting there will counsel you and personnel from the nearest police station will reach you,” he said. DCP, control room, Vijay Patel said the helpline has been functional for long, but now they have taken to social media to spread awareness. He said, “Daily they receive two to three calls from persons who are depressed due to various reasons. Some of them are depressed due to financial reasons, some say they are depressed due to lockdown and others have socio-economic problems.” DCP Patel said they have a dedicated team of police and experts who sit in the control room and attend to calls and counsel the caller. “If needed, our men reach and counsel them in person so that a loss of life may be averted,” he added. Patel said if the caller seems to be serious, they immediately inform the nearest police personnel to reach out to the caller and save his life. Police sources say about 100 people have committed suicides during the last couple of months and about 8% of them have given up their lives due to financial reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-take-zindagi-helpline-1096-campaign-to-social-media/articleshow/77008284.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown frustration: Man poisons 9-month-old daughter, tries to end life||Nagpur: Sonu Shaikh, 32, poisoned his nine-month-old daughter Alwina before trying to end his own life by slitting throat with a broken liquor bottle, at Bhande Plot on Thursday. After spiking his daughter’s milk with poison, Shaikh also drowned Alwina in a water drum kept behind a shrine. He had been out of work for three months during the lockdown. Shaikh, a driver, had left house after informing his wife Tabassum that he was taking the daughter for a walk. The family was stunned on learning that the baby was found floating in a drum with the father lying motionless with blood dripping from his throat nearby. It’s learnt that there had been a tiff in the home too since there was no income. Shaikh was the eldest of three brothers, and one of his sisters-in-law is pregnant. Police said Shaikh had also consumed poison after making his daughter drink it. He had apparently purchased the bottle and some milk after leaving home. It has also come to fore Shaikh had already arranged for the poison from Cotton Market and kept it with him, showing he had planned the drastic act. The empty poison bottle was found near the drum in which Alwina’s body was found. After killing Alwina, Shaikh had also consumed poison but it did not have any effect on him. He is learnt to have headed towards a well to end his life. He had left his two-wheeler’s key, shoes and pair of spectacles on the edge of the well before trying to take a plunge. Unable to muster courage, Shaikh tried to find other ways to end his life. He later picked up a broken beer bottle to try and slit his throat but could not do that too. Alwina’s body was spotted by a girl who went to the drum to wash hands. After the family was informed, Shaikh and Alwina were rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, where the baby was declared brought dead. Shaikh is recuperating. Sakkardara police have registered a case of murder against Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-frustration-man-poisons-9-month-old-daughter-tries-to-end-life/articleshow/77008267.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad divn improves score, but still at bottom||Aurangabad: With HSC pass percentage of 88.18%, Aurangabad division has dropped to the bottom of the list of nine divisions. Of the 1.63 lakh students who appeared for the exam, 1.44 lakh cleared it in the Aurangabad division, which has jurisdiction over Aurangabad, Beed, Parbhani, Jalna and Hingoli districts. Latur division, which covers Latur, Nanded and Osmanabad, reported a slightly better pass percentage of 89.79%. Of the 85,569 students who wrote the exam here, 76,832 passed. Sugata Punne, the chairperson of the Aurangabad division of MSBSHE, said the division has bettered its performance when compared to last year. “The Aurangabad division is not far behind others. I congratulate all successful students and teachers. I also appeal to all students who could not clear the exam to not lose their heart and start afresh,” she said. The Aurangabad division reported pass percentage of 95.11% in the science, 90.35% in commerce, 80.17% in arts and 80.13% in vocational courses. Girls (92.13%) in the division reported a better pass percentage than the boys (85.66%). College officials said a section of students failing to understand the changes in the examination pattern might have reflected in the relatively poor pass percentage. “The revised exam pattern made it obligatory upon students to gain knowledge of the majority of chapters. Those who failed to so, either failed or scored less,” Rajanikant Garud, vice-principal of Deogiri College said. As many as 11,987 students from Aurangabad division scored distinction (75% & above) while another 76,832 secured first class by getting 60% or more. A total of 394 malpractice cases and one case of impersonation were reported from Aurangabad division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-divn-improves-score-but-still-at-bottom/articleshow/77006100.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Day two of lockdown almost total||Hubballi: The second day of the 10-day lockdown clamped to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus was successful as most people remained indoors in Hubballi on Thursday. Continuous drizzle and moderate rain till late afternoon also discouraged people from venturing out, making the task of police to keep people indoors much easier. Though, people can buy essentials until 12 pm, there was less rush in markets due to the rain. By afternoon, almost all major roads wore a deserted look. Police seized the vehicles of those coming outside without a valid reason. Police also barricaded some roads to curb traffic movement during the lockdown hours. Shettar conducts inspection District minister Jagdish Shettar travelled around the city on Thursday to have first-hand information on the lockdown. He interacted with police staff and ordered officials to strictly implement the lockdown. He was accompanied by DC Nitesh Patil and police commissioner R Dileep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/day-two-of-lockdown-almost-total/articleshow/77006107.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Woman cop found living with lover at quarantine centre||Nagpur: An extramarital affair surfaced at Regional Police Training School (RPTS) quarantine centre after the wife of a missing man approached Bajaj Nagar police station, recently. The married man had allegedly been taken to the centre by a special branch woman constable who was asked to go in institutional quarantine along with other colleagues when a police officer tested Covid19 positive some days back. DCP Zone II Vivek Masal told TOI that a departmental inquiry has been set up against the woman cop for indiscipline. “She had introduced the man as her husband to NMC health team who had come for contact tracing of the officer who tested positive,” he said. Posing as husband and wife, they lived for over three days in the RPTS centre. Masal said after it came to fore that both are not married to each other, the man was shifted to VNIT hostel quarantine centre while the woman constable continues to remain where she was. The cop and the married man had been in a relationship, it is learnt. Sources said it was not confirmed if the woman constable is married or has separated from her spouse. The man is said to be working with the department of posts. His wife was unaware about him being admitted to the quarantine centre. She somehow came to know about the extramarital affair of her husband. She even visited the RPTS but was turned away by guards. Later, she lodged a complaint with Bajaj Nagar police, and met Commissioner of Police Dr BK Upadhyay, who ordered an inquiry. It is reliably learnt that the woman constable and the man know each other since October last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-cop-found-living-with-lover-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/77008292.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 17, 2020||Nashik||Nashik divn takes 8th spot; Dhule district tops division||NASHIK: Dhule took the top position in HSC pass percentage among the Nashik’s division’s four districts. While in 2019 it was ranked fourth in the division with HSC pass percentage of 83.52%, it moved to the top this year with 91.11%. Jalgaon district followed Dhule with 89.72% students clearing the exam. Nashik and Nandurbar districts registered 89.46% and 80.35%, respectively Nitin Upasani, the secretary of Nashik Division of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), said 1.57 lakh students from across 1,035 junior colleges in Nashik division had appeared for the examinations and 1.39 lakh cleared the exam. While the Nashik division has improved its figure from 84.77% in 2019 to 88.87% this time, the division ranked eighth among Maharashtra’s nine divisions. “Last year only Jalgaon district had seen more than 86 % of students clearing the HSC exam. This year, Dhule has crossed the 91%-mark. Students and teachers have put up an excellent performance,” Upasani said. The officer said this year, action was taken against only 22 students for damaging their answersheets during the exam. “Last year, there were 357 cases. We counselled students with the parents and teachers this year so that they do not make the same mistake,” Upasani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-divn-takes-8th-spot-dhule-district-tops-division/articleshow/77006112.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Tribals want Araku to be divided into 3 districts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Several tribal organisations have requested the government to divide the Araku parliamentary constituency into three districts. This comes in the wake of the chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy announcing that 13 districts would be reorganised into 25 districts as per the Lok Sabha constituencies. However, the chief minister is believed to have agreed to making Araku Lok Sabha constituency into two districts given its size. The Araku Lok Sabha constituency is not only geographically larger than other constituencies in the state but also one of the largest in south India. It includes Rampachodavaram assembly segment in East Godavari, Araku Valley and Paderu segments in Visakhapatnam; Parvatipuram, Saluru and Kurupam in Vizianagaram and Palakonda in Srikakulam. As per statistics, the tribal area comprises 52.9% of the total area of in Visakhapatnam district, 26.62% of Vizianagaram and 38.79% of East Godavari district. MLAs, including the speaker Tammineni Sitaram and Dharmana Prasada Rao, have requested that Seetampeta ITDA, which includes Palakonda Assembly segment in Srikakulam, should not be disturbed in the district reorganisation. “Rampachodavaram is sprawled across 5,000 sq kms and has a population of more than two lakh tribals. It should be made into a district,” the president of Indian Confederation of Indigenous and Tribal Peoples of Andhra Pradesh, G Ramgopal demanded. Araku LS constituency should be reorganised into three districts, he said. “Instead of parliamentary constituencies being taken as unit, we demand that each ITDA be made into a district and provided with autonomous powers. We are in the fifth schedule and the government should plan before reorganising the districts. We have seen how tribal pockets were divided into small pieces in Telangana. The tribal area in Telangana has lost its geographical shape. Once the tribals lose their majority then demands for converting schedule areas as non-schedule areas would rise. We will lose our rights and powers too,” the convenor of Adivasi Porata Samithi JAC Ramarao Dora said.  Ramgopal said creating small districts by safeguarding the tribal rights would serve the cause of reorganising the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tribals-want-araku-to-be-divided-into-3-dists/articleshow/77007510.cms||Siva G
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Reinstate 14 ‘colour blind’ ST drivers: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Thursday directed Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to reinstate within four weeks 14 drivers who were sacked after they were diagnosed with colour blindness during a routine check-up. It also directed each of them be paid back wages from the day their services were discontinued until the day they have been provided with alternative posts having the same pay-scale and service benefits. “The financial, emotional and mental injuries suffered by the bus drivers before us today cannot simply be measured in terms of money,” said a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla. The verdict came on petitions by the drivers who had an “unblemished record” and families dependent on them. Their plea for alternative employment was rejected citing a July 29, 2016, circular which stated that “once a driver has been declared unfit by reason of colour blindness, such driver is not entitled to an alternative service or job with MSRTC”. The judges said MSRTC’s action violated Persons With Disabilities Act, 1995, and Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. “The petitioners have admittedly acquired their disability (colour blindness) during employment,” they said, adding that the petitioners were entitled to other jobs as reasonable accommodation under the 2016 Act. The judges quashed and set aside a clause in the circular which treated the period between diagnosis of a disability and decision about fitness of the employee or his alternative employment as leave without pay and carried the earned leave of the earlier job to the new job. They said the clause was ultra vires of the 2016 Act, as also violative of Article 14 (Right to Equality) of the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reinstate-14-colour-blind-st-drivers-hc/articleshow/77007976.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat CM launches works worth Rs 126 crore||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Thursday inaugurated and laid foundations of a number of tourism and pilgrimage projects worth Rs 126 crore, through video conferencing. Union minister of state for tourism, Prahladsinh Patel, was also present via video conferencing. The projects which were e-launched through video conferencing include facilities worth Rs 45 crore for tourists at the Somnath temple. Foundation stone of Uparkot Fort work in Junagadh district, Raiyali Museum phase-II work, various project works at Dhordo white desert, foundation stones of Shrimad Rajchandra Bhawan and Veer Meghmaya Smarak Bhawan were also laid via video conferencing. CM Vijay Rupani said that the government has resolved to make Gujarat a world tourist destination by setting up a complete tourism circuit of major tourist attraction centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-launches-works-worth-rs-126-crore/articleshow/77008323.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Aurangabad||74% scorer mourns grandmother’s death||Aurangabad: Scoring 74% marks in the HSC exam could not cheer up Aditya Bhivasane, a science student in the city who is still mourning the demise of his grandmother. The 75-year-old woman had recently succumbed to Covid-19. “My grandmother always told me to work hard and focus on studies. She told me to be a diligent student and an obedient son. I wish she was with me today to see my success,” said Aditya. He said that his grandmother had said that she would distribute sweets if he scored well. The elderly woman was among Aditya’s 19 relatives who had contracted Covid-19 during the early outbreak of the pandemic. Aditya’s elder sister Priyanka said her brother’s success was special considering all odds he had faced. “Being from a humble background, we did not have sufficient resources to support his studies. My grandmother would have been proud to see him scoring first-class,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/74-scorer-mourns-grandmothers-death/articleshow/77006166.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Audio leak probe reveals mystery woman’s ‘influential’ contacts list||Nagpur: The threads in the audio-leak probe are leading cops in many unknown directions, including a woman with a long list of ‘close’ male friends, all of whom are well-known professionals. The cops are probing whether her elaborate social network has any anti-social tilt to it, like honey-trapping and extortion. Top ministers, doctors, a health ministry official, a couple of well-established legal practitioners, social workers and such influential persons are learnt to be among the frequently contacted numbers in the woman’s contact list. Her mobile phone is now under scanner for her complicity in some crime. A couple of persons with crime records too are in her contact list, it’s reliably learnt. “A murder convict with couple of serious offences is also close to her,” said a source. A police source said a civic body official and the woman in question had around 50-60 calls between them within a short period, before the audio-leak kicked up a storm on social media. Sources also claimed that the official had ‘gifted’ the woman a high-end mobile phone handset. “There are many influential persons in her network but we are probing whether they were merely professional contacts or there is some other angle to it, which may constitute a crime,” said a senior official from crime branch without revealing much due to the sensitive nature of the ongoing probe. Though cops have maintained silence regarding the woman, her contacts with influential people are now under the scanner. “A highly respected man from legal fraternity too had flown down from Mumbai to meet her,” said a police source. After having landed in a controversial episode in the health sector, the woman’s close contacts with ministers were laid bare when a couple of ministers called up the cops, urging them to assist her in the problem she was facing. “Some black-mailers used the woman as a ladder to make crores of rupees, and she too has seen a meteoric rise in her social networking in the last couple of years,” said a reliable source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/audio-leak-probe-reveals-mystery-womans-influential-contacts-list/articleshow/77008344.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 17, 2020||Nashik||Girls outperform boys again||NASHIK: Girls appearing have again outscored the boys in HSC exams this year by 7.62 percentage points, though the boys did improve on last year’s pass percentage. “Last year, there was a gap of around 13% between the boys and the girls. This year, the gap has narrowed down. In all, 29,366 girls (93.67%) cleared the exam,” said Nitin Upasani, the secretary of the Nashik division of MSBSHSE. Boys managed a pass percentage of 86.05%. In Dhule, 94.06% of the girl students cleared the exam, while in Nashik, the figure was 93.67%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/girls-outperform-boys-again/articleshow/77006146.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 17, 2020||Goa||7-member health advisory panel constituted||Panaji: To give further impetus to its medical infrastructure expansion plans, the cabinet on Wednesday approved the constitution of a health advisory committee. The body will be led by the health secretary as its chairman. This seven-member committee will advise the government on various modalities for completion and commissioning of the South Goa district hospital with an attached private medical college, the 120-bed hospital at Tuem, the super-speciality block and tertiary care centre at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Other members of the committee will be the additional secretary (finance), director of health services, the dean, Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, Dr Saryadev Malik, chief executive officer at Gurunanak Hospital and Research Centre, Mumbai, Dr Amir Mookim attached to IQVIA and Dr Anil D’Cruz, professor and chief of the department of head at neck surgery at Tata Memoria Hospital, Mumbai. A few months ago, the government had expressed its plan to operate these four new healthcare facilities with participation of private players. The construction of the 500-bed South Goa district hospital is nearing completion and will be handed over to the health department shortly, an officer said. Constructed through the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), this is one of the most delayed projects. The outpatient department (OPD) here was made functional in May, but the private college attached to the hospital is yet at the initial stage. The construction of hospital at Tuem is under way. The Rs 386 crore super-speciality block at GMC, being constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojna, is nearly 76% complete. The strengthening of facilities for tertiary care cancer centres has also been planned under the tertiary care component of the national programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/7-member-health-advisory-panel-constituted/articleshow/76988823.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Cops in twin cities told to shape up, attend 6-week refresher course||BHUBANESWAR: With healthcare staff and police personnel on the forefront of the fight against the unknown enemy — which poses a greater risk to the lives of those with comorbidities — neither can or should allow their fitness levels to drop. Waking up to this fact perhaps, the commissionerate police has now decided to ensure the fitness of its staff in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi has made it mandatory for overweight personnel to attend a six-week refresher’s course on body fitness and exercise. Altogether 8,000 personnel work under the commissionerate police in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Hectic and erratic work schedules owing to staff shortage in most police stations have led to many personnel suffering from several diseases like hypertension and diabetes. From next week, all the police personnel will be monitored according to the body mass index (BMI), which measures the fat deposit in the human body based on the height and weight of the person. Doctors will educate the cops about the ideal body weight according to their age and height. The database will be kept in the police hospital here. “We will try to complete the health check-up (height/weight measurement) of all our personnel by July 30. A three-month deadline will be given to those who are found to be overweight according to the BMI calculation, to reduce their weight. In November, the overweight personnel will again be tested,” Sarangi stated in his order. The top cop said a six-week refresher course on body fitness and exercise will be launched for those who fail to reduce their weight by November. They will be subjected to compulsory exercise every morning in addition to the six-week refresher fitness course, Sarangi said. The police commissioner also warned of disciplinary action if the personnel ignored his order. “The defaulters may face salary cut and compulsory retirement from service on health grounds. I appeal to all my staff members to realise the unprecedented health crisis caused by the Covid-19 virus. Since the vaccine is in a trial stage, we all have to take care of ourselves and stay fit,” Sarangi said. The police commissioner said fitness holds key to policing activities. Immediately after recruitment, most personnel take care of their health and exercise to remain fit. But subsequently, they start ignoring their fitness, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-in-twin-cities-told-to-shape-up-attend-6-wk-refresher-course/articleshow/77007588.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held over woman’s fake Facebook profile||AHMEDABAD: Cybercrime sleuths on Thursday rounded up a man, Sagar Ratnani, 25, a resident of Nava Vadaj, for making a fake Facebook account of a woman and posting her phone number. The woman then received several lewd calls and comments on her phone and WhatsApp. DCP cybercell Rajdeepsinh Jhala said the complainant and Ratnani’s girlfriend were friends but due to some reasons, both had parted ways. “To take revenge, Ratnani created the fake account and put her mobile number on it,” said ACP Jeetendra Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-over-womans-fake-fb-profile/articleshow/77008346.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nashik||Covid positivity rate increases in Nashik||NASHIK: The positivity rate of Covid-19 patients has increased in the city within the first 15 days of this month. Officials from the civic administration attribute the rise in positivity rate to people flouting safety protocols and needlessly venturing out of their home. As many as 3,073 throat swabs samples were tested in April and May, of which, 214 tested positive for the contagion. The positivity rate was only 7% for every 100 swabs during these two months. With the rise in the number of patients in June, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) increased swab testing. While 130 swabs were being tested per day during the first week of June, it was gradually increased to 300 tests per day. Of the 7,805 swabs tested in June, 1,854 of them were positive. The positivity rate for every 100 swabs stood at 23.75%. So far, 19,700 samples have been tested in the last three-and-a-half months ever since the first Covid-19 case was reported on April 6 in Nashik. Of this, 8,829 swabs have been tested in the last 15 days, 2,542 have returned positive. The positivity rate of patients in the first half of July stands at 28.79% meaning 29 of the 100 swabs being tested are returning positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-positivity-rate-increases-in-nashik/articleshow/77006185.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Shettar visits Covid war room||Hubballi: District minister Jagdish Shettar visited Covid war room established at HDBRTS control room in Hosur. The minister was accompanied by deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil, NWKRTC managing director Rajendra Cholan, HDSCL MD CW Shakeel Ahemad and police commissioner R Dileep. The minister was briefed about the functioning of the Covid war room. The officials said that the war room is functioning from the last three months. The staff of the health and Family Welfare department, Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation, HDBRTS working in the room round the clock. Minister expressed satisfaction over the functioning of the war room and instructed officials to make arrangements to provide details of the beds available at the hospitals and covid care centres and ambulances for Covid patients on online. HDBRTS MD Shakeel Ahmed told that the war room is functional from the last three months, the staff of Health and Family Welfare, HDBRTS, HDMC running the room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shettar-visits-covid-war-room/articleshow/77006187.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Former ISP employee held for embezzlement, cheating||AHMEDABAD: Cybercrime sleuths of city police on Tuesday rounded up one Bhavesh Patel from Nikol for embezzling the money of an internet service providing company where he was formerly an employee. His accomplice, Digvijaysinh Rathod of Bapunagar, was arrested earlier. DCP, cybercrime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala said they had received a complaint from the company that a woman has claimed that though she has paid the full amount for a subscription, she was unable to get the internet service. The FIR states in October 2019, she got a message on her registered mobile phone number that her plan is getting over, and if she books another plan through an e-wallet she will have to pay Rs 8,000 instead of Rs 10,000. “The man sent her a QR code, which the woman scanned and paid the amount. She got a message that payment has been received by the company. She approached the company and they assured her of sorting out the issue,” added DCP Jhala. ACP cybercrime, Jeetendra Yadav said Rathod and his associate Patel worked for the company and had access to customers’ data. “So when the plan of a customer was to end, they used to call up the customer and make him or her pay through e-wallet and siphon off the money. They sent messages of payment from the company,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-isp-employee-held-for-embezzlement-cheating/articleshow/77008352.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Redressal system for IT, GK||AURANGABAD: The MSBSHE has introduced a grievance redressal mechanism for information technology (IT) and general knowledge (GK) subjects from this year. The candidates willing to apply for recounting or revaluation related to the assessment of these subjects must follow the procedure along the lines of other subjects. Details of the official time-table of redressal processes such recounting, issue of answersheet photocopy and re-evaluation are available on verification.mh.hsc.ac.in. Ravi Patil, president of Junior College Teachers’ Association in Aurangabad, said the state board must not only complete speedy redressal, but also update the same on the official online database. “We have come across many cases in past in which increased marks were not updated online. This affects the students as the online database is often used by state-level and central agencies for admission processes,” he said. MSBSHE Aurangabad division head Sugata Punne said redressal process would be completed relatively earlier this year. The next HSC examination will be based on revised curriculum. Suresh Lipane, a vice-principal, said the upgraded curriculum has put stress on application of knowledge. “The new syllabus has relatively increased topics and framed somewhat on the lines of CBSE. In the Arts stream, the new syllabus is beneficial for those aspiring to crack different competitive exams,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/redressal-system-for-it-gk/articleshow/77006209.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 17, 2020||Agra||UP rape accused who mowed down young survivor, her mother sent to jail||AGRA: A 30-year old rape accused on bail was arrested, on Wednesday evening, for allegedly mowing down the teenage rape survivor and her mother in Uttar Pradesh’s Kasganj district. The man was sent to jail on Thursday. According to police, on Tuesday evening, the accused identified as Yashveer, 30, drove the tractor over the 17-year-old survivor and her mother, while they were returning home. Kasganj superintendent of police Sushil Ghule said, "The tractor belonged to a brick kiln owner, where the accused was employed as a driver. On Tuesday evening, he spotted the girl and her mother going back home on a bicycle and mowed them down." According to the police, both the accused and the victims were neighbours and were on cordial terms till July 2016. “The accused was sent to jail in October 2016 following the rape and abduction charges on him and two others on the basis of a complaint by the teenager. The accused came out on bail by the end of 2017,” the Kasganj SP said. He said, “Prior to the rape charges, Yashveer had in August 2016 lodged a murder case against the teenager’s father, alleging that his father was murdered over a monetary dispute. The girl’s father came out on bail in 2018.” After the Tuesday night’s incident, Yashveer has been booked under IPC’s section 302 (murder). In total, three cross FIRs have been filed by two families against each other, police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-rape-accused-who-mowed-down-young-survivor-her-mother-sent-to-jail/articleshow/77006207.cms||Arvind Chauhan
July 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur division bags third spot in state||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur division, comprising 813 junior colleges in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts, had 92.42% students clearing the HSC exam. The division improved its performance and ranked third after the Konkan and Pune divisions, which reported 95.89% and 92.50% pass percentage. In comparison to last year, the result has improved by 5.30%. Girls, with 96.57% pass percentage, outperformed the boys who had a pass percentage of 89.01%. The board officials said the pass percentage among the girls has been increasing every year. Among all the divisions, girls from the Kolhapur division ranked second. In the division, 1,23,858 students appeared for HSC exam. Of them, 1,14,469 cleared the exam. The pass percentage among ‘repeat’ students is 34.71% this year. The exam was held at 162 centres in three districts. Among the three districts, Kolhapur topped with 93.11% pass percentage, followed by Satara (92.18%) and Sangli (91.63%). Students of the science stream registered 98.51% pass percentage, followed by commerce (95.35%), vocational (90.70%) and arts (81.24%). As many as 10,444 students cleared the HSC exam with distinction (above 75% marks), while 42,969 were in the first class (60% to 75%) bracket. Of the 5,808 repeat students, 2,016 managed to clear the exam this year. The divisional board officials said the marksheets will be distributed later, and the date will be notified soon. Also, those looking to get their marks verified must apply in the next seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-divn-bags-third-spot-in-state/articleshow/77006222.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks nod for labs in Kalyan, Bhiwandi||MUMBAI: Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has sought approval from ICMR for starting Covid-19 testing labs in corporations like Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Ulhasnagar. He said like Mumbai, augmentation of beds by setting up jumbo facilities in those areas had started and nearly 1,000 oxygen beds and over 300 ICU beds will be added in few days. He said the state sought relaxation in plasma collection norms, which will make it easier for more blood banks to participate. While NMMC reported 273 fresh cases and four deaths, taking the count to 10,546 and toll to 322, it is looking at increasing daily testing by around five times. Around 500 samples are being sent for testing daily. Around 40,000 antigen kits have arrived and 60,000 more are being procured. These tests will be free for symptomatic patients and close contacts. NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar told the administration to start working on a pathology lab for testing samples. The lab is expected to be set up in eight days. NMMC has five authorised labs now. The earlier chief had decided to have a dedicated lab but due to labour shortage and reluctance to work at Vashi Covid hospital, the decision was not implemented. “As Bangar took charge on Tuesday, he responded quickly to pleas for an in-house path laboratory,” said B N Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation. People were being made to wait endlessly for results of swab tests. The other option was to opt for private labs, which would charge Rs1,800-2,800 per test. PCMC reported 134 cases and seven deaths on Thursday. Cases shot up to 4,469 and toll to 107. Meanwhile, 63 tested positive in Panvel rural but no death was reported. In Uran, there were 17 cases and two deaths. The Mira-Bhayander municipal corporation began testing with 4,000 antigen kits. Citizens have been defying lockdown and protesting the third extension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-seeks-nod-for-labs-in-kalyan-bhiwandi/articleshow/77007979.cms||SANJAY BANERJEE
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore records 2 Covid-19 deaths, 52 fresh cases||COIMBATORE: The district reported two more Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, taking the toll to 15, even as 52 people tested positive for the virus. The district has recorded 1,644 cases so far, of which 969 are active. The health department is, meanwhile, planning to cordon off entire Selvapuram as a containment zone, as the virus continues to spread to every nook and corner of the locality. The area, which recorded 16 cases on Wednesday and 13 on Tuesday, saw six more cases on Thursday. Another five people were tested positive for the virus from surrounding areas such as Raja Street, Sullivan Street, Thomas Street and Telugu Street. “People are still freely moving around on the streets in the containment zone. We will start controlling that. We understand that test results are getting delayed and are working to speed up the process,” said local administration minister S P Velumani after a review meeting with the city corporation. The district administration heaved a sigh of relief after all the contacts of collector K Rajamani, who tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, tested negative for the virus. A health official identified one of the deceased as a 71-year-old man from Annama Naicker Street. He died in the ESI Hospital on Thursday. The other deceased, a 50-year-old man, was admitted to the ESI Hospital on Monday with breathing difficulty. The man had given his throat swab for testing on July 9, but test results that showed him positive came only on July 12. By then, he had developed pneumonia. Since his lungs were already severely affected by then, the source said, the patient could not recover, despite oxygen support, steroids and anti-viral drugs. He died in the hospital around 2pm Wednesday. The new cases were reported from RS Puram, Podanur, Saravanampatti, Peelamedu, Kaleeswara Nagar in Kattoor, P N Pudur, Sowripalayam, Uppilipalayam and Perur Chettipalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-records-2-covid-19-deaths-52-fresh-cases/articleshow/77008357.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘I will fulfil my mandate by working within the system’||Outgoing Puri SP Uma Shankar Dash has been appointed deputy commissioner of police in Bhubaneswar. He speaks to Debabrata Mohapatra on the road ahead How challenging is basic policing in the middle of a pandemic? Not just policing, every field of human activity has been adversely affected by the pandemic. Policing is an essential service and cannot be shut down or scaled down. The virus poses a big risk for our field staff. We have to perform our duty amid social distancing and face masks, by complying with the government’s Covid-19 guidelines. What are your priorities for the new post? I will first try to understand the basics. Only then will I be able to draw a roadmap. But there is something called a system and that system works. I will be a part of the system and fulfil my mandate. How have you ensured better functioning of police stations? It has been my focus to encourage staff in police stations to work for the benefit of the people and act tough against criminals. Police can command respect through good conduct and transparent functioning. Are crime control and delivery of services to citizens taking a beating amid the pandemic?I do not think so. Police always work amid challenges. As the pandemic has created an unprecedented situation, we have to fight it and ensure that the grievances of the people are properly addressed at the police stations. Both visitors and our colleagues at police stations should adopt all safety precautions. How hard was it to conduct the Rath Yatra this year?It was a big challenge. With the support of the public and team work of all government departments and leadership of senior officers, Rath Yatra passed peacefully. All stakeholders, including servitors and the media, did their best.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/i-will-fulfil-my-mandate-by-working-within-the-system/articleshow/77007598.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: With 2 deaths per hour, July accounts for 76% of total deaths in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The state has lost, on an average, two people to Covid-19 every hour since July 1, a clear indication that the government must shift focus to preventing deaths if it wants to emerge from the pandemic with a credible record. Since the start of the month there have been 786 fatalities, taking the toll to 1,032 on July 16 from just 246 on June 30. Of the deaths reported in July, a staggering 562 came in the past eight days alone at a rate of three an hour, which took Covid-19 deaths per million to 17.2 as on July 16, compared to four per million on June 30. Most of the deaths in June came in the last two weeks of the month. On June 15, the state had only 88 deaths, but the figure rose to 246 by June 30. As on May 30, the number of fatalities stood at 51. Bengaluru, with its better health infrastructure, but also more cases, has led the way with 507 deaths — 412 of which have been between July 1 and 16. Bidar (53) stands second on this grim statistic, followed by Dakshina Kannada (52), Ballari (51), Mysuru (40) and Dharwad (52). Epidemiologists and clinical experts TOI spoke to insist that unlike rising cases, which is truly beyond the control of authorities, many deaths can be prevented. The state, they say, must consciously put in place prevention strategies. Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 taskforce, said: “We did expect cases to go up since the virus was expected to peak and we’ve also ramped up testing. I completely agree that we must focus on reducing deaths. For this, there must be better coordination. Many beds are unfortunately occupied by asymptomatic or patients with less than moderate symptoms, which should not happen. These beds must be utilised to treat sick patients.” As cases increase globally, Manjunath said that the pathophysiology of the disease is being better understood, which will result in changed treatment protocol. Earlier this week, medical education minister K Sudhakar, quoting from the Mahabharata, had said: “Pandavas chose Krishna over his huge Yadava army. Likewise to win any war, confidence is key. No country can ever be prepared for a pandemic of this scale. Fight this pandemic with courage and trust the government.” But, the government has been failing its people since it has not even audited deaths efficiently. As on July 15, only about 100 of the 928 deaths were audited. Dr S Sacchidanand, who spearheads the Covid-19 death audit committee, said: “We’ve recommended to the government that the auditing process be decentralised. Given that most experts are busy treating patients, there has been a delay in auditing. We’ve done about 100 and another 50 will be completed soon.” Earlier, it was late reporting, comorbidities and ignoring symptoms that were seen as major reasons, Sacchidanand said, adding: “But I’m not sure what the reasons for the high surge in the last two weeks could be.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-2-deaths-per-hour-july-accounts-for-76-of-total-deaths/articleshow/77007613.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Over 7,000 score more than 90%, nearly double since last year||PUNE: As many as 7,344 state board students scored more than 90% marks this year as against 4,470 in 2019 and 5,486 in 2018 in the higher secondary certificate examination (HSC). The Central Board of Secondary Education has over 1.5 lakh students in the 90-100% bracket, this year. The all-India data of the 90% club of CBSE standard XII students also shows an increase to 1,57,934 in 2020 when compared to 94,299 in 2019 and 72,599 in 2018. As many as 10.59 lakh students passed from CBSE which is two lakh less than the 12.81 lakh state board students. The high number of students scoring 90% will not matter in professional courses where entrance examinations determine admissions. But it may impact courses where the admission merit list is determined by the marks. The pinch will be felt when students try for admissions in renowned colleges and for courses such as statistics or biotechnology which are in high demand, teachers said. Very few students from CBSE and other central boards take admission in BA, BSc, BCom courses in their college, Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce said. “Courses like BSc Animation which has a 100% placement, or BSc Biotech or BSc Blended Bioscience which is in collaboration with Melbourne University have a higher demand. Here, there is a possibility of the cut-off percentages going up by 2-3% and the central board students may have some edge,” he added. Parents said the Covid-19 situation has thrown a wet blanket on plans to send their children to Bengaluru, Delhi or even abroad for studies. Shalini Teke, former head of statistics department at SP College, said Pune has all kinds of courses and parents would want their children to stay in the city and not move to hostels for another year. It may increase the number of students applying for courses such as BSc statistics or data science courses which are in demand, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-7k-score-more-than-90-nearly-double-since-last-year/articleshow/77008356.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 17, 2020||Agra||Three arrested over honour killing of sister in Mainpuri||AGRA: Three men were arrested by Mainpuri police on Thursday for allegedly shooting their sister and grievously injuring their brother-in-law over a week ago, as the girl had married someone from a different caste two years ago. All accused have been sent to judicial custody. According to police, Jyoti Misra, who hailed from Angotha village, eloped with Rohit Yadav, who worked as a private veterinary doctor in the neighbouring Brijpura village of Mainpuri district in 2018 and they eventually got married. The woman’s family lodged a police complaint under section 363/366 (kidnapping) of the IPC. However, the case was dropped after she gave a statement before the court that she had married Rohit on her own will. After hearing Jyoti’s decision, her brothers allegedly decided to kill her but were dissuaded by their family members, who advised them to wait for the right opportunity. During interrogation, the arrested accused – including Jyoti’s 19-year-old brother Gulshan Misra, and her two cousins, including 28-year-old Raghvendra Misra, the main accused in the case – said that local residents used to insult them over their sister’s marriage and no one wanted to marry their own daughters into their family. While Jyoti was shot six times, her husband sustained a single-shot bullet injury. The latter is still undergoing treatment at Saifai hospital. Mainpuri superintendent of police Ajay Kumar said, “The accused said that they wanted to incapacitate Jyoti’s husband by shooting him on his leg but the bullet hit his stomach instead. They wanted to make him realise his mistake of marrying an upper-caste woman.” Kumar said that two country-made pistols, used in the crime, have been recovered from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-arrested-over-honour-killing-of-sister-in-mainpuri/articleshow/77006223.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Aurangabad||47 booked for violation of lockdown norms in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The city police on Wednesday booked 47 people, including vegetable vendors, grocers, chicken and mutton shopowners, and those stepping out of their homes without valid reason for violating the lockdown norms. City Chowk police have booked 24 people in seven different cases which includes vegetable vendors going to lanes and bylanes to sell vegetables to the residents of the areas. They have also booked motorists for moving around without a valid reason and permission from the authorities concerned. As many as 11 people have been booked including vegetable vendors and mutton shopowners, who had set up their shops in bylanes, by the Jinsi police A total of nine cases involving 11 violators were registered by Jinsi police against the violators of the lockdown norms. Some of them also include people who were not wearing masks while moving out of their houses. Similarly, Cidco police have nabbed two-wheeler riders who were moving around in TV Centre chowk without a valid reason. The MIDC Cidco police have booked one man for stepping out of his house without wearing a mask at Pyramid Chowk, while Satara police nabbed four people in Silk Mills colony including a man operating his chicken shop. Mukundwadi police booked a mutton shopowner while Begumpura police took action against two people for moving in public places without a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/47-booked-for-violation-of-lockdown-norms-in-city/articleshow/77006244.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad city entry points: 17 test positive||AURANGABAD: As many as 17 people tested positive for Covid-19 at the city’s entry points on Thursday morning when they underwent an antigen test before entering the city. With this, the district recorded 127 fresh Covid-19 patients on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 9,571. There are 3,699 active cases. The death toll in the district rose to 373, with three deaths due to the infection reported on Thursday. As many as 5,499 patients have recovered in the district so far. The AMC and the city police have set up antigen testing facilities at the city’s entry points to conduct rapid testing of people visiting the city. Those found Covid positive were quarantined. The deceased were undergoing treatment at the dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital premises. The deceased include- a 50-year-old man from Ranjangaon MIDC area, a 45-year-old man from Gangapur and a 58-year-old man from Ayodhyanagar-Bajajnagar area. The officials at the GMCH said that of the total casualties, as many as 287 have succumbed on the GMCH premises. They also said at presentl 195 patients are being treated at the GMCH facility, of which the condition of 110 patients was critical and 85 were normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-city-entry-points-17-test-positive/articleshow/77006191.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Salem||IOC plans more compressed biogas units in Tamil Nadu||NAMAKKAL: Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has planned to set up more number of compressed biogas (CBG) units in the country. In a video conference with reporters from Puduchatram in Namakkal district on Thursday, executive director and state head of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) P Jayadevan said IOC would be responsible for the compressed biogas and this can be consumed as a green renewable energy for automotive and industrial applications. “Through central government’s sustainable alternative towards affordable transportation (SATAT), IOC envisages a target production of 15 million metric tonne of compressed biogas from 5,000 plants across the country by 2023,” he said. Jayadevan said CBG is a cost-effective biofuel to the vehicle owner. The state currently has five compressed biogas units and it is being sold through the outlets at the cost of Rs 59.42 per kilo. A small car with compressed biogas would give a mileage of 27km/kilo translating to a running cost of Rs.2.20 per kilometer which would result in substantial savings in the fuel bill. Talking about compressed biogas producing plant in Puduchatram, he said the outlet was expected to process about 300 tonnes of feed stock including pressed mud and chicken litter every day to produce 15 tonnes of CBG. “This would be supplied to five IOC retail outlets including Namakkal and Salem districts in this region,” he said, adding that, this plant also would supply compressed biogas to few industries in this area as industrial fuel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/ioc-plans-more-compressed-biogas-units-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77008365.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP university students to be promoted, except those in final year||LUCKNOW: Adhering to the UGC guidelines on examinations, the UP government on Thursday decided to assess the final semester/graduating students through an examination conducted in either online or offline, or a blended mode. Cancelling exams of all other semesters/year, the government said that the first and second year students would be promoted on the basis of internal evaluation and performance in the previous semester/year. Over 33 lakh students will be promoted across the state. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who holds the education portfolio, told reporters that universities where examinations and evaluation ended before the lockdown, will have no changes in their results. The universities that were able to conduct a few examinations have been asked to carry out the evaluation and include the marks in the final results. Those students who appeared for examinations before lockdown and have qualified, or are eligible for the backpaper, will be promoted to the next semester, and their remaining examinations stands cancelled. Those who have failed in these exams will be declared as unsuccessful for the year 2020. Following UGC guidelines, the terminal semester/final year examinations at higher education institutions of he state would be finished latest by September 30, and the results announced by October 15 for undergraduate programmes and October 31 for postgraduate courses. In a bid to ensure that no graduating student is at a disadvantage, it has been decided that students who miss the examinations for any reason, would be given an opportunity to appear in special examinations for courses and papers as and when the university is feasible to do. Sharma said that the students of the terminal semester/ final year who have some papers left, will have to take examinations in offline, online or blended mode as per the feasibility and suitability. Universities will do 100% evaluation on the basis of internal evaluation for students of the first year of the annual pattern of examinations. First year students will be awarded average marks (scored in subjects in second year) for subjects for which examination couldn't take place. This applies to students who have scored passing marks in each subject. Second semester students who will be promoted without examinations will be awarded average marks scored in first semester (held in December, 2019). For intermediate semester/year students (applicable for three, four and five year courses), excluding the first and final year, a composite of 50% marks on the basis of the pattern of internal evaluation adopted by the universities and the remaining 50% marks can be awarded on the basis of performance in previous exams. Students of second year/fourth semester who will be promoted to next classes will be awarded marks in remaining subjects (for which exams couldn’t be held) on average on the marks scored in the previous exam. In view of the emerging situation due to Covid-19 pandemic, Sharma said, universities would submit an action plan to the government latest till July 23, taking into consideration the above points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-univ-students-to-be-promoted-except-those-in-final-year/articleshow/77009101.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Dogged by Covid-19, board worked hard to announce results on time||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education had to overcome several challenges to declare the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exam results on time. The board had to find ways to reach out to teachers living in Covid-19 red zones in urban areas, collect answer sheets from post offices during the strict lockdown and from districts like Nandurbar and Chandrapur. Teachers involved in assessment were allowed to check papers at home but many were unable to submit the evaluated answer sheets to their respective divisions. As a result, the board had to make arrangements to collect and drop the answer sheets at the division through its employees. State board chairman Shakuntala Kale shared, “Our divisional secretaries and board employees travelled to remote locations to ensure the answer sheets were collected from every assessor.” The board faced several challenges in Mumbai and Pune too. Both regions were declared Covid-19 red zones and there were several restrictions on movement. Some areas within the cities were termed containment zones and some assessors were residing in the zones. “Our officers risked their lives and went to their houses to collect the papers. There was also a time when some lots of answer sheets were stuck at post offices. During the strict lockdown, the post offices were also shut down. We had to procure the answer sheets and hand them over to respective divisions,” Kale said, adding in many areas, board employees had to work three shifts.  Overcoming the challenges was not easy, yet the board was able to announce the results on time, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dogged-by-covid-19-board-worked-hard-to-announce-results-on-time/articleshow/77008363.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Murder accused held, pistol seized||DAVANAGERE: Basavapatna police in Channagiri taluk of Davanagere district, led by DSP Prashanth G Munnolli, have arrested a murder accused. A pistol and five live bullets have been recovered from him. SP Hanumantharaya on Thursday told reporters that the accused, Chethan, and his accomplices had murdered Chandra Naik at a hillock near Sulekere Lake, using the pistol. The SP said the accused had stolen the weapon from a house in Vidyagiri Extension in Dharwad. Chethan had borrowed Rs 1.7 lakh from Naik, but did not return the same despite repeated reminders. It is said that Naik threatened that he would reveal the criminal deeds of Chethan to police and villagers if he did not pay back his money. Fearing the same, Chethan plotted to murder Naik with some friends, and asked him to come to a spot near the lake on July 10. When he did, Chethan shot him dead and fled. In this connection, a murder case was booked at Basavapatna police station, and a special team was formed to crack the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/murder-accused-held-pistol-seized/articleshow/77006253.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||Waste pickers’ kids crush odds to pave way for better lives||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: These students may not have had access to the best of opportunities but their grit and determination to succeed ensured they did well in the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) examination. This year, 55 children of waste pickers appeared for the HSC exams, of which 47 passed the exam while eight scored over 70% marks. Many children of waste pickers associated with the Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat passed the exams with good marks. Most of the students are first-generation learners working towards a bright future despite all odds. Prerna Gaikwad, a Commerce student, said, “I scored 76.3% and I couldn’t be happier. My mother is very proud. We did not have classes because of the lockdown, but I would study for 2-3 hours in the mornings and evenings. During the day, I also had to do household chores, cook food, etc. I am interested in pursuing hotel management.” Ajay Pandit, who scored 71.3% in HSC, said that he made the most of the time he got while training for the army academy. “I joined the army academy last year and I have been studying for the board exams as well as the academy. I would wake up at 4.30am and study before the academy training on ground began at 6am. English was a difficult subject but I requested my teachers to help me. I see my future in the army,” he said. Gaurish Rajguru, whose mother is a waste picker and father is employed with a private company, is ecstatic with the 78% marks she scored. Always a bright student, she got admission at Fergusson College. She intends to complete her graduation in Arts and appear for UPSC examinations to become an IAS officer. “I didn’t really face any challenges. I would study throughout the day, whenever I had the time. Economics was a tough subject for me so I spent more time on it. I studied on my own, without any help from anyone. I also wanted to set an example for my younger sister, who is in Std X,” said Rajguru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/waste-pickers-kids-crush-odds-to-pave-way-for-better-lives/articleshow/77008378.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Strong show in commerce, arts reflects in performance||PUNE: The fear of repeating last year’s poor performance along with a trend of academically bright students taking up arts and commerce seem to have pulled up Pune district’s pass percentage to 92.24% in the higher secondary certificate (HSC) examination. The result rose by 4.59% when compared with last year’s performance. The highest difference was recorded in HSC vocational and arts streams with a spike of 8.06% and 6.63% more students passing as compared to last year. The least failure rate was in science at 2.43% followed by commerce at 7.8%, HSC Vocational at 10.61 and arts at 19.39%. Teresa David, former principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, said the fear of another poor performance after 2019 helped better the results this year. The change in the paper pattern gives equal emphasis on easy, difficult and very difficult sections helped the students pass in mathematics, physics and chemistry, David said. Hrishikesh Soman, principal of Symbiosis College of Arts and Commerce, said, “The profile of students taking up arts and commerce is changing. The first cut-off percentage for admission in standard XI arts in our college was 96-97%, last year. There is a beeline for psychology, economics and political science. Hence more students with stronger academic backgrounds are going for arts in the last two-three years,” he said. AA Sonawane, a recently retired senior physics teacher from Abasaheb Garware junior college. said the introduction of 10 marks multiple choice questions. “Most students get full marks in MCQs. Students had to give 70 marks theory and 30 marks practical exam and the total marks to pass is 35. The paper pattern helped,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strong-show-in-commerce-arts-reflects-in-performance/articleshow/77008374.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 44 positive Covid-19 cases; SBI branch in Ooty closed||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris logged 44 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 320, of which 203 are active cases. While 20 new cases are linked to T.Oranalli wedding function, which has become the second largest cluster in the district, three are secondary contacts of the public relations officer, who has infected 136 people so far. The wedding cluster now accounts for 64 cases. One of the new patients is from Gudalur taluk with a travel history from Saudi Arabia. While 16 people were tested positive from Ooty town, Ebbanadu village near Ooty saw eight cases. People from Edakadu, Thummanatty, Manjacombai, Mulligoor, Karimora and Yellanhalli were also tested positive on Thursday. According to officials, the hill district now has more than over 90 containment zones. Meanwhile, Ooty branch of the State Bank of India (SBI) was closed on Thursday after a watchman tested positive. Officials said the bank branch would remain closed till July 18. A health official said the watchman had approached government hospital doctors with body pain. He was subsequently referred for Covid-19 test, the results of which showed him positive for the virus on Wednesday evening. “We have asked the SBI branch to remain closed for three days. The bank premises are being fumigated,” the official said. He said they were yet to identify the watchman’s source of infection and tracing the customers who visited the branch in the past few days. “We are also monitoring the staff members of the branch.” The Civil Supplies Corporation in Ooty was also fumigated after an employee, who came from Madurai, tested positive. Health officials have collected throat swabs from other employees there for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-44-positive-cases-sbi-branch-in-ooty-closed/articleshow/77008379.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Thane||Parking lot being developed as 1,000-bed field hospital in Thane||THANE: Municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma said the civic body was developing a field hospital at a parking lot adjoining Jupiter hospital, in case of a sudden spike in Covid cases. This came as 413 fresh cases were reported, taking the tally to 14,832 on Thursday, and 13 more deaths, taking the toll to 523. Civic records show there are 6,028 active cases and the recovery rate has improved to 58%, with 8,281 patients having recovered till Wednesday and another 340 discharged on Thursday. Nearly 65,201 samples have been sent for testing till date, of which 64,985 reports have been received. Senior officials said work on remodelling the facility to accommodate nearly 1,000 beds is being worked on and the final capacity and its category will be finalised after analysing requirements. “We are working towards making at least 500 beds operative soon at the parking lot on the first four storeys. The facility will be further remodelled based on requirements,” said deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi. The city has a field hospital at Saket, while another will soon be developed at a shut factory at Pokhran-1. Two are being developed in Mumbra and Kalwa by MHADA. But the administration is apparently finding it difficult to get adequate medical staff to operate the Saket facility, and there was a fresh call to hire 2,995 personnel, including nurses and doctors. “We are admitting more patients than what is our capacity,” admitted an official. Activists and Opposition questioned the rush for constructing more facilities when existing ones are not operated properly. “It seems we are starting hospitals without considering actual requirements and overlooking staff crunch, which is akin to wasting resources at this crucial juncture,” a citizen activist said. Malvi said the administration was confident of operating all facilities smoothly as interviews for crucial posts of intensivists and medical officers were on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/parking-lot-being-developed-as-1000-bed-field-hosp-in-thane/articleshow/77007982.cms||Manoj Badgeri
July 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Veteran Congress leader tests Covid +ve||Aurangabad: A veteran Congress leader and former MLA from Latur district has tested positive for coronavirus. The grandson of the party veteran, in a Facebook post on Thursday, confirmed that his grandfather has contracted the infection. The 91-year-old veteran, according to the family, had first developed a fever and cold on July 14, following which he was shifted to district headquarters at Latur. While his health condition was improving, he underwent different diagnostic tests including Covid-19 test. He subsequently tested positive for Covid-19. Sources close to the leader said he was moved to Pune on Thursday for further treatment. The leader concerned was among top Congress functionaries in Maharashtra during the 80s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/veteran-congress-leader-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/77006261.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP injects Rs 100 crore into Delhi-Meerut corridor||LUCKNOW: Lending a financial push to the country’s first Rapid Rail Transport System (RRTS) between Delhi and Meerut via Ghaziabad, the state government has sanctioned Rs 100 crore for the ambitious project that aims to reduce the travel time between Delhi and Meerut to less than an hour. This is the first financial dose of the total Rs 900 crore earmarked for the project. The 82km Delhi-Meerut Corridor will pass through one of the most densely populated sections of the National Capital Region connecting Delhi to Uttar Pradesh. The corridor will not only be beneficial for the development of the region but will also help connect a large number of townships and centres of economic activity being planned along the section. The project will have a 180kmph design speed, a first-of-its-kind rolling stock in India for regional transit services and will be implemented in phases between the cities. The corridor will have 24 stations and infrastructure will be used to offer local transit services in Meerut. The fund will be kept at the discretion of the managing director, National Capital Region Transport Corporation, according to a communique sent by the UP housing and urban planning department to NCRTC. The letter signed by principal secretary (housing), Deepak Kumar, the corporation will be required to conduct the project as per the timeline set by the state government. The corporation, at the same time, would ensure high quality of construction work. According to the guidelines set by the housing department, the corporation will be required to get legal sanctions and environmental clearance before starting the project. The executing agency will also be required to get technical sanction from the competent authority. NCRTC will be required to prepare the detailed project report and get it cleared by the Centre as well as the state government. The amount sanctioned will not be availed in one go but will be used as per the requirement. The sanctioned fund should also not be kept in the bank, public ledger account or any deposit, the guidelines said. The corporation will be required to see that the project has not received funds from any other source or has been accommodated under any developmental scheme. The state government has also set a deadline of spending the allocated fund by March 31, 2021, and getting a completion certificate by April 30 next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-injects-rs-100cr-into-delhi-meerut-corridor/articleshow/77009122.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Corporation unveils one-stop app for Covid details||COIMBATORE: Containment zones and their location, number of active cases in each containment zone and in any area, nearest pharmacies and primary health centres in each area — city residents would soon be able to know all these in a single application. The city corporation on Thursday unveiled ‘Kovai_Care’, a mobile app developed by a team of four engineering students from the city. The app would also have information on location of people who have been advised home quarantine, or who live in containment zones. If these people venture out of the zones, officials would be alerted by a message. “We store the details of quarantined people which is collected by city corporation workers in the back-end of the app. They would be monitored by a ‘geo tag’. This would make contact tracing easier,” said one of the developers of the app. They said the app would be available in Play Store soon. Minister for municipal administration S P Velumani, who unveiled the app on Thursday at the city corporation office at Townhall, said it would give all relevant information on Covid-19. Speaking to reporters, he said so far 80,623 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the district, of whom, up to Wednesday, 1,591 have been tested positive. So far, 930 people have been cured of the disease and have been sent home. He said siddha treatment would be given to Covid-19 patients who were quarantined at Codissia trade fair complex. “They would be given Kabasura Kudineer, Chooranams, herbal drinking water, natural tonics, siddha tablets, and a healthy diet along with yoga, exercises and stress management techniques,” the minister said. Cases were increasing in the district as people from other states and districts have been coming in, and many were bypassing the check-posts in two-wheelers. “If people come to know such incidents, they should report it to officials,” he said. Friends and family of those who have been tested positive for Covid-19 should not stigmatise them, but should look after them with care and affection, the minister said. “All people should wear masks. If you see a person without a mask, please don’t talk to him/her,” Velumani added. When asked about the prospect of a complete lockdown, he said the current situation did not warrant it. If there was cooperation from the public in Covid-19 preventive measures, there would be no need for a complete lockdown, he said. “A complete lockdown is imposed only when the health department decides and tells us that it is necessary. Only when cases spike uncontrollably we need a complete lockdown. Now we have a controllable situation. Also, if there is a complete lockdown, many workers and industries would be affected, we must consider that also. If the public cooperates with the preventive measures, we can control the spread,” Velumani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-unveils-one-stop-app-for-covid-details/articleshow/77008448.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Pune||Poona Night School students keep colours flying high||PUNE: The Poona Night School declared a pass percentage of 81.42 for the HSC examinations. A total of 114 students, all from commerce stream, wrote the exams from the school this year. Most of them were from economically weaker sections and were breadwinners for their families. “They would work through the day and study in the evening,” the principal Avinash Takavale said. The school’s topper Omkar Bane, who works to provide for a family of five, secured 519 out of 650 marks, a score of nearly 80%. “I work as an office assistant. My family is happy with my results. I want to pursue my graduation and then work in the banking sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poona-night-school-students-keep-colours-flying-high/articleshow/77008391.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||MLC staff force his driver to leave q-centre, cops book him||Nagpur: A 28-year-old driver of an MLC from Amravati returned to Ravi Bhavan quarantine centre on Thursday evening after he allegedly was asked to follow the ambulance carrying three other staffers of his employer to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). An offence was registered against him for breaching quarantine guidelines and violating lockdown norms at Sadar police station. The three, including two personal assistants (PAs) and one driver, had tested positive and were shifted to GMCH Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH), where the MLC was already admitted after reaching the city on July 12. The three were identified as high risk contacts of the MLC, they were tested and placed in institutional quarantine. The 28-year-old didn’t come in direct contact but as precautionary measure got himself tested along with the three. He tested negative. Centre sources told TOI, on Wednesday that the three had asked the 28-year-old also to follow their ambulance in an MUV containing their belongings and luggage. An SUV, in which the corona positive driver and both PAs had accompanied the MLC from Amravati to Nagpur, is also parked at Ravi Bhavan. Sources said the three had put pressure on the driver to leave the premises even though the nodal officer asked him to stay back. Two cops deployed at the entrance remained mute spectators as the MLC’s men violated the norms. The 28-year-old driver had followed the MLC and his staff in the MUV from Amravati. All the four were referred by GMCH. Sources said the in-charge officer initially tried to call up the driver after he failed to hold him back within the premises. The 28-year-old reportedly assured the officer he would return once the three are admitted and their belongings shifted to the ward. When the driver failed to return for a long time, the officer informed Sadar police. As the police called him up and counselled him to return, the driver arrived around midnight of Wednesday. He would have to remain in quarantine till July 26. Sources said this was not the first such incident at Ravi Bhavan where security is lax. Earlier too, some inmates had tried to escape but the attempts were thwarted by health officials. “Fearing infection, cops stay away even when inmates adopt a threatening posture,” sources said. In March, the city police had booked a woman for breaching home quarantine norms. She had fled to UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mlc-staff-force-his-driver-to-leave-q-centre-cops-book-him/articleshow/77008404.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 17, 2020||Pune||Blind pupils excel, want to pursue law & journalism||PUNE: Many students with visual impairment have done well in their higher secondary certificate (HSC) examinations. Even though they faced challenges such as finding writers among others, some blind students from Fergusson College overcame all odds. Rahul Galave, who scored a total of 507 marks, said, “My family was happy with my result. I was hoping to score at least 75%. I was excited when I found out I had scored 78%. It is always difficult to find writers, but I faced other challenges such as the online classes because of the lockdown, which were difficult to follow. But, extra classes at the hostel helped me.” He said he wants to take up journalism in future. While online classes have been difficult for some, they have been of advantage for other blind students. Shripad Nigade, who scored a total of 492 marks, said, “I face issues with braille. I have less sensation in my fingers that makes it difficult for me to feel the dots. So, I always studied using the computer. I would listen to online classes and educational videos. My teachers would give me audio recordings of books. I was hoping to get over 60% and I am glad I scored 75%.” He said he wanted to study law, while his mother wanted him to get a PhD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/blind-pupils-excel-want-to-pursue-law-journalism/articleshow/77008411.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Western Maharashtra in grip of Covid crisis||KOLHAPUR: Wednesday turned out to be the worst day since the outbreak of the pandemic in western Maharashtra as the four major districts in the region recorded the highest single-day Covid-19 case counts. With 153 patients from the rural areas and 39 from the city, Solapur district reported the highest number of cases (192) in a single day on Wednesday. Of the 4,517 positive patients reported from the district, 1,768 are active cases. Total lockdown will be imposed in Solapur city and in 30 villages in Akkalkot, Barshi, North Solapur and South Solapur of the district from Thursday midnight. Satara district, which will go for complete lockdown from Friday night, recorded 119 patients on Wednesday — the highest number of patients recorded after the first case was found in the district in April. With a population of 600 people and 150 houses, Punwadi village in Jawli tehsil has become a new hotspot with the addition of 29 patients on Wednesday. Shirval, situated on the boundary of Pune and Satara district on NH 4, recorded 26 new patients on Wednesday. Till Thursday evening, Satara district recorded a total of 2,073 positive patients, 851 of whom are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals. The district has recorded 72 deaths so far. Of the 114 patients recorded from Kolhapur district on Wednesday, 35 of them were from Kolhapur city. The addition of the new cases has taken the Covid-19 tally to 1,515, of which 580 are active cases. The death toll stands at 37 so far. In Sangli district, 75 new patients were identified on Wednesday. The jurisdiction of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation alone reported 68 patients while seven were identified from rural areas. The number of positive patients in Sangli-Miraj has jumped to 192 on a single day. Sangli rural has 587 positive patients. Shirala and Jat tehsils have emerged as hotspots in the district. The district has seen 23 Covid-19 related deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/west-maha-in-grip-of-covid-crisis/articleshow/77006274.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||ACB finds gold, cash from GPCB official’s bank lockers||AHMEDABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Gandhinagar, has dug out more unaccounted money of Bhaya Sutreja, a class I regional officer of Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB). He was caught with Rs 5 lakh from the capital town on July 12. Now, the ACB has found gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 72.26 lakh and Rs 55 lakh cash from his two bank lockers. A statement from the ACB said that Sutreja, who was posted in Jamnagar, was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. After that, a team headed by ACP Ashutosh Parmar checked his two bank accounts in Sector-21 in Gandhinagar. “On frisking locker number 21 in SBI, we found ornaments of gold weighing 1,314.45 grams worth Rs 48.76 lakh and Rs 69,500. Apart from that, we also found gold ornaments and bars weighing 605.99 grams and silver ornaments weighing 115 grams worth Rs 23.49 lakh and Rs 55,000 cash from locker number 331 in a branch of SBI,” said an ACB official. Thus, the ACB officers found a total sum of Rs 1.27 crore from bank lockers. ACB officials suspect that Sutreja had also invested his disproportionate assets in agriculture and non-agriculture land in various parts of the state. The cops have also collected evidences of his various properties including bungalows and farmhouses. The ACB officials had on July 12 night intercepted a luxury bus coming from Rajkot at Ch-K Circle in Gandhinagar and detained Sutreja. The ACB officials had then recovered Rs 4.91 lakh from his suitcase. The ACB had got a tip-off that Sutreja had been making money by corrupt means. On searching him, investigators found Rs 17,800 in his pant pocket. The GPCB officer failed to give a satisfactory explanation about the source of the money after that he was booked by the ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acb-finds-gold-cash-from-gpcb-officials-bank-lockers/articleshow/77008446.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Negative antigen tests leave doctors jittery||BENGALURU: Just before surgery in a private hospital in Bengaluru, a 77-year-old woman was subjected to an antigen test for Covid-19. Four hours later, the test showed she was negative and doctors went ahead with the operation although a swab sample was sent for an RT-PCR test as per protocol. Two days later the RT-PCR test confirmed she was indeed infected, leaving medical staff and surgeons who operated on her jittery. “We need to treat people with serious complications immediately, but doctors and health workers are also putting themselves at risk,” said a senior medical surgeon. “RT-PCR tests take a long time so we go ahead with antigen tests, but given their poor efficiency, they are an exercise in futility.” Of the 127 antigen tests conducted in this private hospital since 10 July, 27 were positive for the virus. Of the remaining 100 samples, RT-PCR tests showed 33 were positive. Antigen tests began in Bengaluru last week with the government trumpeting that it would be major step forward in scaling up testing. Experts say these tests help quickly identify positive cases and trials have shown that they do so with an accepted level of efficiency, but protocol also mandates that an RT-PCR test be done on every negative antigen result and the anomalies in results are stark. Dr V Ravi, a virologist at Nimhans and member, Karnataka Covid technical committee, had said earlier: “Unlike antibody kits, which measure the body’s response to the virus, antigen tests tell us if a person is positive or not. RT-PCR, for example, detects the virus’ genetic material, while antigen tests detect the virus’ protein (S protein).” He had said antigen tests have an accuracy of 50-80% of RT-PCR positive samples, which means that if the result is positive with an antigen kit, there is no need for an RT-PCR test, but if negative, the sample will have to be re-confirmed through an RT-PCR test. This, however, leaves hospitals in a huge quandary. “A patient tested negative on antigen test, but was an RT-PCR test showed she was positive. Now, two doctors and four nurses who assisted the patient are in home quarantine,” said Dr Praveen Kumar from a private hospital in Bengaluru South. Dr Kumar said that government should make it mandatory to conduct RT-PCR test before proceeding with any medical treatment as antigen tests only end up exposing health workers to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/negative-antigen-tests-leave-medical-staff-positively-jittery/articleshow/77007696.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||88 seats vacant in PG medical courses||AHMEDABAD: After the fresh round of admission for postgraduate programmes for PG medical and dental candidates, 1,482 seats were allotted for MD, MS and PG diploma students while 222 seats were allotted for MDS. As a result, 88 seats remain vacant in PG medical courses while 2 are vacant for PG dental. Students who have been allotted the seats will have to confirm the admissions between July 16 and July 18 using online procedure or are required to visit the help centres between July 16 and July 18 for admission confirmation. The fresh round of admissions was necessitated after the Medical Council of India and Dental Council of India relaxed the minimum admission qualification criteria. As per the revised criteria, candidates in general category who have secured 31 percentile in PG NEET entrance exam will now be eligible for college admission. Earlier it was 50 percentile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/88-seats-vacant-in-pg-medical-courses/articleshow/77008427.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Transfer of 8 government doctors revoked||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The transfer order of eight doctors at the Coonoor government Lawley hospital was revoked a few hours into their hunger strike on Thursday morning. They were served the transfer orders on Wednesday night, asking them to join duty at Gudalur and Pandalur government hospitals, without any proper notice. They protested the move and demanded authorities to reconsider their transfer. Dr Sathya, who received the order, said they were asked to join duty at the new places on Friday. Pointing out that they had to travel around 120km a day to work at Gudalur or Pandalur, she said, “In this time of crisis, we find it difficult to move from the present workstation, where we are treating many Covid patients.” Dr S Palanisamy, joint director, health, confirmed that they had revoked the doctors’ transfer orders. The hospital has a strength of 11 doctors, one of who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. At least 50 Covid patients are undergoing treatment there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/transfer-of-8-govt-doctors-revoked/articleshow/77008467.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Aurangabad||One held under immoral traffic act gets bail||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently granted bail to a man, who was arrested in a case under Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act as none of the victims named him in their statements. The applicant, Manoj Jadhav, was arrested in December 2019 by the Pundliknagar police, along with others, for the offences punishable under section 370(A)(2) of Indian Penal Code, sections 3, 4, 5, 6 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956, section 65(E) of the Bombay Prohibition Act and section 67, 67(A) of Information Technology Act. His arrest was made after two main accused, including a woman who were allegedly running the brothel, disclosed to the police that the applicant used to send picture of a girl through his mobile phone to the customers. Earlier, the district and sessions court had rejected Jadhav’s bail plea on February 24, 2020, following which he approached the high court through lawyer Joydeep Chatterji. Chatterji argued that “at the most section 5(b) of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 stands attracted, which is punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than three years and not more than seven years. And that the antecedents of the applicant are clear.” While granting conditional bail to the applicant recently, Justice V K Jadhav observed “prima facie it appears that the allegations against the applicant are restricted to the extent of section 5(1)(b) of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. It further appears from the charge-sheet that none of the victims has taken the name of the present applicant and it thus appears that the applicant has merely forwarded the photographs of the victim to the prospective customers as forwarded to him by the person, who runs the brothel.” The bench further observed “it thus appears that none of the offence as alleged against the applicant is punishable with death or imprisonment of life. There is no criminal history and the applicant has not indulged in similar activities prior to the registration of the present crime. Thus, considering the entire aspect of the case, I am inclined to release the applicant on bail with certain conditions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-held-under-immoral-traffic-act-gets-bail/articleshow/77006330.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 17, 2020||Agra||Servant elopes with employer’s wife, found murdered a few day later||AGRA: More than five weeks after an unidentified body was found near a service lane of Agra-Lucknow Expressway of Firozabad, police on Thursday claimed to have cracked the case with the arrest of two men. According to police, the victim, Bunty Katheria (30), was a servant at the accused Sandeep Yadav’s home since childhood in Chadarpur area of Bhogaon district of Mainpuri. Iraj Raja, circle officer of Sirsaganj said, “Victim was in a relationship with Sandeep Yadav’s wife. They eloped to Kanpur on June 3. Later Sandeep and his brothers Ankit, Chote and Pradeep (cousin) brought the duo back and assaulted them.” “On June 9, Sandeep and Pradeep drove for 90km in their pick-up truck along with victim Bunty. They murdered him near the service lane of Agra-Lucknow expressway,” the CO said. Watch Agra: Servant elopes with employer’s wife, found murdered a few day later||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/servant-elopes-with-employers-wife-found-murdered-a-few-day-later/articleshow/77006296.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Cop discharged from hospital||Hubballi: A constable attached to the Sub-Urban police station who had contracted Covid-19 from a thief was discharged from the hospital on Thursday. Seven policemen had come in contact with the infected thief, who who was accused of breaking into a shop and stealing valuables. The thief was tested before being sent to police custody. The recovered cop was honoured by locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cop-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/77006305.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||SI KK Sharma in don’s ‘company’ at henchman Amar Dubey’s wedding||LUCKNOW: Amid allegations of the nexus between some members of Kanpur police and gangster Vikas Dubey, a video has gone viral purportedly showing suspended inspector KK Sharma sharing stage with the slain don at the wedding of his aide Amar Dubey. Sharma, who was posted at the Chaubeypur police station when the Bikru ambush took place, was suspended after it was found that he had leaked the information about the police raid to Vikas Yadav, giving him enough time to plan the ambush on July 2. Now, this video gives a further proof about his 'proximity' with the gangster. The wedding of Amar Dubey, nephew and aide of Vikas Dubey, took place on June 29. One of the 20 prime accused in the Bikru carnage, Amar Dubey was killed in a police encounter two days before Vikas himself was neutralised. The 29-second video which went viral on Thursday, shows Sharma, clad in a maroon shirt and black denim, standing on stage along with Vikas Duubey, behind bride Kshama and groom Amar, who are sitting. Vikas Dubey is standing in the middle and Sharma is on his right. When Sharma shifts a little away, Vikas is seen taking a jibe: “Arrey aur nazdik aa jaao, daro nahi” (Come closer, don’t be afraid). Inspector Sharma instantly obliges the don and the two pose for the camera. Sharma also posed with the groom. A police officer, who wished not to be named, said that Sharma had stayed at Amar's wedding till late in night. A source in the crime branch said that it was because of Dubey's influence that Sharma was posted at the outpost near his village. Inspector General of police, Kanpur Range, Mohit Agarwal, said that all these are part of the SIT probe. “We are also probing on all those who were in touch with Dubey. Kanpur police had suspended Sharma on suspicion of his involvement,” he said. Watch Video of suspended cop attending Amar Dubey’s wedding goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/si-sharma-in-dons-company-at-henchman-amar-dubeys-wedding/articleshow/77009157.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Vanamrut outlet at Seminary Hills offers forest food products||Nagpur: Maharashtra forest minister Sanjay Rathod on Thursday opened Vanamrut, the first retail outlet of food products made out of minor forest produce under a livelihood project. “The project initiated by Nagpur forest division is managed by joint forest management committee (JFMC) and women’s self-help groups (SHGs). The outlet will collect ready material from collection centres in villages in Ramtek tehsil and will work as a central distribution centre,” said deputy conservator Prabhunath Shukla. Rathod also interacted with SHG members and stressed on the need for increasing production and establish Vanamrut as a popular brand on the lines of other companies. Under the project, currently 20 SHGs are working in nine villages providing employment to around 200 women. “As middlemen fleece villagers by offering lower price for non-timber forest produce , outlets like Vanamrut are long-term solutions to providing livelihood opportunities based on forests,” said Rathod. The minister said Vanamrut products should reach malls and other big retail chains besides being made available online. In another development, Rathod visited Transit Treatment Centre (TTC) at Seminary Hills. Ramtek MLA Ashish Jaiswal was also present along with senior forest officials. Rathod was told that more than 4,000 animals were rescued since the TTC’s inception in 2014-15. Rathod asked the department to start such centres in all the districts facing man-animal conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vanamrut-outlet-at-seminary-hills-offers-forest-food-products/articleshow/77008476.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Testing asymptomatic people not advisable: Gujarat government||AHMEDABAD: The state government has maintained that it will not permit Covid-19 testing of asymptomatic individuals merely to eliminate doubts because this practice may lead to either a “false sense of security among people” or result in “unnecessary treatment burden”. The HC had asked why all citizens are not entitled to health diagnosis. The state government submitted its reply and expressed its reservations on Covid testing of asymptomatic persons. It reiterated its apprehension that testing asymptomatic persons would create confusion, but this time around, the government has based its argument on the accuracy of RT-PCR test. In a note supplied to the court by the government pleader, it said, “There is no question of allowing all asymptomatic persons to go for Covid testing, who wish to get the it done voluntarily. This is because of two reasons. Firstly, the guidelines do not provide for the testing of asymptomatic persons, and secondly, the RT-PCR test’s specificity is around 70%, leading to there being chances of false positives and negatives. This may, in turn, lead to the creation of a false sense of security as well as unnecessary treatment burden.” Earlier, the government told the HC that conducting Covid-19 tests on asymptomatic patients would create a “fear psychosis among people” as many more cases would be confirmed than the numbers under the present testing policy formed on the May 18 guidelines of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The state government reiterated its stand and cited a report by a panel of three doctors – Dr Tejas Patel, Dr Pankaj Shah and Dr Atul Patel – whose opinion in this regard concurred with the ICMR guidelines that asymptomatic individuals should not be tested. However, the medical fraternity and a couple of other litigants were insisting on the need to increase testing. The Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) even cited a Supreme Court order to this effect. To this, the state government said that the SC order should be interpreted in proper manner because the apex court was talking about testing on patients and not on asymptomatic individuals when it insisted on more testing. Moreover, the SC has not disapproved the ICMR guidelines, on which Gujarat has based its testing policy. The government has said that it has been conducting enough tests, 7,000 to 8,000 at present, and there are no patients who are denied testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/testing-asymptomatic-people-not-advisable-govt/articleshow/77008564.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||Rajasthan BJP ally accuses Raje of helping CM||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MP Hanuman Beniwal has accused former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje of coming to the rescue of CM Ashok Gehlot and his government in the ongoing power struggle within the Congress. He attacked Raje in a series of tweets. “Former CM Vasundhara Raje making a strong effort to save the minority government of Ashok Gehlot, Raje has also made calls to many Congress MLAs,” he claimed. “Vasundhara called her close friends in Congress. One Jat MLA each from Sikar and Nagaur districts asking to keep a distance from @SachinPilot”, tweeted the MP from Nagaur, who is an alliance partner of BJP. In another tweet, Beniwal said according to media reports, Gehlot has claimed that he had call recording (of the alleged deal). “Tapping phone is a violation of the rights given by the constitution, in a clean democracy, Gehlotji is doing such tricks which are not worthy of him,” he tweeted. Beniwal, a former BJP MLA, was kicked out of the party due to his antagonistic relations with the former chief minister. After parting ways with BJP, he contested as an Independent from the Khinvsar assembly seat in Nagaur in the 2013 Assembly election and won. He formed the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party in 2018, ahead of the assembly elections in 2018. His party won in three Assembly seats, including his own. Considering his popularity among the youth in his community, the BJP formed an alliance with him during the Lok Sabha elections. He won the Nagaur parliamentary seat. Beniwal’s allegation comes at a time when Raje has been keeping a studied silence on the political development in her home state. Pilot had lashed out at the Gehlot government for moving the Supreme Court to appeal against a high court order in a bid to save the bungalow allotted to Raje at 13, Civil Lines despite the party opposing such a provision for former chief ministers. Pilot had also attacked Gehlot for not holding an enquiry in the mining scam when Raje was the CM, accusing him of an unholy alliance with her. After Sachin Pilot questioned the allotment of bungalow to Raje, two of her loyalists on Thursday questioned Pilot for holding a government bungalow at Delhi. They said former chief minister was allotted bungalow as a senior legislator and not as former chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-bjp-ally-accuses-raje-of-helping-cm/articleshow/77009771.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 in Kolkata: 22 Dum Dum wards now on high-risk list||KOLKATA: With the number of cases showing no signs of a downturn, Dum Dum Municipality has decided to declare all 22 wards as containment zones. South Dum Dum Municipality, which also has several troubled spots, has also intensified vigil along Jessore Road and Dum Dum Road. In both the municipalities, more than 200 people are reportedly undergoing Covid-19 treatment at present. The municipal authorities, however, are concerned about asymptomatic cases that are yet to be reported. “During the fresh lockdown, we have witnessed the doubling rate has improved. We are carrying out the government’s order to extend the containment zone approach till July 19. It should help us in improving the doubling rate further,” said Barun Natta, member of the board of administrators of Dum Dum Municipality. Locals, despite facing troubles, have come out to support the decision. Biplab Mukherjee, a resident of Bosepara, said : “There is no way to stop the virus spread other than declaring containment zones.” Residents of Ananda, a housing society near Mrinalini Cinema Hall, have approached the developer to allocate an empty flat for people who need isolation. South Dum Dum Municipality has kept its office at Nagerbazar after a few cases were reported. At least seven wards along Dum Dum Road, from Motijhil to Dum Dum station, have been declared a containment zone. Seven more wards between Nagerbazar and Bangur have also been partially contained. “Nehru Colony, Shastri Colony, portions of Ward 3 have also been contained,” said Prabir Pal, member of the board of administrators of the municipality. “There are pockets like wards 34, 35, 32 and 30 where number of Covid-19 patients is higher,” Pal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/22-dum-dum-wards-now-on-high-risk-list/articleshow/77007682.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 92.3% students clear Class XII exams, Tirupur records the highest pass rate||CHENNAI: The school education department sprang a surprise on Thursday and declared results of Class XII board exams. The results of CBSE and other boards were out earlier. The pass percentage increased by 1% with 92.3% students clearing the exams. A total of 7,79,931 students appeared for the exams from schools and 7,20,209 of them passed. The pass percentage among girls was 94.8%, while 89.4% boys cleared the exams. Also, commerce stream students fared better than those who studied science. Of the 7,127 schools, 2,120 secured a 100% pass rate. Among the districts, Tirupur topped with 97.1% pass rate followed by Erode and Coimbatore at 96.99% and 96.39%. Hemapooja S from Shree Niketan Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Thiruvallur scored 597 out of 600 marks. She secured full marks in commerce, accountancy, economics and got 99 in Tamil, English and business maths. “I didn’t expect these numbers after the exam. But I put consistent efforts from the beginning,” she said, adding that except English, she found the papers easy. Hemapooja said the new syllabus and question pattern were advanced. “Questions were knowledge-based and they could not be answered by rote learning,” she said. She has enrolled in a CA programme now. R Praveen Kumar from SRV Boys Higher Secondary School in Rasipuram secured 590 out of 600 in the science stream. He scored centums in maths, biology, chemistry, and got 99 in physics and Tamil, and 92 in English. “The question papers were easier than the previous year. Except English, I found rest of the exams easy,” he said. Kumar is now preparing for NEET and taking lessons online. H Haseena Banu from Chennai scored 588 out of 600. She has plans to study BCom and then write the civil services exams. “In our school, students have got more centums this year. But generally, many schools are saying that science stream students have got less marks,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. S Selene Vinodhini, principal of Stanes Anglo Indian Higher Secondary School in Coimbatore, said the highest mark in arts group was higher than that in the science group in their school. She said the outgoing students had studied Class X under the old syllabus and then enrolled under the new syllabus in Class XII, something that could have affected performance of the science students. The results of 700 students who were absent for final Class XII exam on March 24 will be released after the re-exam on July 27. Of 2,835 differently abled students, 2,506 have cleared the exams. Fifty of the 62 prisoners who wrote the exams passed. Students can apply for copy of answer scripts, retotalling and revaluation from their respective schools. Dates will be announced later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/92-3-students-clear-class-xii-exams-tirupur-records-the-highest-pass-rate/articleshow/77008490.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Infection rate must be reduced, says experts||AHMEDABAD: The nightmare for any public health system is hospitals being overwhelmed by Covid-19 infections and running out of bed. Ahmedabad witnesses a glimpse at the beginning of the outbreak, but the latest infection rates based on Rt values (effective reproduction rate), how many persons a Covid patient is expected to infect, show that the districts of Morbi, Valsad, Mahisagar, Gir Somnath , Dahod, Amreli, Surendranagar, and Junagadh among others face the risk of high transmission rates in the coming days. Ahmedabad on the other had has the lowest transmission rate now. While daily reporting does not represent the actual transmission rates, a statistical method can find the Rt (effective reproduction number). An Rt of 1 means that the epidemic is holding steady. For every person who is infected, another one becomes infected. At an Rt below 1, the epidemic will fade out, but will take some time. If the value is above 1, it will grow exponentially. If 1,000 people have Covid and the Rt is 1.3, they will infect 1,300 people. That second set will infect 1,690 and so on. In Gujarat, Morbi district has the highest Rt of 2 which should ring alarm bells, while Ahmedabad has the lowest Rt, 0.91. Surat, Rajkot, Mahisagar, Dahod, Amreli and Surendranagar have values between 1.11 and 1.87 and need to be brought down. The statistical method hinges on a mathematical model of Real Time Bayesian Estimation, first suggested by scientists Luís MA Bettencourt and Ruy M Ribeiro. Based on this model, data scientists Nidhi Gupta, Harsimar Singh and Anurag Gupta have set up a realtime Rt tracker based on daily press releases by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/infection-rate-must-be-reduced-experts/articleshow/77008519.cms||Paul John
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||One-year-old leopard found dead in Mudumalai tiger reserve||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A male leopard was found dead in Adupukutty beat of the Mudumalai Tiger reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Wednesday. The one-year-old animal had suffered injuries on its forehead and back, forest range officer Dayananthan said. Postmortem held on Thursday revealed that fight with a large carnivore might have caused the death. “We found a half-eaten deer near the spot. A tiger, which had hunted the deer, might have attacked the leopard when it tried to snatch the meat,” the official said. The teeth and nails of the leopard were found intact. The carcass was burnt inside the forest after autopsy. Samples collected from the carcass will be sent for laboratory analysis to find out the exact cause of death, Dayananthan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/one-year-old-leopard-found-dead-in-mtr/articleshow/77008480.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: 12 zones shed tag, 8 new areas on containment list in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The city has succeeded in shedding a few more containment zones, bringing down the total number of high-risk areas from 28 to 24. The stricter enforcement of lockdown norms re-imposed since Thursday will also now include the outskirts of the city — the entire Madhyamgram and Barasat areas. Sources, however, on Thursday maintained that inclusion of some new areas in the list after Sunday could not be ruled out. “We are awaiting a signal from the state health department for clamping stricter lockdown in areas where there has been a spurt in Covid cases. First, we have to bring them under containment zones and then enforce the lockdown measures,” said a KMC official. In all, about 12 zones managed to shed their containment tag. Similarly, at least eight new areas were added to the list. Out of the 24 zones, as many as 16 are either standalone buildings or housing complexes and only two are slums. There are six mixed zones. Among some of the biggest zones that have managed to come out of strict lockdown are the middle-class neighbourhood of Bijoygarh, the mixed zones of GS Bose Road and Adhar Chandra Das Road, the upscale Belvedere Road and the slum of Jawaharlal Dutta Lane. Interestingly, these changes were not only restricted to different clusters within the same area, but also spread out geographically across the city. At Bhowanipore, for example, one address in Chakrabria North managed to come out of the containment list, the one in Chakraberia South continued to languish on the list. Chakraberia though has also added another address to the city containment list. The same pattern was visible on Sarat Bose Road too. Among the new areas that will keep KMC worried are Sikdarpara Street at Posta, Ballygunge and Dover Lane. Police are also worried over Paharpur in Garden Reach, the first containment zone in the densely populated Port area. Behala, another affected zone, has neither added or shed any of the two containment zones. At Madhyamgram and Barasat, all markets and standalone shops remained closed from 1pm on Thursday. “This restriction will be continued for two weeks. All the shops and markets can remain open from 6am to 1 pm,”said Rathin Ghosh, the chairman of Madhyamgram municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12-zones-shed-tag-8-new-areas-on-containment-list/articleshow/77007701.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 17, 2020||Bengaluru||25 private hospitals in Bengaluru close down||BENGALURU: Twenty-five hospitals in Bengaluru have shut operations since Covid-19 hit in March and many more are likely to follow suit due to a staff crunch, says Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (Phana). “Some of these 25 hospitals have completely shut shop, while others have restricted operations to outpatient services only,” said Dr R Ravindra, president, Phana. “These are all small nursing homes, but they could have been of great help now. It’s been a tough time for private hospitals.” Over the past year, 58 of 384 hospitals in Bengaluru have closed down. Staff shortage is a major factor in closures. A Phana member said the trouble began in March when the number of patients visiting OPDs plummeted. “When the lockdown was announced, some hospitals had to ask nurses and ward boys to take leave,” the member said. “Many left Bengaluru. Then, fearing for their safety, staff didn’t want to return. We can’t run hospitals without human resources?” Dr Nagaraj HN, an orthopaedic surgeon, who runs Deepak Hospital in South Bengaluru, is now seeing only outpatients after his 150-strong staff shrunk to 12 over the past month. “If the government provides staff, I can run the hospital. It is impossible otherwise,” he said. He went on to say, “The government’s latest threat is to disconnect power and water supply if we don’t accommodate Covid-19 patients. To treat a Covid-19 patient, we need to have an ICU. But to run an ICU, I don’t have the required staff.” A maternity home in Rajajinagar, established in 1962 and which attended to deliveries everyday, is another that has closed. It is now functioning only as a clinic. “I have not stopped practising. I see OPD patients in the clinic. I conduct deliveries in another hospital,” the gynaecologist who ran the hospital said. Her husband, who looked after maintenance of the facility, said: “We don’t have nurses or housekeeping staff. They are all scared to work. The government is not helping small hospitals survive.” Phana members said it is not easy for these hospitals to reopen. “Under Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (KPME) Act, several restrictions are relaxed for existing hospitals. For example, fire safety criteria states there must be space enough for an ambulance to move within the hospital compound. If these hospitals want to reopen post-Covid-19, they may not get exemptions under KPME,” said Dr Ravindra. Display contact number: HCThe high court on Thursday directed the government to modify its July 15 circular to ensure private hospitals display phone numbers which relatives of Covid patients can dial and lodge a complaint on denial of admission. A division bench said the modified circular has to be issued through the state executive so that the government can initiate action against erring hospitals under the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/25-private-hospitals-close-down-in-bluru-due-to-staff-crunch/articleshow/77007732.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Pesky neighbours become local guardians, add to city’s misery||KOLKATA: Already saddled with the ongoing battle against the deadly coronavirus, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police now have the bu rden of rescuing victims of social ostracization. The victims are mostly targets of “extra-cautious” neighbours, who have become “self-proclaimed” Covid fighters in the neighbourhood. Take the case of Indrani Sengupta, a government hospital nurse and a Bramhapur (Garia) resident who was subjected to ostracization after her husband tested positive a week ago. “After getting my husband admitted to the hospital, I returned home and found that I was running short of essentials and a few medicines. While I requested one of my distant relatives, who is also a neighbour, to buy me the essentials, he was threatened not to enter my house. I pleaded with the agitators but all my requests fell on deaf ears for three days. On the fourth day, I had to call police for help,” Sengupta said. TimesViewThere have been far too many cases of Covid survivors (and frontline Covid-control workers) being harassed by neighbours. This does not help anyone. It shifts focus from more important work at hand and adds to our problems.The experience of businessman Swapan Basu was equally uncalled for. A resident of Siriti (Behala), Basu had to bear the brunt of some of his neighbours when he was running a high temperature for a couple of days and went to a medicine shop to buy paracetamols last weekend. “I could not imagine that someone would call the cops and the cops would actually turn up to inquire whether I had tested positive. Neither me or any of my family members were allowed to move out of home even for buying essentials for the next few days. Finally, I was forced to get myself tested. Fortunately, I tested negative,” Basu said. Police commissioner Anuj Sharma had recently instructed his men to take action against all forms of ostracization. “No form of social shaming of Covid patients, their family or Covid warriors will be tolerated and legal action will follow,” he had said. The instruction came after specific complaints were made to police from areas like Ballygunge Gardens and Alipore. KMC ward coordinators conceded that they were flooded with complaints of such ostracization cases. Complaints are also pouring in at the mayor’s office. “One of the complainants wrote that his north Kolkata house was stoned by a section of agitators,” said a KMC source. A school principal from Harinavi, who has lost a relative to Covid and was ostracized so much that political parties had to step in, said it was the stigma attached with the death that has hurt them the most. “We live here for the past three decades. Our neighbours have always been like a family. We do appreciate their legitimate concerns but it hurts to know that even if a relative contracts the disease, you can be ostracized without even paying the person a single visit,” said the headmistress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pesky-neighbours-become-local-guardians-add-to-citys-misery/articleshow/77007720.cms||Saikat Ray
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore gets 5 manhole cleaning robots||COIMBATORE: Five manhole cleaning robots were handed over to the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC) on Thursday. The total cost of the ‘Robotic 2.0’ manhole cleaning robots, aka ,’Bandicoot’, is Rs2.12 crore, and they were sponsored by the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, as part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. The CCMC has put in Rs 20lakh, 10% of the cost of the machines as its share. This comes after Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited had given the corporation another such manhole cleaning robot at a cost of Rs 32lakh, in October 2019. Back then, Coimbatore was the second city corporation after Gurgaon corporation in the country to use the upgraded version of the robot. Minister for municipal administration S P Velumani unveiled the machines and handed them over to the corporation on Thursday. Speaking to reporters, he said each of the five zones in the corporation would be given one machine. “When the machines are used, manual scavenging and manhole deaths would be completely avoided in the city,” he said. The minister said soon 34 other cities in the state would be given a manhole cleaning robot each. “This was announced in the state assembly earlier as part of the grant requests for the municipal administration department,” he said. The machine could do functions such as shoveling and picking of muck and waste from a manhole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-gets-5-manhole-cleaning-robots/articleshow/77008493.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||3 police stations reopen after disinfection drive||COIMBATORE: Three of the five police stations, which were sealed in the district after cops there tested positive for the novel coronavirus, were reopened on Thursday after the disinfection drive. Meanwhile, Ukkadam police station, which was the fifth one to be sealed after a head constable tested positive, was shifted to a marriage hall located on Vincent Road, from where it would function for three days. Health officials have traced the primary and secondary contacts of the infected cop and collected their throat swabs for testing. The test results are likely to arrive on Friday. Rajavelu, inspector of police, Ukkadam station, said, “We have instructed the cops who are deployed for vehicle check and beat patrol, not to come to the police station. They have also been advised to take kabasura kudineer. Only those cops, who are assigned administration work, would work from the marriage hall.” The reopened police stations comprise the ones in Thudiyalur, Podanur and Sulur. Thudiyalur police station was closed a few days ago after eight police personnel tested positive for the virus. Seven of them were admitted to the Codissia Covid care centre as they were asymptomatic, the remaining one was admitted to the ESI Hospital. The station was subsequently shifted to a nearby marriage hall. It was reopened on Thursday morning after fumigation. Balamurali Sundaram, inspector of police, Thudiyalur, said people won’t be allowed inside the police station. “Only eight cops are allowed to work inside the station. We have set up a tent in front of the police station to receive petitions from the public.” Similarly, Sulur and Podanur police stations were reopened on Thursday after the disinfection drive. While Sulur police station had recorded only one case, two cops were tested positive at Podanur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-police-stations-reopen-after-disinfection-drive/articleshow/77008509.cms||A Subburaj
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Rampura mutt sealed after seer’s death||Davanagere: Rampura mutt located on the banks of the Tungabhadra River in Honnali taluk of Davanagere district has been sealed for 14 days, with effect from Thursday, following the death of the pontiff Vishveshwara Shivacharya Swamiji,55, due to Covid-19. His mortal remains were laid to rest late in the night on Wednesday, in the mutt premises, after shifting his body there from the Shivamogga Covid hospital. The mutt premises was sanitised by the health department. MLA M P Renukacharya appealed to devotees not to visit the mutt till the time that it is sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rampura-mutt-sealed-after-seers-death/articleshow/77006348.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Helplines get over 1,200 child marriage plaints in two months||Raichur: A child helpline worker in the economically backward Raichur district has received 100 calls informing about child marriages in the last two months. A similar trend of receiving increased number of calls is witnessed across the state, especially in backward districts amid Covid-19 crisis. “Since April, we have received over 50 calls every month, which otherwise was 20-30. Due to the lack of surveillance, many cases go underreported,” said three officials working at Child Protection Unit (CPU) in Raichur, Yadgir and Kalaburagi. According to the data given by the department of women and child development (DWCD), helplines across Karnataka received over 1,200 complaints in just April and May. However, the department did provide details on the percentage of increase against pre-Covid days. DWCD director K A Dayananda said helplines across the state received 1,250 complaints of child marriage on phone. According to another data, the department thwarted 55 marriages in March, even as five marriages happened. In April, 122 marriages were stopped and 11 marriages happened. In both the cases, the “married children” have been rescued. Shockingly, there was a sudden surge in May with 542 marriages being stopped and 37 being held. In Ballari alone, 107 marriages were averted in May. Children, particularly in rural areas, are becoming increasing vulnerable to socio-cultural evils as they are kept away from schools. An official said schools protect children from becoming prey for illegal cultural practices. Even Anganwadi workers keep a constant tab in their localities about the same. However, the pandemic has now shifted their focus to health-related tasks. “The current numbers are not that high. But the situation would become worse, if the state does not raise vigilance like earlier.” Abhay, a woman and child rights activist who had campaigned in Hyderabad-Karnataka region against child marriages for eight years, said poor surveillance would worsen the situation in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/helplines-get-over-1200-child-marriage-plaints-in-two-months/articleshow/77008371.cms||Shreyas HS
July 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Two firms submit bids for redevelopment of Central Market||Mangaluru: After several attempts to attract expression of interest from construction companies, the Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) has finally found two bidders willing to participate in the tender process for the redevelopment of Central Market. The MSCL has earmarked Rs 114 crore for the redevelopment of Central Market under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model. The old Central Market building was closed and merchants were shifted during the phase one of the lockdown, to prevent crowding in the city. Meanwhile, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to demolish the old building. MSCL MD Mohammed Nazeer said the work may begin within four months. “The tender process for the redevelopment of Central Market has begun. Two participants have come forward to take up the work, and we are expecting to complete the tender process within a month. They will be able to complete the design within two months, and the work may be started within four months,” Nazeer said. On petitions pending in the high court, he said that the MSCL has sent a letter requesting the MCC to clear the hurdles. Central Market Merchants’ Association (CMMA) has been fighting legally in the high court to get their premises back. The Dakshina Kannada district administration had banned all activities at the Central Market due to the pandemic, and the merchants were made to shift their business to the APMC Yard in Baikampady after the lockdown. The MCC had also issued a public notice announcing the closure of Central Market. The association has 151 wholesale merchants and 337 retailers, who until the lockdown functioned from this premise in the heart of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-firms-submit-bids-for-redevelopment-of-central-market/articleshow/77008299.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||No control over Tocilizumab pricing, just 77 available: Gujarat government||AHMEDABAD: In response to a PIL seeking HC directions to the government to regulate the pricing of Tocilizumab injections and make adequate quantities available, the state government expressed its inability in this regard. It has said that these injections are manufactured by Switzeland-based F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and they are imported into India. Cipla Ltd markets and distributes these injections. The state government has no power over fixing its maximum price or any reasonable price, neither over its import. The government has sought 4,597 injections from Cipla Ltd, but received only 2,320 injections. As many as 2,243 injections have been supplied to government and semi-government hospitals by the Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Ltd, and at present there are only 77 injections in stock. However, Cipla has promised the government 100 to 150 injections within a week. The government also told the HC that is has procured these injections at lower prices than in the market. It has paid Rs 6,174 for 80mg against the Rs 8,112 market price, Rs 15,435 for 200mg as against the market rate of Rs 20,274 and Rs 30,860 for 400mg against the Rs 40,545 market price. The government made it clear that Tocilizumab is a drug used for arthritis patients and not to reduce the viral load of Covid patients. For that, Remdesivir injections or Favipiravir tablets are prescribed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-control-over-tocilizumab-pricing-just-77-available-govt/articleshow/77008560.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Schools below par, Chennai corporation to take stock||CHENNAI: The pass percentage of Class XII students in 32 Greater Chennai Corporation higher secondary schools dipped by 5% this year. They secured a pass percentage of 85.8% as against the 90.49% last year. Out of the 4,648 students who appeared for the examination, 3,988 passed. A total of 2,973 girls appeared for the exam of whom 2,682 cleared it; of the 1,675 boys, 1,306 passed. Six students scored centum in computer science. Six secured above 550 while 53 students scored above 500. Girls outperformed boys by 12%. The number of students scoring 450 marks increased this year -- from 168 last year it touched 219. The corporation higher secondary school in West Mambalam had a 100% pass percentage among 32 schools. Last year, four schools had achieved 100% pass percentage. Last year, four centums were secured by students in core science subjects. Only seven schools have improved their performance compared to last year. The pass percentage in all the remaining schools has dipped. V Munian, assistant educational officer, said the results were less impressive compared to last year mainly because the students could not cope with the new syllabus. “This was the first batch of students who studied the new syllabus. We have formed a committee to find out why some schools did not perform well. We will take measures and ensure results improve next year,” he said. A headmaster from one of the schools said the students are usually trained with questions and revision tests to just reproduce what was in the books. “Since the focus this year was more on self-learning, both students and teachers could not cope. We will definitely change our teaching methods to ensure better results next time,” he said. Another headmaster said science students did not perform as expected in the core subjects. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said a committee will be formed to analyse the performance of the students and the teachers, and a report would be submitted. In some schools, the dip in performance has been more than 15%-20%. The strength of students has also reduced. It will be increased with various measures, Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/schools-below-par-chennai-corporation-to-take-stock/articleshow/77008526.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Selfie mania may soon be classified as a disorder, reveals study||MANGALURU: A recent study conducted jointly by the department of community Medicine, Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru and Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal casts doubt on the link between taking selfies and low self esteem. The study suggests selfie mania is more of an addiction and is likely to be categorised as a neurological disorder in the coming days. Several studies in the past have pointed out that the habit of taking selfie is high among people with low self-esteem. However, the study conducted under the leadership of associate professor, department of community medicine Dr Ramesh Holla and published in the ‘De Gruyter’ reveals different aspects. “There are a lot of literatures that links selfie mania with low self-esteem. We wanted to check it ourselves and hence conducted a study ‘Selfie’-boon or a bane? The results were different than we expected,” explains Holla. A total of 366 individuals took part in the study. Of them, 267 were medical undergraduates and 99 were teaching faculty. Holla said the study revealed that students mostly took selfies to share their current lifestyle, whereas faculty took selfies for convenience. It is found that selfies do not affect the self-esteem of an individual as the majority of the population were found to have a normal level of self-esteem. “The study also pointed out that selfie taking is an addiction and also related to narcissism. Some individuals feel the day is incomplete without taking a selfie and sharing the same on social media platforms. As of the 11th Revision of the International Classification of Diseases, gaming disorder is officially considered as a mental disorder which has sufficiently increased the acceptance of other behavioural addictions and pathologies in the scientific community. Selfie mania is also likely to be considered as a disorder sooner or later,” he added. Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale methodology About the methodology, Holla said it was a cross-sectional study. A semi-structured questionnaire was prepared and the self-esteem was assessed by using the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale. The self-esteem scale concluded that 96% of the faculty and 84% of the students have normal level of self-esteem. Around 52.7% of them agreed that they find selfie taking can be addictive, 43.7% of them agreed that selfie taking can have disastrous effects, sometimes even life threatening and 57.92% of them agreed that they enjoy the habit of selfie taking and find it entertaining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/selfie-mania-may-soon-be-classified-as-a-disorder-reveals-study/articleshow/77008551.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 17, 2020||Mangaluru||New high: DK, Udupi account for 347 of the state’s 4k+ cases||Mangaluru/Udupi: The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi registered a record cumulative single-day spike, with a staggering 347 Covid-19 cases being reported on Thursday. Of the total tally, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 238 cases, while Udupi’s share was 109. The sharp spike on Thursday pushed the total tally of Covid positive cases in Dakshina Kannada to 2,763, while the corresponding figure for Udupi rose to 1,895. Meanwhile, six people in Dakshina Kannada succumbing to the novel coronavirus was confirmed on Thursday, a day after a three-member team from the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute conducted an audit of fatalities at the designated Covid hospital and other private healthcare institutions in the coastal district. “The team is expected to submit its report to the government soon,” Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh told TOI. Of the six patients who died in the last in the last 72-hours up to Thursday, one was a 68-year-old man from Belagavi, while three others were from Mangaluru taluk, and Bantwal and Mulki taluks accounted for a fatality each. All the six patients had had comorbid conditions such as diabetes, severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), among others. Health department personnel have been unable to locate the source of the infection among 73 of the 238 patients confirmed infected on Thursday, while 106 people who have tested positive had a history of influenza-like-illness, 17 had SARI, while 23 were primary contacts of previously infected patients and the remaining 19 had returned to the coastal district from other countries. “As many as 174 Covid patients were discharged on Thursday, and in all, 1,163 have recovered from the infection and sent home. The total number of active cases in the district now stands at 1,537,” Sindhu added. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said that Thursday’s surge had pushed the number of active cases in the district to 428. He was quick to add that 1,462 patients in the district had been discharged in Udupi as on July 16. “Most of the patients who were confirmed infected on Thursday - 49 are primary contacts, 30 are those with travel history, 17 had history of ILI and 2 SARI” Jagadeesha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/new-high-dk-udupi-account-for-347-of-the-states-4k-cases/articleshow/77005670.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: People who test negative being kept in the dark||HUBBALLI: Labs are failing to inform people of results if they test negative and the total lack of communication is taking a toll on the health of these suspected Covid-19 patients since stress, fear and anxiety levels rise alarmingly during the long wait. Health department staffs are only informing people whose test positive and do not even bother to send an SMS to those whose samples show they are not infected. Shivanand (name changed) from Dharwad said he underwent a Covid test at a civil hospital in the city after his uncle tested positive. “I waited for four days, but wasn’t informed of the result,” he said. “It was a horrifying wait as I was assailed with negative thoughts. When I approached the hospital to find out the result, staff told me they inform only if a person tests positive. They expect us to somehow understand we are not infected.” A resident of Akshay Colony in Hubballi faced a worse ordeal. “My neighbours began ill-treating me after my landlord and his family tested positive,” the resident said. “I was also forced to go for a test, but I wasn’t told the result even after five days. When I contacted lab staff, I was told that if there is no call from health staff, my result is negative. I had a hard time convincing my neighbours who thought I was lying. I eventually convinced them by showing my call records.” District health officer Dr Yashwanth Madinkar said ICMR software can only sends alerts to those who test positive. “There is no protocol to inform people who test negative,” he said. “Many people have complained to me about this and I have brought it to the notice of the government. We hope the government will put in place a procedure to inform people who test negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/people-who-test-ve-kept-in-the-dark/articleshow/77007750.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 17, 2020||Mysuru||One-year-old girl among 130 confirmed infected on Thursday in Mysuru||Mysuru: One-year-old girl is among 130 individuals who contracted the virus in Mysuru district on Thursday. The same day, three died of the infection, taking the toll to 50 in the district. A former mayor, his wife and son too have tested positive for Covid, and have been home-quarantined. DC Abhiram G Sankar said majority of them had come in contact with the patients, and the rest are related to Influenza-Like Illness and SARI. Eight individuals have a travel history, while five are pregnant women. Among the deceased, two are men and one woman. All of them had co-morbidities and were treated at a hospital for the last few days. Meanwhile, Chikkamagaluru district recorded 30 cases, the highest in a day, on Thursday. Of them, 14 are from Chikkamagaluru, 7 from Kadur, 3 each from Tarikere and Koppa taluks, two from Mudigere and one from Ajjampura taluk. With this, the number of such cases has risen to 200. Chamarajanagar on Thursday reported 16 new cases, taking the tally to 217. Six cases are from Gundlupet taluk, and three from Kollegal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/one-year-old-girl-among-130-confirmed-infected-on-thursday-in-mysuru/articleshow/77006208.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Scriptwriters lock in on the pandemic theme||Chennai: Pandemic, quarantine, lockdown. Now add masked men, thrill and drama to the mix. And that’s what you’re probably going to be watching on television a few months from now, especially with a good number of scriptwriters, directors, producers and OTT networks working on turning the virus viral. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-covid-is-inspiring-film-makers/articleshow/77012377.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/scriptwriters-lock-in-on-the-pandemic-theme/articleshow/77008537.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Schedule for MBBS exams out||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat University on Thursday announced the schedule for the third year MBBS Part II examination which will be held in August. The theory exams will be held at GMERS Medical College at Sola and will be conducted from August 6 to August 14. The practical examinations will take place after the conclusion of the written examinations, the varsity announced on Thursday. Due notice will be given by the varsity on its websites of the dates, time and places of practical examinations and the order in which candidates have to present themselves, it said. Candidates are directed to be present at the time and places scheduled for their oral or practical examinations failing which they will not be examined in the examinations later on, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schedule-for-mbbs-exams-out/articleshow/77008546.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Record 11,463 tests in one day||AHMEDABAD: As on Thursday evening, Gujarat carried out 4.99 lakh tests to find out new cases – just 800-odd cases away from the figure of 5 lakh. In 24 hours, the state recorded 11,463 tests, which is the highest daily testing. Analysis of the testing so far reveal that the daily testing has increased from 2,083 in April to 7,844 in 16 days of July. Month-wise cumulative tests for May, June and July are 1.48 lakh, 1.62 lakh and 1.25 lakh. The case positivity rate (positive cases for every 100 tests conducted) for the state increased from 7% in April to 10.3% in July. In May and June, the rate was 8.4% and 9.8% respectively, indicating at the find of more cases with the same number of tests. Overall positivity rate for the state is 9.13% as on July 16. The data on state government website revealed that out of total tests, 32.9% were carried out in Ahmedabad district alone, followed by Surat (12.8%), Vadodara (6%), Junagadh (3.6%) and Bhavnagar (2.8%). The tests were ramped up by the end of June as the state also introduced rapid antigen (Ag) testing at community level to supplement the RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/record-11463-tests-in-one-day/articleshow/77008555.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bengaluru||About one-fifth of roads in Bengaluru may be containment zones soon: BBMP||BENGALURU: More than a fifth of Bengaluru’s 95,000 streets are likely to turn into containment zones, thanks to spiralling cases, BBMP officials said. As on Thursday, 7,053 streets were marked as containment zones, including streets on which apartments marked as such zones stand. Contrast this with the measly 29 containment zones – 20 of them streets – in mid-May and a picture of just how the city lost the plot emerges. The current containment zones include 6,371 streets, 621 apartments, 35 slums, 25 clusters and one hotel. Containment zones were initially considered the best way to check the spread, BBMP officials said, adding that lifting lockdown restrictions resulted in cases – and containment zones – increasing. While those in the IT sector and others could work from home, those in the trading sector were forced to open shops, which added to spike, a senior official in charge of containment zones said. “In areas like Chickpet, KR Market, Cottonpet, Vidhapeetha, Chamarajpet, Malleswaram, Jayanagar and VV Puram, commercial activities intensified immediately after the lockdown was eased,” the official said. “Social distancing became a big challenge. Traders aren’t the lone defaulters. Largely customers are to blame. They do not want to maintain social distancing and there are many incidents where they have violated rules and fought with retailers.” The central business district and areas in Bengaluru East, South and West are where the containment zones are. Data accessed by TOI shows there are currently 25 clusters in the city and Benglauru west has 16 of them. “If there are more than 10 cases in a 1km stretch, the area is declared a cluster and marked as a containment zone,” the official explained. “The number of clusters is fewer than the number of streets being sealed. If all five members of a family test positive in one particular street, then the entire street is sealed.” BBMP special commissioner Basavaraju S said the Palike has taken all necessary steps to provide necessary aid to those in the containment zones. “We have deputed officials to monitor movement in containment zones. All essential supplies are being home delivered and we have also facilitated links between local retailers and residents for supply of essentials,” Basavaraju said. A containment zone will stop being one if no fresh Covid-19 case is reported from it for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/one-fifth-of-bengaluru-roads-may-be-containment-zones-soon-bbmp/articleshow/77007767.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Labourers’ daughter tops school, aspires to become bank manager||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Fighting all odds, R Niroshana, daughter of daily wage labourer couple Ramakrishnan-Selvarani, has emerged the school topper by scoring 511 marks out of 600 in the arts stream. A student of Edakadu Government Higher Secondary School, 30km from Ooty, her ambition is to become a bank manager. She is also proud of her school, which for the second consecutive year achieved cent percent pass. Niroshana, according to her parents, has always been very studious. A resident of Kanneri Mandhanai, she had to travel at least 12km a day to attend the school. The girl said, “I want to pursue BBA. I would like to join Avinashilingam College of Arts and Science in Coimbatore. But if not for an aided course, my family will not be in a position to support my education. I am worried about that.” N Hari, former headmaster of the school, said, “Niroshana was never absent for any of the special classes or evening classes or Sunday classes. She was very dedicated to her studies.” He said they were proud of Niroshana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/labourers-daughter-tops-school-aspires-to-become-bank-manager/articleshow/77008552.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
July 17, 2020||Salem||Erode bags second best pass percentage||ERODE/SALEM: Erode district retained bragging rights by bagging the second best pass percentage, 96.99%, in the state in Class XII board exam results declared on Thursday. Last year, 95.23% of students who wrote the exams had passed. Out of 22,431 students, including 10,489 boys and 11,942 girls, who wrote the board examinations in the district, 21,755 students including 10,064 boys and 11,691 girls have cleared it. About 98 schools including 20 government schools achieved 100% pass percentage in the district. This apart, two municipal higher secondary and four aided schools have also achieved 100% results. Neighbouring Namakkal recorded a pass percentage of 96.06%, with 18,796 students passing out of 19,566 students who wrote the exam. “Our pass percentage is 1.09 % higher than 2019,” said K Megraj, district collector. In Salem district, out of 35,617 students who appeared for the exam, 32,904 passed, including 14,482 boys and 18,422 girls,” said T Ganeshamurthy, district chief educational officer. “The district had secured a pass percentage of 90.64 % in 2019, this year it has marked 92.38 %,” he said. Krishnagiri district’s overall pass percentage dropped by 4.55%. Out of 19,180 students who wrote the Class XII exam, 16,702 students have passed. S Prabhakar, district collector, said the overall pass percentage stood at 87.08 %. Dharmapuri recorded a pass percentage of 90.8 %, with 16,383 students passing the exam out of 18,042 who had appeared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/erode-bags-second-best-pass-percentage/articleshow/77012973.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Erode||Erode bags second best pass percentage||ERODE/SALEM: Erode district retained bragging rights by bagging the second best pass percentage, 96.99%, in the state in Class XII board exam results declared on Thursday. Last year, 95.23% of students who wrote the exams had passed. Out of 22,431 students, including 10,489 boys and 11,942 girls, who wrote the board examinations in the district, 21,755 students including 10,064 boys and 11,691 girls have cleared it. About 98 schools including 20 government schools achieved 100% pass percentage in the district. This apart, two municipal higher secondary and four aided schools have also achieved 100% results. Neighbouring Namakkal recorded a pass percentage of 96.06%, with 18,796 students passing out of 19,566 students who wrote the exam. “Our pass percentage is 1.09 % higher than 2019,” said K Megraj, district collector. In Salem district, out of 35,617 students who appeared for the exam, 32,904 passed, including 14,482 boys and 18,422 girls,” said T Ganeshamurthy, district chief educational officer. “The district had secured a pass percentage of 90.64 % in 2019, this year it has marked 92.38 %,” he said. Krishnagiri district’s overall pass percentage dropped by 4.55%. Out of 19,180 students who wrote the Class XII exam, 16,702 students have passed. S Prabhakar, district collector, said the overall pass percentage stood at 87.08 %. Dharmapuri recorded a pass percentage of 90.8 %, with 16,383 students passing the exam out of 18,042 who had appeared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-bags-second-best-pass-percentage/articleshow/77012972.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Isolation beds in Covid hospitals to be converted to ICU ones||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district administration has decided to convert the isolation beds in the Covid hospitals to ICU ones to cater to the increasing need of beds as cases continue to rise at an alarming rate. A senior official of the district administration’s health department, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We have decided to convert isolation beds into ICU ones for which we are in the process of arranging the required equipment. We have also placed an order for ventilators worth over Rs 5 crore. The state government has assured us of supplying these ventilators.” With the number of coronavirus cases on the rise and a majority of patients getting admitted to various Covid Care Centres with deteriorating health, there is an urgent need of ICU beds equipped with oxygen cylinders to cater to such patients. Health officials said that there are six Covid hospitals and 14 Covid Care Centres in the district. The Covid Care Centres handle screening of suspects and, at times, they also double up as isolation wards. The Covid hospitals are used for treatment as well as isolation purposes. At present, there are over 350 isolation beds in the district, of which, 50% are equipped with oxygen cylinders. There are 80 ICU beds, of which, 70 are occupied and the rest are likely to be occupied in next four to six days as per the current projections of health department..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/isolation-beds-in-covid-hosps-to-be-converted-to-icu-ones/articleshow/77006411.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Lucknow||308 Covid-19 cases in a day in Lucknow, 4 localities to be containment zones||LUCKNOW: A sudden, huge flare-up of Covid-19 cases in 24 hours turned the pandemic situation alarming in the city on Thursday. In the biggest single-day spike, as many 308 new cases were reported in past 24 hours that propelled Lucknow’s caseload to over 3,200 till date. Besides, three patients succumbed to the infection on Thursday, taking the city Covid death toll to 43, of which 23 have died in July so far — at an average rate of one death every 17 hours. As cases poured in from across the city, 73 more localities were turned into containment zones, taking their total number to 528. Fresh cases included an assistant commissioner of GST and his family members and an IPS officer posted at the office of Director General of Police. The Jhalkaribai Women’s Hospital was closed for 48 hours for sanitisation after a pregnant woman tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. New patients coming to emergency were referred to Avanti Bai Women’s Hospital. Two employees of SPM Civil hospital also tested positive. “The units in which they worked have been closed for sanitisation for 24 hours,” said medical superintendent SPM Civil hospital Dr Ashutosh Dubey. While district health officers are struggling to keep pace with the surge, experts said if the spike continued at the same rate, the number of cases will cross the 10,000-mark in three weeks. They attributed the surge in July to lax contact tracing by health officers and negligence of people who have not been following protocols to check spread of infection. Not surprisingly, 500 new cases got added to the city’s tally in just two days, pushing the number of active cases to 1,971, highest in the state. Overall, about 2,000 of total 3,235 cases have been reported in July. As Lucknow has also been recording the highest number of daily cases for the past one week, hospitals were inundated with patients. The relief, however, was that over 80% of total patients under treatment at present are asymptomatic. Another consolation was that 62 patients were discharged after recovery on Thursday pushing the count of cured cases to 1,221, which is 38% of total cases reported since the outbreak. The assistant commissioner, GST, a resident of Aashiana, and his two children got themselves tested at a private lab after developing influenza-like illness. He was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences and his children to Era’s Lucknow Medical College and hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/308-cases-in-a-day-in-lucknow-4-localities-to-be-containment-zones/articleshow/77009164.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Erode bags second best pass percentage||ERODE/SALEM: Erode district retained bragging rights by bagging the second best pass percentage, 96.99%, in the state in Class XII board exam results declared on Thursday. Last year, 95.23% of students who wrote the exams had passed. Out of 22,431 students, including 10,489 boys and 11,942 girls, who wrote the board examinations in the district, 21,755 students including 10,064 boys and 11,691 girls have cleared it. About 98 schools including 20 government schools achieved 100% pass percentage in the district. This apart, two municipal higher secondary and four aided schools have also achieved 100% results. Neighbouring Namakkal recorded a pass percentage of 96.06%, with 18,796 students passing out of 19,566 students who wrote the exam. “Our pass percentage is 1.09 % higher than 2019,” said K Megraj, district collector. In Salem district, out of 35,617 students who appeared for the exam, 32,904 passed, including 14,482 boys and 18,422 girls,” said T Ganeshamurthy, district chief educational officer. “The district had secured a pass percentage of 90.64 % in 2019, this year it has marked 92.38 %,” he said. Krishnagiri district’s overall pass percentage dropped by 4.55%. Out of 19,180 students who wrote the Class XII exam, 16,702 students have passed. S Prabhakar, district collector, said the overall pass percentage stood at 87.08 %. Dharmapuri recorded a pass percentage of 90.8 %, with 16,383 students passing the exam out of 18,042 who had appeared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/erode-bags-second-best-pass-percentage/articleshow/77008561.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC asked to issue clear guidelines on paan shops||AMC TOLD TO ISSUE CLEAR GUIDELINES ON PAAN SHOPS: The elected wing of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation urged officials on Thursday to formulate a clear policy for sealing paan shops and imposing fines. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the ruling BJP has made officials aware of the concerns of the people at large and especially those of the paan shop owners. “We have asked the administrative wing to seal shops on merit and issue fines. We have asked them to formulate a policy which will give a clear guideline of what the fine should be and when a paan shop can be sealed,” Bhatt said. He added, “This is a pandemic and there is a set of rules one has to follow, and the administrative wing is the enforcing authority. We are aware of the issues, and hence have taken it up with the authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-asked-to-issue-clear-guidelines-on-paan-shops/articleshow/77008567.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Self-financing colleges begin admission process, government colleges to start by July 20||Coimbatore: Self-financing arts and science colleges in the city started admissions procedures in their own way after Class XII results were declared on Thursday. While some colleges started admissions right after the results were announced, some opened online admission portals and others said they will prepare merit lists and inform candidates. Large number of students and parents were seen waiting in front of colleges. A student, who was accompanied by her mother to a girls’ higher education institution in the city, said she had registered on the institution’s website and had come to submit her marksheet and community certificate. Colleges such as the PSG College of Arts and Science had opened online admission process for CBSE students on Monday when the results were declared. They opened the portal for students of state board syllabus on Thursday. “We will receive applications, prepare merit list and based on the cut-off marks, admit students. It’s a transparent process,” said principal D Brindha. Sri Krishna College of Arts and Science authorities said they had asked candidates to give their mark details and contact details in writing. “We will decide on the admission process and then contact them,” said K Sundararaman, chief executive officer of Sri Krishna Institutions. However, the uncertainty caused by the lack of clear guidelines amid the pandemic and lockdown situation was evident in some colleges. As there were no clear instructions from the state government, they had no option but to start the admission process, said the principal of an arts and science college in the city. “We could not turn away the parents and students who approached us with marklists. So, we started admissions.” Later in the day, the higher education department said the online application process for government arts and science colleges and government polytechnic colleges will start by July 20. Students have to apply through portal. For arts colleges it is www.tngasa.in and www.tndceonline.org, and for polytechnics www.tngptc.in and www.tngptc.com. This is the first time the state follows a common admission portal for admission. Students can apply to any number of colleges, but only for three courses in each college. There are 92,000 UG seats in 109 government arts colleges and 16,890 seats in 51 government polytechnic colleges under the department of higher education, and 3 constituent colleges under the department of industry and commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/self-financing-colleges-begin-admission-process-govt-colleges-to-start-by-july-20/articleshow/77008568.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Do not open schools in hurry educationists tell minister||AHMEDABAD: In the present Covid-19 pandemic, schools in the state are not likely to open before October-end or November beginning. All educationalists and the education minister unanimously agreed on this suggestion of starting the schools late keeping in mind the safety of students.  A webinar was organized on Thursday presided over by education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and educationists including author and journalist Badhrayu Vachharajani, former principal Kirit Joshi, former vice-chancellor of Gujarat Vidhyapith Arun Dave and humourist and retired principal Shahbuddin Rathod. After a prolonged discussion, the educationists insisted that students’ safety and their health should be the prime concern when the idea of re-opening of schools is mooted. All educationists agreed on one point that schools in present situation cannot be opened before Diwali vacation – at the end of October or in the beginning of November. Even if the schools are opened, there should be regular health check-up for students. All the precautions advised in various guidelines must be followed. They discussed that even if the schools have to be started, all classes cannot be opened simultaneously. Classes for standard 10 and 12 should start first. The primary section should start at the end. Besides, looking at the reduced term, the participants felt a need to truncate syllabus. They said that it can be decided later. Chudasama told TOI, “We agreed on many counts that there should be regular health check-ups for all students after the schools are opened. There will be no hurry in opening of the schools because children’s health is at stake. We will study all suggestions and see how to go about implementing them.” On reduction of syllabus, Chudasama further said that a committee will be formed and it would be headed by the Gujarat Council of Educational Research and Training (GCERT). The Gujarat State Secondary and Higher Secondary Board has already formed a committee to study how syllabus can be reduced for the academic year. Besides, the participants discussed the online system of education that is being practised at present. The minister asserted that online teaching will continue to take place in strict adherence of the central government’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/do-not-open-schools-in-hurry-educationists-tell-minister/articleshow/77008573.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese officials to remove encroachment on border at Tanakpur||Pithoragarh: A day after a pillar along the India-Nepal border was found missing and several Nepalese citizens were found barricading a piece of land near the area, senior officials of the armed police force assured their Indian counterparts on Thursday that necessary steps will be taken to remove the barricades. The decision was taken at a meeting of Nepalese armed police SP Veer Singh Sahu and Champawat circle officer VC Pant at Tanakpur in Champawat district on Thursday. Sahu assured the Indian side that he would apprise his senior officials about the matter and take adequate steps.On Wednesday, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) had prevented a few Nepalese citizens from trying to plant saplings at Tanakpur along the Indo-Nepal border.Meanwhile, the district administration said that pillar number 811 is missing from the area even as a joint team of Indian and Nepalese officials are scheduled to survey the area. The initiative was delayed due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. They added that the Nepalese also tried to stop the embankment works on Sharda river by the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation.After the meeting on Thursday, SSB officials said that they would wait for the Nepalese side to take proper steps to resolve the issue, failing which they would decide on the further course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-officials-to-remove-encroachment-on-border-at-tanakpur/articleshow/77134774.cms||Prem Punetha
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Traffic department fights the virus||KOLKATA: A section in the traffic department has been forced to introduce rotational duty and another had to be shut down after Covid-19 infection began to spread among the cops, especially over the past 96 hours. Importantly, most of these sections are located at the traffic police headquarters, Lalbazar. So far, nearly 700 cops in Kolkata Police have tested positive and 553 have recovered. The daily cases average has now reached 25. The state, overall, has reported more than 1,100 Covid cases among its policemen cutting across all its units. Jorabagan traffic guard at present has four active cases that were reported within the past 10 days. A constable — who worked as a guard of a senior officer — had to be put on ventilation on Wednesday. Initially, admitted to the Covid unit of a Biresh Guha Road hospital, he had to be shifted to a facility off EM Bypass since he needed a ventilator. Another sergeant is now at a hospital in Jadavpur along with his family and a third officer is admitted to a hospital near his residence. A fourth officer is in quarantine in Rajarhat with mild symptoms. The headquarters, too, has been hit with reports of Covid cases coming from both the reserve officer’s office (HR department) and the office superintendent sections (deployment wing) of the traffic department. While the RO himself has been asked to work from home, several of his officers are on quarantine. Even the traffic control room has reported cops with Covid like symptoms. Nine fresh cases were reported this week from Charu Market and Entally police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traffic-dept-fights-virus/articleshow/77008583.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ballygunge zone sees corona clash, police picket in place for 72 hours||KOLKATA: There is no containment zone on Ballygunge Station Road or Baikuntha Ghosh Road. Yet, 72 hours after a clash between the two neighbourhoods over allegations of not taking Covid precautions, a police picket is still in place, restricting access to both the localities. According to locals, tension in the two south Kolkata neighbourhoods — separated by 300 metres of railway tracks — flared up after residents of Ballygunge Station Road alleged that Covid patients from Baikuntha Ghosh Road were moving around freely. Baikuntha Ghosh Road residents not only called the allegations baseless but also opposed the move by a section of residents of the other para to block their path using makeshift bamboo structures and chairs on Monday and Tuesday. Even in the presence of police on Thursday, both groups had an altercation over the setting up of a KMC swab testing camp in the area. The Gariahat police refuted all claims of fresh tension. “Our personnel are posted there to ensure no fresh incident crops up. We will take action against all rumourmongers,” said an officer from the southeast division. Police said trouble erupted after locals heard a rumour of Covid spreading rapidly in the Baikuntha Ghosh Road locality. “A few men from the Ballygunge side saw men from the other neighbourhood collecting water from their taps. They protested and the matter escalated. It’s shocking as people in each locality have relatives and friends on the other side,” said an officer. Both police and KMC said that violence can never be a solution. They were satisfied that awareness about Covid among the lower-middle class and slum dwellers is increasing. KMC and NGOs in and around Phoolbagan, Kankurgachhi, Ultadanga and Maniktala are working to dispel myths or rumours about the pandemic. “We have community ambassadors — aged between 13 and 25 — in each locality. They have been divided into groups and trained to inform people about the importance of washing hands and staying indoors as much as possible,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ballygunge-zone-sees-corona-clash-police-picket-in-place-for-72-hours/articleshow/77008582.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks compensation for Covid deaths, livelihoods lost||AHMEDABAD: A PIL in Gujarat high court is seeking directions to the governments to pay compensation for Covid-19 deaths and the loss of livelihoods due to the nationwide lockdown imposed by the Centre in March. An advocate, Neel Lakhani, filed this PIL on Tuesday seeking compensation for Covid-19 victims and families affected by the pandemic. The PIL says that provisions of the Disaster Management Act mandate the government to pay compensation to families of those who succumb to Covid-19. The lawyer also sought direction to the government to appoint ombudsmen for proper implementation of various schemes meant for the welfare of the poor during this pandemic. He contended that though there are numerous schemes floated by the authorities, the benefits do not reach many. Appointment of ombudsmen could help the needy avail of the benefits of these schemes. The petitioner further argued that the central and state governments have received generous donations from all across the world to mitigate the impact of this epidemic, especially in the PM Cares Fund and the CM Cares Fund. He quoted figures showing that funds for those affected by Covid-19 were received from international agencies such as the World Bank and the World Health Organization. The government should be asked to strictly spend the money on the affected people and not on other government expenditure. He said that there is a need for audits in this regard. The PIL claims that the government has come up with many schemes, but they cannot be equated with the compensation provisions made in Sections 11,12 and 46 to 50 of the Disaster Management Act. The government has till date not offered any compensation for deaths or for the loss that people had to bear due to death, disease and loss of jobs and business opportunities. As the high court has curtailed its judicial work till Friday at least, after several employees of its registry tested positive for Covid-19, a hearing on this PIL has not been fixed yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-compensation-for-covid-deaths-livelihoods-lost/articleshow/77008580.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru innovators develop disinfectant device||BENGALURU: A Bengaluru-based firm has developed an indigenous disinfectant device that can potentially eliminate microorganisms. A research team led by MS Santosh, associate professor, Centre for Incubation, Innovation, Research and Consultancy at Jyothy Institute of Technology has developed the indigenous device that uses the principle of electrolysis and produces hypochlorous acid (HOCI) — a well-known disinfectant solution that is used for sterilisation and pesticide removal — using tap water and common salt. The device is portable and handy. It uses a rechargeable battery and can instantly generate the disinfectant solution through electrolysis. Using this device, people can spray the disinfectant solution on any surface and wipe it after five minutes. The solution can also be used to wash vegetables, fruits, household and office items. As a hygiene product, the disinfectant solution when sprayed, sanitises the surroundings. The researchers are in the process of filing a provisional patent for their innovation and hope to bring the product to market soon at an affordable price. “The price could be around Rs 2,000 if there are bulk orders. The investors have responded positively,” said Santosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-innovators-develop-disinfectant-device/articleshow/77007774.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Bidhannagar civic area cases cross 1,000 Covid cases||KOLKATA: Covid figures in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area crossed the 1,000 mark on Thursday. It also recorded the highest single-day spike of cases with 82 new patients. The total Covid patients’ tally now stands at 1,032. Last Sunday, the civic body had recorded its previous highest single-day spike with 51 new cases. The civic authorities are keeping several market complexes closed on alternate days and urging standalone shops on the ground floors of houses and roadside stalls to shut down by evening. Some offices of the school education department at Bikash Bhavan in Salt Lake was shut from Thursday after a family member of a senior official tested positive. The official, along with his department staffers, has been put in quarantine. A thorough sanitization is being conducted in the offices. Sources at Unnayan Bhavan said a directive had been issued barring entry of any outsider into the building. Only staffers will be able to enter after showing his/her identity card. The Covid cases in Bidhannagar are increasing at a rapid rate despite demarcation of containment zones. Several new Covid isolation units (houses from where Covid cases are getting reported) are being identified everyday, but the number of locked down containment zones in Bidhannagar civic area is yet to be increased. The Bidhannagar civic authorities are continuing their sanitization drive in the Covid-affected localities. The police are assisting them with the awareness drives across the township. Covid test camps are being held by several ward committees in their respective localities. The local block committees are asking residents not to panic and to follow the prevention measures. “We are in touch with the civic authorities and reaching out to the block residents for any help required,” said Nilanjan Brahma, assistant secretary of FC block Abashik Samity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-civic-area-cases-cross-1k/articleshow/77008577.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 17, 2020||Dehradun||Gahrwal university announces exam schedule||Dehradun: The Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University on Thursday announced the schedules for its examination. The exams for various subjects for final semester students will start from September 1 and will conclude by September 20. The exams will take place in three shifts starting from 8 am and will be held even on Sunday. Students residing outside Uttarakhand will have to follow the guidelines issued by the state government to appear for their exams. Such students need to contact the university regarding the filling of the examination forms. Same guidelines which were followed last month during the Uttarakhand board examinations on Covid-19 will be followed in the university’s exams as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gahrwal-university-announces-exam-schedule/articleshow/77134766.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Over 96% pass Class XII exam||COIMBATORE: Over 96% students taking the Class XII state board exam have passed from the district, results of which were announced on Thursday. With a pass percentage of 96.39%, Coimbatore district stood third in the state, following table-topper Tirupur and Erode. The pass percentage has improved marginally from last year, while the district improving its position from last year, when it was ranked fourth. A total of 32,874 students had appeared for the exams, of which 31,686 have passed. Girls outshone boys this year too, with 97.5% of girls and 94.98% of boys passing the exams. Coimbatore chief education officer (CEO) P Usha said the performance of all students in schools across categories, and all students across groups has improved this year. As compared to 91 schools last year, this year 176 schools in the district have seen all their students pass the exams. Among these, seven are government schools as compared to the one government school which saw 100% results last year, she said. Biochemistry, nursing general, communicative English, and home science papers recorded a 100% pass rate.  Coimbatore collector K Rajamani, in a release, said 1,469 students have scored 100% marks in at least one subject. This was 1,136 students more than the last year, he said. He congratulated school education officials, teachers, students, and parents who had worked for this. Teachers said the results announced on Thursday morning caught them by surprise. “It was a complete surprise for us, we had not been informed earlier that we would be getting the results,” said a government school teacher from the city. This year, in Coimbatore, science group has seen 96.5% students pass, commerce group 97.13%, arts group 90.15%, and vocational group 90.01%. Teachers and school representatives say, overall, arts group students have performed better than science students, and also the individual performances of science group students has dipped this year. They attribute this to the new syllabus. A chemistry teacher from a government school from the district said, usually in the science group, students score 70% to 90% marks in science and math papers. “But this year, they have scored only 40% to 60%. While the overall pass percentage in science group is around 96% including all schools, there are more number of students who have failed in math and science in government schools. Students with less marks in science and math subjects would find it difficult to get admitted in professional courses or B.Sc courses,” said the teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/over-96-pass-class-xii-exam/articleshow/77008578.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
July 17, 2020||Kolhapur||68 cases in Kolhapur, call on lockdown to be taken||KOLHAPUR: The district identified 68 new Covid-19 patients on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 1,583,. Currently, 610 cases are active. Meanwhile, district guardian minister Satej Patil will discuss the matter of lockdown imposition in Kolhapur with public representatives and several stakeholders on Friday. Patil had earlier said the lockdown would hurt the common people especially the daily wage earners and most of the economic activities would come to a halt. District collector Daulat Desai on Thursday ordered to add 2,338 beds in the covid care centres. Three nodal officers have been appointed to increase the number of beds, added Desai. Sangli reports 62 cases Sangli district reported 62 fresh Covid patients and four deaths on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 841 and death toll rising to 25. There are 396 active cases.  District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary on Thursday said that if people continue to violate rules and Covid cases continue to increase, then the administration will have to impose a lockdown. Chaudhary said that rapid antigen test kits are being used in government hospitals. Meanwhile, testing in private laboratories have been allowed and the rate has been fixed at Rs 2,200 for covid testing if the samples are collected in the laboratory, he said. In case the throat swab samples have to be collected at the doorstep, not more than Rs 2,800 can be charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/68-cases-in-kolhapur-call-on-lockdown-to-be-taken/articleshow/77006437.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Puducherry||Man, bro get life in Tamil Nadu triple murder case||VILLUPURAM: Eight years after a casual conversation in a television reality show led to the unearthing of a triple murder, the Villupuram mahila court sentenced two brothers who had committed the murders to life imprisonment. In 2008, the two brothers — carpenter E Murugan, 45, and truck driver Mathiarasan, 37 — first murdered a young couple, Lavanya, aged 16 then, and her husband Silambarasan, aged 20 then, and later murdered the girl’s father Sekar who came in search for her. All the three victims lay buried near a dilapidated well near the culprits’ house. In 2012, however, Murugan’s daughter Bhargavi participated in a television reality show saying she had eloped with her boyfriend K Sathish Kumar and that they feared for their lives. It was when the host pointed out that she was only 17 years old and that she should return to her parental home, that Bhargavi revealed that her father would murder her. She remarked that her mother once told her that her father Murugan had murdered three people and buried them in their backyard. This episode telecast on May 28, 2012, prompted Sekar’s wife to Jeeva to rush to police on May 31, and revive her four-year-old complaint that her husband Sekar and daughter Lavanya were missing. Police registered a case against four people — Murugan, his brother Mathiarasan, wife Rajeswari and an employee Murthi — on June 1, 2012. They also dug up the bodies buried near the backyard of Murugan’s house. The case was tried before the Villupuram fast track Mahila court. On Thursday, judge G Santhi found Murugan guilty of murder and sentenced him to serve three life imprisonments, concurrently, besides a fine of Rs 95,000. His brother Mathiarasan was convicted for one murder and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life besides paying Rs 35,000 as fine. While Murugan’s wife was acquitted of all charges, employee Murthi had died during the pendency of the case. The worst part is all the victims and the offenders were known to each other. Murugan was running a furniture unit at Nallampillaipetral village near Gingee in Villupuram district, and he ran the business with his friend Sekar, whose daughter Lavanya was also working in the unit. The teenager eloped with Silambarasan and married him. When she returned to Kuchipalayam village and sought Murugan’s help, he did oblige and accommodate the couple. According to the prosecution, however, he strangled the young couple and buried them near the hut. After a week, when Sekar came searching for his daughter, Murugan murdered him as well with the help of his brother Mathiarasan, and buried him, too. Jeeva’s complaint to police about her missing husband Sekar and daughter Lavanya remained uncracked, till Bhargavi’s television show blew the lid off the mystery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/man-bro-get-life-in-tn-triple-murder-case/articleshow/77008588.cms||Karal Marx
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Goldsmith’s daughter shines||COIMBATORE: Suba Sree from Trichy, who works as a machine operator in KPR Mills here, has scored 571 out of 600 in the Class XII board exams. While the 19-year-old girl is getting ready to pursue her dream of becoming a chartered accountant, life was very different three years ago. It was April 2017 and Suba was trying to decide which group to opt for in Class XI, when her parents told her that her father, a goldsmith, had faced heavy business losses. Unless she starts earning, they would not be able to feed the family of six, they told her. She was the oldest of the four siblings. Her parents did not change their mind even after she scored a whopping 477 out of 500 in her Class X exams at the Town Hall Government School in Trichy. “I thought my life was over and I would remain a labourer earning a few thousands,” she told TOI. “I cried every night after seeing my friends return to school.” After a year of quitting studies and working as a salesgirl in a textile showroom for Rs 5,000, it was Suba’s father’s friend who suggested putting her in KPR Mills, where she can work, earn the same salary and study. Even though it meant staying in a hostel and away from her family, Suba proved her decision right when she matched her Class X score of 95%. Returning to studies after a year’s break was not easy, Suba said. “The first six months of Class XI was difficult as I had lost touch with the subjects. I was also busy learning my work. But I remembered my family’s situation and was determined to change it. I believed that education and a better job is the only way to change my future. I slowly got into the groove and performed well in Class XII.” “Though I missed centum in Commerce and Accounts, I am confident of clearing CA, which was my childhood dream,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/goldsmiths-daughter-shines/articleshow/77008585.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||Over 50 front-line workers fighting Covid infected in Haveri||Haveri: Front-line corona warriors, including government employees and others who are on essential services, have been hit by Covid-19 in Haveri district. Among the infected are 20 ASHA workers, five doctors, eight police personnel, 10 staff nurses, two revenue staff, three drivers, a PDO and a group D employee. They have been fighting the virus for the last three months. This apart, the test reports of samples taken from the front-line warriors’ families are awaited. Additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar said ASHA workers are working effectively in rural and urban areas by paying door-to-door visits to get information about the health condition of people, and also creating Covid-related awareness among them. Such visits make ASHA workers prone to infection. “Though 20 ASHA workers were infected in the district, we have curbed the virus spread by proper tracing,” he said. “Doctors and medical staff, who come in close contact with patients, may get infected. But some of them have been infected while treating asymptomatic patients. This is alarming as the department is facing a shortage of doctors,” said DHO Dr Rajendra Doddamani. DC Krishna Bajpai said safety equipment have been given to Covid warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/over-50-front-line-workers-fighting-covid-infected-in-haveri/articleshow/77006481.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Rescued child labourer scores 85%||COIMBATORE: Life was simple for G Meena till she was in Class VII in a government school near Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh. However, things changed when her family had to suddenly relocate to Tirupur in search of a livelihood in 2015. Though a good student from a Telugu medium school, Meena did not know Tamil or English. Since there were no Telugu medium schools near Pooluvapatti, her poor parents decided to send her to work at the tender age of 13 to a textile mill. Five years later, the girl has scored 511 out of 600 in her Class XII exams, while studying in an English medium government school Three months into her job in the textile mill, officers from the National Child Labour Project raided the factory and rescued Meena, along with other minors. An officer who rescued her told her she was meant to study at the age of 13 and not work.  “I was put in a Government school in Pooluvapatti in class eight in January, but NCLP officials kept teaching me Tamil and English, so I could slowly catch up,” said Meena. “Writing my Exams in English and language exams in Tamil despite coming from Andhra five years back is what makes me most proud.” By the time she reached Class X, she was proficient enough in English. For Class XI and XII, she was shifted to the Jaivabai Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School in Tirupur town. “From there on, lessons were easy. I took commerce group,” said the daughter of a construction worker. Her mother works as a piece cutter. Meena said she wants to get into the banking sector after completing her BCom degree. “My parents earn around Rs 15,000 a month. I want to provide them better housing, more affordability and comfort. I will not rest until I do it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rescued-child-labourer-scores-85/articleshow/77008592.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur records 97.12% pass, outshines other districts||COIMBATORE: Tirupur recorded the highest pass percentage in the Class XII board exams in the state for the second time in a row, this time bettering its performance by 1.75% to 97.12%, from 95.37% last year. The science stream saw the highest pass percentage of 98.21%, followed by the commerce stream (97.46%), arts group (91.61%) and the vocation stream (85%). The education department attributed the success rate to the motivation that it received from the last year’s results and constant counselling of students. Of the 23,398 students, who appeared for the exam in the district, 22,724 have passed. Girls continued to outshine boys with a pass percentage of 98.04%, compared to the latter’s 95.98%. The education department was also delighted at the performance of differently-abled candidates. Ramesh, chief education officer, said, “Despite challenges, they performed splendidly, with 60 of the 62 students clearing the exams.” Students in the district managed to achieve 100% pass in eight of the 25 subjects, including business mathematics, home science, geography, biochemistry and microbiology. English and mathematics had a pass percentage of more than 98%. At least 111 schools – nine government schools, one municipal school, four aided schools, eight self-finance schools and 89 matric schools – in the district managed to achieve 100% result. According to the chief education officer, it was the combined efforts of schools and students that contributed to the better pass percentage. “Teachers wanted to retain the top position this year too. But besides that, what we think that made the difference was making students understand the importance of education and how much it could change their future. We spent a lot of time motivating students and teachers. We conducted workshops on adopting a positive approach and students started enjoying studies, instead of dreading exams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-records-97-12-pass-outshines-other-districts/articleshow/77008598.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Testing up, but it’s still not enough||BENGALURU: Karnataka has significantly increased its daily testing numbers from about 14,000 on average in June-end to 21,000 now. On Wednesday, the state tested 24,500 samples, the highest so far. However, Karnataka has the lowest testing rate among 29 states and seven UTs, an analysis of available data shows. Karnataka conducted 13,022 tests per million till Tuesday, the day when it overtook Gujarat to become the state with the fourth highest caseload. Karnataka has tested above 8.2 lakh people since March, while major states have touched the 15 lakh mark. Analysis shows worst-hit states like Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan, with comparative populations, are testing significantly higher numbers. "A lag in testing leads to more cases, which results in need for even more tests to finally get a handle on the pandemic. We’ve been playing catch-up from the beginning and, experts say, we are still nowhere close to narrowing the gap,’’ admitted a senior health department official, who is part of the state Covid taskforce. Public health experts have been stressing on enhanced testing to detect positive cases. They say poor testing could worsen the situation. Health department officials say they aim to test 30,000 samples a day by the month-end. "Though the state has increased its testing capacity in the last two weeks, it is unlikely to be enough as more positive cases are being diagnosed. We need to test at least about 30,000 people every day. That’s our target now,’’ said Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer for Covid-19 testing in the state. In mid-March, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) sent a clear message to all states: test, test, and test. The more tests conducted, the easier it becomes to track the spread of the virus and reduce transmission. Many states followed the advice, identifying more number of cases at an earlier stage, isolating infected individuals and limiting the virus spread. However, Karnataka failed to pay heed to the early advice from ICMR. Today, many infections are going undetected, with the state now recording the fastest growth rate in corona count. On the other hand, Delhi, which saw a massive spike in the number of coronavirus cases about three weeks ago, got its act together. It significantly increased testing capacity and also improved contact tracing. Today, it is showing the fastest improvement rate nationally. "When the positivity rate is less than 5%, it means you are properly testing the sickest of the sick. The government has promised to accomplish this and if it does, it will be a huge relief,’’ said Dr Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist and member Karnataka Covid taskforce. Some experts also warn that the government should resolve testing-related issues before the second wave of coronavirus hits the state (in September-October).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-testing-up-but-its-still-not-enough/articleshow/77007807.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Four IT firms with Rs 116cr investment okayed||Hyderabad: The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) authorities on Thursday approved four IT and ITeS firms in Madhapur and Kokapet. The units are set to invest Rs 116 crore and expected to achieve Rs 1,364 crore exports and provide jobs to 2,292 IT professionals. Visakhapatnam SEZ development commissioner A Rammohan Reddy said VSEZ continued to encourage entrepreneurs despite the prevailing conditions in Telangana due to Covid-19. “We have given approval for a number of new units, particularly in the pharma sector, and kept their activities going even during the lockdown,” he said. Aricent Technologies (Holdings) Ltd, Alliant Group India Talent Pvt Ltd, TDCX Digilab India Pvt Ltd and Model N India Software Private Ltd will come up in private SEZs of Laxmi Infobahn, Divija Commercial Properties and Sundew Properties, all located in Kokapet and Madhapur. VSEZ has jurisdiction over three states of AP, Telangana and Chhattisgarh, besides the Union territory of Yanam. Since the lockdown for more than 110 days, a total of 628 (506 SEZ units and 122 EoUs) have been made operational, sources said. Out of this, employees in 358 IT units are working from home and only 24% employees are working from the units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-it-firms-with-rs-116cr-investment-okayed/articleshow/77008610.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Swaminarayan sect head succumbs||AHMEDABAD: The head of Maninagar Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan, Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj, succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. He was 78. Acharya Swamishree Maharaj’s last rites were broadcast live by the temple trust on Thursday morning. He had been admitted at a private hospital for over two weeks after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had been put on a ventilator and had also received convalescent plasma therapy. “Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj was blessed with immense wisdom. His emphasis on community service, education and women empowerment will always be remembered. I will never forget my many interactions with him. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his tribute to the Maharaj. “We will always remember Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj for his noble service to society. He worked hard to alleviate human suffering and further compassion. He will be remembered by countless people, not only in India but globally,” the Prime Minister said. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and Union home minister Amit Shah also paid their tributes to the Maharaj on social media. Born on May 28, 1942 at Bharasar in Kutch, he was the fourth child of Shamjibhai Naran Madhani and Rambai Madhani. Jeevanpran Shree Muktajeevan Swamibapa, who earlier gave him the name ‘Hirji’ which means a radiant diamond, initiated him as a Sant on March 21, 1962 at Shree Swaminarayan Mandir, Maninagar and named him Swami Purushottampriyadasji. Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree was regarded as the fifth heir in the lineage of ascetic acharyas, which descends directly from Lord Shree Swaminarayan. He presided over the building of more than 250 temples affiliated with the sect and prayers are being held across the world by his followers. Exemplifying his devotion to his guru, he spearheaded the work to build a memorial called Shree Muktajeevan Swamibapa Smruti Mandir at Ghodasar, Ahmedabad. This marble temple contains unique architecture, art and sculpture, all describing Jeevanpran Swamibapa’s service to society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/swaminarayan-sect-head-succumbs/articleshow/77008594.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stalker held for stabbing 38-year-old woman in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 38-year-old woman who lives near Geeta Mandir and has two children, lodged a complaint at Kagdapith police station on Wednesday against one Kamlesh Chavda, a resident of Behrampura, for stabbing her near Bhulabhai Park, on July 13. The woman stated in the FIR that the accused wanted a relationship with her and when she refused, he stabbed her in the stomach. She stated that he threatened to kill her if she told anyone at her home. Inspector M A Singh of Kagdapith police station said that they lodged an offence against the accused, detained him and sent him for a pre-arrest Covid test. According to the FIR, during the lockdown in March, she had wanted to recharge her mobile phone and had gone towards Behrampura. She saw a man there and asked him if there was a mobile shop around. The man, Kamlesh Chavda, instead recharged her phone using his PayTM account,” said a police official. “Chavda later started calling her and continued doing so even when she told him not to. Later, whenever she left home for work, he would follow her,” a police source said. The woman stated that a month and a half ago, when she was near Bhulabhai Park, Chavda came there and professed his love for her. She turned him down saying she has two children. He got angry, abused her and took out a shaving blade and slashed his own hands. The FIR states that at about 12.30pm on July 13, when she was near Bhulabhai Park, Chavda stopped her. He grabbed both her hands and stabbed her with a knife on the left side of her stomach. He threatened her and warned her to keep her mouth shut. “She first went to a doctor, who administered two stitches on her and went home. As her pain increased, her brother first took her to a doctor and then shifted her to LG Hospital on Tuesday. The doctor operated on her as he had suffered an injury to her intestine. She lodged a complaint against Chavda from there,” said Inspector MA Singh of Kagdapith police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stalker-held-for-stabbing-38-year-old-woman/articleshow/77008603.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Minister of state Raman Patkar discharged||GANDHINAGAR: Minister of state for forests and tribal development, Raman Patkar, who was admitted earlier this month to Ahmedabad civil hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, has completely recovered and was discharged from hospital on Wednesday evening. Patkar had got himself admitted to hospital on July 4. After being discharged from the hospital, Patkar said, “I have decided to rest at my Gandhinagar ministerial bungalow. After attending the next cabinet meeting, I will go back to my constituency in Umargam. I am thankful to the CM, deputy CM and other party leaders, doctors and officers for the support. I will resume routine party work shortly.’’ Patkar was the first minister and the fourth Gujarat BJP MLA to test positive for Covid-19. He reportedly got infected with the virus while travelling to Aravalli district for party work. The CM and ministers had decided not to follow quarantine after Patkar had tested positive days after attending the state cabinet meeting. They contended that Patkar was sitting at a safe distance, so there was no need to follow quarantine. Earlier, the CM, deputy CM Nitin Patel and minister of state, home, had gone into home quarantine after they met Congress MLA Imran Khedawala who tested corona positive just hours after the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minister-of-state-raman-patkar-discharged/articleshow/77008612.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: More IAS officers given Covid duties||GANDHINAGAR: After the rapid spread of Covid-19 in different districts, the state government has appointed senior IAS officers as incharge of various districts where Covid-19 cases have increased in large numbers. A K Rakesh, additional chief secretary (ACS), panchayat, rural housing and rural development department, has been appointed as the incharge for Jamnagar district. Sunaina Tomar, ACS, energy & petrochemicals, has been appointed Gandhinagar district incharge and Manish Bharadwaj, secretary, co-operation, animal husbandry and cow welfare, has been given charge of Covid control in Junagadh district. The state government has asked all the district `Prabhari Sachivs’ (incharge secretaries) to visit their respective districts and improve Covid-19 control measures. The chief minister reviewed the spread of Covid-19 in various districts at Wednesday’s cabinet meeting as well and directed officials to intensify monitoring and measures to check spread of the pandemic in districts. Chief secretary Anil Mukim also visited affected districts of north Gujarat/while senior secretaries visited other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-ias-officers-given-covid-duties/articleshow/77008606.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Dam discharge begins as rain batters Kolhapur, Sangli||KOLHAPUR: Heavy rain in Kolhapur and Satara districts on Thursday prompted the irrigation department to release water from dams in the two districts and Karnataka. Irrigation officials said both districts recorded average rainfall of 300 mm in the last 24 hours. The IMD, Mumbai, had on Wednesday forecast heavy to very heavy rain in the two districts while issuing an orange alert for Mumbai. Discharge from Almatti dam in Karnataka was around 46,000 cusec, around 1,450 cusec from Radhanagari dam in Kolhapur district and 2,222 cusec from Koyna dam in Satara district. The water level in the Panchganga river increased to 19 feet, a rise of around three feet. The water level in the Krishna river in Sangli district was 10 feet by Thursday. Six barrages along the Panchganga river and three along other rivers have gone under water. Meanwhile, the highways in the two districts have been closed as they were inundated following the heavy rain. As part of measures to tackle flooding, two teams of the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) have begun preparations for emergency situation. The standard operating procedure (SOP)to carry out rescue amid the Covid pandemic has been drafted for NDRF jawans. “As per the new SOP, we will carry out rescue operations with personal protective kits, masks and face shields. We have to keep our jawans safe from Covid,” Nitesh Kumar, head of the teams sent to Kolhapur district, said. “We are in constant touch with the local authorities for directions. As and when the water levels in rivers start approaching the danger-mark, we will begin our operations and ensure people’s lives are saved.” Kumar added that one NDRF team stayed in Kolhapur while the other left for Shirol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dam-discharge-begins-as-rain-batters-kolhapur-sangli/articleshow/77006535.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 also manifests in cardiac arrest, stroke and DVT||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old man from was rushed to a city hospital at 9pm, an hour after having dinner, with all signs indicating an ischemic stroke. The hospital carried out a test for Covid-19 and he tested positive. “He had no history of stroke. He had a normal life and had no vices. Thus, a stroke at such a young age was unusual,” said Dr Arvind Sharma, a neurologist at Zydus Hospital. “It was later revealed that his condition had become aggravated due to the viral infection even as he showed no classic signs.” While fever, breathlessness or dry cough are associated with Covid-19, it is not the only way the infection manifests itself, city-based experts say. Patients may come with other symptoms, but their conditions get aggravated due to the infection which causes blood clotting and inflammation in the inner lining of blood vessels. Dr Jay Kothari, a critical care specialist with Apollo Hospital, said the virus is causing incidents of stroke, hyperglycemia, deep-vein thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolism (clots in lungs) and even cardiac event. “Patients may not have fever or breathlessness but when they come with such symptoms, we check for Covid. The virus is affecting internal organs apart from the lungs,” he said. “In a recent case, a woman in her sixties was presented with DVT. Her diagnosis pointed to a Covid-19 infection.” “We recently saw two cases – a 55-year-old man from Sanand and an 80-year-old man from Ahmedabad – who came to the hospital with heart attacks. They did not have a history of Covid symptoms. We performed angioplasties and clots were found in their arteries,” said Dr Bhavesh Roy, a cardiologist at Zydus Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-also-manifests-in-cardiac-arrest-stroke-and-dvt/articleshow/77008620.cms||Parth Shastri
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman catches daughter-in-law with boyfriend in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 55-year-old woman who works in Civil Hospital lodged a complaint against her daughter-in-law and her alleged boyfriend on Wednesday. She caught her daughter-in-law coming out of a house in Asarwa area of the city. Police said the boyfriend of the woman’s daughter-in-law abused the complainant and hence she lodged a complaint. According to the complaint, both the complainant woman and her daughter-in-law work in Civil Hospital. “The complainant’s son was married to the accused woman about two and half years ago, but due to domestic trouble the girl went to live at her parental home. On Wednesday, when the complainant went out of the Civil Hospital campus to have tea with another woman, she saw her daughter-in-law with another man. The complainant and the other woman followed the duo who entered a house in Asarwa,” said a police official. Police said the complainant and the other woman waited outside the house. “Later the complainant knocked on the door of the house. A man came out, while the woman’s daughter-in-law ran away on seeing her. The complainant then asked the man who had come to the door to call the other man inside the house. He came out and began abusing the complainant. The complainant then called up police control room. We have registered a complaint against the woman’s daughter-in-law and her alleged boyfriend,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-catches-daughter-in-law-with-boyfriend/articleshow/77008613.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Firms renegotiating group health covers with insurers||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 showing no signs of abating, many corporates are re-negotiating their employee health insurance plans with insurance companies. While many intend to increase the sum insured and are seeking top-up coverage for Covid-19, there are corporates who are making changes in the policy terms and conditions, such as not covering parents or altering benefit to reduce premium outgo. “Companies would be hesitant to reduce the sum insured because it directly impacts what one is conveying to employees. A lot of companies cover spouse, children and parents. The first thing they would cut is parents’ cover because the cost is almost 3.5x to 4x of covering spouse and children. Companies are telling employees that if you want your parents covered, you can pay extra for them,” said Abhishek Poddar, co-founder & CEO, Plum, a Bengaluru-based startup that offers group health cover to over 120 companies. Poddar also pointed out that in group policies, companies are also looking at changing benefits such as room rent restrictions, capping cost of treatment for diseases or maternity benefits to reduce their premium outgo. ICICI Lombard chief Sanjay Datta said some corporates want to pay their premium in instalments as there is a pressure on cash flows now. Post Covid, the government has been pushing corporates to ensure they offer health cover to employees. Shanai Ghosh, executive director & CEO, Edelweiss General Insurance said there is increased awareness and demand for group health cover by SMEs and large corporates looking for fixed benefit cover for Covid-19, along with the normal medical policy. “‘Company paid Top-ups’ for employees, is gaining popularity as a solution. There is also increasing demand for sum insured enhancement and reinstatement covers by organizations that already have health coverage for employees. There is also rising demand for HospiCash benefit (fixed allowance per day of hospitalization), home quarantine cover, 100% coverage of PPE kit costs and tele-consultations,” she added. Star Health and Allied Insurance MD Anand Roy said that apart from sectors like hospitality and education, who are either postponing renewal or are reducing cover, there is growing demand from all the other sectors, which would boost overall group health segment in coming days. “While group health insurance is witnessing robust growth, this may be hidden given decline in loan protection linked insurance. Loan protection linked insurance, which is also reported under health insurance, has taken a hit due to current challenges in the credit market. Furthermore, retail health insurance is also witnessing robust growth. Therefore, while contribution of group health to total health portfolio may not change, it could show increase as a percentage of non-life market,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firms-renegotiating-group-health-covers-with-insurers/articleshow/77008627.cms||Swati Rathor
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||ASHA workers’ protest hampers groundwork as state battles surge in Covid cases||Hubballi: Against a backdrop of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases across Karnataka, which prompted the state government to enforce a lockdown, the protest by ASHA workers, which has now been going on for a week, has only added to the difficulties in the fight against the pandemic. Dharwad district health officer Dr Yashwant Madinkar admitted to the department feeling the pinch of the ASHA workers’ protest. “In addition to duties they undertook as part of the Covid response teams, ASHA workers were also involved in postnatal and antenatal care. We have had to appoint junior health associates instead. We have one junior health associate for 5,000 people,” Dr Madinkar said. President of the Karnataka Rajya Samyukta Asha Karyakartara Sangha K Somashekar Yadgiri said that the government’s indifference to their repeated demand of paying an honorarium of Rs 12,000 per month. “The government has not even convened a meeting inviting us to resolve this dispute. We will continue the agitation till our demands are met,” Somashekar said. Leader of ASHA workers in Dharwad Gangadhar Badiger said that, they had lost up to Rs 5,000 following their deputation to Covid-19 duty, since it was a responsibility not specified in the National Health Mission, owing to which they were deprived of a sum of money. “Both the state and central government announced cash packages of Rs 3,000 and Rs 2,000 respectively for ourr benefit but we have not received it yet,” Badiger said. Director of health and family welfare department Dr Om Prakash Patil opined that ASHA workers had chosen a most inopportune moment to strike work. Minister for large and medium scale industries Jagadish Shettar said that the government had taken cognisance of the demands of ASHA workers, and their grievances would be redressed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/asha-workers-protest-hampers-groundwork-as-state-battles-surge-in-covid-cases/articleshow/77006549.cms||J Abbas Mulla
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||22-year-old woman burnt alive for dowry, two booked||PILIBHIT: Police on Thursday morning booked two persons of a family for allegedly burning a 22-year-old woman alive for dowry after pouring kerosene on her. The incident took place in Auriya village under Neuria police station on Wednesday evening. The husband and other in-laws of the victim fled from the district government hospital after shifting her there. The woman, who had sustained 90% burns, succumbed to her injuries. According to the complainant, Kalyan Singh of village Kainchu Tanda under Amaria police station, his daughter Kajal married one Thakur Das of Auriya village on May 12 this year. Singh said that he had already given adequate dowry according to his financial condition but her husband and his elder brother were not satisfied. “They started torturing Kajal as they wanted a new bike in dowry. Finally, they burnt her alive on Wednesday evening,” he added. Station house officer Kheem Singh Jalal said, “Thakur Das and his brother Roop Lal, who are absconding, have been booked under sections 304 B (death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage), 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives) of the IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/22-year-old-woman-burnt-alive-for-dowry-two-booked/articleshow/77006560.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||Criminal booked in 39 cases held with charas, country-made pistol||BAREILLY: Gangster Ankit Yadav — identified as one of the top 10 criminals of Bareilly district — was arrested by kotwali police while allegedly peddling charas, a narcotic substance, in Biharipur area of the city on Thursday. Police also seized a country-made pistol from Ankit, who has been booked in 39 cases of attempt to murder, robbery, drug peddling and under the Arms Act. He had recently come out of jail on bail. Ankit, a local goon, was first booked after allegedly grievously injuring a local over a pity issue in 2010, and later, he was arrested for allegedly peddling narcotic substance. He was, then, booked under the UP Goonda Act, and only a year later, he was again booked for allegedly thrashing a public servant. In the following years, his involvement in several cases of thefts and drug peddling in nearby districts also came to light and he was booked under the Gangster Act by Bareilly police. Kotwali SHO Geetesh Kapil said, “Sub-inspector Devendra Singh was checking the vehicles when Ankit was stopped. During checking his belongings, Singh seized 500gm charas, a country-made pistol and a few bullets. Ankit is a history-sheeter and has been rated as one of the top 10 criminals of the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/criminal-booked-in-39-cases-held-with-charas-country-made-pistol/articleshow/77006588.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 17, 2020||Chennai||R-value below one, coronavirus no more an epidemic in Chennai: Maths model||CHENNAI: As fresh cases of Covid-19 slowly drop in Chennai Thursday’s number was 1,157 a mathematical model suggests the infection is no more an epidemic in the city. The R-value or effective reproduction number for Chennai has fallen below one at 0.78 +/- 0.02 for the period July 10-14, indicating the outbreak may have been contained, says Sitabhra Sinha, professor at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences. The R-value stands for the number of people one person can infect. An epidemic is considered to be on the wane when its R-value falls below one. “Technically, it is no longer an epidemic in the city. If Chennai manages to prevent any new clusters from increasing the growth rate again, we could end up with all patients recovered by a couple of weeks. However, there may still be isolated cases but not an epidemic, which is an exponential growth of case numbers,” he said. In contrast to Chennai, Madurai’s R-value for July 4 to 9 stood at 1.41 +/-0.04 as the infection surge in southern Tamil Nadu continued. The region recorded 1,256 of the state’s total of 4,549 cases and 14 of the 69 deaths reported on Thursday. After 5,106 patients were discharged, the state now has 46,714 active cases, including 15,038 in Chennai. Sinha warned that “There have been occasions in the past when R was brought down below 1 only for it to bounce back again to large values later as new cases came and started spreading,” he added. Earlier around May 19, the R-value for Chennai was one, but it has not fallen below that until July 4 when the daily active cases in the city fell below 2,000 cases. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while the R-value below one indicates that Chennai has crossed the peak, the epidemic is not over until the cases touch hundred every day. But if people continue to wear masks and follow other safety precautions, Dr John said the cases could drop to a few hundreds in two weeks. “R-value is less than one because the numbers are coming down. But this is no time to relax. We are still on the downslope of the epidemic. Until the cases come down to a 100 or 200, it is still an epidemic. I think in about two weeks-time the numbers could be in hundreds,” he said. “The cases in the state will go up till August second week before they see a decline like Chennai,” he added. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of school of health systems studies, TISS said “The problem now is that districts have slackened and we have large clusters. Besides Madurai, I am also worried about Coimbatore. People tend to suppress the numbers and suddenly it will be out,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/r-value-below-one-virus-no-more-an-epidemic-in-city-maths-model/articleshow/77008623.cms||U Tejonmayam
July 17, 2020||Hubballi||HDMC launches helpline||HUBBALLI: To address Covid-related issues, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) has set up a new helpline which will work round the clock. Residents can dial 0836-2351955 or 9141051611 or mail their grievances to covid19.hdmc@gmail.com for registering complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdmc-launches-helpline/articleshow/77006601.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||Forest dept rescues python in Kheri||Bareilly: The forest department rescued a python which was spotted on a roadside tree in Rahunagar forest block under the buffer zone of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday. Anil Patel, deputy director, DTR (buffer areas), said, “After we received information from locals, we rescued the python and released it into the forest.” According to forest department sources, they rescued nine pythons from human habitations between April and June this year. The Indian Rock Pythons rescued from here were eight to 12 feet long, they said. “After we rescue a python, we release it in the adjoining forest. We cannot release the python in a far-off forest as there is a chance that the reptile may not survive in another habitat,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-dept-rescues-python-in-kheri/articleshow/77006597.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Build road in 15 days or face stir: Traders||Ludhiana: Subash Market Association members in ward number 41 of Ludhiana’s Atam Nagar constituency gave 15-day ultimatum to the civic body for constructing a road and threatened to launch a protest if it was not done. The construction work of Jaimal Road was supposed to start on February 13, 2020, but till date no work has been done. Instead the road has been dug up from both ends, obstructing the movement of traffic over it. There are 124 shops and establishments on both sides of the road, and the business activities have come to a standstill as there is no movement of traffic on the dilapidated road. Yet to recover from the two month-long lockdown, the shopkeepers who have faced huge losses are unable to earn even now due to no road. “We have requested the city mayor, Balkar Singh Sidhu, to get the work completed within 15 days, otherwise the whole market will protest against the Ludhiana administration,” said Gurmeet Singh Kular, incharge, Atam Nagar constituency (Shiromani Akali Dal) and senior vice-president, industry and trade wing, Shiromani Akali Dal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/build-road-in-15-days-or-face-stir-traders/articleshow/77007850.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: 14 days lockdown in 4 districts and Rourkela||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Thursday announced 14-day complete lockdown in four districts of Khurda, Cuttack, Ganjam and Jajpur, and in Rourkela city, from 9 pm on Friday till July 31. These four districts and Rourkela have a high case load. There will be no weekend shutdowns in these areas. Announcing the decision, chief secretary Asit Tripathy said mobility of people would be restricted while offices, commercial establishments and institutions will remain closed (barring exceptions). People,, however, must not resort to panic buying of food as vegetable, grocery and milk shops will remain open from 6 am to 1 pm every day. “We appeal to people to buy the essentials from the neighbourhood,” he said. Tripathy said entry of vehicles to Cuttack and Bhubaneswar from other parts of the state would not be allowed except in case of medical and other emergency. The enforcement agencies will implement the lockdown in letter and spirit, he added. The officer said the four districts and Rourkela had two-thirds of the active positive cases in the state and were recording most of the new cases as well. These districts account for 9,259 of the 15,392 positive cases (60%) and 3,009 of the 4,412 active positive cases (68%). “July is a significant month in the fight against Covid-19. Although the district administrations have been taking steps, more action is needed at the state level. The lockdown decision has been taken considering professional inputs. There will be aggressive surveillance, testing, contact tracing, isolation and treatment,” the chief secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/14-days-lockdown-in-4-dists-and-rourkela/articleshow/77007857.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||No change in stance on LAC: Govt||NEW DELHI: Asking for the ongoing mutual redeployment at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China not to be misrepresented, the government on Thursday said there was absolutely no change in India’s position on the LAC. The government said in a statement that it is fully committed to observing and respecting the LAC and that any unilateral attempt to change the status quo along it is not acceptable. The disengagement process currently under way in the western sector is specifically aimed at addressing “face-off situations and close-up deployments of troops” along the LAC, said the external affairs ministry. “It is based on an understanding between senior military commanders. Both sides have agreed at specific points to re-deploy towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. Refuting allegations that India’s position had changed, the official said the process of disengagement along the LAC is complex and so “unsubstantiated and inaccurate” reports need to be avoided. The official recalled that India and China have been engaged in discussions through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation along the LAC in the border areas. The Special Representatives of India and China on the Boundary Question — Ajit Doval and Wang Yi respectively — had discussed the situation on July 5. A meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs was also held on July 10. “In these meetings, the two sides have agreed on complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-change-in-stance-on-lac-govt/articleshow/77009800.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Minor detained in murder case found to be pregnant||AHMEDABAD: There has been a surprising twist in the case for the murder of 21-year-old Umang Darji, who was stabbed to death on July 11on Guruji Bridge in Isanpur by three youths, allegedly because one of the two girls with them at the time had demanded a mobile phone. Police cracked the case within 24 hours and arrested the three youths and two girls were dealt with under the law for juveniles.  ACP J division Rajpalsinh Rana said during her medical check-up, one of the girls was found to be four months pregnant. Police sources said that during her interrogation she said she was involved with one Jaymin Panchal of Isanpur. “We have registered an offence for rape and under the POCSO Act against Panchal on Wednesday and have detained him. He has been sent for Covid-19 test before we officially arrest him,” added Rana. According to the complaint lodged by the girl, she met Jaymin about an year ago. He lured her into a physical relationship with the promise of marriage. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minor-detained-in-murder-case-found-to-be-pregnant/articleshow/77008648.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Marks tumble in Class XII, more CBSE kids may get top engineering seats||CHENNAI: Appearing for the first board exam under revised syllabus and new question pattern, the number of students who scored above 95% fell significantly in the Class XII state board exam results declared on Thursday. While the overall pass percentage was 92.3%, Tirupur district topped the list with 97.12 % pass. Erode came second with 96.99% and Chennai district secured 15th position with 93.45% pass. According to teachers, the less-than-expected show by state board students may usher in a windfall for CBSE stream students who may pocket most seats in top engineering and veterinary colleges in the state due to their high marks. While at least 1,000 CBSE students may have scored more than 95% in Tamil Nadu, fewer than 100 students would have crossed that score in state board this year, experts said. State board science students have particularly scored fewer marks in maths and physics this year. A city teacher blamed tougher physics paper for the low scores. “Though the paper was tough, we could not understand the unusually low score in maths and physics,” said another teacher. “We have centums only in computer science, accountancy and commerce. Though there were fewer centums last year, the students generally scored high marks,” said V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School, T Nagar. Out of 120 students in our school, 21 students got above 95% marks and most of them are commerce students. “Usually, science students get more marks but this year it was the other way round,” she said, adding that many students were contemplating applying for revaluation. “This is the first set facing exam under the revised syllabus. Our teachers and students were not trained for application-oriented questions. Science students scored at least 20% fewer marks than expected. Commerce students got more marks compared to science students,” said R Rajkumar, headmaster, DRBCCC Higher Secondary School, Perambur. “Due to the higher-order-thinking questions, scores have come down in all schools in science stream. There are no high scores across schools in TN,” he said. Due to practical marks, students have got respectable scores. “When we look at only the theory marks, they have scored even lesser marks,” Rajkumar said, adding that the results would further dissuade students from taking science stream in Class XIl. ”Competition will be very tough and CBSE students will get more admission to top colleges compared to last year,” said P Swaminathan, secretary, SRV Schools in Trichy and Namakkal. But, B Purushothaman, senior principal of Everwin Group of Schools said the results may help state board students in the long run. “It is the role reversal for CBSE schools and state board schools this year,” he added. Career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi said though the pass percentage is high the number of high scores are less among state board students. “Number of students scoring above 95% has come down in the state board and CBSE students will have advantage in getting admission to premier colleges like Anna University and PSG College of Technology,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/marks-tumble-in-class-xii-more-cbse-kids-may-get-top-engg-seats/articleshow/77008640.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||PTR warns of strict action if villagers collect, sell Sal tree buds||Pilibhit: Come monsoon and villagers living near Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) gather their tools and head for the forest to collect 'katarua' (Sal tree buds), considered a delicacy by food lovers, and edible wild mushroom. Though entry into the forest and gathering of katarua is prohibited, rules are broken every year. This time, PTR's deputy director Naveen Khandelwal ordered distribution of pamphlets in the villages, warning of stringent action, including a three-year jail term, in case of their intrusion into the protected forest and collection of any forest produce. For the villagers, the katarua buds means money. Sal trees dominate PTR forest. The buds develop only during monsoon. They grow at the base of the tree, so it is easy to cut. The buds are gathered and openly sold in the city. At present, wholesalers at the mandi here are selling it for Rs 700 a kg. The wild mushrooms are usually consumed by villagers themselves as there are few takers for it in the city. Last year, a villagers were arrested for collecting and selling katarua buds but they were let off after they paid a paltry Rs 50 as fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-warns-of-strict-action-if-villagers-collect-sell-sal-tree-buds/articleshow/77006666.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||Man arrested for unloading two quintals of beef from car in containment zone in Moradabad||Bareilly: A man was on Wednesday booked and arrested for allegedly unloading two quintals of beef (buffalo meat) from a Swift car in Indira Chowk area under Galshaheed police station — a containment zone — in UP’s Moradabad.The car bore Baghpat number and had ‘Police’ written on the rear windshield. The incident came to light when a local filmed the act and circulated on social media, prompting police to swing into action. According to Moradabad police, the accused is a local resident, who holds a licence to run slaughtering business, however, “the act was illegal because it took place at a public place, which happened to be a hotspot zone as well”. An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. Galshaheed police station SHO Ajeet Roria said, “Accused Anees Qureshi, a local butcher, told police that he was forced to bring meat in a car from a supplier, as there was no other vehicle available. As soon as he reached the shop in Indira Chowk area and began unloading the meat, a few locals started making the video, he said. A probe has been ordered into the matter.”“The accused is a licensed butcher. However, legal action has been initiated as a large quantity of meat was being unloaded in full public view in the area under Galshaheed police station, which is a containment zone. He was booked under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, section 3 (penalty - any person disobeying any regulation or order made under this Act shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under section 188 of the IPC) of the Epidemic Diseases Act and section 51B (refuses to comply with any direction given by or on behalf of the government) of the Disaster Management Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-arrested-for-unloading-two-quintals-of-beef-from-car-in-containment-zone-in-moradabad/articleshow/77006635.cms||Maria Khan
July 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 8 held for assaulting 2 foreign students||ROORKEE: Police have arrested eight people, including the director and registrar of a private engineering college, here on Thursday for allegedly assaulting two foreign students after they complained about the quality of food at the hostel mess. Among those who were held were the college director, registrar, administrative officer and five security guards. According to sources, two students Mohamed Ibrahim Kalidulah, a BTech student from Guinea, and Benjamin Djartey, an MBA student from Ghana, were beaten up on the campus on Wednesday when they got into a dispute with the staff over the quality of food served in the hostel. The dispute soon turned into a violent confrontation and the students sustained multiple injuries. Based on a complaint, police registered a case against the accused under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 308 (attempt to culpable homicide) against college staff and securitymen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/8-held-for-assaulting-2-foreign-students/articleshow/77006630.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen look up to state govt, Centre for lower rate for power across country||Ludhiana: Disturbed over shrinking incomes and rising expenditures, businessmen are looking towards both state and central governments for taking steps to ensure that the industry gets back on the path of progress. According to businessmen, the immediate step which the governments can take right now is lower the power rates and fix them at a flat rate of Rs 3 per unit all across the nation and if this happens they can even topple China in terms of industrial production. Speaking to TOI, Upkar Singh Ahuja , president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said, “Power is a major contributor in the expenditure of the industry, be it of any type, and it should be one rate nationwide. If you see the example of China the power there is at a flat rate of Rs 3 all across the nation for the industry. The flat rate is the major deciding factor in the cost of production and the final rate of the product. If the rates are nominal and same all over India for the industry, it will not only create a level playing field for the industry all over the country but will also lower our cost of production significantly to such levels that we will easily be able to have an edge in exports as well and topple countries like China easily at the global level.” According to Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India, “Lowering the rate of power is the need of the hour in Punjab, particularly in the wake of the ongoing situation due to Covid-19 as industry’s profits have shrunk to record levels and expenditures have shot off manifold. Right now, we are paying a very huge cost of power and rates for majority of the industry are as high as Rs 8-Rs 10, which are the highest in the country. The rates should not exceed Rs 5 per unit in any case and if the state government reduces the rates, the industry will be able to bounce back at the earliest. Moreover, the central government should make sure that the power rates for the industry are same in all states as this will stop undue advantage to industries located in some states and all states will prosper equally.” Sahil Suneja, a packing boxes manufacturer, “Electricity is like a raw material for the industry and it is the major deciding factor in determining the cost of our products. So, higher the rate of power, higher our cost of production and higher the final rate of our products. High rate of power has been pinching us for years now and now in the wake of rising losses due to Covid-9 the situation has deteriorated. So, it will be in the best interest of Punjab’s industry if the rates of power are reduced and moreover, the rates of power should be kept flat all over India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-look-up-to-state-govt-centre-for-lower-rate-for-power-across-country/articleshow/77007861.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||Sighting of rare tree frog, spotted only intermittently through years in Dudhwa, sparks hope for species census||Bareilly: A rare and “shy” frog species named after Dudhwa Tiger reserve — after it was discovered in the area in the 1990s — has been spotted twice this monsoon, sparking hope of a census to estimate the species’ population and habitat details for the first time. The yellowish-brown Dudhwa Tree Frog (Chirixalus dudhwaensis) has only been spotted intermittently since its discovery in 1992 in Dudhwa. The semi-arboreal (inhabiting trees) species is found in marshy areas or swamps. Sanjay Pathak, field director of Dudhwa who spotted and clicked the species, told TOI that the sighting of the frog was very rare. “Not much is known about the species so it is listed as ‘Data Deficient’ in the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN)’s red list of endangered species.” Pathak said that fresh sightings have sparked hope of studies on the species. “Last year we had to cancel the survey of the species since no sightings could be made. But now we will conduct a survey to identify areas where the frog is present and estimate the total number of individuals in Dudhwa,” he said. Dr Mudit Gupta, state coordinator of WWF-India, told TOI, “Sighting of this tree frog is indeed encouraging news. Dudhwa is a productive Terai habitat and home to many such unique wild species. With the use of M-STrIPES patrolling program, field staff of Dudhwa is able to record their observations and more such exciting findings are on their way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sighting-of-rare-tree-frog-spotted-only-intermittently-through-years-in-dudhwa-sparks-hope-for-species-census/articleshow/77006688.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 17, 2020||Dehradun||199 new Covid cases in Uttarakhand, overall tally closes in on 4,000 mark||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 199 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 3,982. A majority of cases surfaced from Udham Singh Nagar (91), followed by Nainital (34), Haridwar (30), Dehradun (27), Tehri (10), Chamoli (3) and Pauri (3). Among the 199 positive cases, 22 are rapid antigen-based test results for Covid-19 —both positive and negative — from five districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital, Rudraprayag and Udham Singh Nagar. No deaths related to Covid-19 were, however, recorded in the state on Thursday. The death toll is constant at 50. Also, 47 people were cured, taking the recovery count to 2,995.Dr Gaurav Agrawal, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Udham Singh Nagar, said the cases are mainly on the rise in Kashipur. "We are conducting random and rapid antigen tests after 24 people who attended a wedding were found infected. They came in contact with several people before the lockdown was imposed in Kashipur. We are still trying to trace those who came in contact with the reported patients and placing them under isolation. The surge in cases is not because of community transmission, but can directly be attributed to this reason." Moreover, district administration in Haridwar has directed closure of several noted factories in the industrial zone after some workers at a factory were found positive. The state has 904 active cases, as of now, and Udham Singh Nagar has the highest 316 active cases followed by Dehradun (200), Nainital (175) and Haridwar (115). And, test results of 7,449 people are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/199-new-covid-ve-cases-in-ukhand-overall-tally-closes-in-on-4000-mark/articleshow/77006669.cms||Shivani Azad
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||Solar panel theft: Moradabad cops nab one, three at large||BAREILLY: Moradabad police on Wednesday arrested a man for stealing eight solar panels, worth around Rs 3 lakh, installed in the farms owned by former cricketer and UP cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan’s family. The solar panels were stolen in June from the fields located on the city outskirts under Mundha Pandey police station area. Moradabad police said that the accused, Subhash, had been involved in similar thefts in various UP districts including Bijnor, Etah and Amroha. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police (SP city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “Subhash, a resident of Faridpur, Bareilly, has a criminal record and was sent behind the bars for stealing solar panels. In 2015, he had stolen as many as 48 solar panels from Bijnor. He works with three other members who had accompanied him in the solar panel theft here in Moradabad. The trio is still at large and efforts are underway to nab them. The solar panels have been recovered from Subhash’s possession.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/solar-panel-theft-moradabad-cops-nab-one-three-at-large/articleshow/77006724.cms||Maria Khan
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||Sighting of rare tree frog, spotted only intermittently through years in Dudhwa, sparks hope for species census||BAREILLY: A rare and “shy” frog species named after Dudhwa Tiger reserve — after it was discovered in the area in the 1990s — has been spotted twice this monsoon, sparking hope of a census to estimate the species’ population and habitat details for the first time. The yellowish-brown Dudhwa Tree Frog (Chirixalus dudhwaensis) has only been spotted intermittently since its discovery in 1992 in Dudhwa. The semi-arboreal (inhabiting trees) species is found in marshy areas or swamps. Sanjay Pathak, field director of Dudhwa who spotted and clicked the species, told TOI that the sighting of the frog was very rare. “Not much is known about the species so it is listed as ‘Data Deficient’ in the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN)’s red list of endangered species.” Pathak said that fresh sightings have sparked hope of studies on the species. “Last year we had to cancel the survey of the species since no sightings could be made. But now we will conduct a survey to identify areas where the frog is present and estimate the total number of individuals in Dudhwa,” he said. Dr Mudit Gupta, state coordinator of WWF-India, told TOI, “Sighting of this tree frog is indeed encouraging news. Dudhwa is a productive Terai habitat and home to many such unique wild species. With the use of M-STrIPES patrolling program, field staff of Dudhwa is able to record their observations and more such exciting findings are on their way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sighting-of-rare-tree-frog-spotted-only-intermittently-through-years-in-dudhwa-sparks-hope-for-species-census/articleshow/77006716.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 17, 2020||Business||Cyient Ltd Q1FY21 PAT down 10%||Hyderabad: Global engineering and technology solutions player Cyient on Thursday said it has posted a 10% drop in profit after tax (PAT) for the first quarter ended June 30, 2020, at Rs 81.4 crore as against Rs 90.5 crore in the first quarter of 2019-20. This was on a nearly 9% decline in consolidated revenue for Q1FY21 at Rs 991.7 crore from Rs 1089 crore in Q1FY20. However on a QoQ basis, PAT grew 8% from Rs 75.4 crore in Q4FY20 to Rs 81.4 crore in Q1FY21 despite a 7.6% de-growth in consolidated revenue from Rs 1073.6 crore in Q4FY20 to Rs 991.7 crore in Q2FY21. The company said that during the quarter, it commissioned its new DLM (design-led manufacturing) electronics manufacturing factory at the Hyderabad Airport SEZ. Spread over 10 acres with a built-up area of 1.5 lakh sft, the factory will commence production from August 2020 with a headcount of over 100 employees by July end and over 500 employees by March 2021. The company said it is also diversifying its customer base and added 25 new customers during the quarter, including Hitachi Rail. Pointing out that the results were better than expectations, despite the lower revenues, Cyient MD & CEO Krishna Bodanapu said: “Services business was lower by 14.3% QoQ in constant currency. The DLM business grew by 8.5% QoQ. We expect traction from top clients to return post Q2. The EBIT margin is lower by 328bps QoQ mainly due to lower business volume, which was somewhat offset by lower SG&A spend. We generated free cash flow (FCF) of Rs 2,16.3 crore which was higher by 101% QoQ.” Ajay Aggarwal, president & CFO, said the “…With significant efforts spent on efficiencies and cost optimisation in the last financial year, our focus on cost reduction and profit improvement continued in Q1 and is set to show results in the coming quarters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cyient-ltd-q1fy21-pat-down-10/articleshow/77007898.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Jewel residents stick to ICMR norms, withstand Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Residents of Jewel Gardens, Miyapur who withstood the Covid test attributed their victory to residents who followed the guidelines rolled out by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Utmost priority was given to sanitisation and restricting public movement said residents. “As of date we don’t have a committee for housing society, but residents following the ICMR guidelines was the key to our success. Extensive sanitisation was taken up, to restrict public movement, we roped in vegetable vendors who used to come to our society twice a week,” said Jayachandra Oleti, a resident of the society. Residents also took care of the staffers by providing them with immunity boosters and safety kits. “Staffers working in our society which include security guards were provided with immunity boosters (ayurvedic). Face shields, masks, gloves and safety gear were also provided. They used to check the temperature of every person entering the society including vegetable vendors,” Srinivas Alluri, a resident of the housing society. As part of precautionary measures, the residents did not open the swimming pool and the children park in their housing society. Residents said that they got to know each other well during lockdown. “Amidst Covid-19, compassion towards people living in the society increased, we started calling residents to enquire about their health. Teamwork and empathy took us a long way and we will continue the best practices,” Satish Yellanki, a society resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jewel-residents-stick-to-icmr-norms-withstand-covid-19/articleshow/77008673.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ludhiana||9 years after court orders LIT gets possession of land||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) officials were able to take possession of a prime property in block A of Kitchlu Nagar on Thursday. They had been trying to get the possession of this property since 2011 as despite court orders the occupants were not ready to leave the plot. The officials claimed that it was a prime piece of land and they would be able to generate revenue from the auction of this property. The officials had been fighting for the possession of 765 sq yrds located in a corner of Kitchlu Nagar. A court case was going on in which the court had ordered those concerned to hand over the possession to LIT in 2011, but the occupants kept on delaying the same for one reason or the other. It made LIT officials to file contempt petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court and even there the court asked the occupants why they were not handing over the possession to LIT. The SDO of LIT, Kirandeep Heer, said, “We have been trying for a long time for this land but the occupants were delaying the possession with one or other reason. Even on Thursday, they showed little bit resentment but we did not let them disturb the drive.” He said LIT had acquired land for developing Kitchlu Nagar scheme and at that time, possession of this land was not given to the department and it kept on delaying. He further claimed that they had dismantled the boundary wall around the land and now they would construct their own boundary wall and then plots would be auctioned to the public. Meanwhile, sources revealed that LIT officials also noticed that the gates installed in the colony had been locked. The officials claimed that they had handed over the colony to the civic body for maintenance, so now they would write to the MC officials for removing these gates from here. The officials claimed that they would construct a boundary wall and they would require a way to move in and out, but due to the closed gates it was becoming difficult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/9-years-after-court-orders-lit-gets-possession-of-land/articleshow/77007876.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||Varun Gandhi’s advice on PTR’s man-tiger conflict inspires UP forest officials to adopt new measures||PILIBHIT: BJP leader Varun Gandhi on Wednesday spoke to principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP, Sunil Pandey, and field director of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), H Rajamohan via video conferencing, advising them about measures to mitigate man-tiger conflict in rural areas in the proximity of PTR. At the end of the meeting, the top forest officials agreed to adopt the suggestions advised by the Pilibhit MP. The most crucial issue Gandhi raised was translocation of the Amaria tigers and other PTR tigers considered excess to the forest, to other forest areas of the country that have low density of big cats. Talking to TOI on the matter, Pandey said Gandhi had also emphasised the need to set up re-wilding enclosures inside PTR, in addition to ensuring availability of veterinary facility to carry out diagnosis and treatment of injured and sick wildlife. “We have already requested Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to precisely calculate the total number of tigers PTR can accommodate on the basis of its geographical area, as well as availability, density and distribution of its prey base. This will help assess the number of tigers in PTR that need to be relocated,” Pandey said. “As translocation of PTR tigers involves identification of suitable alternative forest regions that have basic amenities like safe wildlife hideouts, adequate grasslands, prey base and drinking water, as well as a climate similar to the Terai, WII’s tiger cell has also been urged to identify such wild areas as soon as possible,” he added. Practical action would only be possible after the department receives the report, Pandey further added. In case of the Amaria tigers — which are known to have developed a familiarity with human presence, especially in agricultural fields — a supplementary need of the translocation process would be re-wilding enclosures. These tigers would first need to be lodged in the re-wilding enclosures for a considerable period of time, to make them fully adapt to the wild, before they are translocated, he explained. For this, the forest administration has already identified two spots of three hectares each in the Mahof forest range, which would be converted into re-wilding enclosures after National Tiger Conservation Authority’s (NTCA) approval — currently under negotiation — is extended, he continued. “For expert technical support, we’ll coordinate with Kanha Tiger Reserve authorities in Madhya Pradesh, where re-wilding enclosures were successfully serving their basic purpose,” Pandey also said. Regarding setting up of a veterinary facility in PTR, he said, “I’ve directed PTR field director H Rajamohan to spare two rooms at Mustafabad forest guest house for the purpose. We’ll file a requisition for necessary medical equipment, medicines, kits, etc., apart from appointing experienced vets who would be given proper training to deal with wildlife,” said PCCF. Rajamohan said following Gandhi’s suggestion, he’ll chalk out an action plan for cultivation of herbs and aromatic plants in fields just outside PTR’s periphery. “To make the plan a success, we’ll seek active participation of district agriculture department, Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) and the district administration, for technical assistance, promotion of new cropping patterns among farmers and exploring markets to procure the produce,” Rajamohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/varun-gandhis-advice-on-ptrs-man-tiger-conflict-inspires-up-forest-officials-to-adopt-new-measures/articleshow/77006746.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||BGH demands TrueNat machine to cut delay in test results||BOKARO: Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), the only treatment centre for Covid-19 patients in the district, has asked the governmentt to install a TrueNat testing machine at the hospital to overcome the delay in getting test reports from sadar hospital, which has three such machines. BGH officials said the delay in getting Covid reports is leading to delay in providing treatment to non-Covid patients. A BGH official said, “Treating suspected Covid patients without their test report is risky for everyone, including doctors and other healthcare staff. The BGH management is trying to install an RT-PCR machine with the help from the district administration but that project is getting delayed. TrueNat machines are the need of the hour.” In several departments like neurosurgery, burns, gynaecology, cardiology, orthopaedics and others, BGH is regularly getting critical Covid-19 patients. Another hospital staff said, “In case of emergencies, it is not feasible to wait for a Covid-19 test report. But in such cases, who will take the responsibility if anything happens to the patient?” Till Thursday morning, Bokaro had 93 virus cases of which 46 are active and two have died. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “I have forwarded BGH’s request to the health department since the decision to allot TrueNat machines lies with them.” State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the department will consider BGH’s request. He added, “We will soon make provisions to install a TrueNat machines at BGH.” The health department has, so far, installed 72 Truenat machines across the state, including three at sadar hospital in Bokaro. In addition, the department has set up five RT-PCR testing laboratories for Covid-19 tests across Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bgh-demands-truenat-machine-to-cut-delay-in-test-results/articleshow/77006743.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Vacant plots of Partap Singh Wala become garbage dumps||Ludhiana: When on one hand emphasis is being laid on the fact that proper hygiene should be maintained in the surroundings during monsoon and also because of coronavirus, certain vacant plots in Partap Singh Wala near Govind Godham are covered with heaps of garbage, leading to foul smell in the locality. Residents of nearby colonies claimed that garbage collectors collect waste from various localities and dump it at these plots instead of throwing at any designated place. Besides, many other people find it convenient to throw garbage of their households during night on these plots. A resident of Partap Singh Wala, Karamjit Singh, said, “First of all heaps of garbage are an eye sore and secondly the foul smell spreads in the entire locality, especially when it rains. There is nobody to take care of these things and despite our complaints nobody takes care of the situation.” He said it had become difficult to stay here. Another resident of Hambran Road Kamal Sharma claimed that he was regular visitor to the Govind Godham and passing through this small stretch becomes a test for him. He said at a time when the country was talking about 100% garbage lifting and source segregation, then why these vacant plots were still full of garbage. He said the authorities should pay attention towards this problem as it could lead to some serious problem. He added that due to heaps of garbage even stray cattle were gathering here and they could also create problems for the residents as well as commuters. Meanwhile, SD Dhamija from Govind Godham said, “This has become a normal affair as whenever there is some function or some festival in the temple we have to get it cleared at our expenses or else residents collect money and get it cleaned even as the authorities prefer to sleep over the same.” He said he had conveyed the issue to sarpanch several times but even he was not sincere towards the issues of residents. However, Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh said, “Though it is not my job to get the garbage lifted as a sarpanch has been elected for that village, I had come to know about the problem so I have asked the officials concerned to look into the matter and get it cleared.” He said earlier also a similar problem had aroused when the MC had refused to allow garbage of villages to the secondary garbage collection points. Singh said then he had intervened and got the issue resolved. He said the problem would resolve shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vacant-plots-of-partap-singh-wala-become-garbage-dumps/articleshow/77007890.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Bareilly||Man kills younger brother for ‘eyeing’ his wife, father goes to cops||PILIBHIT: A 30-year-old man with the help of his wife, 26, allegedly strangled his younger brother, 20, in Pilibhit’s Bisalpur area on Wednesday night. The duo then dumped the body outside the door of their neighbour in the midnight. But, their father blew the lid off and approached police to file a case against his elder son for the murder. An FIR was registered and the couple was arrested. Station house officer (SHO) Sunil Kumar said, “The written complaint was filed by Babu Ram, the father of the accused and the deceased. It is being alleged that the younger brother, Ved Prakash, was making overtures towards his elder brother’s wife. His brother Om Prakash didn’t like it, and so did the woman, Gyan Devi.” The SHO said that the couple have been booked under IPC section 302 (murder) and 34 (criminal act done by several persons in furtherance of the common intention).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-kills-younger-brother-for-eyeing-his-wife-father-goes-to-cops/articleshow/77006809.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid-19 treatment covered even at makeshift hospitals||HYDERABAD: With hospitals running out of capacities and authorities transforming public spaces such as community centres, stadiums, hostels and hotels into Covid-care centres, insurance regulator, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has now directed insurers to consider these makeshift or temporary hospitals as a hospital or network provider and settle the claims of policyholders accordingly. “In order to ensure that the costs of treatment of Covid-19 are covered as per the terms and conditions of policy contract, a makeshift or temporary hospital permitted by central or state government shall be regarded as a hospital or network provider…,” IRDAI said in a circular on Thursday. It directed insurers to settle the claims where a policyholder diagnosed as Covid-19 positive is admitted into any such makeshift or temporary hospital on the advice of a medical practitioner or appropriate government authorities. These guidelines, which come in to force with immediate effect, also said that insurers will have to settle claims where any network provider has set up any such makeshift or temporary hospital and such makeshift or temporary hospital shall be regarded as the extension of the network provider and cashless facility shall be made available. The regulator advised insurers to expedite settlement of all such claims in accordance to the applicable regulatory framework.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-treatment-covered-even-at-makeshift-hospitals/articleshow/77008698.cms||Swati Rathor
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||Return of migrants fuels land row spike||CHATRA: There has been a significant increase in property disputes in the district ever since migrant workers started returning to their home villages in large numbers following the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Forty-three new cases over property disputes were registered against 243 people in Mayurhund police station of Chatra alone in recent months. The officer-in-charge of Mayurhund police station, Rupesh Mahto ,said, “Cases of land disputes have increased all of a sudden following the return of migrants.” The lockdown and loss of jobs have forced tens of thousands of migrants workers to return to their villages and the limited economic opportunities that had driven the workers’ exodus from parts of the country over the years have shrunk further in lockdown. In Jharkhand, unemployment went from 8.2% to 59.2% between March and May, before making some recovery to 21% in June. As the number of jobs dips, that of property claimants has grown. Karun Singh, from Pratappur village under Mayurhund police station, was working in Mumbai for many years, but was forced to return to his village in Chatra after he lost his job in the city. Upon his return, Karun found that his uncle had allegedly sold off his share of their ancestral property without intimating him. A village head on the condition of anonymity said, “Many people from Chatra work in bigger cities. Their sudden return and decision to live here have made their relatives agitated. The latter were so far looking after the agricultural plots of the migrants and treating those parcels of land as their personal property.” He confirmed that many have sold property without taking consent of the actual owner. Similarly, in Manhe, the sons of two brothers reached home from Mumbai during the lockdown and got into a legal battle over the family land and the matter landed at the police station. Police said often disagreements over property are resulting in legal battles between family members and many migrants who have returned home after several years away have discovered that their relatives — who were given the responsibility to look after their property — have sold off their portion of the land. An elderly man in the village said, “In most cases, when people leave the village, it is assumed they will make their own living and will have no active role or share in family landholdings. Now they are back and are staking claim to something they had been written off from. So brothers and sisters are fighting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/return-of-migrants-fuels-land-row-spike/articleshow/77007628.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||No community transmission in Jharkhand: Govt||RANCHI: The state department of health, medical education and family welfare has said there is no community transmission of Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand. The assertion is based on a report of a sero-survey conducted across 13 of the 24 districts in the state in two batches between May and June, The report was released late on Wednesday night by the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) cell of Jharkhand Rural Health Mission Society. The department said 4,761 persons across 13 identified high-risk groups across Pakur, Latehar, Simdega, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Dumka, East Singhbhum, Garhwa, Hazaribag, Khunti, Palamu, Ranchi and West Singhbhum districts were part of the study. The sero-survey, conducted in collaboration with the Bhubaneshwar-based regional medical research centre (RCMC) of ICMR, also said that the prevalence of the novel coronavirus in Jharkhand was very low. In its report, the department claimed the virus’ prevalence was at 0.75% of the 1,194 people who were tested in Pakur, Latehar and Simdega in May. The survey’s second round, conducted across 10 districts in June, put the prevalence rate at 0.63%. Sero-survey is a process to determine whether a person has been infected by the coronavirus in the recent past by testing his blood samples. Conducted among random individuals in a population, the survey was conducted by Elisa antibody test, the department said. Ranchi, which has 565 cases among the state’s 4,546 cases so far, has the highest prevalence rate (2.4%). Palamu, which has 105 cases so far, has a prevalence rate of 1.6%. East Singhbhum, which has the highest number of cases among all the districts of Jharkhand (733), has zero prevalence rate. “Prevalence of sero-positivity has been highest in the age group (of) 40-49 years (0.96%) followed by the 30-39 years age group (0.73%). Prevalence in the community clearly indicates the absence of community transmission in Jharkhand,” the report claimed. Meanwhile, the department on Tuesday said it has directed the respective district administrations to constitute Covid dignity task force to apprise the denizens of the contribution of health workers and alleviate social stigma. The task force will fight social ostracization of health workers (doctors, nurses, paramedics, staff, technicians and others) by creating awareness, the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-community-transmission-in-jharkhand-govt/articleshow/77006678.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||Congress legislative party intact: Alamgir||Ranchi: Scotching speculations that BJP is trying to break the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD manahgathbandhan government in Jharkhand, state rural development and parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam on Tuesday said the Congress legislative party in the state is intact and none of its legislators will defect to the BJP. Speaking to TOI, Alam said: “As the Congress legislative party leader, I can vouch that our party is intact.” Alam, however, did not comment on the Jharkhand Congress chief Rameshwar Oraon’s Wednesday’s claims that the saffron party is trying to bring six Congress MLAs to its fold. Speaking to journalists on Wednesday, Oraon had said BJP was trying to disrupt the coalition government of JMM, Congress and RJD after being defeated in the 2019 state assembly polls. Referring to former deputy CM of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot’s revolt against CM Ashok Gehlot, Oraon had said: “Similar efforts are being made in Jharkhand and (MLAs) were offered money and posts in order to help (BJP) form the government here. Such efforts were also made in the recent Rajya Sabha elections (on June 19). But the MLAs of the mahagatbandhan are in a flock and united.” Oraon however did not reveal the names of the Congress legislators who were approached by the BJP. On Wednesday, BJP’s Jharkhand chief Deepak Prakash had rubbished Oraon’s allegation. “Congress does not trust its own MLAs and it has to bring its house in order. The government has failed to fulfil every promises it made to the people and now it is now making such statements to mask its failures,” Prakash had said. In the 81-member house, the ruling coalition has 48 MLAs -- JMM 29, Congress 15, JVM-P two and RJD and NCP one each. BJP has 25 MLAs while it enjoys the support of Ajsu party (two MLAs), JVM-P (1) and two independents. Oraon’s remarks created confusion among Congress rank and file on Wednesday. Its working president and Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari stressed that Oraon must name the legislators to maintain transparency and confusion among the lawmakers. On July 14, Ansari had put out a cryptic tweet tagging former AICC chief Rahul Gandhi and AICC’s Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh stating: “Lies and flattery would have taken me across oceans. But the habit of speaking truth led to my downfall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congress-legislative-party-intact-alamgir/articleshow/77006611.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||Hazaribag, Koderma add Covid beds amid spike in cases||HAZARIBAG/KODERMA: District authorities in Hazaribag and Koderma have started new healthcare centres and increased the number of beds available for Covid-19 patients after dedicated hospitals ran out of space because of the spike in coronavirus cases in the last few days. On Thursday, the Hazaribag district administration started setting up a 200-bed hospital at the police training academy. Till Thursday morning, Hazaribag had 361 total cases, of which 161 are active and four have died. More than 100 cases have been reported from the district since Monday, with 61 new infections diagnosed in the district’s single-biggest spike on Wednesday. DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said officials of the police academy agreed to the administration’s request for setting up the hospital on their premises. Singh said, “This will solve our immediate problem by accommodating 61 patients who tested positive on Wednesday as we fell short of space in our existing facilities.” The district suddenly fell short of beds because a private super speciality hospital, HZB Arogyam, was de-listed owing to payment issues. HZB director Harsh Ajmera said they had provided 60 beds for Covid patients in the past but the administration did not pay them for their services. Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar Sinha said with the new additions, the number of total Covid beds in the district has reached 376. He said, “We have 70 beds at HMCH, 66 at the Forest Training Institute and 40 at Silwar government training centre. With the 200 new beds, a lot of our space problems will be resolved.” In adjoining Koderma, which has 108 active cases along with two deaths till Thursday morning, officials have started increasing the Covid beds. The district currently has 34 containment zones and 108 active cases. DC Ramesh Gholap said, “We have now added 30 more beds at the Covid-designated hospital, Holy Family, taking the total count to 130. Moreover, beds at Domchanch and the sadar hospital have also been increased to 100 and 20 respectively for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribag-koderma-add-covid-beds-amid-spike-in-cases/articleshow/77006791.cms||Abhijit Sen
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||Ready to hand over hosps to govt, says pvt healthcare centre owners||Ranchi: Various medical organisations, including Indian Medical Association (IMA) Jharkhand and Association of Healthcare Providers (India), on Thursday said they will support the state government in the fight against Covid-19. The decision was taken during a meeting of functionaries of the associations at the IMA Bhavan. During the meeting, many private hospital owners said they are ready to hand over their healthcare centres to the government to tackle the shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients. IMA state secretary Dr Pradeep Singh said, “We request the state government to increase designated Covid-19 hospitals so that we can prevent the spread of infection to other patients. We also request for arrangements for more isolation beds across the state.” Singh also stressed that the government should make use of the Covid-19 wards modified from train coaches by railways and the hospitals run by PSUs, if required. Various other associations said they are ready to offer their employees in the fight, if the government agrees to provide insurance cover to them. Jharkhand women wing president of IMA, Dr Bharti Kashyap, said, “We have decided that if any of our health workers treat Covid patients, they must be provided an insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ready-to-hand-over-hosps-to-govt-says-pvt-healthcare-centre-owners/articleshow/77007758.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||BJP delegation meets Murmu, seeks justice for Godda MP||Ranchi: A two-member BJP delegation, comprising state general secretary Pradeep Verma and Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, on Thursday submitted a memorandum to governor Droupadi Murmu, accusing Hemant Soren government of political vendetta against Godda MP Nishikant Dubey. Last week, one Vishnu Kant Jha, a resident of Bampass road in Deoghar, had filed an FIR at a local police station against Dubey and his wife Anamika Gautam, accusing the two of forging government documents to lower the price of a plot of land in the district, which the couple had bought last year, thereby, duping the state exchequer of its revenue. Both Verma and Narayan,in their memorandum to Murmu,said, “The complainant is a former BJP member who was removed owing to his criminal antecedents. Our MP is neither a vendor nor the purchaser of the said land. He has been falsely implicated by the complainant for political reasons at the behest of the Hemant Soren-led government.” The memorandum further said that Hemant is using his political might to harass Dubey as the latter has been a strong critic of the wrongdoings of his government. “We request the governor to intervene and provide justice to our MP and his family,” the two BJP functionaries said in the memorandum. Congress, which is a part of ruling alliance in Jharkhand, dared Dubey to face the due process of law. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The government and the police are doing their job on the basis of a complaint filed against the Godda MP. As a responsible lawmaker, Dubey should face the legal battle and come clean.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-delegation-meets-murmu-seeks-justice-for-godda-mp/articleshow/77007779.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||Four deaths, 207 new Covid cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded four Covid casualties and 221 new infections from 18 districts (including 14 late on Wedneday night) in the last 24 hours, a state health department bulletin said on Thursday. The total caseload in Jharkhand is now 4,783, 2,228 are active cases, 2,513 have recovered (including 28 on Thursday) and 42 have died. East Singhbhum recorded its fifth Covid casualty as a 45-year-old man died at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) in Jamshedpur. West Singhbhum reported its first virus death -- an 81-year-old woman, a diabetes patient, from Chaibasa died at the same hospital three days after she was admitted after testing positive for the viral infection. State capital Ranchi reported it’s ninth Covid casualty -- a 51-year-old woman who died at Rims. “A resident of Vasant Vihar colony, she had tested positive on Wednesday and had several co-morbidities,” said a doctor. In Giridih, a 65-year-old man who was on ventilator died at Rims on Thursday afternoon. “He was suffering from acute diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney diseases and was on ventilator support for two days,” said a health department official. Among fresh cases, Ranchi recorded the highest – 41, while Garhwa (36) and Palamu (nine) recorded their biggest single-day spike. Koderman recorded 27 cases, Hazaribag 26, Dhanbad 13 and Sahebganj 10. In the nine other districts, fresh cases was in single digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-deaths-207-new-covid-cases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/77007900.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||Monsoon session of assembly unlikely any time soon, says Cong’s Alamgir||Ranchi: The Hemant Soren-led government is unlikely to convene the monsoon session of Jharkhand assembly any time soon owing to the spike in Covid-19 infections in the state. Speaking to TOI on Thursday, state minister for parliamentary affairs Alamgir Alam said holding the session will mean exposing a lot of people, including ministers, lawmakers, politicians, bureaucrats, government employees, assembly secretariat personnel, police personnel and the common people, to the risk of contracting the virus. He said, “This is a risk the government is unwilling to take at this point. A formal discussion with the CM is yet to be held on this matter as the whole government machinery is busy tackling the spread of the virus.” As on Thursday morning, Jharkhand had recorded 4,576 positive cases and 38 deaths. The state has 2,053 active cases and close to 2,500 recoveries. The monsoon session is held traditionally between July-August each year. This year, the Budget session, the first of the mahagathbandhan government, was adjourned on March 24, five days before its scheduled closure. The spread of the infection among lawmakers has also come as a concern for the government with JMM MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto and state water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur testing positive recently. Alam said the government is looking at the other states. “The Parliament, which sees business for more than 200 days a year, has remained closed for four months. How can we take the risk (of resuming assembly work)?” he questioned. Assembly speaker Rabindranath Mahto, however, said the monsoon session will be held once the situation is conducive. “The session has to be held. We are waiting for the right time. The virus is sparing no one. If the session is convened and members or on-duty personnel test positive, then it leads to a far-worse situation,” he said. Babulal Marandi, BJP’s legislative party leader, was not reachable when contacted for his party’s view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/monsoon-session-of-assembly-unlikely-any-time-soon-says-congs-alamgir/articleshow/77006538.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 17, 2020||Ranchi||BJP has no intention to destabilise govt: Spokesperson Kunal Sarangi||JAMSHEDPUR: Amid the political crisis in Rajasthan, BJP on Thursday said it is in no way trying to destabilise the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government in Jharkhand. The saffron party’s spokesperson, Kunal Sarangi, refuted the recent allegations of JPCC president Rameshwar Oraon, who said BJP is trying to wean away some of his MLAs. In his allegations, Oraon told the media without naming anyone or providing figures that BJP is trying to lure some Congress MLAs with money. Oraon even alleged that BJP, which he said drove a wedge between Congress leaders Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan chief minister) and Sachin Pilot (former deputy chief minister), is putting all efforts to dislodge the coalition government in Jharkhand. Talking to TOI, Sarangi said, “Rameshwar-Ji is trying to hog the limelight and ignore the differences within his party and blame BJP by saying we are in contact with some Congress MLAs. He even alleged that money is being offered to the MLAs to break away from the party so that the Hemant Soren government can be reduced to a minority.” He, however, said BJP has adopted a wait-and-watch plan as “all is not well within the coalition”. Citing the cases of Jyotiraditya Scindia in Madhya Pradesh and Pilot in Rajasthan, Sarangi said the young and dynamic leaders are marginalised by the Congress high command and claimed that the situation in Jharkhand is no different. “Young leaders in the state Congress, who want to work, are not being given a chance,” he added. Oraon, who is also the state finance minister, had said the “evil” intentions of BJP will not come to fruition and termed Congress MLAs as “tikau” (lasting) and not “bikau” (can be purchased) and said the government is running smoothly and working for the common people. Rejecting Oraon’s assertions, Sarangi claimed that the grand old party has failed to live up to the expectations of the people of the state and now Congress wants to hide it by painting BJP as the villain. He said BJP respects the mandate of the voters and will play the role of a constructive opposition in the state assembly. The BJP spokesperson went on to say that there is a lot of internal friction within the ruling coalition and many of the Congress MLAs are not very pleased with their leadership. He advised Oraon to take note of such dissent, which he said may snowball into major issues and might trigger wider cracks within Congress. He said, “Oraon-Ji should look after his own house rather than blaming BJP.” Referring to the recent win of BJP candidate Deepak Prakash in the Rajya Sabha polls, Sarangi said his party is doing good in the state and will do even better in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-has-no-intention-to-destabilise-govt-spokesperson-kunal/articleshow/77007823.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
July 17, 2020||Jamshedpur||Four deaths, 207 new Covid cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded four Covid casualties and 221 new infections from 18 districts (including 14 late on Wedneday night) in the last 24 hours, a state health department bulletin said on Thursday. The total caseload in Jharkhand is now 4,783, 2,228 are active cases, 2,513 have recovered (including 28 on Thursday) and 42 have died. East Singhbhum recorded its fifth Covid casualty as a 45-year-old man died at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) in Jamshedpur. West Singhbhum reported its first virus death -- an 81-year-old woman, a diabetes patient, from Chaibasa died at the same hospital three days after she was admitted after testing positive for the viral infection. State capital Ranchi reported it’s ninth Covid casualty -- a 51-year-old woman who died at Rims. “A resident of Vasant Vihar colony, she had tested positive on Wednesday and had several co-morbidities,” said a doctor. In Giridih, a 65-year-old man who was on ventilator died at Rims on Thursday afternoon. “He was suffering from acute diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney diseases and was on ventilator support for two days,” said a health department official. Among fresh cases, Ranchi recorded the highest – 41, while Garhwa (36) and Palamu (nine) recorded their biggest single-day spike. Koderman recorded 27 cases, Hazaribag 26, Dhanbad 13 and Sahebganj 10. In the nine other districts, fresh cases was in single digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/4-deaths-207-new-covid-cases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/77015819.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 17, 2020||India||Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Vasundhara Raje keeps mum||NEW DELHI: Former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje has remained conspicuously silent on the political crisis in the state even as her party colleagues have spoken on the developments and criticised the Ashok Gehlot government for herding ministers and MLAs in a resort when the state is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Raje has been active on social media, reacting to various issues, but has not uttered a single word on the Congress infighting, which has been going on since the Rajya Sabha polls. Rajasthan political crisis: Live updatesMost state leaders, including BJP vice-president Om Mathur, Union minister Gajendra Singh and state president Satish Poonia have repeatedly attacked the state government but Raje has preferred silence, an unusual stance when the Gehlot government is facing the challenge of survival. Read AlsoCan Sachin Pilot survive outside Congress, BJP in Rajasthan?With Sachin Pilot clarifying on Wednesday that he won't join BJP, the options left before him could be to join a non-BJP party or float his own political outfit—that is in case he decides to leave Congress or the party expels him. Rajasthan, however, since Independence has elected either a CongressNagaur MP and BJP ally Hanuman Beniwal on Thursday claimed that Raje has been trying to save the “minority” government of Gehlot. “Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje is leaving no stone unturned to save the minority government of Ashok Gehlot. She has made calls to several Congress MLAs,” Beniwal tweeted. The Jat leader has had an uneasy equation with Raje. Read AlsoAshok Gehlot the new stalwart of Rajasthan politicsThe showdown with Sachin Pilot has placed CM Ashok Gehlot in the league of stalwarts of Rajasthan politics —Congress’s Mohanlal Sukhadia, state’s longest-serving CM (1954-71) and BJP’s Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, three-time CM (1977-1998). Like Sukhadia and Shekhawat, Gehlot has emerged as a massA sense of unease is simmering as BJP leaders await developments with the party's stance on a floor test yet to be firmed up. There were reports that Raje might be in Jaipur on Wednesday but that did not happen. It is clear that the BJP strategy is essentially being framed in Delhi by the BJP leadership. Shekhawat, however, continued attacking Gehlot, saying the government’s countdown had begun. “Gehlot government will fall soon. People have started counting days of its survival,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-political-turmoil-in-rajasthan-raje-keeps-mum/articleshow/77009814.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||After 4-year wait, Maha HSC results breach 90% mark||Nagpur: After a long wait of four years, Maharashtra state board’s Std XII (HSC) results finally breached the 90% mark with an overall passing percentage of 90.66%. This was an increase of 4.78 percentage points from last year’s passing percentage of 85.88%. While the exact reason is hard to ascertain — considering that over 14 lakh students appeared for the exam — many believe it is a mix of liberal marking, ample paper evaluation time and increased awareness levels of students. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA), said the pandemic played an indirect role in this. “Our HSC exams got over before the lockdown started, but its impact was felt later on. Our evaluators got plenty of time to assess the papers due to lockdown and that is why they could notice the efforts put by students,” said Gavhankar. “Otherwise, the teachers work under strict deadlines and in such a scenario, the student always loses,” he added. Gavhankar also stated that VJUCTA had written to the board about deadline pressure and the effect it has on evaluation. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal, Adarsh Vidya Mandir, said the pending change of course seemed to be a reason. “This batch was the last one which appeared under the old course. So when papers were assessed, it’s natural that the evaluators would keep that in mind. Students, too, pushed themselves hard, knowing well that they did not want to be stuck with the old course,” said Tiwari. Madhu Phopre, principal of MES Junior College, agreed that students got a boost. “There’s nothing unfair about the marking. It is just that evaluators were not harsh this time. When assessments were going on, coronavirus was in full flow, so evaluators also sympathize with students in such situations. Also, colleges control 20 internal marks, so not much is required for a student to pass in theory,” she said. Manisha Mahatme, a senior academician and state awardee in the education field, said ‘awareness’ had changed everything. “The bar has been raised as we see increase in awareness and need. Students and parents want to achieve more than others,” said Mahatme. Ambedkar school vice-principal Kabir Rawlekar concurred, saying students had become aware of the competition faced by them. “There is a trend emerging wherein students are becoming conscious of the competitive scenario and preparing well,” said Rawlekar. Dilip Bose, executive member of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said that students had indeed put in a lot of effort. “Students compare themselves with others and take extra efforts to push through,” said Bose. Many academicians who did not wish to be identified said the combination of internal and theory marks helped prop up the passing percentage. One such academician said, “Out of 20 internal marks, we give an average of 18 marks to students. Evaluators have not been harsh with marking in theory papers, and that may have helped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-4-year-wait-maha-hsc-results-breach-90-mark/articleshow/77006933.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra board students may still have to fight for top colleges||MUMBAI: While a rise in the number of 90% and above scorers across all boards will push the admission cut-offs for self-financed courses, HSC students are likely to be at a disadvantage at top-rung colleges this year as well. Mumbai saw a 40% rise from last year in the number of HSC students scoring 90% and more. In the state, the corresponding number rose almost 65%. With CBSE and ISC recording a massive rise in students scoring above 95% nationally, though, self-financed courses could see a rise in cut-offs. Several colleges recorded a success rate of almost 100% in arts on Thursday. At St Xavier’s College, success rate for science was 98.5% and arts 99.7%, with one student failing. In arts, 322 of 357 students got distinction. Jai Hind College principal Ashok Wadia said, “Though HSC marks have improved, state students are still behind other boards for admissions. It is high time one applies one’s mind and brings validation and equivalence among boards. Unrealistic percentage competition should stop somewhere.” K C College principal Hemlata Bagla said the cut-offs may drop after the first or second list due to high mobility of students among colleges. Principals say the pandemic may have an impact on the choice of colleges. Some say students seeking to study abroad or even in national institutes in other states may take a year’s drop or decide to study in the city. Within Mumbai, too, some may choose to seek admissions closer home, to avoid the local train commute. “A lot of things will depend on how students make their choice,” said Parag Thakkar from H R College. “Students may rethink their study-abroad plans. If that happens, many will want to study here. Within Mumbai, too, there will be questions on mobility. We do not know how many students from Virar-Vasai and Kalyan-Dombivli would want to travel to south Mumbai,” said Thakkar. Sanjana Ramnath, a topper from Jai Hind College, told TOI she has decided to take a year’s drop from pursuing law. “I was planning to appear for CLAT this year, but now I have decided to take admission for BA in my college. I may appear for the entrance test next year or will pursue a post-graduate degree in law. I am not comfortable about going to any other city this year,” she said, adding she wants to get into human rights law or civil services. Meanwhile, though the admission schedule for degree colleges is likely to come out in a day or two, students can start registering with their details on mum.digitaluniversity.ac.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-board-students-may-still-have-to-fight-for-top-colleges/articleshow/77009805.cms||Yogita Rao
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Get tested for Covid at Rs 650 in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: Corosure, arguably world’s most affordable test kit for Covid-19, developed by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi will be used in Vidarbha to increase coronavirus infection testing in two weeks. The kit was launched on Wednesday (July 15) after being approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). Union minister of state for HRD Sanjay Dhotre, who is MP from Akola, e-launched these kits from Akola. Dhotre has ensured that these kits would be used in Vidarbha region on priority. “At a time when widespread testing is of utmost importance amid the coronavirus crisis, this very low-cost diagnostic kit is a great feat that IIT Delhi has achieved in very short period,” said Dhotre. Base price of this kit is Rs399 and after adding the RNA isolation and laboratory charges, one test will cost only Rs650. These kits will be available in registered private laboratories across Vidarbha. So, citizens having a prescription of a registered doctor can get themselves tested right in their town/city. Corosure is probe-free, RT-PCR-based Covid-19 diagnostic kit developed by researchers of IIT Delhi’s Kusuma School of Biological Sciences. Current testing methods are “probe-based”, while the one used in this kit is a “probe-free” method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy. At present, an RT-PCR test costs Rs2,500 to Rs2,800 while the rapid antigen test costs Rs950 to Rs1,250 in private set-up. Tests are done for free in government set-up. In fact, the IIT Delhi scientists have identified unique short stretches of RNA sequences in the genome of novel coronavirus by using comparative sequence analyses. The test kit detects these unique short stretches and confirms the infection. The research was being carried out since March and it has proved successful on all parameters. In Vidarbha, Covid infection cases are now being reported from rural areas. Dhotre’s Akola is worst-hit district in the region. “We have decided to use these kits in Akola and adjacent districts on priority. More tests will ensure better containment of the virus,” he said adding 10 companies producing Corosure have agreed to provide 5,000 kits for free to the government after production of each batch of 1 lakh units. India will receive 20 lakh Corosure kits by August, Dhotre claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/get-tested-for-covid-rs650-in-vid/articleshow/77006960.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||Mahagenco to set up three mega solar parks in Vid||Nagpur: Energy minister Nitin Raut has decided to go for solar energy in a big way. He has directed Mahagenco to set up several solar parks having total capacity of 602 MW in three phases. In the second phase, three solar parks having total capacity of 390 MW would come up in Vidarbha. Raut told the media that in the first phase 187 MW capacity would come up at Kaudgaon (50 MW), Latur (60 MW), thermal power station lands at Bhusawal, Koradi, Parli and Nasik (52 MW) and Sakri (25 MW). “Loan will be taken from German government agency KfW and money sanctioned earlier by state government would also be utilized. Mahagenco has been directed to submit the proposal for cabinet approval immediately,” said the minister. Mahagenco officials said that solar panels would be installed on vacant land near ash bund in Koradi and the solar project would not affect the 2x660 MW thermal expansion project that is at present in limbo. In the second phase, three solar parks having total 390 MW capacity would come up in Vidarbha. They are Washim (170 MW), Yavatmal (75 MW) and Kachrala (Chandrapur) (145 MW). They would be funded by KfW loan and equity infusion by state government. The proposal for cabinet approval of these projects would be prepared soon. In the third stage, 25 MW capacity addition would be done at Sakri solar park using domestic loan of lowest rate of interest and equity infusion by state government. Under ultra mega renewable energy solar park scheme of central government, some 2,500 MW capacity solar parks will be set up in the state by a joint venture of Mahagenco and National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). Solar projects would be developed by individual companies as per their share in the joint venture company. These projects were discussed between Raut and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in Mantralaya on Thursday. Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio, agreed to clear these projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahagenco-to-set-up-three-mega-solar-parks-in-vid/articleshow/77006973.cms||Ashish Roy
July 17, 2020||Business||SIAM: Bharat Stage VI||Kolkata: The pandemic-led disruption in sales and revenues of auto companies at the crucial juncture when they had pumped in huge amounts to migrate to Bharat Stage VI emission technology will impact future investments, including roll-out of electric vehicles, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) president Rajan Wadhera cautioned on Tuesday. "The auto sector was passing through one of the worst contractions when the lockdown happened. This year, the auto sector is looking at a decline of 26-45% depending on the vehicle category. Coupled with that of last year, we are looking at a decline of 50% in two years. When the demand is half, I don't see any case for investment in the sector. Investments will dry up. Whatever investments are in the pipeline to get products out will be made. But very little money will be put into new products or plant and capacity addition," Wadhera said. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had set an EV target of 30% by 2030, up from 1% at present. That would mean sales of at least 1.5 million passenger cars assuming that the auto industry then manufacturers 5 million cars, up from 4 million at present. To achieve this, companies will have to invest several thousand crores in technology, design and development of EVs. But the SIAM chief did not see this happening. "You can't keep on borrowing money and investing. Even if you want to, if you do not have revenue you cannot invest," Wadhera said, adding that the industry cannot "afford" to invest in EV in the present scenario. The only way India could avoid missing the EV technology and growth curve, he felt, was through government incentives to revive demand and collaboration between industry and academia. "Governments all over the world, including the US, Italy, France and even Thailand have provided incentives to the auto industry. Since last September, we have been trying to impress upon the government to introduce fiscal measures that can generate demand. We are also seeking a 10% GST cut across categories and introduction of scrappage policy with incentives like 50% rebate in GST, road tax and registration charges," he reasoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/siam-bharat-stage-vi/articleshow/77007998.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||‘Allow Eid prayers in masjids with 50-attendee limit’||Nagpur: Stating that there is no alternative to qurbani (animal sacrifice), Muslim organizations have demanded that the state government must allow the upcoming Eid-ul-Zuha prayers in masjids on the lines of marriage ceremonies wherein gathering of up to 50 persons has been permitted.All places of worship have been shut since March 24 when the nationwide Covid lockdown was imposed. Though the central and state governments have allowed markets to reopen and marriage ceremonies to take place with certain conditions as part of ‘mission begin again’, no decision has been taken for places of worship.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray must let all places of worship reopen with permission for maximum 50 persons at any given time. We will ensure all distancing norms are religiously followed at masjids. Government must give us at least one chance,” said Jamiat Ulema Hind (JuH) Nagpur president Hafiz Masood Ahmed. Ahmed said all masjids have followed the guidelines and will continue to do so. “Already, juma (Friday prayers) are being offered at homes. As all other things are opening up, why keep places of worship shut,” he asked. Regarding qurbani, he said, “Generally, the sacrifice takes place at individual homes so there is no cause of concern. There is no alternative to qurbani.”Jamiat-e-Islahul Momeneen secretary Hamid Qureshi said Eid should be celebrated in simple way. “Those having financial problems are exempt from qurbani ritual. If people want, 3-4 families can buy one goat and celebrate the Eid,” he said. Amid Covid times, sale of goats and sheep for sacrifice is another concern as big crowds of not just traders and buyers but also curious onlookers gather at such places.Over the years, the sacrificial animals have been sold from Mominpura goat market, Jaffar Nagar and Neher on Kamptee Road. Community members wish to address the concern by seeking multiple selling points within the city so as to avoid large gatherings at one place. Atiquee Qureshi, an agent in goat trade, said the ‘mandi’ must be temporarily shifted back to Mominpura till Eid, which is likely to be celebrated on August 1. “Transporting goats from APMC Kalamna will add to the cost for people beside causing crowding,” he said. Speculations are also rife that not many would opt for buying sacrificial animals and restrict Eid celebration to just praying and spending time at home.Hafiz Sohel Ather feels the lockdown has left a dent in the income of many and the middle class may refrain from qurbani ritual. “Just 14 days are remaining, but you don’t see any rush or enthusiasm about qurbani this year. In case we get permission, we will offer Eid prayers in masjids with full precaution. Traditional hugs and handshakes would be avoided,” he said. Ather added that whether there is lockdown or not, people must avoid crowding during Eid for the safety of all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-eid-prayers-in-masjids-with-50-attendee-limit/articleshow/77007012.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||45% of +ve Mumbaikars now in home treatment||MUMBAI: Exactly 10,366 Covid-19 patients in the city are currently undergoing treatment at their homes compared to 9,771 who are in hospitals. Another 2,691 patients are in the jumbo Covid field facilities created to care for mild and moderate patients. The breakup, based on 22,828 active cases as on Thursday afternoon, shows that a growing number (45%) of positive patients are choosing home care over hospitalisation.  A Marol couple, who had tested positive for coronavirus three weeks ago, said they sought home care fearing isolation in a hospital. "We didn't want to be cut off from each other particularly," said the husband, a pharma executive. A majority of cases in city are now from high-rises: OfficialsA majority of Covid patients are currently under treatment in their homes. “I had been stepping out regularly for work and knew my chances of getting infected were high. I had even purchased a pulse oximeter and BP monitoring machine in April itself,” said a pharma executive from Marol. Both he and his wife tested positive three weeks ago. He admitted to checking oxygen levels every 15-20 minutes in the first three days. “Our symptoms were not very serious, but we were anxious. We started feeling better by the sixth-seventh day,” he said, adding he was constantly in touch with doctors over video calls. Physicians believe an increasing number of people seeking home care is a sign of the Covid panic being on the wane. Civic officials, however, say home treatment numbers have increased in the last few weeks with more infections coming from the non-slum areas. “When Mumbai saw its peak, we had a majority of cases coming from the slums. But in the last few weeks, the trend has reversed as we are seeing more cases from the high-rises, something we had seen in the beginning of the pandemic,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary on special deputation to BMC. “Since they have the avenue to isolate themselves at home, most prefer this over getting hospitalised,” she added. The initial few days are challenging for both patients and physicians. “They have high fever, cough, bodyache and anxiety. Some of them constantly call. Besides treating these symptoms, doctors must do a lot of counselling,” said Dr Hemant Gupta, professor of medicine at Grant Medical College and a physician. Some patients check their oxygen levels up to 50 times in a day. “If the cough and fever is persistent, I recommend an X-ray after two days,” he said, adding that he has treated nearly 50 patients at home. Paediatrician Dr Bijal Srivastava, who consults with L H Hiranandani Hospital, said even children, unless they have heart or lung disease, or immune deficiencies, are advised home care. “We put them on multivitamins, vitamin C and zinc and tell parents to alert us if symptoms worsen,” she said. Experts, however, caution signs of deteriorating symptoms shouldn’t be missed. “A fever that doesn’t subside after 5-6 days, breathlessness and dipping oxygen saturation levels are red flags. And these could be seen even in young and without comorbidities, so one can’t lower guard for two weeks,” she said. Dr Singhal added that for elderly patients with comorbidities, hospitalisation is advisable as symptoms could deteriorate rapidly. A doctor said there was need for propagation of treatment protocols among GPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/45-of-ve-mumbaikars-now-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/77009818.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||4 leopard cubs land in Gorewada as effort to unite with mother fails||Nagpur: Perhaps the first long experiment to reunite four 1.5-month-old leopard cubs in Akola district with their mother failed despite Herculean efforts. The abandoned cubs have now been shifted to the Gorewada Rescue Centre at Nagpur.According to state’s chief wildlife warden Nitin H Kakodkar, this was first such long dedicated effort to reunite four cubs with mother leopardess. “We successfully reunited such cubs in Junnar where mother took away all four cubs,” said Kakodkar.Akola divisional forest officer (DFO) Vijay Mane said on June 30, three cubs were found in Pastul in the bushy patch on banks of Morna river in Akola. On July 1, the fourth cub, which was a bit weak, was also sighted.“The spot where these cubs were found has a good forest patch under Patur range. When we learnt about it, locals had started gathering but later strict vigilance was maintained and efforts were started to reunite cubs with mother,” said Mane.“Rains were a hurdle, but we made serious efforts. We built a machan and installed cameras to keep round-the-clock vigil. Initially, we fed 10-15 ml goat milk regularly three times a day to the cubs. The feed was later increased to 20-25ml.“After feeding the cubs in evening, we used to put them in a plastic crate and staff used to keep a watch. We recorded presence of mother nearby and also had direct sighting but to our surprise it did not take away the cubs. The langur calls always indicated her presence. We also recorded presence of a male leopad in the area and one more female with cubs at a distance away. We also heard mating calls of the male,” said Mane.Wildlife biologist and expert Vidya Athreya expressed surprise over mother not taking away the cubs. “It is possible there may be other leopards in the area,” she said.Dr Ajay Deshmukh, wildlife vet and expert, said, “Though forest department made committed efforts, there can be several reasons for failure. Presence of a male trying to lure the leopardess into mating may be one. Otherwise, females never leave cubs in such a state.”Between 2009 and 2019, Dr Deshmukh had 70 reunion cases of leopard cubs in Junnar forest division in Pune. These included 10 cases where there were four cubs. The Akola forest officials were in regular touch with Deshmukh.Dr Deshmukh said, “If it is the first litter of the female, she would avoid from coming near the cubs suspecting foul play. They also tend to avoid flash of cameras.”FDCM divisional manager Nandkishore Kale said, “The cubs are in a healthy state and are playful. They have been kept in a room. Interested people can approach us for adoption for which annual fee would be Rs 50,000 per cub. We will put names of such parties on display.”On what next, PCCF (wildlife) Kakodkar said, “As of now nothing has been decided. If we plan to send them to a zoo, Central Zoo Authority (CZA) permission would be needed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-leopard-cubs-land-in-gorewada-as-effort-to-unite-with-mother-fails/articleshow/77007099.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 17, 2020||Goa||Personnel dept to review revival of lapsed posts||Panaji: Government departments whose proposals for revival of posts have been pending before the high-level empowered committee (HLEC), have been instructed to refer them to the personnel department and thereafter to the finance department. Recently, the cabinet decided that posts remaining vacant for seven years shall be deemed abolished. The HLEC and inter-departmental committee of officers (IDCO), which had been constituted by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, had ruled that posts that remain vacant for five years would be deemed abolished. Both committees were discontinued by chief minister Pramod Sawant last year. Thursday’s order, which was issued by the personnel department, also stated that proposals towards outsourcing of activities such as housekeeping, security and services sourced through the Goa Human Resource Development Corporation (GHRDC) shall, for the first time, be referred to the personnel department and thereafter to the finance department for concurrence. Departments need not approach the two departments for extension of existing agreements of outsourcing. They can do so with the approval of the minister of department concerned, the order read. The proposal for extension shall be required to be referred to the departments of personnel and finance only if there are changes in the existing contract in terms of number of personnel or of rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/personnel-dept-to-review-revival-of-lapsed-posts/articleshow/77008882.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||PIO of Colva panchayat fined under RTI Act||MARGAO: The Goa State Information Commissioner in two separate orders passed recently has imposed a penalty of Rs 3,000 each on the public information officer (PIO) of the Colva panchayat, Amol Tilve, for failing to furnish information as directed by the first appellant authority within the stipulated time under the Right to Information Act. Complainant Nevil Furtado had sought information from the PIO of the Colva panchayat pertaining to encroachments by gaddas on road setback and public spaces, and also pertaining to licences issued to gaddas and rickshaws. As no information was furnished to him, Furtado appealed before the first appellate authority, who directed the PIO to furnish the necessary information within a stipulated time. The PIO failed to comply with the directions, prompting Furtado to approach the Goa State Information Commission. “The PIO must introspect that non-furnishing of correct or (furnishing) incomplete information lands the citizen before the first appellate authority and also before this commission resulting into unnecessary harassment of the common man, which is socially abhorring and legally impermissible,” state information commissioner Pratima Vernekar noted in her order. The total amount payable as penalty shall be deducted from the salary of the PIO, the order states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pio-of-colva-pchayat-fined-under-rti-act/articleshow/77008889.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Amona to get Krishi ghar, govt okays land transfer||PANAJI: The state government has given its nod for the transfer of 7,453 sqm of land at Amona in Quepem, owned by the water resources department (WRD), for the construction of a krishi ghar. The parcel of land, admeasuring 20,245 sqm, was originally acquired by WRD for the construction of a command area development authority complex for the Selaulim irrigation project. Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, who also holds the agriculture portfolio, had recently requested for a piece of the land to be allotted for the construction of a krishi ghar, which could house a mini demonstration farm and also be used to host zonal agricultural activities. The proposal was placed before the cabinet meeting on Wednesday to which the cabinet approved the land transfer, valued at Rs 1.49 lakh, at the rate of Rs 20 per sqm. An official said the WRD had constructed six godowns in the area, some of which were used for storing bandhara gates, and machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amona-to-get-krishi-ghar-govt-okays-land-transfer/articleshow/77008907.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Cong burns power bills in Mapusa||Saligao: A delegation of Congress workers and supporters protested at the electricity department’s office in Mapusa on Thursday over the exorbitant bills received by the consumers during the Covid-19 pandemic. The delegation comprising Goa Pradesh Congress Committee’s (GPCC) vice-president Sanklap Amonkar, former Calangute MLA Agnelo Fernandes, GPCC general secretary Amarnath Panjikar, Goa Pradesh Youth Congress president Varad Mardolkar, Porvorim block Congress president Shankar Phadte, North Goa district president Vijai Bhike and district committee members and other leaders the delegation confronted executive engineer Pradeep Narvekar over the high power bills. As a mark of protest, the delegation set fire to electricity bills. A strong police presence at the electricity department later got the protesters to disperse. Amonkar brought it to the notice of the electricity department’s executive engineer that a consumer was charged around Rs 16,000 for just 83 days, when he should have got a bill amount of around Rs 6,000. Panjikar told reporters that the power minister was least concerned about the hefty power bills, which have caused immense suffering to the common man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-burns-power-bills-in-mapusa/articleshow/77008915.cms||---
July 17, 2020||India||CSIR suggests cap on remdesivir price||NEW DELHI: The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has suggested regulating price of the experimental Covid-19 medicine Remdesivir used in hospitalised patients who are on oxygen support on the basis of a cost analysis of the API used in the formulation. The proposal states that the price of the drug can come down substantially and CSIR has submitted its recommendations depicting scope for sizeable reduction in cost of treatment with regard to the drug used for treating severely ill patients, sources said. “The proposal to cap the price of the drug is under active consideration by the drug price regulator, National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA),” an official told TOI. The NPPA is the drug price regulator of India. Remdesivir is currently priced in the range of Rs 4,000-Rs 5,000 per vial and the total cost for the drug during treatment is estimated between Rs 40,000 and Rs 55,000. The drug – originally developed by an American firm Gilead – has been launched in India by a number of generic drug makers including Cipla, Hetero and Mylan who entered a licensing agreement with the drug’s patent holder. At least three more companies – Jubilant Life Sciences, Dr Reddy’s Labs and Cadila are also expected to launch their brands of Remedisivir very soon. While this arrangement itself has brought down the price of the drug, CSIR thinks it can still be brought down substantially. "The idea behind the proposal is to make the drug available and affordable to all in such a crisis," another official said. Sources said a slew of meetings have taken place in last two weeks between the Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP), NPPA, health ministry and NITI Aayog. While Remedisivir is just one of the expensive drugs being tried for COVID-19 patients, it assumes significance because it is part of the standard treatment protocol for COVID-19 suggested by the health ministry. The drug is in high demand after the intravenously-administered medicine helped to shorten hospital recovery time in a clinical trial. Remdesivir is in high demand after the intravenously-administered medicine helped to shorten hospital recovery time in a clinical trial and is now part of the standard treatment protocol for Covid-19 suggested by the health ministry. This is also a crucial factor holding back the government and the regulatory authorities from imposing a price cap on the drug. “The drug is in huge demand despite some serious adverse events reported from its use in some cases. Therefore, it is important for us to ensure availability of the drug. Price regulation must not lead to short supply,” the official said. Recently, there were reports of shortage-driven black marketing and overcharging of Remdesivir, prompting the health ministry to ask the companies making the drug to regularly give details of production, stocks and sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/csir-suggests-cap-on-remdesivir-price/articleshow/77009836.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 17, 2020||Goa||Prepare roadmap for youth skills, govt urged||Panaji: It is important for the government to prepare a roadmap to upskill Goan youth and enable them to be trained for the new roles that will arise when the economy revives, said Goacan in a letter to the directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship (DSDE). Goacan coordinator Roland Martins has asked DSDE director Dipak Desai to take concrete steps to improve skill training and entrepreneurship opportunities and has offered 10 recommendations for the government’s consideration. “It is important that DSDE prepares a roadmap which should not only take in account the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) operating in the state, but also the private institutes registered under the Human Resource Development Foundation Society and the proposed industry apprenticeship initiative,” said Martins. Goacan has also recommended that DSDE initiate a statewide consultation to identify essential skills for the economic revival of Goa. “The DSDE should examine the Gram Panchayat Development Plan of the 190 panchayats and identify the skill training requirements in collaboration with GIPARD. The DSDE must also develop the appropriate linkages with GSUDA to see possible tie-ups in view of the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM),” said Goacan. Martins has also recommended that DSDE reformats the apprenticeship training scheme to suit the present Covid restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prepare-roadmap-for-youth-skills-govt-urged/articleshow/77008925.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Deer enclosure wall at Bondla falls after heavy rain||Panaji: The heavy rain this month has put weak structures under duress. One such casualty is the deer enclosure wall inside Goa’s only zoo in the Bondla wildlife sanctuary. The wall was about eight to ten years old. “The wall collapsed after heavy rain lashed the area last week. We are trying to erect the wall as soon as possible,” chief wildlife warden, Santosh Kumar said. Of the fifty metre wall, an expanse of about eleven meters has collapsed. The animals are safe, officials from the Bondla range forest office told TOI. The zookeepers have sealed the perimeter temporarily. However, this has been rudimentarily done with the help of a mesh net, sticks and bricks. The forest officials are rushing to get it fixed because the enclosure shares its partition wall with the enclosures of the black buck and sambhar. Fear of the animals coming into potential conflict with each other is giving the zookeepers sleepless nights. “There is no threat to the animals at present, but we have to fix the wall immediately. The work has already been handed to the PWD. However, we are also working on getting it fixed departmentally in case the work gets delayed,” an official said, adding that the repair will cost an estimated Rs 6 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deer-enclosure-wall-at-bondla-falls-after-heavy-rain/articleshow/77008934.cms||Nida Sayed
July 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra's first woman election commissioner dies of Covid||MUMBAI: Veteran bureaucrat and the state's first woman election commissioner Neela Satyanarayan succumbed to coronavirus on Thursday at the Seven Hills Hospital. The 72-year-old Satyanarayan is the first IAS officer, albeit retired, to die due to the infection.  Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and CM Uddhav Thackeray condoled her death. Koshyari said she was an outstanding officer, a prolific writer, a courageous mother and a social thinker. Several leading politicians took to Twitter to pay tributes.  An IAS officer of the 1972 batch, Satyanarayan retired as additional chief secretary (revenue) in July 2009 and was appointed state election commissioner. After end of her tenure on July 5, 2014, she was into social work, writing books and poems. She also composed music for a film. A celebrated author and poet, she wrote 13 books. As state election chief, she simplified rules for elections to civic corporations, councils and zilla parishads and brought in transpa rency. She was the first to use information technology, introduced the concept of NOTA in elections to local bodies and allowed use of marker pen instead of ink on the finger. Reports said her husband, son and daughter too have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtras-first-woman-election-commissioner-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77009843.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Rethink nods to 3 Mollem projects, says Saldanha||PANAJI: BJP Cortalim MLA and former state forest minister Alina Saldanha has written to the central empowered committee (CEC) in New Delhi raising concerns about clearances granted to three infrastructure projects that will run through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem national park. In her letter, Saldanha said the projects “were passed during the lockdown, when a site-specific inspection and public consultation were not possible”. She stated that they pose an immediate risk to the Western Ghats and cannot be looked at in isolation since “they have synergistic effects on livelihoods, ecology and watershed services”.  The two-time BJP MLA said that the Dudhsagar waterfalls — one the largest in India — would be disrupted. “I sincerely urge the committee members to listen to the citizens, scientists, writers, residents and stakeholders from all walks of life to protect Goa’s future which is at a crucial juncture. Safeguarding the integrity of Mollem national park and the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary is not only about protecting these forests but it also about the identity, ecology and livelihood of every Goan,” she wrote. The government has permitted the four-laning of a highway and laying of a line-in, line-out (LILO) transmission line in the Western Ghats. The highway and transmission line will pass through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife sanctuary and Mollem national park in Goa. There is a third project — double tracking of the railway line from Castle Rock to Collem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rethink-nods-to-3-mollem-projects-says-saldanha/articleshow/77008955.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||If no takers, get IIT to Farmagudi: Sudin||Ponda: In the backdrop of the rising opposition to the setting up of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) at Melauli in Sattari taluka, Madkai MLA and former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has offered to welcome the institute at Farmagudi. The MGP MLA said establishing the prestigious institute in Farmagudi would be another feather in the cap for Ponda taluka, which is already known as an ideal educational hub. Farmagudi village in Madkai constituency is already home to the National Institute of Technology (NIT), the Goa Engineering College, the Bandekar College of Pharmacy, PES’ College of Arts and Sciences, an Industrial Training Institute (ITI), PES College of Education, GVM’s GGPR College of Commerce and Economics and some higher secondary schools. Stating that he was also instrumental in bringing the NIT to Farmagudi, Dhavalikar said the land adjacent to the ITI and GEC can be acquired for the IIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-no-takers-get-iit-to-farmagudi-sudin/articleshow/77008975.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Neura sluice gate functional: Agri department||PANAJI: After the Goa Human Rights Commission took suo motu cognisance of the plight of Neura farmers who complained of saline water entering khazan lands, the agriculture department has stated that the work of the sluice gate has been completed and a cofferdam which was blocking the saline water from being drained out has been removed. During an inspection earlier this month of the Neura khazan over salt water intrusion, the department learnt from farmers that they could not cultivate their fields earlier since these were flooded with saline water. “The agency executing the reconstruction of the dilapidated ‘Pilo’ sluice gate had constructed a cofferdam around it due to which saline water from the khazan bund in the vicinity of the sluice gate could not be drained out,” explained the department in its inspection report, adding that as a result the water could not be regulated from the sluice gate. “However, the entire work of the sluice gate was completed on May 31 and after removal of the cofferdam, the sluice gate has been put to operation and at present there is no waterlogging in the fields,” stated the inspection report filed by the assistant director of agriculture (Crops), assistant engineer and zonal agricultural officer (Tiswadi). The commission took cognisance of farmers complaining of saline water entering the fields, preventing them from taking up cultivation. The commission has called for reports from the director of agriculture, chief engineer water resources department, Tiswadi mamlatdar and Neura Khazan Tenants Association chairman over breaches in the bundh and saline water entering the fields. The farmers stated that a bundh was constructed with poor quality material, while another part of it is still under construction and blamed those involved in sluice gate fishing for releasing saline water into the fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/neura-sluice-gate-functional-agri-dept/articleshow/77008997.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Goa||Opposition calls CM ‘pathological liar’, slams him for governor's statements||PANAJI: The opposition criticised chief minister Pramod Sawant for lying about his interaction with Goa governor Satya Pal Malik and for ascribing wrong statements to the governor. While Goa Forward Party called Sawant a “pathological liar” Congress said it was a “shameful act”. After meeting the governor, Sawant had said that Malik had criticised the media’s coverage of Covid-19 cases. “The governor rebuffed the chief minister for saying the media misleads. He also said that not locking down Vasco was a judgemental error and giving the excuse of co-morbidities for Covid deaths was unethical. Goa never had such a pathological liar as chief minister,” GFP president Vijai Sardesai, said. GFP said that Sawant, by shamelessly and blatantly lying about what the governor had said, had crossed all limits, exposing once again characteristic traits of deceit and duplicity. Congress said Malik’s outright denial of the statements attributed by Sawant to the governor reaffirmed BJP’s traits of false promises and ‘jumla’ (meaningless words). “I am not surprised to hear the lies narrated by Sawant as he is taking ahead the legacy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is a master in fakery, ‘jumlebaz’ Amit Shah and U-turn specialist Manohar Parrikar,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. Congress also strongly condemned the act of the chief minister who “tried to blame mainstream media and social media users for exposing the misdeeds of the BJP government”. GFP vice president Durgadas Kamat said Sawant had lied about providing immunity boosting homeopathic pills through all the 40 MLAs. “It is not a surprise that Sawant is now playing dirty politics with regard to the distribution of immunity boosters handed over by Union minister for Ayush Shripad Naik,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-calls-cm-pathological-liar-slams-him-for-guv-statements/articleshow/77009009.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: BTP will support Congress govt, says Paresh Bhai Vasava||UDAIPUR: Amid the ongoing political crises, the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) has decided to support chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The party vice-president Paresh Bhai Vasava, in a press conference at Dungarpur on Thursday, said the BTP respects the public mandate and does not want to topple the government which has been elected by the people. Earlier, the party which has two MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly, had asked its legislators to remain neutral and not align either with CM Gehlot or his deputy Sachin Pilot. Speaking to media, Vasava said BTP would never support anyone who tries to fracture a government unethically, before completion of its term. “We would prefer the Gehlot government to complete its term. Both our MLAs are constantly in touch with the party high command and would act as per directions from the organisation,” Vasava said. He also said there is no possibility of a floor test immediately, however, if such a situation arises, then the party would act according to the need of the hour. Party president Velaram Goghra said BTP has always abided by the principles of issue-based politics. “It has been our motive to communicate the public demand and requirement before the government and get them fulfilled for the general good. We had put forth five demands before the government which includes implementation of Maharashtra pattern in Rajasthan, planning in tribal area according to the availability of natural resources and to give charge of the tribal advisory committee to the minister of tribal area development,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rajasthan-btp-will-support-congress-govt-says-paresh-bhai-vasava/articleshow/77009854.cms||---
July 17, 2020||Nagpur||With 3,500+ cases in July alone, Vid surpasses 8k mark||Nagpur: Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 case count reached 8,195 with 265 new cases detected in a day on Thursday. Five deaths – 2 in Buldhana, and 1 each in Amravati, Akola and Wardha— were also reported in the day taking total toll to 230. Alarmingly, 3,549 new cases have been recorded in first 16 days of July which means an average 222 new cases per day. July alone accounts for nearly 44% Covid-19 cases in the region. On Thursday, two women patients from Khamgaon in Buldhana district died during treatment. They were 50 and 55-year-old respectively. Khamgaon is one of the worst-hit tehsils of Buldhana. A 60-year-old man from Amravati, who had tested positive in Amravati but later referred to Nagpur, died during treatment at GMCH. A 71-year-old woman died in Wardha during treatment while an 82-year-old man died in Akola. Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 death toll reached 230 which means the case fatality rate of the region is 2.80%, just a few points above national average of 2.62%. Barring Gadchiroli, all other districts in Vidarbha reported new cases on July 16. They include Nagpur (78), Akola (62), Buldhana (44), Amravati (30), Washim (16), Yavatmal (15), Wardha (8), Gondia (5), Chandrapur (5), and Bhandara (2). Total 159 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals. Amravati (49) saw highest recoveries on Thursday followed by Nagpur (34), Gadchiroli (17), Buldhana (12), Akola (10), Gondia (9), Wardha (7), Chandrapur (7), Bhandara (5), Washim (5), and Yavatmal (4). With 5,329 of total cases recovered till date, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is above 65%. BULDHANA: Two women patients died in Buldhana during treatment on July 16 taking toll of he district to 20, which is fourth highest in Vidarbha region. A 55-year-old woman and a 50-year-old woman, both residents of Khamgaon, died on Thursday. After 64 and 69 patients in last two days, total 44 new patients were reported from the district. This could be because the number of tests has reduced to 280 on Thursday against more than 330 on last two days. Total 233 samples were tested by rapid antigen method. AKOLA: An 82-year-old man from Chhota Bazaar village in Akot tehsil died in Covid Hospital Akola on July 16. He was under treatment since July 11. The man is 99th Covid-19 death of Akola district. He was brought in a serious condition and age factor proved fatal for him, said doctors. Rapid antigen tests are back in Akola district due to which the number of patients detected on July 16 surged to 62. While 16 of them were from RT-PCR tests, 46 were from rapid antigen tests which were conducted in rural areas of Akot, Telhara, Balapur, Barshi-Takli and Patur. “Total 467 rapid antigen tests were done. Of these 46 came positive. They include 41 from Patur where we conducted 218 tests,” said DHO Dr Suresh Asole. Balapur has highest number of Covid-19 deaths in rural Akola. But, out of 110 tests conducted there, not a single was positive. AMRAVATI: A spike of 30 new cases today and a death of a 60-year-old male at GMCH, Nagpur, last night took the district’s Covid count to 1,089 and toll to 37. Though health administration here did not mention the death in its report today, GMCH confirmed that the patient from Ishabgaon, who was referred here on July 11 after testing positive on July 2 at Best Hospital, where he was admitted for cough and fever on June 30, died at GMCH at 8 pm yesterday. On the brighter side, as many as 49 patients got discharge which took the count of recovered patients to 716. As of Thursday, the number of active cases is 336, including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur. WARDHA: Eight coronavirus infected patients have been found in the district on Thursday, including four women and four men from Arvi (2), Wardha (4), and two patients from Karanja taluka. A 76-year-old woman died during treatment at Kasturba hospital. A 76-year-old Mahadevpura resident of the city was admitted to Kasturba Hospital on Wednesday evening. The woman was already suffering from a few serious diseases. She died while undergoing treatment for diabetes. After the death, her report came positive. Other affected patients include a staff nurse aged 35 and attendant at Arvi sub-district hospital aged 35, a 72-year-old woman from Itwara in Wardha, a 75-year-old man from Hindnagar and a 37-year-old man from Keshav City and a 30-year-old man and 20-year-old woman from Kakada village in Karanja taluka. Of these, two have been admitted to Sewagram while five at Sawangi Hospital. The number of patients in the district has increased to 84 of whom 22 are under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: Five more patients were detected on Thursday taking the total number of Covid-19 patients to 218 in district. A total of 120 patients have been cured and discharged, while 98 active patients remain. Officials informed that five new patients include a SRPF personnel from Telimedha in Nagbhid tehsil, a 25-year-old woman from Bramhapuri town, a 33-year-old Gondpipri resident and an engineer from Manikgarh cement factory in Gadchandur. All of them have travel history and were in quarantine. Officials informed that out of total 98 active patients, 17 are outsiders. They include 11 SRPF jawans and five who belong to other states but are stationed here. They claimed 75 patients were being treated at Covid care centre in city, while 23 are under treatment at Chandrapur GMCH. All are stable and out of danger. YAVATMAL: Coronavirus graph of Yavatmal is showing an upward trend for several days. On Thursday, eight men and seven women from district tested positive. Four patients recovered and were discharged from GMC isolation ward. Currently 152 patients are under treatment here. GMC sent 46 swab samples to its lab and a total of 87 reports are awaited. GONDIA: Three residents of Civil Lines of Gondia city and two IRB Jawans are among five new corona positive cases in the district. Total nine patients were discharged after recovery. Reports of 174 samples are awaited. Gondia has 226 total cases but 186 of them have recovered and have been discharged. With three deaths (one in Nagpur), Gondia has 37 positive cases only. GADCHIROLI: With no new case on Thursday, and 17 recoveries, there are 146 patients under treatment in the district. While 96 of them are residents of Gadchiroli, 50 are from other district/states. BHANDARA: Two new patients were reported while five patients recovered in a day. Out of total 187 cases, 95 have recovered and two died as Covid-19 victims. Now, Bhandara has 90 active patients. WASHIM: While 16 new patients reported in a day, five recovered. Total cases surpassed 300-mark here which means all districts in Amravati division of Vidarbha are now having more than 300 cases. Out of 309 total cases in Washim, 120 have recovered while seven have died. Total 182 are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-3500-cases-in-july-alone-vid-surpasses-8k-mark/articleshow/77008143.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 17, 2020||Goa||With one day to stock up, citizens rush to markets for essential items||PANAJI/CALANGUTE: As citizens readied themselves for the three-day lockdown from Friday to Sunday, serpentine queues of buyers were hard to miss. People seemed to have resorted to panic buying for the second day in a row in a bid to stock up on vegetables, especially since horticulture outlets are going to be shut. “None of the (horticulture) outlets will be allowed to open. We have informed our suppliers from other states to suspend operations until Monday. Due to panic buying, most of the outlets managed to sell majority of their vegetables,” chairman of the Goa State Horticulture Corporation Ltd, Pravin Zantye, said. He said that vegetable supply will normalise Monday onwards. Buyers purchased grocery items, oil and biscuits in bulk, said Netty Fernandes, manager at the one of the Panaji-based outlets of the Goa Sahakar Bhandar. “The government has not come out with any notification about the closure of grocery stores. We are not sure if we are to operate or not. We have therefore allowed customers to purchase bulk quantities of the perishable goods,” Fernandes said. While small kirana stores saw a rush to purchase essentials till the shelves were near-empty, the situation was no different at the otherwise well-stocked superstores as well. “I wanted to stock up on brown eggs and broccoli, but the entire shelf of exotic produce was wiped clean,” a St Inez resident, who had gone to a Magson’s outlet, said. In the Calangute-Candolim beach belt, fish vendors made a killing with five-six medium mackerels going for Rs 500-600. Other varieties of seafood were also sold at exorbitant rates. There were long queues at chicken and meat shops, with vendors not hiking their rates. Many items like tomatoes were sold out in some places due to bulk buying. Some shops and restaurants stayed shut on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-one-day-to-stock-up-citizens-rush-to-markets-for-essential-items/articleshow/77009019.cms||---
