July 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Comet Neowise to be clearly visible in India, till mid-August||Good news for astronomy enthusiasts! The comet named ‘C/2020 F3’ or ‘Neowise’ is visible through even small telescopes till the middle of August. Neowise is said to be the brightest comet visible from the Northern Hemisphere. Amateur astronomer SA Mohan Krishna tells us, “The comet looked stunning through the telescope. Even in the first couple of weeks of August, it will be discernible in the Northern Hemisphere. Neowsie was discovered on March 27 this year, and it has brightened as it comes closer to the sun.” Adding that the comet is visible from every part of India, astronomer Dr PK Manoharan adds, “Comet Neowsie might be visible from earth again only after 7,000 years. During the first two weeks of August also, the comet may be clearly perceptible.” Mohan further adds, “One can expect a ghostly, greenish orange splotch to grow brighter in the sky in the coming days. Neowise will make its closest approach to earth shortly. The comet is clearly discernible even through small telescopes between 4.30 am and 5 am till the first half of August, in the north east direction in the Ursa Major constellation. But the morning sky should be absolutely clear.” So, what are you waiting for? Pull out your telescopes and watch out for Neowise at dawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/comet-neowise-to-be-clearly-visible-in-india-till-mid-august/articleshow/77024361.cms||Vinay Lokesh
July 18, 2020||India||Justice Banumathi says she herself was victim of court delay||NEW DELHI: Justice R Banumathi, who retires on July 19 as the judge of the Supreme Court, said on Friday that she and her family was the victim of delay and complicated legal procedures that prevented them in getting the compensation for the death of her father who died in a bus accident. The lady judge, who for the last time on Friday, conducted the court proceedings, said in her farewell address, that there were mountains of obstacles for no reason" in her three decade career as the judge of the subordinate court to the apex court. Justice Banumathi, described as "a great judge" by Attorney General K K Venugopal, would be remembered for the landmark judgement in the Nirbhaya gangrape and murder case of December 16, 2012 in which the four convicts were awarded death penalty. She headed the bench, which heard the case till an hour before the convicts were hanged to death on March 20 morning. Justice, Banumathi, who is the member of five-judge collegium and only the second lady judge to achieve the feet, also recently heard the politically sensitive corruption cases involving former union finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram. In a webinar organised to commemorate her three-decade long career as a judge, she talked about her father's accident and the delay related to the compensation.  I lost my father in a bus accident, when I was of two-year age. In those days, we had to file a suit for compensation. My mother filed the claim and court passed a decree. But, we couldn't get the amount due to complicated procedures & lack of assistance.  Myself, my widowed mother and my two sisters, we are victims of court delay and its procedural lags. We did not get the compensation till the last day,? she said. She talked about her struggles and said that during her judicial service, there were mountains of obstacles for no reason. With the retirement of Justice Banumathi, the apex court will be left with two women judges -- Justices Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee. Never before in the history of the Supreme Court there had been three sitting lady judges. The judge, in her farewell speech, lauded various initiatives taken by the governments and the judiciary to ensure more efficiency of the system as well as to aid in the accessibility to justice.  The technology present today wasn't there when I entered the judiciary. In the present day, everyone speaks of pendency of cases and they pass a lot of comments saying that the pendency is affecting the economy of the nation. "I want to strike a positive note that various initiatives have been taken by the Central Government, State Governments and the judiciary to aid in the accessibility to justice and to ensure more efficiency of the system,? she said. Various enactments, moves like increasing the strength of Judges at the High Courts and the Supreme Court etc have helped in bringing sweeping changes, she said. Justice Banumathi added that with more citizen-centric services such as copies of judgements and orders, easier accessibility of cause list, e-payments, mobile apps etc. are all arms meant to increase accessibility and transparency of the system. Wishing that a vaccine is developed soon for COVID-19, she said that at this point, regarding physical courts, that is a decision to be taken by the Committee of Judges. But, we must wait for sometime, because more than appearance, we must understand that it is more of a life concern.? While expressing her respect for all the religions, she said that though she was a Hindu, she also believed in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Attorney General K K Venugopal AG K K termed Justice Banumathi as 'a great judge'. Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave praised Justice Banumathi as a fiercely independent judge who gave multiple dissenting opinions." Justice Banumathi started her journey as a sessions judge in 1988. She was elevated to Madras High Court on 3 April 2003. Thereafter, she was elevated to the apex court on August 13, 2014 and was the sixth woman judge in the SC. She was also the second-ever woman to be part of the Collegium. Justice Ruma Pal was the first woman to achieve that feat. She retired in 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/justice-banumathi-says-she-herself-was-victim-of-court-delay/articleshow/77026481.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Party workers' murder in political clashes: Confusion over Bengal BJP's letter to governor||KOLKATA: The Bengal BJP’s letter to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar gave rise to confusions over the number of party workers allegedly murdered in political clashes. In the letter written to Dhankhar, the BJP demanded a CBI enquiry into the death of Hemtabad MLA Debendranath Roy and claimed that since 2017 a total of 105 party workers were killed in political clashes. “The incident reminds us of similar gruesome murders by hanging committed by Trinamool goons during panchayat election in 2018. In Puruliya Trilochan Mahato and Dulal Kumar, both young karyakartas of the BJP were murdered. Since 2017 (pre-panchayat polls) 105 BJP karyakartas or supporters were brutally killed by ruling party goons—and none of the accused area behind the bars at present,” the letter read. The BJP has earlier claimed that a total of 93 workers were killed in political clashes in West Bengal since 2013. Last year the party’s national president J P Nadda performed tarpan of 80 karyakartas killed in political violence. The Bengal BJP’s media in-charge Saptarshi Chowdhury said, “Family members of 93 party workers have so far spoken to media detailing the gruesome killings of those karyakartas.” “There are some party workers whose family members got afraid or were intimidated. Take, for example, case of a party worker in Birbhum, his family members were so intimidated that they did not mention his association with the BJP. Threat and intimidation on BJP workers in West Bengal is continuing unabated,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/party-workers-murder-in-political-clashes-confusion-over-bengal-bjps-letter-to-governor/articleshow/77026696.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 18, 2020||Goa||Lotlekars got their hands dirty by planting saplings at Van Mahotsav||Due to COVID pandemic, this year the Van Mahotsav festivities taken a back seat, but to follow the customs, Maendra Alvares, curator of Big Foot Museum, Loutolim, has organised a plantation drive where he along with his team and planted around 120 saplings.  “We have planted indigenous saplings like cashews, jackfruits, jamuns and others. Most of the saplings are homegrown, while some are picked up from the forest department,” says Maendra. It took the team almost two-three days to finish planting all the saplings. “We have also given out some saplings to people who are interested in planting. So that they plant it at home and take care of it. Since these saplings are native to Goa, they grow immediately and do not require much effort to grow. When they are planted, one must take care of them for a few weeks.”  All these saplings are planted in and around Loutolim and have been marked. “Last year, we had students from the village schools who planted sapling and the sapling responsibility was given to the student, after a few months we would inspect the plant and accordingly a prize was given to the student. This in a way would attract the child to love nature and also inculcate in the child the love to nature,” he tells us.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lotlekars-got-their-hands-dirty-by-planting-saplings-at-van-mahotsav/articleshow/77026828.cms||Kimberly Colaco
July 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Weeks after scribbling date of death on self-portrait, painter commits suicide||MUMBAI: Around a month after he drew a self-portrait and mentioned his date of death on it, a Warli painter from Dahanu committed suicide in his home. While the 32-year-old painter of the tribal art form was worried about his job as a teacher (he taught drawing in the unaided section of a government school in Dahanu) due to the lockdown, his separation from his wife is believed to be the prime reason. The Kasa police have registered a case of accidental death. The victim was found hanging in his home in Nimbapur on July 15. A portrait of himself that he had sketched on June 20, had his death date mentioned as July 15. The portrait was hidden from his family. Minutes before killing himself, he shared the garlanded portrait on Whatsapp with a relative. But it was too late. When his body was discovered by the family hours later, they were shocked to see him hanging and the garland portrait around. The couple had married in 2016. As they were childless they had frequent fights. The wife returned to her maternal home on June 8 and the victim's attempts to bring her back had failed. Villagers told the police that the victim was a good painter and his artworks were sold in Mumbai and Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-weeks-after-scribbling-date-of-death-on-self-portrait-painter-commits-suicide/articleshow/77026838.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 18, 2020||Goa||Let’s salute the COVID warriors of the postal service!||You’ve seen them around in the lockdown, quietly going about their work, connecting people and getting the job done. They may not get noticed as much as policemen or doctors – but the postmen are also part of an essential service. Through the pandemic they’ve gone about their job with dedication, despite the threat of disease – enough reason for us to celebrate them as COVID warriors. Post offices shut for just one day“We ensured that the mail was always on the move. With no trains and flights, we had to activate our road transport network. Mumbai is our main mail hub and the department had started a special road service between Mumbai and Belgaum through Kolhapur. That meant we had to connect Panaji to Kolhapur. Our drivers were not able to leave Goa, as they had to undergo tests on the return journey. There was also a lot of delay at the borders. No courier was operating due to lockdown and we were moving COVID test kits, personal medicines, essential items like sanitisers and masks besides other urgent mail. We positioned our mail vans at Kolhapur so that they could transport mail to Panaji and back,” says N Vinodkumar, Postmaster General, Panaji. Maria Dominica Luis, sub-postmaster of Alto Porvorim tells us, “We have been working during the entire lockdown and were shut only on the first day of Janta Curfew. We have managed to deliver mails to our customers on time. We don’t have any pending mails.” They are very particular about taking customers inside the office, and only those with face masks are allowed in. Maria tells us, “We also make sure that only two people are allowed to enter. Thermal scanning is also carried out at the entrance.” ‘People are wary about us, but we take precautions’The postmen are taking precautions about their health and well-being, wearing a mask and sanitising themselves after they deliver mail. “We made masks out of uniform cloth initially, procured sanitiser bottles and even supplied face shields to employees. Thermal scanners have been supplied to large offices and employees and customers are encouraged to follow social distancing norms. Offices, mail vans and even mail bags are sanitised to keep everyone safe,” informs Vinodkumar. “A few housing societies denied entry to all outsiders including postmen and in such cases, we contacted the addressees and requested them to collect their mail from the Post Office.” But people can be suspicious and fearful at this time. Mahesh, a postman who delivers letters in Porvorim tells us, “A family once handed out a plate to me and asked me to drop the mail on it. It was something new for me, but this is the norm. Some don’t mind accepting the letters from us, but try to maintain some distance.” Devidas, from Candolim Post Office, informed, “People are suspicious that we could be carriers, as we travel from door to door. Many have asked us to keep the mail on the compound walls, to maintain distance.” DID YOU KNOW?  Goa has 255 post offices and over 900 employees. It is headed by the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Goa Division, and the office of the Postmaster General is responsible for the Goa Postal Region and Sangli, Kolhapur, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts of Maharashtra  Postal services are essential services exempt from lockdown  There was a scare when 13 employees from Vasco Post Office tested positive. All have been cured.  Other services offered by the department that have come in useful in the lockdown include AePS (Aadhar enabled Payment System) that delivers cash at the doorstep, the Postinfo app to register service requests, Kisan Rath service to help mango farmers in the Konkan area and the GetWellSoon web interface||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lets-salute-the-covid-warriors-of-the-postal-service/articleshow/77026915.cms||Kimberly Colaco
July 18, 2020||Varanasi||Luxury hotels keep business running with takeaway food||With every industry devising ways to keep rolling in the present pandemic times, the luxury or the star hotels in Varanasi are offering food take-away from their high-end restaurants, setting a new normal for the hospitality industry. This new offering is not only keeping these premium hotels connected with their customers but also creating new avenues of generating revenue for them. “Following all the safety protocols and the government guidelines, we are offering this take away service where customers can relish the cuisine of our restaurants as well our bakery products without stepping out of their homes. In the present scenario when people are reluctant to dine out, we thought of starting this facility where people could order right from starters to desserts from our take away menu. We have been in touch with our regular customers through tele calling and Whatsapp messaging etc. A PDF menu has been prepared and widely circulated from which people can place an order. People can collect their food from our food delivery counter which is at the entrance of our hotel so that there is no need to enter our premises. We are also encouraging QR and UPI payments,” says Vikas Nagar, Food and Beverage Manager, Taj Ganges, Varanasi and Taj Nadesar Palace. (BCCL/ iStock)“The initial outings of the people in the kitchen, during the lockdown, dishing out delicacies, has begun to wane now. Now they want to eat exquisite dishes and are looking for safer options,” says Vasant Pandey, F&B Manager The Ramada Plaza, JHV. “For such people, we have curated a special menu for takeawayof dishes which only a professional chef is able to create. We have shared the menu list on our social media page, along with the phone numbers to place the orders,” he adds. Apart from the regular takeaway menu, some hotels are going in for customized orders in case people have some special occasion like birthday, wedding anniversary, etc. “In such a situations we need three to four hours preparation time so the customers have to place orders accordingly,” says Ranjeet Sagar, Senior Assisant Manager F&B, The Clarks, Varanasi. While the customers are able to pamper their taste buds the hotel are generating some revenue in this current situation. “Ever since we have started this food take away service, we have been able to generate decent revenue for our hotel. We already had the kitchen operational for the in-house guests so no extra effort was required to start this facility,” says Vikas Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/luxury-hotels-keep-business-running-with-home-delivery-of-food/articleshow/77023540.cms||Meera Vohra
July 18, 2020||Gurgaon||With safety measures in place, Gurgaon markets get their buzz back post unlocking||As summer transitions into monsoon, the markets of Gurgaon are graduating towards normalcy. Having been closed for over three months during the lockdown, markets reopened last month, albeit to lukewarm response. But now, with shopkeepers and market associations ramping up sanitisation and safety measures and a change in weather, the buzz is slowly returning to the city's markets. At the Arjun Marg Market in DLF Phase 1, there is thermal screening and a hands-free sanitiser station at the entrance. The small yet popular export market, known for its affordable clothes, has been seeing good footfall since it reopened earlier this month after Unlock 2.0 rolled out nationwide. "We are keeping sanitisers handy and everyone is wearing masks here to make sure that not only we are safe but the customers feel safe too. We are discouraging people without masks," says a shop owner from the market. In another part of the city, the Galleria Market had some essential supply shops open throughout the lockdown and was one of the first to reopen fully. Here too, shopkeepers are going for mandatory thermal screening of customers. Shop owners tell us that they even sanitise their shops, particularly the counters, regularly in order to maintain high levels of hygiene. A visitor sanitises his hands at one of Gurgaon's marketsIn a more organised setup like CyberHub, there is contactless thermal screening and sanitisation at the entrance as well as a mandatory check of the shopper's status on the Aarogya Setu app. At most markets, shopkeepers are attempting to maintain social distancing inside their stores too by allowing limited customers at one time. Several shoppers say they felt the experience was safe as people are careful about social distancing in public places on their own. Charul Kapoor, a city resident who visited the Arjun Marg market recently, says, "Shoppers are following social distancing voluntarily. There is no crowding and nobody is invading anybody's space needlessly. I think people are smart enough to follow all the guidelines because they know it’s for their own safety." Thermal screening of visitors at Arjun Marg Market in Gurgaon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/with-safety-measures-in-place-gurgaon-markets-get-their-buzz-back-post-unlocking/articleshow/77022453.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Hotels in Mumbai reopen with check-ins capped at 33 per cent||Have you missed that in-room dining, relaxation and a lot of other TLC that comes with checking into a hotel? It’s time to catch up with it as it’s back now. Following a directive issued by the state government, hotels, lodges and guest houses have begun to operate with 33 per cent occupancy, and adherence to new safety norms. The hospitality industry welcomed the move, albeit with concerns about the huge losses caused by closure on account of the pandemic. While talking to BT about hotels reopening, Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), says, “The occupancy has been reserved at 33 per cent for travellers and other guests, while 67 per cent are for doctors, etc. Some are already housing quarantined guests and medical health workers. It’s a welcome move and we applaud the Maharashtra government for understanding and passing an appropriate order. At least, it’s a start.” ‘The revenue loss has been tremendous in Mumbai’For an industry that runs on travel and tourism, the last few months have been one of the worst for hotels and restaurants. Says Kohli, “As discussed with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the opening of the hospitality industry is going to take place in a phased manner. There are two points to this — for one, there are no travellers so there is no business, so even if we open to full capacity, there is not going to be any occupancy. We have opened at 33 per cent and will see how it goes from there. We have to also be on a vigil to see that there is no surge in COVID-19 cases.” Quite a large number of them are also worried about this. Adds Kohli, “A section was worried that opening at 33 per cent is not feasible, which is, in fact, the truth as 33 per cent occupancy will not help them break even. But my take is that, let’s give it a shot and see how much we get, instead of shutting down. Anyway, this is bound to increase gradually to 100 per cent as travel eases and things get better. Everything else is speculation as business is not going to come in until travel (road, rail) and airlines are opened.” Talking about the hotel and restaurant industry in the city being hit hard, he adds, “It has been a tremendous loss in Mumbai, as there have been very low revenues in the past four months.” Hotels roll out the scanners, sanitisers and social distancing measuresThermal scanning is a mustHotels are an apt example of social distancing, says Kohli. “You are staying in a separate room,” he says, adding, “If the Government of India (GOI) can throw open airlines, where there is less than one-inch of social distancing and entails travelling together for long hours, can a hotel lobby or restaurant be more dangerous than that? The hotels, on their part, have made adjustments to fit into the COVID-19 safety norms.” Besides taking measures like thermal scanning, social distancing and sanitisation of luggage, hotels are also following the ‘staygiene’ plan, which includes staff wearing PPE and UV scan of beds and roomsSays Punish Sharma, vice-president, operations, of one such hotel in Mumbai, “The check-ins are largely Mumbaikars, who have come in from the airport. Guests are put through a process of thermal temperature scan at the entrance and given a mask. The check-in desk at the lobby will have a glass partition between the staff and guest. The elevators will accommodate a maximum of four guests. Sanitisers have been placed on each floor and in each room. We also have a ‘staygiene’ plan, where staff wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), sanitise the luggage, and scan the beds and other areas with a UV machine.” Travel, migratory staff will play key roles in the bounce-backWith measures in place, a few factors still have a crucial role to play in the road ahead. Kohli sums up, “When hotels opened in Delhi, the occupancy was between 8 per cent and 12 per cent. It’s not gone above 18 per cent, which is not encouraging. So, until and unless travel commences, it won’t encourage much traffic. The industry also employs almost 70-80 per cent migratory staff, who have left for their hometowns. It’s to be seen how many of them return back on time.” Government Norms that hotels are expected to follow Display posters and audiovisual media about COVID-19 on premises Installation of thermal screening and glass separators Provision of hand sanitisers, preferably pedal-operated dispensers Providing masks, gloves and other protective gear to staff and guests Seating arrangement to be done as per social distancing rules Hotels must adopt QR code, online forms and digital payments Air-conditioning levels must be maintained between 24 and 30 degrees Celsius, and relative humidity between 40 and 70 per cent, as per Central Public Works Department (CPWD) guidelines Permission to take in only asymptomatic patients Guests have to download the Aarogya Setu app DID YOU KNOW?There are approximately 10,500 hotels in Maharashtra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hotels-in-mumbai-reopen-with-check-ins-capped-at-33-per-cent/articleshow/77026729.cms||Ismat Tahseen
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata amusement park hosts Covid-19 facility||KOLKATA: In a sign of the times, one of the city’s leading entertainment zones has been converted into a Covid facility. An 8,000 sqft hall in Nicco Park that was used as a banquet facility till pandemic forced the amusement park to shut down now houses a 100-bed quarantine unit with provision to add 50 more beds if required. The Royal Courtyard hall where the facility has been set up is located in the south-eastern corner of Nicco Park in Salt Lake Sector V. According to Nicco group chairman Rajive Kaul, the facility was made available to the state government nearly a month ago when it was looking for facilities to house migrant labourers returning in numbers by trains. “Our amusement park that offers multiple joyrides and is a popular haunt for children and families has been shut since March. So, when we heard the government was desperately looking for quarantine facilities as there was opposition to such units being set up in different parts of the city, we stepped forward and offered the hall that was used for parties and banquets,” Kaul said. The park was set up in the early 90s as a joint venture between the Nicco group and the state government in the area that used to be called Jheel Meel in Sector IV of Salt Lake. Nicco Park has approximately 35 rides that include the toy train, tilt-a-whirl, striking cars, paddle boat, water chute, water coaster, flying saucer, pirate ship, river caves, cyclone and moonraker. Natural attractions include a rose garden and a forty feet high waterfall. A bowling alley with a restaurant and bar also exist within the park. The city started with the first quarantine centre on the new campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in Rajarhat. Now with a portion of the hospital being converted into Covid treatment facility, around 250 beds are available as quarantine centre. The state recently has acquired the historic Eden Gardens stadium to function as a quarantine centre. The facility in the heart of Kolkata will have a 1000-bed capacity. With flight services set to resume from six cities soon, health department officials said they were looking for other spaces to act as quarantine centres if the need arises. “Along with quarantine centres, we are also scaling up safe homes where we can keep asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients under the observation of doctors so that we can keep hospital beds free for patients who really need hospital care,” said a source in the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-amusement-park-hosts-covid-facility/articleshow/77026941.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 18, 2020||India||Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune emerge as new urban Covid hotspots||NEW DELHI: Among India’s nine largest urban centres (with 5 million plus population), it is now Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune that are witnessing the most rapid rise in Covid cases while the earlier epicentres — Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Ahmedabad — are showing signs of the outbreak slowing down. The city that has seen the highest rate of increase in cases is Bengaluru, where cases have increased at an average 12.9% per day in the past four weeks. The city has also seen a surge in deaths with fatalities growing at 8.9% per day for the same period. When it comes to case fatality rate (deaths per 100 cases), Ahmedabad continues to top the list followed by Mumbai and Kolkata. Chennai has the highest density of cases with 8,595 per million of its population. It is followed by Mumbai, Pune and Delhi in case density. Mumbai has witnessed 345 deaths for every million of its population, which is the highest in the country, and is followed by Ahmedabad and Delhi. An analysis of data over the last four weeks suggests that the outbreak is moving towards newer urban centres even within states and regions. The average daily growth in cases is declining in Mumbai, for instance, but increasing in Pune. Cases in Ahmedabad are increasing at a much lower rate than the national average, but the increase in Surat is above the national average. Chennai seems to have slowed down, but there is a surge in Hyderabad and Bengaluru. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Apart from moving to newer megalopolises, there are also changes in how cases are distributed within a city. For instance, in Mumbai, the city that has seen the highest number of cases in the country, the outbreak seems to have come under control, but there has been a surge in the satellites townships of Thane, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai and Bhiwandi in the wider Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Through all of June and the last two weeks in July, the city has recorded just 1,000-1,500 cases daily, but the densely populated hubs and semi-rural settlements around it have seen increasing levels of infection. One of the reasons cited is the movement of healthcare and essential workers between the metropolis and adjoining districts in the MMR where many of them live. The others are the lack of a concerted effort by the administration and the absence of a robust healthcare system. Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai municipal corporations have more than 10,000 cases each already. In fact, there are more active cases currently in Thane and Pune districts than in Mumbai city, which has barely 20% of all fresh cases in Maharashtra. Clearly, the epicentre has shifted. Watch Covid-19: Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune emerge as new urban hotspots||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengaluru-hyderabad-and-pune-emerge-as-new-urban-covid-hotspots/articleshow/77027254.cms||Atul Thakur
July 18, 2020||India||Hopeful, but can’t guarantee China talks outcome: Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: No force in the world can grab Indian territory, asserted defence minister Rajnath Singh while addressing troops on Friday at the west bank of Pangong Tso, around 40 km from where Indian and Chinese militaries are in a prolonged stand-off in eastern Ladakh. In comments during a visit that included a tour of forward areas in Ladakh where he witnessed combat drills with the latest weapon systems and platforms inducted by the armed forces, Rajnath said, “Talks are under way (with China) to resolve the border dispute…it should be resolved. But to what extent it can be resolved, I cannot guarantee. But let me assure you that no power in the world can either touch or capture even one inch of Indian territory.” His remarks came at the inland lake, the north bank of which is the site of Chinese intrusions in the mountainous spurs— Fingers 4 to 8. These have become a particularly contentious issue between Indian and Chinese forces even as they discuss disengagement and de-escalation. Also importantly, at Stakna which is closer to Leh, the defence minister witnessed an intensive exercise with soldiers from the Ladakh Scouts and Para-Special Forces armed with new-generation weapons as well as T-90S main-battle tanks, infantry combat vehicles, Rudra attack helicopters and C-130J ‘Super Hercules’ aircraft to underline India’s combat readiness in response to the Chinese build-up. “The exercise showcased application of integrated combined forces, with new IAF helicopters and other weapon systems, in high-altitude terrain. The Ladakh Scouts carried out a special assault drill, while paratroopers jumped from C-130J aircraft,” said an officer. The ongoing troop confrontation on the north bank of the 134-km-long Pangong lake, two-thirds of which is controlled by China as it extends from Tibet to India, has been one of the major face-off sites between the rival armies since early-May. Chinese soldiers have till now only moved back from the ‘base’ of ‘Finger-4’ to ‘Finger-5’ (mountainous spurs) on the north bank, without also fully vacating the ridge-line that dominates the area. India wants them to pull back by about 8 km till ‘Finger-8’, where the Line of Actual Control runs north to south. The minister, accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Army chief General M M Naravane, said there would be nothing better than finding a solution through the diplomatic and military talks that were under way. But referring to the 20 Indian soldiers who were killed in the bloody skirmish with PLA troops in Galwan Valley on June 15, Singh said their sacrifice and bravery will not go in vain. “India is a country that has neither attacked any other nation, nor occupied anyone else’s territory. Our character has been that we have never tried to hurt the self-respect and dignity of any country. But if anyone tries to hurt the self-respect of India, we will not tolerate it and give a befitting reply,” he said. From Ladakh, Singh left for Srinagar to review the operational situation along the Line of Control with Pakistan. He told military commanders to maintain a strict vigil along the LoC and remain prepared to give a befitting reply to any misadventure by the adversary. Singh later in the evening also chaired a high-level security review meeting which was attended, apart from the military brass, by the J&K lieutenant governor, chief secretary and DGP, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hopeful-but-cant-guarantee-china-talks-outcome-rajnath-singh/articleshow/77027365.cms||---
July 18, 2020||India||PM Modi calls for ‘reformed multilateralism’ at UN||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said it was important to “assess the UN’s role and relevance in today’s world” while making a strong pitch for a “reformed multilateralism”. “Multilateralism needs to represent the reality of the contemporary world. Only reformed multilateralism with a reformed UN at its centre can meet the aspirations of humanity. Today, while celebrating 75 years of the UN, let us pledge to reform the global multilateral system. To enhance its relevance, to improve its effectiveness, and to make it the basis of a new type of human-centric globalisation," the PM said while addressing the high-level segment of the UN-ECOSOC session on Friday, the first time after India rejoined the UNSC for two years. His virtual address was followed by Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, who made a case for preserving the UN system and supporting it rather than changing it “unilaterally”. Modi started by strongly articulating the doubts being raised about the UN’s effectiveness. “This year, we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. It is an occasion to recognise UN’s many contributions to human progress. It is also an opportunity to assess the UN’s role and relevance in today’s world, and to shape a better future for it.” He cited newly launched Indian initiatives to set up the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure as practical manifestations of multilateralism in action to address climate change, which “brings together all relevant stake-holders for a comprehensive approach”. The session was attended by PM of Norway Erna Solberg and UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres. Modi said, “We have always prided ourselves as the first responder in our region — a friend in need. Be it earthquakes, cyclones or any other natural or man-made crisis, India has responded with speed and solidarity. In our joint fight against Covid, we have extended medical and other assistance to over 150 countries. We also helped create a Saarc Covid emergency fund in our neighbourhood.” Reminding the UN session that an Indian was the first president of the first ECOSOC, Modi highlighted the fact that India, one of the largest members of the UN system and the oldest, did not yet head even one of the bigger UN organisations. China heads three. “From the very beginning, India has actively supported the UN’s development work and the ECOSOC. The first president of ECOSOC was an Indian. India also contributed to shaping the ECOSOC agenda,” the PM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-calls-for-reformed-multilateralism-at-un/articleshow/77027534.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||Digital payments widen gap with ATM withdrawals||BENGALURU: There are early signs that India is finally turning into a digital payment economy less dependent on cash. For the first time, in the fourth quarter of 2019, the value of card and mobile payments at Rs 10.57 lakh crore exceeded ATM withdrawals which amounted to Rs 9.12 lakh crore. After overtaking cash withdrawals, digital payments extended its lead in the first quarter of 2020. Card and mobile payments are now at Rs 10.97 lakh crore, even as ATM withdrawals declined 5% to Rs 8.66 lakh crore. If bankers are to be believed, the pandemic-induced lockdown has already put this transformation on a fast-track. “This trend continued through April and May with physical restrictions and lesser movement of goods and people with the lockdown. India’s posted the sharpest growth in digitization in this period compared to America, the UK, Thailand and Singapore. This is mostly on the back of UPI,” said Sampath Sharma Nariyanuri, fintech analyst, S&P Global Market Intelligence. Read AlsoVirus boosts digital payments in India where cash ban failedThe coronavirus outbreak may finally accomplish what India’s shock demonetisation four years ago failed to achieve: Use of digital payments is soaring for everything from groceries, electricity bills and cab fares.This trend is likely to continue, said bankers. “This situation is not comparable to what happened post-demonetisation. No one knows how long this coronavirus situation is going to last. For the foreseeable future businesses know they cannot transact physically. Given the ease, speed and security of doing business and the infrastructure now in place at many businesses, we don’t expect a shift back to cash,” said Shekhar Bhandari, senior vice president, Kotak Mahindra Bank. While UPI payments did post a slight dip in April to Rs 1.51 lakh crore, it soon recovered to Rs 2.18 lakh crore in May; higher than pre-Covid levels. “UPI shot past card payments last year and now we can see it extending its lead. In December 2019, UPI saw Rs 2 lakh crore transactions versus card payments seeing about Rs 1.5 lakh crore — by May Rs 2.18 lakh crore UPI transactions versus Rs 80,300 crore in card payments,” said Sampath. Bankers say digitization is seen across segments — retail, SME and unorganised business sector. “Many customers, who did not move to digitization for 5-6 years, moved in under 20 days. So technology has become the biggest beneficiary from this crisis while also being the biggest enabler for business continuity,” said Bhandari. Read AlsoAt 4,572 crore, digital payments surpass govt’s target for FY20Digital transactions in the country jumped to 4,572 crore, or close to 46 billion, surpassing the target for fiscal 2020, according to a letter from the ministry of electronics and IT sent to bank chiefs last week. Overall transactions grew 46% over the previous year, reiterating the focus onThis shift to digital payments is happening even as the currency in circulation is rising with there being a global ‘dash for cash’ as described by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das. According to RBI data as on July 10, currency in circulation stood at Rs26.8 lakh crore, up 21.4% year-on-year. But even as people are holding more cash during the pandemic, payments handled by mobile devices are soaring in India, driven by the popularity of bank accounts as an in-app payment method. “Unlike Apple Pay or other mobile wallets that allow customers to make electronic transactions using a linked debit or credit card, popular payment apps in India promote an alternative to cards,” said the S&P report. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage Mobile payments initiated by payment apps comprising account-to-account transfers and payments made from stored-value accounts rose 163% to $287 billion in 2019. By comparison, point-of-sale transactions completed using debit and credit cards, including online and in apps, rose only 24% to $204 billion. “From mobile recharges, utility bills to online e-commerce, payment apps (UPI) is becoming a popular alternative to cards. For one people are not always comfortable sharing their card details, CVV number, etc. And secondly it’s a more cumbersome process. UPI transactions have that additional layer of masking all bank details — and are faster and seamless,” said a National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) official. Watch Economy less dependent on cash, digital payments widen gap with ATM withdrawals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digital-payments-widen-gap-with-atm-withdrawals/articleshow/77027593.cms||Rachel Chitra
July 18, 2020||India||Pakistan offers India ‘unhindered’ access to Kulbhushan Jadhav||ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI: After the second consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav for India on Thursday turned out to be a non-starter, Pakistan offered another round of access to India claiming the meeting will happen this time without the presence of any Pakistan official. This third consular access offer was announced by Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi in a television interview. A note verbale was also sent to India saying Pakistan was willing to give “unhindered and uninterrupted” access to Jadhav. While India was still weighing its options until late in the evening, sources sounded sceptical as they mentioned that Pakistan had earlier this week too offered unconditional access and despite that had not allowed Indian officials to engage Jadhav in private on his legal rights. Indian officials on Thursday refused to meet Jadhav in the presence of Pakistani spies with surveillance apparatus installed at the meeting place in the foreign office. Confirming the offer, foreign office (FO) spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said this time, Pakistan has offered to give consular access without the presence of security personnel. “The Indian authorities have been formally informed about the decision and that their response is awaited,” the spokesperson said, adding that the offer was made as a goodwill gesture. A day earlier, Farooqui had claimed that two consular officers of the Indian high commission were provided “unimpeded and uninterrupted” consular access to Jadhav at 3 pm. She did not provide details about what exactly transpired in the meeting between Indian officials and Jadhav. In a separate statement and during an interaction with a local TV station, Qureshi gave a detailed description, saying Indian consular officers were provided access to Jadhav on New Delhi’s request. “Unlike the previous meeting, this time even glass partition was removed as well as no audio or video recording was done of the interaction between Indian officials and Jadhav,” he said. Despite the “unimpeded and uninterrupted” access, Qureshi claimed, the Indian officials refused to hear him out. “Commander Jadhav kept calling Indian diplomats but they turned a deaf ear towards his calls,” the minister said. According to Qureshi, it was surprising that Indian diplomats opted for escape instead of access to Jadhav. “The Indian officials’ reluctance to meet Jadhav exposed India’s ‘malice’ as New Delhi in reality never wanted access in the first place,” the FM said. Qureshi claimed Pakistan had fulfilled all demands of Indian officials but even then, they preferred not to talk to him. Talking to a news channel later, the FM said Pakistan was willing to give yet another consular access to India. “They had objected over the presence of security officials during the meeting, we are willing even to remove them. If India wants another access, then our offer is open,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-offers-india-unhindered-access-to-kulbhushan-jadhav/articleshow/77027749.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 18, 2020||World||Pakistan offers India ‘unhindered’ access to Kulbhushan Jadhav||ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI: After the second consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav for India on Thursday turned out to be a non-starter, Pakistan offered another round of access to India claiming the meeting will happen this time without the presence of any Pakistan official. This third consular access offer was announced by Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi in a television interview. A note verbale was also sent to India saying Pakistan was willing to give “unhindered and uninterrupted” access to Jadhav. While India was still weighing its options until late in the evening, sources sounded sceptical as they mentioned that Pakistan had earlier this week too offered unconditional access and despite that had not allowed Indian officials to engage Jadhav in private on his legal rights. Indian officials on Thursday refused to meet Jadhav in the presence of Pakistani spies with surveillance apparatus installed at the meeting place in the foreign office. Confirming the offer, foreign office (FO) spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said this time, Pakistan has offered to give consular access without the presence of security personnel. “The Indian authorities have been formally informed about the decision and that their response is awaited,” the spokesperson said, adding that the offer was made as a goodwill gesture. A day earlier, Farooqui had claimed that two consular officers of the Indian high commission were provided “unimpeded and uninterrupted” consular access to Jadhav at 3 pm. She did not provide details about what exactly transpired in the meeting between Indian officials and Jadhav. In a separate statement and during an interaction with a local TV station, Qureshi gave a detailed description, saying Indian consular officers were provided access to Jadhav on New Delhi’s request. “Unlike the previous meeting, this time even glass partition was removed as well as no audio or video recording was done of the interaction between Indian officials and Jadhav,” he said. Despite the “unimpeded and uninterrupted” access, Qureshi claimed, the Indian officials refused to hear him out. “Commander Jadhav kept calling Indian diplomats but they turned a deaf ear towards his calls,” the minister said. According to Qureshi, it was surprising that Indian diplomats opted for escape instead of access to Jadhav. “The Indian officials’ reluctance to meet Jadhav exposed India’s ‘malice’ as New Delhi in reality never wanted access in the first place,” the FM said. Qureshi claimed Pakistan had fulfilled all demands of Indian officials but even then, they preferred not to talk to him. Talking to a news channel later, the FM said Pakistan was willing to give yet another consular access to India. “They had objected over the presence of security officials during the meeting, we are willing even to remove them. If India wants another access, then our offer is open,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-offers-india-unhindered-access-to-kulbhushan-jadhav/articleshow/77027756.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 18, 2020||India||Exit of Young Turks no loss for Congress: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI : A couple of days after Congress functionares denied he had taken a swipe at Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot, though without naming them, sources said Rahul Gandhi had indeed slammed the Young Turks for leaving the party, stating their exits were no loss and would create room for “new leaders”. The comments came in the midst of the revolt by Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan and seemed at odds with suggestions that the party was still looking to bring the former deputy CM back into the fold. Rahul did not name any leader while addressing a meeting of the party’s student outfit, NSUI, but his remark was clearly pointed at Jyotiraditya Scindia who has joined BJP and brought down Congress’ MP government, and Pilot who has been sacked as deputy CM and Rajasthan Congress president amid stand-off with the party. Sources said Rahul Gandhi spoke at length about future challenges to the economy and offered various bleak scenarios in the coming months. During the commentary, according to a participant, he added, “You must be seeing that some people are leaving the party. You should not be perturbed over these developments. It will open the space for you.” A member even claimed that Rahul used the phrase “dum daba ke bhaag gaye” (ran away with the tail between their legs), a mocking barb in Hindi for deserters. But this remark could not be confirmed. Congress had issued denials that the young Gandhi made such a comment. But sources said the claim was inspired by the apprehension that the remark would undercut the overtures that were being made to Sachin Pilot through public forum with some in the party believing that a rapprochement was still possible. Now, the opening for a compromise is fading with Pilot moving the court against the Speaker’s disqualification notices to rebel MLAs. Pilot spoke to senior leader P Chidambaram on Thursday. According to a television channel, the Pilot camp questioned the compromise attempts from the Congress side, saying the rebel leader was sacked as deputy CM and state unit chief just hours after he spoke to AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over the telephone on Tuesday. After the stand-off broke, five CWC members spoke to Pilot on the first day in a bid to persuade him to drop his aggression and return to Jaipur to restore normalcy. However, nothing has come out of these contacts between Congress and Pilot. There was talk of senior leaders talking to Pilot on Friday but well-placed party sources made light of such claims, saying some stray contact did not hold much significance. Watch Leaders leaving party will open door for more youngsters in Congress, says Rahul Gandhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/exit-of-young-turks-no-loss-for-congress-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/77027771.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||Tata Trusts may place Noel on Tata Sons board||MUMBAI: Tata Trusts is said to be looking at appointing chairman Ratan Tata’s half-brother and trustee Noel Tata on the board of Tata Sons, in which it holds 66% stake. Speculation over Noel’s induction has intensified with the Trusts planning to expand its representation on the board of the company. Trusts currently has only one representative on the board of Tata Sons—Venu Srinivasan, who is vice-chairman. Noel, 63, was appointed a trustee of the philanthropic organisation in February last year. “I won’t be surprised if Noel comes on the board of Tata Sons,” said a person close to the development, adding that the two Tatas had grown close. Noel had backed Ratan Tata in the battle against his brother-in-law Cyrus Mistry, who was ousted as group chairman. The senior Tata is also believed to be close to Noel’s three children, who work in the conglomerate. Another person close to the Tatas confirmed that Noel’s induction in the holding company was being seriously considered. In an e-mailed reply to TOI, the office of Ratan Tata said he “does not wish to comment”. Tata Sons’ Articles of Association state that Trusts can nominate a third of the directors on the board of the holding company as long as it holds at least 40%. Trusts, a cluster of more than a dozen charitable organisations, owns twothirds of Tata Sons. There are at present eight directors at Tata Sons. Of them, two, including chairman N Chandrasekaran, are executive, the others non-executive. Of the rest, three are external/independent directors, and Srinivasan, who is also chairman of TVS Motor Company, is a ‘non-independent director’ at Tata Sons. If Noel comes on the board of the main investment company, then he will be the only member of the founding family to occupy a seat at both Tata Sons and Tata Trusts. Noel’s mother Simone was a director of the second main investment company, Tata Industries, till she retired in 2006. If these changes come through at the holding company, it’ll be interesting to see how the leadership dynamics play out within the broader Tata Group, say keen Bombay House watchers. The Parsi community, to which Noel belongs, and some Tata veterans such as Noshir Soonawala, have been lobbying with Ratan Tata for a Tata family member to be on the board of the holding company of the $113-billion automobile-to-aviation conglomerate. Apart from Noel, Pramit Jhaveri, also a trustee, is being considered by Trusts for the board of Tata Sons. Jhaveri, who was till recently Citi India head, was inducted to the board of Trusts in February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-trusts-may-place-noel-on-tata-sons-board/articleshow/77027850.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 18, 2020||Noida||Noida: Youth, his uncle ‘tortured’ in jail for keeping stall open in night curfew||GREATER NOIDA: An 18-year-old youth running a cigarette stall and his uncle were allegedly tortured in police custody for keeping the shop open during night curfew on Tuesday and even threatened with an encounter. The matter came to the fore on Friday when Tushar Goel, who runs a stall near Satyam Complex in Greater Noida, wrote to the chief minister and accused the police of overreach. Tushar alleged that he was targeted because he had expressed inability to pay the local cops Rs 300 daily for putting up his stall there. He said the cops did not even spare his mother and attacked her with a stick when she tried to intervene. The police have dubbed the allegations baseless. “I was just about to close my shop around 9.30pm when 7-8 cops arrived and asked for the money. When I said I had not made enough profits and would not be able to pay them every day, they started beating me up. When I tried to stop them, they accused me of attacking the men in uniform. All the while, they kept saying I would be jailed for refusing to pay the money. Then, they dragged me and my uncle Promod to the Beta 2 police station,” Tushar said in his complaint to the chief minister. The youth alleged that the cops would beat them with sticks and rods in custody. This, they said, continued for two days until Tushar and his uncle were granted bail on Thursday. In jail, the cops even threatened to kill the duo in an encounter, they alleged. The youth’s mother, Kavita, echoed her son on the allegations of extortion. “We have to pay Rs 300 daily to the cops here for running this stall. How is this demand even fair? We are hardly able to make ends meet in these difficult times. How do these cops have the guts to openly issue threats to kill innocent people like us?” she asked. Kavita claimed that the cops manhandled her and did not even bother to call a woman constable. “They tore my clothes and pushed me around. Even after my son had covered me with his arms, they rained blows on us,” she alleged. Police denied the allegations, claiming Tushar had attacked them when he was asked to shut his shop. They said an FIR had been registered against him under IPC sections 504 (intentional insult), 332 (whoever voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty). “We have medical certificates to prove that the cops were attacked. The allegations of extortion are baseless, too. However, we have ordered a probe to ascertain the truth,” said Sujeet Upadhyay, the station house officer of Beta II police station. There have been similar complaints of alleged police overreach in other parts of the country as well. In Tamil Nadu, the death of a father-son duo, allegedly in police custody, had sparked nationwide protests. The case is now being probed by the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/youth-his-uncle-tortured-in-jail-for-keeping-stall-open-in-night-curfew/articleshow/77026938.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
July 18, 2020||World||Court backs Trump expansion of cheap health insurance plans||WASHINGTON A divided federal appeals court on Friday upheld the Trump administration's expansion of cheaper short-term health insurance plans, derided by critics as "junk insurance,'' as an alternative to the Affordable Care Act's costlier comprehensive insurance. The US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit said in a 2-1 decision that the administration had the legal authority to increase the duration of the health plans from three to 12 months, with the option of renewing them for 36 months. The plans do not have to cover people with preexisting conditions or provide basic benefits like prescription drugs. President Donald Trump, who wants to get rid of the entire health care law but failed to repeal it in Congress, has praised the plans as "much less expensive health care at a much lower price.'' House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the decision would allow the administration to "keep railroading vulnerable families into shoddy junk health insurance plans." Judge Thomas Griffith wrote for the court that the administration lifted the three-month cap put in place by the Obama administration because "premiums for ACA-compliant plans continued to soar while enrollment dropped off." The goal was to increase "the availability of more affordable insurance,'' Griffith wrote, in an opinion that was joined by Judge Greg Katsas. Griffith is a George H.W. Bush appointee, and Katsas was put on the court by Trump. In dissent, Judge Judith Rogers wrote that insurers offering the short-term plans "can cut costs by denying basic benefits, price discriminating based on age and health status, and refusing coverage to older individuals and those with preexisting conditions." The plans "leave enrollees without benefits that Congress deemed essential and disproportionately draw young, healthy individuals,'' making ACA plans more expensive, wrote Rogers, an appointee of President Bill Clinton. The Association for Community and Affiliated Plans, an insurer group that sued the administration, said it would appeal to the full appeals court. "Junk insurance is an inferior and hazardous substitute for comprehensive coverage. The court's decision today protects these plans and their harmful practices, placing patients, families, and providers at increased risk amidst a global health emergency," the group's CEO, Margaret A. Murray, said in a statement. Premiums in the short-term plans are one-third the cost of comprehensive coverage, and the option is geared to people who want an individual health insurance policy but make too much money to qualify for subsidies under Obamacare. Short-term plans have been a niche product for people in life transitions: those switching jobs, retiring before Medicare eligibility or aging out of parental coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/court-backs-trump-expansion-of-cheap-health-insurance-plans/articleshow/77027894.cms||---
July 18, 2020||India||Maternal deaths rise in Chandigarh, Punjab, Bengal||NEW DELHI: India’s maternal mortality ratio (MMR), a key health system indicator, dropped to 113 in the 2016-18 period from 122 in 2015-17, according to the latest data released by the office of the registrar general of India. One of the UN’s sustainable development goals is to reduce MMR, defined as the number of maternal deaths during a given time period per 100,000 live births, to less than 70. India’s MMR used to be about 556 in 1990 and 254 in 2004-06. Assam continues to be the state with the highest MMR over the last three sample surveys conducted, followed by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, an order unchanged since the 2014-16 survey. Over the same period, Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, in that order, continue to have the lowest MMR. While Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have been steadily reducing their MMR, Kerala’s MMR went up slightly from 42 in the last survey to 43, though it remained the lowest in the country. Among some of the other states which saw an increase in MMR, the most alarming increase was in Chhattisgarh, where it went from 141 in the 2015-17 survey to 159 in the current one. Uttarakhand, too, saw an increase from 89 to 99, Punjab from 122 to 129, and West Bengal from 94 to 98. The main causes for maternal mortality are severe bleeding, mostly after childbirth, infection following childbirth, high blood pressure during pregnancy causing seizures or complications during childbirth, and unsafe abortions. Thus, it was believed that these causes could be addressed if deliveries happened in health institutions where trained health personnel would be available, resulting in a huge government push to increase institutional deliveries, which were just 43% in 2004. By 2018, institutional deliveries constituted 83% of all childbirths in India. While this push seemed to have paid off initially in bringing down MMR substantially, the increase in institutional deliveries in many states is no more showing a corresponding decrease in maternal mortality. In Assam, for instance, institutional deliveries are almost 83%, much higher than say Bihar with just 70% or Jharkhand with just 61.7%. Yet, MMR in Assam is 215, while it is 149 in Bihar and just 71 in Jharkhand. In Karnataka, despite institutional deliveries being as high as 97.6%, its MMR of 92 is higher than that of Haryana (91) or Telangana (63) where institutional deliveries constitute only 86% and 94%, respectively, of the total. Public health experts have published several papers on the poor quality of healthcare offered in many of these institutions, both public and private, towards which women have been pushed — through cash incentives for health workers and for the pregnant women themselves to opt for institutional delivery. Poor hygiene in health facilities is one major reason for infections post-childbirth. Excessive bleeding, which accounts for roughly 30% of maternal deaths in India, could be due to hospitals, especially rural ones, not having any blood banks. Many developed countries have successfully brought down MMR to single digits. Italy, Greece and Spain, with an MMR of 2, 3 and 4, respectively, have among the lowest, while it is 7 in both Germany and the UK, 10 in Canada and 19 in the US. Most of India’s neighbours — Nepal (186), Bangladesh (173) and Pakistan (140) — have a higher MMR. However, China and Sri Lanka are way ahead with MMR of 29 and 36, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maternal-deaths-rise-in-chandigarh-punjab-bengal/articleshow/77027931.cms||Rema Nagarajan
July 18, 2020||India||273 million Indians out of poverty in 10 years||NEW DELHI: India had the biggest reduction in the number of multidimensionally poor people estimated at over 270 million during the 2005-15 period, a new UN report has said. The data, released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI), showed that 65 of the 75 countries studied significantly reduced their multidimensional poverty levels between 2000 and 2019. Four countries—Armenia (2010–2015/2016), India (2005/2006–2015/2016), Nicaragua (2001–2011/2012) and North Macedonia (2005/2006–2011) halved their global MPIT value and did so in 5.5–10.5 years. These countries show what is possible for countries with very different initial poverty levels. They account for roughly a fifth of the world’s population, mostly because of India, the report said. The multidimensional index is a measure that looks beyond income to include access to safe water, education, electricity, food and six other indicators. But the impact of Covid-19 may slow down efforts to reduce multidimensional poverty. The Covid-19 pandemic unfolded in the midst of this analysis. While data are not yet available to measure the rise of global poverty after the pandemic, simulations based on different scenarios suggest that, if unaddressed, progress across 70 developing countries could be set back by 3–10 years, the report said. “Covid-19 is having a profound impact on the development landscape. But this data - from before the pandemic - is a message of hope. Past success stories on how to tackle the many ways people experience poverty in their daily lives, can show how to build back better and improve the lives of millions,” said Sabina Alkire, Director of OPHI at the University of Oxford. Among the 1.3 billion people still living in multidimensional poverty today, more than 80 per cent are deprived in at least five of the ten indicators used to measure health, education and living standards in the global MPI. The data also reveals that the burden of multidimensional poverty disproportionately falls on children. Half of the 1.3 billion poor have not yet turned 18. While 107 million are 60 or older, the report said. Children show higher rates of multidimensional poverty: half of multidimensionally poor people (644 million) are children under age 18. One in three children is poor compared with one in six adults, the report said. “Covid-19 is the latest crisis to hit the globe, and climate change all but guarantees more will follow soon. Each will affect the poor in multiple ways. More than ever, we need to work on tackling poverty – and vulnerability to poverty - in all its forms. This is why the Multidimensional Poverty Index is so important” said Pedro Conçeicão, Director of the Human Development Report Office at UNDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/273-million-indians-out-of-poverty-in-10-years/articleshow/77028042.cms||---
July 18, 2020||India||In signal to China, Navy holds drill off Andaman and Nicobar Islands||NEW DELHI: The Indian Navy is conducting a major exercise off the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago, in a clear display of strategic intent against China amid the ongoing military confrontation along the border in eastern Ladakh. The Indian naval manoeuvres come at a time when two American super aircraft carriers, USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan, are conducting rare dual combat drills in the South China Sea, much to China’s chagrin. Sources on Friday said several Indian warships, including destroyers, frigates and submarines as well as maritime patrol aircraft, are conducting the exercise near the A&N archipelago, which dominates China’s critical sea lanes transporting the bulk of its energy and other trade through the Malacca Strait. The exercise, led by eastern naval fleet chief Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, is being conducted with warships and aircraft from both the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC) and the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) headquartered in Visakhapatnam. “Some warships deployed near the Malacca Strait are also taking part,” said a source. The eastern fleet exercise comes soon after TOI reported earlier this month that India was now finally looking to fast-track plans for basing additional military forces, along with developing the requisite infrastructure, in the strategically-located ANC. The ANC, the country’s only theatre command with all assets and manpower of Army, Navy, IAF and Coast Guard placed under one operational commander, can be used as an effective pivot to counter China’s expanding footprint in the Indian Ocean Region as well as ensure security of sea lanes converging towards the Malacca Strait. Sources said the submarine hunting Poseidon-8I aircraft, which are armed with deadly Harpoon Block-II missiles, MK-54 lightweight torpedoes, rockets and depth charges, are also taking part in the exercise from their base at the INS Rajali naval air station in Arakkonam (Tamil Nadu). Indian and Japanese warships had carried out a small exercise near the Malacca Strait late last month. While Japan has become a regular participant in the high-voltage ‘Malabar’ naval combat exercise between India and the US since 2015, India is yet to take a decision on including Australia in the top-notch wargames. TOI was the first to report in January that India was considering inviting Australia to take part in the Malabar exercise. If the move translates into reality, a military construct will firmly be added to the so-called ‘Quad’ countries that have a shared interest in building a free, open and stable Indo-Pacific against an aggressive and expansionist China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-signal-to-china-navy-holds-drill-off-andaman-and-nicobar-islands/articleshow/77028085.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 18, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Neighbour held for raping 12-year-old girl||RAJKOT: A 26-year-old man was held on Friday for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl who lived in his neighbourhood in Padadhari of Rajkot district. Police said the accused, identified as Ankit Bawaji, had allegedly raped the girl on July 1. According to the police, on the fateful day, the survivor got injured after her leg hit the door of her house. As the girl was bleeding, her mother asked asked Bawaji to take her to Padadhari Civil Hospital for dressing her wound. “Bawaji took the girl on his bike to the hospital. On their way back after taking treatment, Bawaji took the girl to the bank of Aji River and allegedly raped her,” said M J Parmar, sub-inspector with Padadhari police station. On Thursday, the survivor complained to her mother about stomach ache and confided her sordid tale to her. Subsequent of which her mother lodged the police complaint. “We got the medical test of both Bawaji and the survivor done. We have at present kept Bawaji under detention. We will formally arrest him, once his Covid-19 test report arrives,” added Parmar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/neighbour-held-for-raping-12-year-old-girl/articleshow/77026143.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||Arvind Fashions rights offer oversubscribed||MUMBAI: Despite the looming uncertainty due to Covid-related issues, the rights offer for Arvind Fashions has been oversubscribed by 41% when it closed on Friday. The company had planned to mobilise Rs 400 crore through the issue, offering its shareholders shares at a price of Rs 100. This is the second rights offer since the lockdown started that has received strong investor response, the first one being RIL’s offer, through which the company had mobilised a little over Rs 53,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/arvind-fashions-rights-offer-oversubscribed/articleshow/77027023.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Woman ends life, alleges insult by panchayat members||JALANDHAR: A woman committed suicide in Bajuha Kalan village near Nakodar on Thursday, after recording a video in which she alleged that she was insulted by the panchayat while resolving a dispute with another woman. She alleged that she went to the police too, but did not get help. Police have now booked sarpanch Nachhatar Kaur, panchayat members Mohinder Pal and Karamjit, and Sarabjit Kaur, with whom deceased Rajni had the dispute, under Section 306 of Indian Penal Code. Rajni had sent the video to brother Balwinder Ram, who lives in Nawanshahr district. Her brother claimed that he phoned her back on getting the video, but she did not pick up. “I then called up her neighbours. When they went inside her home, they found her hanging from the ceiling fan,” he later told the police. Balwinder said his sister and her children had been living separately from her husband. He said claimed that the incident involving the panchayat and another woman too place on June 30. However, police officials claimed that both sides were called to the police station, but they had agreed to resolve the issue amicably in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/before-suicide-woman-in-video-message-alleges-panchayat-insulted-her/articleshow/77027078.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||RBI’s forex reserves rise by $3.1bn to record $516bn||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Reliance Jio’s multi-billion-dollar fund-raise, a foreign trade surplus and a surge in gold’s value are helping to boost the country’s foreign exchange reserves. The week ended July 10 saw forex reserves rise by $3.1 billion to a record $516 billion. According to bankers, the reserves are moving up on account of the continued dollar purchases by the Reserve Bank of India. Last month, the country’s reserves hit the half-a-trillion mark for the first time to $501 billion. In little over a month, the RBI has added another $15 billion. In addition to the forex inflows due to the fund-raising by Reliance Industries, dollar supplies have also been boosted by a trade surplus in June — the first in 18 years. “This (trade surplus) could be reflective of weak domestic demand, relative to global demand. The weakness in imports was spread across investment and consumption goods. India is likely to post a strong current account surplus in 1Q (FY21), which along with strong FDI inflows and a stabilisation in FII outflows, has helped the RBI shore up record FX reserves,” said HSBC chief economist Pranjul Bhandari in a note. Forex reserves comprise of foreign currency assets, gold and drawing rights with multilateral institutions. In the week ended June 10, the reserves were up due to a $2.3-billion increase in foreign currency assets. Also, the increase in the value of gold, pushed up gold reserves in dollar terms by $712 million to $34.72 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-forex-reserves-rise-by-3-1bn-to-record-516bn/articleshow/77026909.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 18, 2020||Patna||3 Bhagalpur jail inmates found Covid +ve, two die||BHAGALPUR: A 33-year-old undertrial prisoner and one 71-year-old convict of Special Central Jail, Bhagalpur, who died on Thursday at Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) here, were found Covid-19 positive. Jail superintendent Sanjay Kumar Chaudhary said , “The microbiological tests of both the deceased prisoners were done after the hospital doctors suggested to get it done. They were found positive.” Recently, another 80-year old convict, who was admitted at JLNMCH after he fell ill, was found Covid positive. The condition of the old man is stated to be critical. Death of the 33-year old undertrial was reported on July 14, whereas the 71-year-old convict died on July 15. The 80-year-old, who fell ill in the jail, was admitted at JLNMCH on July 15. All the three Covid cases which includes two deceased and one undergoing treatment were inmates of Special Central Jail, Bhagalpur, which has 1,037 male prisoners— both undertrial and convicts- against a total capacity of 3,288. On surfacing of Covid cases in the prison, the jail administration has undertaken massive sanitization of the jail wards, besides sending 12 jail inmates to 14 days quarantine inside a special ward of the jail. Doctors and paramedical staff at the jail hospital and others are also being kept under close watch ever since reports about Covid positive cases among the jail inmates surfaced. “Standard procedure for sanitization of the jail wards and premises as per Covid-19 protocol is being made,” the jail superintendent said. Expressing surprise as to how the prisoners got infected despite strictly following the prison rules and covid protocols, the jail superintendent said, “A detailed inquiry is being done on this matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-bhagalpur-jail-inmates-found-covid-ve-two-die/articleshow/77025183.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 18, 2020||Surat||Three zones account over 50 % Surat’s Covid-19 cases||Surat: Three civic zones which are Covid-19 hotspots accounts for roughly 50% of the total cases in the city. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, Katargam zone, a diamond polishing hub, is set to cross 2,000 cases mark. As of Friday, there were 8,107 cases in the city of which Katargam accounted for the highest 1977 cases followed by Limbayat (1,287) and Varachha (A) which has 1089 cases. The city has eight civic zones. On Friday, 177 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported and five more patients succumbed to the virus. In Surat rural, 57 new cases surfaced while three died on Friday. Surat rural so far reported 1,594 cases and 54 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-zones-account-over-50-surats-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77025747.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||Institutions help Yes Bank’s follow-on offer pull through||Mumbai: Yes Bank managed to successfully conclude its Rs 15,000-crore follow-on public offer (FPO) despite a lukewarm response from retail investors. The private bank raised Rs 14,267 crore from investors against its targeted Rs 15,000 crore with institutions making up for retail investors who picked up less than half their reserved portion. The unsubscribed portion of the issue will be allotted to SBI Capital Markets, which had agreed to underwrite Rs 3,000 crore worth of shares at a price equal to the lowest end of the price band. The issue pulled through with support from anchor investors and institutional investors who together contributed over Rs 10,000 crore (1.9x subscription). Retail investors have put in Rs 2,420 crore (0.47x), while those in the high net worth category pumped in an additional Rs 1,400 crore. Employees with applications of Rs 65 crore subscribed to only a third of their reserved portion. “It is an important step in our journey of transformation and is a testament to the trust placed in the institution,” said Yes Bank MD & CEO Prashant Kumar. Earlier, during the launch of the issue, the bank had announced that it would embark on a cost-saving exercise by rationalising office space and imposing a freeze on hiring. According to market sources, 27 institutions bid for the QIB portion such as SBI, LIC, IIFL, Edelweiss, Bajaj Allianz, HDFC Life, Punjab National Bank, HDFC MF, Union Bank, Bajaj Holdings, Avendus Wealth Management, IFFCO Tokio General Insurance, Norges fund, Schonfled, Millennium Management Global, Aurigin Capital, Exodus Capital, Wellington Capital, Jane Street Capital, Segantii Capital Management and De Shaw & Co. The issue might not enthuse investors in the secondary market, where the share closed at Rs 19.8 on Friday. However, it will significantly improve the bank’s financial ratios. The private lender’s capital adequacy ratio will jump nearly six percentage points to 12.5% and the net worth will improve by almost 70%. This will enable the bank continue to do business even if there is a moderate stress on account of COVID.According to analysts, the future prospects of the bank would depend on its ability to keep bad loans under check and at the same time build up its retail deposits to make good the flight of bulk deposits experienced by the bank before a moratorium was imposed by the Reserve Bank of India on March 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/institutions-help-yes-banks-follow-on-offer-pull-through/articleshow/77027069.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Three new cubs take Darj zoo red panda count to 24||SILIGURI: The red panda population at Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park (PNHZP) has gone up to 24 with three cubs being born on June 27. The zoo authorities are also likely to release four red pandas in Singalila National Park in September, after procuring the frequency licence from the ministry of communication. “The cubs are currently in their mother’s care and the sex cannot be identified at the moment,” said PNHZP director Rajendra Jakhar. “There are 24 red pandas at the zoo at present, including the three new ones. We have 13 females and eight males at two breeding centres and the main zoo. In mid-February, we sent two red pandas to Germany, of which one has reportedly given birth on June 5,” he added. The PNHZP plans to release eight red pandas into the wild by 2021. Jakhar said, “The zoo has applied for the frequency licence. Only after we receive it will we be able to release the red pandas into the wild. Four red pandas — two male and two female — with radio collars will be released in the Singalila National Park after the monsoons in mid-September. Another four will be released in Neora Valley National Park next year. The radio collars will help a team of researchers and forest officials track their movements. Four red pandas were released from Darjeeling zoo in Neora Valley National Park in 2003.” Asked about the problems faced by the zoo due to the Covid-19 situation, Jakhar said, “We are not facing much of a problem, but we cannot send any zoo keeper outside. However, the animals are healthy as of now.” During the lockdown, the animal population at PNHZP has gone up. On March 29, a leopard cat gave birth to two cubs. Their eyes have not opened yet. A takin brought from Germany last year gave birth to a calf on March 31 while a Himalayan goral gave birth to a calf on March 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-new-cubs-take-darj-zoo-red-panda-count-to-24/articleshow/77026783.cms||Roshan Gupta
July 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Plan for care hubs in every ward||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) plans to set up ward-wise Covid-19 care centres with the help of NGOs, corporators and citizens across its 32 wards. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar said the administration is chalking out plans with people’s representatives. He added that food and other facilities can be provided by PCMC, while local doctors should come forward and participate. Additional commissioner Santosh Patil said that as the number of patients are increasing they will need more facilities to cater to patients and the centres will play a vital role. Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge said that 100 such centres at each ward would ease the pressure on the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital. The centres will be set up in schools and colleges. According to the live data collated by the PCMC, the number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 9,754 on Friday evening, while active cases stood at 3,696.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plan-for-care-hubs-in-every-ward/articleshow/77027086.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Sattarghat bridge approach road to be repaired in 2 days’||PATNA: The repair work on the damaged portion of an approach road connecting a small bridge ahead of the Sattarghat Mahasetu in Gopalganj district started hours before the visit of a team of senior officials from Patna on Friday. The road will be made motorable in the next two days. Traffic on Sattarghat Mahasetu connecting Gopalganj with East Champaran and Saran was disrupted after a portion of the approach road of a small bridge ahead of the bridge was washed away due to heavy pressure of water in the Gandak on Wednesday. The small bridge is about 2 km away from the Mahasetu, which was opened for public last month. Road construction department principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena along with managing director of Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam visited the site and took stock of the ongoing repair work. Meena later told media persons in Gopalganj that the damaged portion of the approach road would be repaired within two days. Meena said the causes responsible for the damage to the approach road of the small bridge would be probed by a team of officials of the department. He, however, said that the 18-metre long small bridge ahead of the setu, is intact. “As far the quality of used material is concerned, it is related to the construction of the bridge and not the approach road as is the case,” he clarified. After visiting the site along with Gopalganj district magistrate Arshad Aziz and SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari, the road construction department principal secretary said that 1,444 metre long Sattarghat bridge is intact. “Only the embankment of the approach road of a small bridge ahead of the setu was washed away due to heavy pressure of water in the river,” he added. Former union minister Yashwant Sinha also visited the site. He expressed dismay over RCD minister Nand Kishore Yadav’s statement in which he gave a clean chit to the department much before the investigation was complete. “What one can expect from the investigating officials when the minister himself has already given a clean chit without any investigation,” he said. Meanwhile, three separate FIRs have been lodged with Baikunthpur police station in Gopalganj district in the aftermath of the damage to the small bridge on Wednesday. While the first FIR lodged on the statement of a contractor Uday Kumar relates to obstruction in the repair work caused by Sanjay Rai, husband of a woman mukhiya and his supporters, the second FIR deals with violation of lockdown norms by assembling at a place and shouting slogans. The second FIR was registered on the statement of the circle officer of Baikunthpur Pankaj Kumar. Baikunthpur district board member Vijay Bahadur Yadav and 10-15 others have been named as accused in the police complaint. The third FIR deals with damage caused to the approach road (near 27th km point) by some people, misbehaviour with the engineers at the site and causing obstruction in discharge of duty. The case was registered by the project manager of Champaran division of the Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam. Baikunthpur police station SHO Nagendra Sahni said on Friday that police have already started investigation into all the three separate cases lodged in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/damaged-sattarghat-bridge-approach-road-to-be-repaired-in-two-days-rcd/articleshow/77025300.cms||Ramashankar
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||After no-show on Madhyamik list, Kolkata students score big in Higher Secondary exams||KOLKATA: Reversing the result trend after Madhyamik, where not a single Kolkata student found a position on the top-10 merit list, 10 among 130 securing the top six slots in the Higher Secondary exams are from Kolkata. There are several reasons that are being touted by teachers and educationists behind the success of city students in the HS. “Physics, chemistry and statistics — all the three papers were suspended this year. If the candidates managed to score 100 in maths, it got reflected in the other subjects in which there were no exams, leading to a massive increase in the score,” pointed out Saugata Basu, general secretary of the West Bengal Government School Teachers’ Association. Basu also added that the difference is reflected in the HS since students who take admission in the science stream in Class XI are granted seats based on the merit, unlike in primary classes where admissions are through the lottery system. “Over the last few years, it has become a trend that Kolkata students are faring better in HS than in Madhyamik,” Basu said. Among the other reasons projected behind the success of Kolkata students, teachers explained that the selective subjects, which are chosen by the students, allowed them to concentrate more on the subjects of their choice. “Also, the peripheral support system that is required beyond the school is easily available in a city compared to the suburbs. The students get an advantage of availing tuition from professional coaching institutes, which helps them to succeed,” said a government school teacher. High marks can also be attributed to more and more teachers being well-oriented with the HS syllabi and the textbooks. The students have been well-acquainted with the marking pattern, question format and also the model answers. “In the HS, there are several students who have secured excellent scores. The average results are also good, which matters for the overall performance. This particular batch of students had every potential to secure good marks,” said Arijit Mitra, the principal of Nava Nalanda Group of Schools. Papiya Singha Mahapatra, headmistress of Sakhawat Memorial Govt Girls’ High School, was elated with the result of Srotasree Ray, who scored 499. “She has always been an exceptionally brilliant student. Srotasree had missed the ranks in Madhyamik by a whisker because of English marks. This year, after the test examinations (pre-Boards), she has improved her performance,” Mahapatra said. Among 91 students who had appeared in the HS from the school, 30 have bagged above 90%. “Students in the humanities stream had appeared in more subjects than science candidates. Thus, humanities students have secured fewer marks than science candidates who despite not appearing in as many as three subjects could manage very scores,” the headmis-tress added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-no-show-on-madhyamik-list-city-students-score-big-in-hs/articleshow/77026751.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 18, 2020||Patna||Many north Bihar villages still under floodwaters||DARBHANGA/BAGHA The accumulated floodwaters continued to submerge several villages in Darbhanga, West Champaran, Gopalganj and Samastipur among other districts in north Bihar even though the most of the rivers maintained falling trend on Friday. Bagmati river was flowing above the danger mark at one site each in Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga and Kamla Balan at one marked site in Madhubani district, the daily flood bulletin of water resources department stated. Kosi and Mahananda rivers were also flowing above the danger level at a few places in Purnia, Katihar and Khagaria districts. In Darbhanga rural, people heaved a sigh of relief due to ease in the flood situation. But the eastern parts of the town remained waterlogged by Bagmati river water, which entered dozens of houses in ward number 22 of Darbhanga Municipal Corporation on Thursday. On Friday, Bagmati river water overtopped its embankment at two places in Keoti block, leading to inundation of some areas of Gopalpur and Madhopatti villages. Darbhanga DM Thiyagarajan SM visited the affected areas and talked to the villagers. He ordered the officials to accelerate flood fighting works. The circle officer concerned has been directed to start community kitchen, if situation worsens. In Ghanshyampur block under Biraul subdivision, five persons were arrested and sent to jail on Thursday for rumourmongering about breaching of western embankment of Kamla Balan river near Kumharaul village. Biraul SDPO Dilip Kumar Jha said the video of breach made viral by the accused was that of 2019. FIRs have been lodged under the Information Technology (IT) Act. In West Champaran, water discharge from Valmikinagar barrage on Gandak came down to 1.50 lakh cusecs on Friday afternoon. The maximum discharge on a single day this year has so far been recorded at 3.40 lakh cusecs. Though water level of Gandak and several other hilly rivers originating in Nepal was receding, the accumulated floodwaters left a trail of misery for the affected persons. Masan river has damaged crops in over 100 acres in the district. At Jharmahuyee under Salaha Bariyarawa panchayat, standing crops of maize, moong, paddy, arahar and vegetables have been washed away by the floodwaters. West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar said around 200 feet approach road of Marajadi-Marjadpur bridge over Kataha river under Gaunaha block, which was snapped due to high water current, has been repaired and communication to Bhitiharwa Ashram was restored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-n-bihar-villagesstill-under-floodwaters/articleshow/77025124.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
July 18, 2020||Business||Mindspace REIT eyes Rs 4,500 crore from IPO||MUMBAI: K Raheja Group and private equity major Blackstone-backed Mindspace Business Park Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) is aiming to raise up to Rs 4,500 crore through its maiden offering. Of the total funds being aimed at, Rs 1,000 crore will be raised by the company, while the balance Rs 3,500 crore is the offer for sale by the promoters. Mindspace is slotted to be the second listed REIT in India. The country’s first REIT by Embassy Office Parks has given an annual return of about 14% compared to a negative return of about 10% by Nifty. Given the high returns, investor interest in the second REIT is expected to be high, market players said. The Mindspace REIT is expected to hit the market by the end of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mindspace-reit-eyes-rs-4700cr-from-ipo/articleshow/77026986.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Patna||HC seeks status report on Falgu encroachments||GAYA: The Patna High court on Thursday asked the Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh to submit a status report on the encroachments done on either side of Falgu river between Bodh Gaya and Manpur. Pindadaan piligrims perform ‘tarpan (water offering)’ in the river, a mandatory ritual for the salvation of ancestral souls. During the hearing of the PIL filed to remove all encroachments from the river sacred for the Hindus and prevent the entry of untreated municipal waste into the river bed, a HC bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar sought the report from the DM. The DM has been asked to submit the report on July 21, the next date of hearing, who participated at the virtual hearing of the case. According to HC lawyer Shilpi Keshri, appearing for a Gaya-based citizen group that has filed the PIL for removal of all encroachments from the sacred river, the Gaya DM told the court that encroachment removal work was under progress and it has slowed down a bit due to the pandemic. “The DM also told the court that several encroachers are from the socially marginalised groups and as such a humanitarian approach is required in the matter,” she said. The lawyer further said that on the point of several encroachers being from disadvantaged sections, the court asked the DM to rehabilitate them somewhere else but the Falgu encroachment has to go.A few years back, the district administration identified nearly 1000 persons of Bodh Gaya, GayaTown and Manpur blocks who have encroached the river bed on both sides. Notices too were served to the encroachers. “The Gaya DM told the court that tender was being floated to improve the sewage system of the town, which will address the issue of entry of sewage in the river bed,” Shilpi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-seeks-status-report-on-falgu-encroachments/articleshow/77025153.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Patna||Doctors, 30 health workers test +ve in West Champaran||BETTIAH: Amid constant spike in cases, frontline warriors are falling ill in West Champaran even as majority of beds in the dedicated Covid facilities at the Government Medical College and MJK Hospital here are going abegging. “The deputy superintendent of Bagaha sub-divisional hospital has been shifted to AIIMS-Patna. The superintendent of MJKH, deputy superintendent of Narkatiaganj sub-divisional hospital and a doctor at Majhaulia PHC, along with 30 health workers have tested positive so far,” West Champaran civil surgeon Arun K Singh said on Friday. Some policemen, including 19 in Ramnagar, have also tested positive for the virus. Altogether 734 people, including 98 reported on Friday, have been infected in the district so far. Meanwhile, a video shot by an inmate of the Covid ward at the medical college here went viral on Friday. “My oxygen level is dipping ... seems I’ll die,” he pleads in the video, alleging callous treatment, poor food and unhygienic toilets there. District magistrate Kundan Kumar, however, dismissed the charges. “Doctors responded to his call and the patient was found stable in all parameters,” he said, adding the patient wants constant attention by his bedside. “A new roster of doctors is being prepared and there will now be a health card for every patient where vital statistics shall be noted after an examination every two hours,” Kumar told this newspaper. It was, however, not ascertained if clinical psychologists too have been deployed at the hospital. Government Medical College principal Dr Binod Kumar did not respond to the calls. The civil surgeon said the patient had sneaked in his cellphone. “Mobile phones are unsafe. They may carry the virus,” he said. Surprisingly, while the Covid graph is in sharp upswing, 201 out of 232 beds in the two dedicated wards at the medical college hospital remain unoccupied. The DM attributed it to ‘people’s choice’. “Our protocols promote home isolation for asymptomatic patients,” he reasoned. Meanwhile, a cloth trader (42) died at the medical college on Friday. Family members alleged that they had taken him to hospital for Covid test on Thursday evening. As news of this purported Covid death spread, police reportedly escorted the bereaved family to the cremation ground outside the town. As three personnel in PPE kits carried the body to the pyre, villagers from the vicinity attacked the mourners. Police prevented the ugly scenes. Meanwhile, Meena Bazar, the commercial hub where the deceased trader ran his business, was sealed on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-30-health-workers-test-ve-in-west-champaran/articleshow/77025137.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||Panic in Van Bhavan as clerk tests positive||Nagpur: After death of an accountant due to coronavirus and another clerk who had come in contact with him testing positive on Friday, there is panic and scare at Van Bhavan, the state forest department’s headquarters in Civil Lines. According to sources, swab samples of a clerk tested positive for Covid-19 at AIIMS lab. This clerk had come in contact with the deceased and other staff in the budget section. Despite this, forest department is functioning with over 50% strength. On Friday, there were more than 150 staffers in office, much more than 15% allowed, which is against NMC guidelines during the Unlock-2. The clerk had come to office on June 30 and later on July 8. Before that he was on Covid-19 duty at collector’s office. On July 8, he had come in contact with nine employees. NMC officials who visited Van Bhavan on Friday suggested Covid testing for all employees coming in contact with the clerk, but on intervention of senior officials, samples of only eight staffers were taken. These employees include a driver, peon and stenographer. APCCF (human resource management) Vikas Gupta was unavailable for comments. PCCF (budget, planning & management) G Saiprakash said, “The issue is being blown out of proportion and staff is unnecessarily panicking. The clerk never came to office after July 8. We will wait for the test results of the eight and decide future course of action.” NMC officials told TOI, “This is a serious issue and they would ask the assistant commissioner to look into it. The guidelines for government offices are very clear.” TOI also noticed neither Covid distancing was being followed nor sanitization of office premises. On Friday too, parking lot at Van Bhavan was full with staff vehicles, indicating most of them being called in office. During forest minister’s visit to Seminary Hills on Thursday also, Covid distancing was missing. Senior forest officials admit, “Employees are called depending on the pressing assignments and workload in office.” “However, when it is possible to work from home as recommended in the latest Unlock-2 guidelines, why officials are ignoring it” asked employees. Many in Van Bhavan reside in containment areas of Nagpur, say sources. Apart from Van Bhavan, controlling officers like deputy conservators of forests (DyCFs) are allowing officials, who were on leave and gone to Pune and other big cities, to join duties without asking them to go for mandatory quarantine. “An RFO from South Umred, two ACFs, who returned from Pune, joined duty without mandatory home quarantine. These officials are attending meetings and moving everywhere causing panic,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panic-in-van-bhavan-as-clerk-tests-positive/articleshow/77026460.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 18, 2020||Rajkot||Two booked for organizing marriage without permission||Rajkot: Two persons were booked for organizing a marriage function in Jafrabad town of Amreli district on Thursday. They were charged for violation of government notification banning social and religion functions without permission.Police said the groom’s father Chhana Baraiya and bride’s father Ramesh Makwana, were booked on the complaint of Charu Mori (43), who serves as the chief officer with Jafrabad municipality. According to Mori’s complaint, when she visited Dhisi Baraiya, who had tested Covid-19 positive, to check her health condition at her house in Navdhara main bazaar, she saw a canopy where 10 to 12 persons had gathered. “I had visited Baraiya’s house along with mamlatdar, deputy mamlatdar, taluka health officer and health supervisor. When I saw the a marriage function has been organised, we met the bride’s father Makwana and groom’s father Chhana Baraiya. We asked if they had sought the permission for the function, they replied in negative. So, we decided to lodge a complaint against them,” said Mori in her FIR. “The accused had also not maintained social distancing among 10 to 12 people they had invited at the venue,” said D B Solanki, inspector with Jafrabad town police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-booked-for-organizing-marriage-without-permission/articleshow/77026235.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Deceased Covid suspect scores 72%||Kolkata: The 18-year-old Covid suspect who passed away last Friday has scored 72% in the HS. A resident of Ichhapore’s Netaji Pally, Subhrajit Chatterjee was allegedly turned away by four hospitals before being admitted to Medical College and Hospital where he died the same night. He scored 360 out of 500, with a personal best of 76 marks in geography. Chatterjee’s family was informed about his death the next morning and they lodged a complaint of medical negligence against the hospitals. On Wednesday, the state conduct a video-recorded post-mortem of the body at the Kolkata Police morgue according to the orders from the Calcutta High Court. “This could have been the most important day of his life. I keep recalling how we were discussing his future plans just a week ago. Today, when the results are out, he is no more,” said his father Biswajit. His mother Srabani said Chatterjee wanted to be a lawyer and had started preparing for law entrance examinations during the lockdown. “I can’t believe he is no more. I want justice for my son and proper punishment for the hospital officials and doctors because of whom I lost him,” she said. Last Friday, he was taken to a hospital in Kamarhati after he developed acute breathing trouble. On being refused, the family took him to a private nursing home in Belgharia where doctors allegedly declared him Covid-positive on a hand-written note and asked them to go to a state-run Covid hospital. The family took him to a government hospital in Kamarhati where he was left unattended for hours. He was then taken to the government hospital in Kolkata. There, too, the authorities allegedly refused them saying there was no intimation from the health department. But after waiting for five hours, when his mother threatened to kill herself, the hospital admitted him. But he died later in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/deceased-covid-suspect-scores-72/articleshow/77026768.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 18, 2020||Allahabad||Holagarh murders: 5 arrested||Prayagraj: Weeks after four members of a family were found dead at their house in Holagrah, five members of a tribal group ‘Chaimar gang’ were arrested in connection with the murder case near Rampur Khasbag Road on Friday. The accused were identified as Shariq, Shahrukh, Dabar, Waris Khan, and Farman — all residents of Bhudiya village in Rampur district. A Home Guard Surendra Yadav was also arrested on charges of destroying evidence. Surendra is a resident of Lal Ka Poora area in Holagarh. Surendra was arrested for allegedly destroying one of the victim Vimlesh Pandey alias Lallan Pandey’s mobile phone. “The accused had thrown away the phone while fleeing the house after the murder. He found the missing mobile phone and used it, instead of handing it to the police as evidence. He later destroyed the phone,” said the police. ASP (Soraon) Ashok Venket K said, “Mobin was the kingpin of the gang and lived in Budaun. He had a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. He was arrested by Budaun police on July 14 after an encounter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/holagarh-murders-5-arrested/articleshow/77026880.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Stringent tie-breaker plan for students with same marks||Kolkata: Several state-aided colleges are planning to release a more rigorous, detailed tie-breaker criteria for college applicants who have scored the same. According to sources, the tie-breaker formula will be first linked to the subject score, and, if the deadlock still remains, it will be extended to other subjects opted in the undergraduate courses. Colleges anticipate that with the high percentage of 90-plus scores, the tie-breaker formula needs to be detailed since most institutions have decided to keep their admission cut-off marks unchanged. A senior teacher said this year, it was likely that many colleges will frame more rigorous rules to determine admissions for candidates with similar scores seeking seats in the same subject. “We do not want to change the admission cut-off looking at the ongoing pandemic situation. But, with such a huge number of candidates securing more than 90%, we have no choice but to formulate more complicated tie-breaker policies for the honours courses in coveted subjects,” said a college principal. TOI had reported that the higher education department has instructed that admission to all undergraduate courses (honours and general) in the state-funded higher education institutions in Bengal for the 2020-2021 academic session will begin online from August 10. The government has already put in place the required infrastructure. After the students submit the application forms and the application fees, the merit list will be published. Several private colleges in the state, like Shri Shikshayatan College, Scottish Church College, St Xavier’s College (autonomous), The Bhawanipur Education Society College and others, have already set their admission criteria and invited applications. The state-aided colleges are likely to release their admission criteria by next week. “We shall hold a meeting on Saturday to decide on a date to start the online distribution of application forms for the various UG courses,” said principal of Jaipuria College Asok Mukhopadhyay. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar said, “The high scores prompt students to think they are eligible for a seat in the best of the Kolkata colleges. However, it may not be so because many students have scored over 90%, some doing exceedingly well. Colleges will also need to counsel the students who do not make the cut.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stringent-tie-breaker-plan-for-students-with-same-marks/articleshow/77026734.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 18, 2020||Surat||Volunteers add cheer to Covid treatment at NCH||Surat: They paint, sing, play music, or even organize impromptu quiz — all of it only to pep up Covid-19 patients’ spirit and ensure their will to fight the virus remains intact. This is how a group of five volunteers from a city-based NGO, Seva Foundation, has started helping Covid-19 patients recover at the hospital on Thursday. From connecting the patients with their kin through video calls to arranging home-cooked food, the volunteers will ensure distressed patients are comfortable while in the treatment facilities. Heeding to a call by city’s municipal commissioner asking NGOs to chip in with help, the NGO will send around 30-odd volunteers to the two main Covid hospitals. At a time when over 85 doctors of the New Civil Hospital (NCH) are themselves infected of Covid-19, people like Rajendra Gautam, 66, a retired textile mill manager and a cancer survivor, didn’t fear for their lives to serve patients in the hospitals. “I am enjoying my second lease of life after I fought against mouth cancer for a decade. Almighty has given me a bonus life, which I want to live serving needy people. I am not afraid of being infected and want to ensure patients stay happy and recover fast,” said Gautam, whose 29-year-old daughter, Monika Vyas, too is among the five volunteers deployed at NCH. “This is a once in a lifetime opportunity. On the very first day, we helped two patients on oxygen support connect with their kin through video calls. Their happiness was our biggest reward,” Monika told TOI. Rajeev Omar, president of Seva Foundation told TOI, “Patients need compassion and belongingness. Our volunteers will provide all this and more. We deployed five volunteers on the first day and soon, add 25 more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/volunteers-add-cheer-to-covid-treatment-at-nch/articleshow/77025781.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Rajkot||Real estate agent kills wife, dumps her body in pond; arrested||Rajkot: A real estate agent was arrested on Friday for allegedly bludgeoning his wife to death at their newly constructed house on Kotharia Road and then dumping her body into a pond outside Kankot village in Rajkot on Wednesday. Police said that the accused Balkrushna Tank (40) had carried his wife Taruna Tank’s body in the boot of his car to the pond. According to police, Balkrushna had also lodged a missing complaint with the police. “However, after Taruna’s body was found on Friday, her parents accused Balkrushna of murdering their daughter,” said V J Chavda, inspector with Aji Dam police station. Taruna’s parents alleged that Balkrushna had killed her as he has having an affair with another woman. When the cops rounded up Balkrushna and interrogated him, he confessed to the crime. “However, he said that as Taruna used to ill treat his parents he was angry with her,” said Chavda.Police Balkrushna and Taruna had gone to their newly constructed house to clean it. “There the duo entered into an altercation, subsequent of which Balkrushna picked up an iron rod and dealt three blows on Taruna’s head, killing her on the spot,” said Chavda. Balkrushna has been detained on the complaint of Taruna’s brother Nikunj Rathod. The police said they would formally arrest him once Covid-19 test was conducted on him. Balrushna and Taruna have two sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/real-estate-agent-kills-wife-dumps-her-body-in-pond-arrested/articleshow/77026162.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Rajkot||Migrant dies as cell phone explosion causes bike accident||Rajkot: In a bizarre accident, a migrant labourer died after his cell phone exploded and he lost control over his bike on Wankaner-Morbi Road. The deceased Guddu Sahani (27) crashed his bike into the road divider after his cell phone kept in the pocket exploded on Wednesday . He suffered severe head injuries and succumbed at the Morbi Civil Hospital on Thursday. “The cellphone kept in Sahani’s pants’ pocket exploded while he was driving. We have sent the charred phone to the forensic science laboratory to ascertain the cause of the explosion,” said Karanraj Vaghela, Morbi superintendent of police, while addressing reporters. Sahani, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh, had come to Vaghasia village of Wankaner where he worked as a labourer in a factory at Wankaner GIDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/migrant-dies-as-cell-phone-explosion-causes-bike-accident/articleshow/77026184.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Surat||1,000-bed Covid facility opened||Surat: Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel on Friday dedicated a 1,000-bed facility in the Stem Cell Hospital building on New Civil Hospital campus for Covid-19 patients. The inauguration was done from Gandhinagar through a video conferencing. “The new Covid-19 facility, prepared in just two weeks also has 211 ICU beds. With addition of 1,000 more beds, the total number of dedicated Covid-19 beds have gone up to 3,300 in Surat,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/1000-bed-covid-facility-opened/articleshow/77025911.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Rajkot||Man lynched on theft suspicion||Palanpur: A man was allegedly lynched by six people including a sarpanch in Ravi village, 27 km from Dhanera town in Banaskantha district. The 27-year-old victim Pintu Galchar’s naked body was found on the village’s outskirts on Thursday late evening. On Friday, the police arrested sarpanch Hansraj Purohit and five others. Officials said that Purohit has a shop in the village and there was theft few days ago. He suspected Galchar of stealing the cash. The body has been sent for postmortem and the report is awaited, said SA Dabhi, police inspector, Dhanera. They were also booked under Prevention of Atrocities Act as the victim was a Dalit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-lynched-on-theft-suspicion/articleshow/77026075.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Patna||Expand antigen test facility: Bihar CM||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Friday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure that samples of all people with Covid-19 symptoms are tested at the designated centres. “The health department should make necessary arrangements in this regard,” the CM said while holding a meeting with the chief secretary to take stock of Covid-19 situation in the state. The CM said the health department should ensure hassle-free Covid-19 test for people in the state capital. “Common people should be informed through advertisements or other mediums about where to go for tests,” the CM said. He also asked the health officials to expand the facility of antigen tests in the state. Nitish asked the officials concerned to ensure regular monitoring of those are under home quarantine. He asked the chief secretary to ensure immediate availability of medical assistance to such people if the need arises. The CM once again appealed to the people not to panic as the state’s recovery rate is higher than the national average. “Have patience, be alert and maintain the norms of social distancing. Go out of the home only if it is very necessary and put up a mask on the face,” Nitish urged people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/expand-antigen-test-facility-cm/articleshow/77025160.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Postmortem gets delayed for want of Covid-19 test report||PATNA: As there has been a spike in coronavirus cases in state, people are hesitant in helping those meeting with an accident and lying injured on the road. Even unclaimed or unidentified bodies brought by police are left unattended at autopsy houses in government hospitals out of Covid-19 fear. Digha police station SHO Manoj Kumar said police had to wait for at least a day for postmortem of an unclaimed or unidentified body because it has to be tested for Covid-19 first. “Postmortem is conducted only after the persons concerned get a negative report about the body lying on the table,” he said. Bihta police station SHO Awadesh Kumar Jha said those conducting postmortem are apprehensive and ask several questions from the police and family members like if the person had fever or any Covid-19 symptoms before death. Buddha Colony police station SHO Ravishankar Kumar said its taking some time to get postmortem done, especially if the body is unclaimed or unidentified as Covid-19 test has to be conducted first. He said police were also facing problem in getting ambulance on time for rushing any injured or ill person to hospital. “It is due to the pandemic as well as demand for ambulances,” he said. A person who conducts regular postmortem in a government hospital at Patna told TOI that the postmortem on a man killed in road accident five days back was conducted only after his Covid-19 test result came negative. “We remain extra cautious while conducting postmortem if the deceased was ill or unidentified or unclaimed. We use PPE kits in that case,” he said. Nalanda Medical College’s forensic medicine and toxicology department head Dr Mukti Nath Singh told TOI that doctors and staff involved in postmortem were waiting for four to five bodies to come so as to conduct their postmortem together. “We have limited supply of PPE kits. Covid-19 test is not conducted on all bodies. If a body arrives in the evening, we wait till more bodies arrive. We handle all bodies assuming that they were Covid-19 positive,” he said. Anil Kumar Singh, a sub-inspector at Jakkanpur police station, said those on duty inside postmortem house ask various questions like from where the body had been brought from. “We face trouble in getting postmortem done easily due to the pandemic,” he said. Singh said another problem is getting an injured or unconscious person admitted to a hospital immediately. “Five days back, an unidentified and unconscious person was found near Mithapur bus stand. He had been looted after feeding him something laced with sedatives,” Singh said. Police had a tough time in getting him admitted at PMCH as hospital staffers asked questions. “They were not ready to admit him at all,” he said. Singh said one more person was found unconscious at the bus stand two days back. “We took him to a private hospital near our police station, but he was admitted just because it was under our jurisdiction. Thankfully he recovered,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/postmortem-gets-delayed-for-want-of-covid-19-test-report/articleshow/77025861.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 18, 2020||Patna||Elderly people in rural areas least anxious about coronavirus: Study||PATNA: Majority of the elderly people have been facing difficulties in routine consultations with their doctors since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. And, a vast majority of them are worried about the well-being of their kith and kin staying away from them due to the lockdown, according to a study conducted by the Institute of Psychological Research and Service (IPRS) of Patna University. The study conducted jointly by IPRS director Priyadarshini Narain and teachers Priyamvada and Priyanka Kumari has been published in the latest issue of the International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews. The research team reached 232 elderly people, mostly from Bihar, and gathered necessary information from them through online Google form by using Snowball sampling technique. Altogether 66.8% of the respondents were in the 60-70 years age group and 60.3% were from rural areas. In the study on the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on psychological and physical adjustments among the elderly, they felt very shaky over getting infected with the coronavirus. Priyadarshini, when contacted, told this newspaper that the most interesting finding of the study is that rural people showed very low level of anxiety over the pandemic and that most of the rural areas of the state are relatively safe as compared to the urban areas. Most respondents were fully aware of Covid-19 pandemic and were taking all the precautionary measures. They knew about washing hands five to ten times a day for 20 seconds and preferred to wear mask and maintain social distancing while going out of their homes. They also knew that coronavirus spread through currency notes, but they didn’t know whether it spread from cooked food. About 93.5% of the respondents were getting sufficient support from their family members during lockdown. But 65.5% reported difficulties in having routine consultation with doctors. They were missing their morning walk, shopping and visits to their relatives and friends during the lockdown. The news that older people are more vulnerable to Covid-19 attack made 34% of the respondents nervous. While 44% felt bored after remaining confined to their houses all through, another 44% did not feel any change before and after the lockdown and the remaining 12% seemed to be more active during the period. Most of the respondents (about 56.5%) were not practising yoga or meditation while 85.3% were worried about their loved ones staying away from them. And, 25% of the respondents felt nervousness of having an increased blood pressure/sugar level and at least 8.2% reported feeling of having fever without showing raised body temperature during the lockdown. More than 83% of the respondents felt that the steps being taken by them and their family members were sufficient and effective in controlling the infection in their family. Most of the respondents spent their time playing with their grandchildren, watching TV news and following other personal hobbies. Nearly 68% were spending their time in household works and watching movies and serials. Nearly half of the respondents felt that lockdown was an opportunity to spend quality time with family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elderly-people-in-rural-areas-least-anxious-about-coronavirus-study/articleshow/77025230.cms||B K Mishra
July 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Araria court grants bail to rape survivor||ARARIA: A 22-year-old gang-rape survivor, who was arrested and sent to judicial custody on the directive of a judicial magistrate on July 11 for obstructing public servant in discharging official duty in course of recording of her statement, was granted bail on Friday by a local court. Two other women, who accompanied the rape survivor in the court room of the judicial magistrate and arrested for allegedly pressuring the magistrate to record the survivor’s statement as per their diktats, were refused bail. Chief judicial magistrate Anand Singh heard the advocate who appeared on behalf of the rape survivor and also the public prosecutor before granting bail to the survivor. The Araria CJM court heard the bail petition on the direction of district and sessions judge under a special circumstance as judicial courts across the state are closed till July 20 as per the direction of the Patna high court owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, Bihar State Women’s Commission chairman Dilmani Mishra on Friday said the commission had taken cognizance of the matter of sending a rape survivor to jail. “I had written to Araria SP seeking details about the case,” Mishra said. She said the SP has informed her about the rape survivor getting bail. “We will wait for SP’s report to know who is guilty,” she said. (With inputs from Debashish Karmakar in Patna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/araria-court-grants-bail-to-rape-survivor/articleshow/77025212.cms||L P Nayak
July 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM’s virtual rally on August 7: JD(U) eyes 25 lakh viewers||PATNA: The JD(U) is making all-out efforts to make party president and CM Nitish Kumar’s proposed virtual rally on August 7 a grand success. The party is working on a plan to connect around 25 lakh people through different social media platforms for the CM’s live speech. Nitish is expected to launch the JD(U)’s poll campaign for the forthcoming assembly elections through the virtual rally. Assembly election in the state is due in October-November this year. “Party’s active and influential workers at the panchayat and block levels have been asked to arrange big LCD screens at the nearby public places in maximum possible gram panchayats so that rural people, who do not have access to social media platforms, could hear the CM’s speech,” a senior party functionary said, adding the LCD or big TV screens would be installed by the workers at their own expenses. JD(U) state general secretary (headquarters) Navin Kumar Arya said at this juncture, it’s difficult to give the exact number of people to be connected through social media platforms for Nitish’s virtual rally. There is huge enthusiasm among the workers. The number of people may cross 25 lakh.” “The CM has huge fan following. When more than 4.5 crore people can hit the roads for human chain formation at the CM’s call, one can just imagine how many people will hear his speech. In many villagers, even the common people are making plans to put up big LCD screens to listen to the CM’s speech,” Arya said. JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh, while addressing virtual meets of the party’s different cells here on Friday, called upon the party workers to make the August 7 virtual rally of Nitish Kumar a success. Singh on Friday addressed five different sessions of virtual meets in which he spoke to the members of the party’s weavers’ cell, cooperative cell, scheduled caste cell, scheduled tribes cell and the Jal Shramik cell. The JD(U) will start its constituency-wise virtual meetings from July 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cms-virtual-rally-on-aug-7-jdu-eyes-25l-viewers/articleshow/77025193.cms||Madan Kumar
July 18, 2020||Patna||700 Patna high court staffers to undergo test||PATNA: Around 700 staffers of the Patna high court are scheduled to undergo Covid-19 tests after 51 others had been found infected. A temporary camp has been set up by the district administration on the high court campus for the testing of staffers. The camp is expected to function for at least three days. When contacted, registrar general Nawneet Kumar Pandey said the testing camp is scheduled to become functional from Saturday. Pandey confirmed that around 300 staffers and security personnel had undergone Covid-19 test till Tuesday and 51 of them had been tested positive. In a press statement, Pandey also rubbished a news report published in a vernacular daily that one of the Patna high court judges had also tested Covid-19 positive. The chain of infection inside the Patna high court was detected when the security incharge of the premises tested Covid-19 positive on July 10. He was attending office at the high court while being ill for the last few days before taking up the test. Thereafter, several other security personnel deployed on the campus and high court staffers were tested for the virus. Till Wednesday, 51 were found positive, including 31 security personnel. Looking at the overall scenario, including the lockdown, the high court administration has allowed only authorized persons, including staffers in restricted number, to enter the premises till July 23. Court officers have been directed to ensure proper sanitisation of the entire premises. Meanwhile, residents of Patna high court colony in Adalatganj also wrote a letter to the registrar general on Thursday, expressing their concern over information of turning the nearby Rajkiykrit JD Balika Uchch Vidyalaya into Covid-19 care centre. In the letter signed by several residents, they have urged the registrar general to ask the district administration to take necessary action for their safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/700-hc-staffers-to-undergo-test/articleshow/77025208.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 18, 2020||Patna||Patna mayor faces no-trust motion||PATNA: Altogether 41 ward councillors of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), including deputy mayor Meera Devi, moved a no-confidence motion against mayor Sita Sahu on Friday. The no-confidence motion, as per norms, is accepted by the mayor in person. However, keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, the memorandum for no-confidence motion was submitted at her office in PMC’s headquarters . A copy of the memorandum was also submitted in the office of municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma. As per Bihar Municipal Act, the motion can be brought against the mayor upon a requisition made in writing by not less than one-third of the total number of ward councillors. “The mayor is now expected to fix the date for a special meeting on the motion within seven days,” said former deputy mayor Vinay Kumar ‘Pappu’, who has also signed the motion. He added if the mayor fails to fix the date of the meeting within seven days, the municipal commissioner, upon request from the ward councillors in opposition, can finalise a date for the same. During the meeting on no-confidence motion, a debate is held between the two sides, followed by voting. If more than 38 ward councillors in the 75-member PMC Board vote for the motion, the incumbent mayor will be removed. The municipal commissioner will then recommend to the state urban development and housing department to hold fresh elections for the civic body.Meanwhile, Sahu said she would announce the date of the meeting as per the municipal rules. “The no-confidence motion will be defeated. Many ward councillors, who have signed the motion, have been misguided,” Sahu claimed. The ward councillors in opposition have alleged poor civic services and corruption in the no-confidence motion. As per Bihar Municipal Act, the opposition can bring two no-confidence motions against the Mayor during his or her tenure. The first no- confidence motion can be brought within two years of taking over the charge of the post and the second within one year of the first. Mayor Sahu had defeated the first no-confidence motion brought against her in July last year. As many as 44 ward councillors were present during the floor test and only two had cast their votes against Sahu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-mayor-faces-no-trust-motion/articleshow/77025180.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||JLR set to get new chief as Speth’s term ends in September||MUMBAI/CHENNAI: Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) is set to get a new face at the helm as a search committee has begun paring the list of potential candidates. Both insiders as well as outsiders are in the run for the top post and a decision on who will lead the company will be made soon. The company had earlier planned to extend current CEO Ralf Speth’s tenure by a year. But that has been shelved and the search committee has started considering other candidates. Recruitment specialist Egon Zehnder has been assisting JLR in identifying replacement candidates for Speth. His term ends in September when he turns 65 — the retirement age for executive directors. He will be subsequently re-designated as a non-executive VC of the company. JLR’s engineering head Nick Rogers and woman independent director Hanne Brigitte Sorenson are in the reckoning. So are Audi’s former CEO Bram Schot and current production head Fred Schulze. Ex-BMW honcho Klaus Froehlich is also being considered, according to the Financial Times. There’s speculation that Tata Motors’ CEO Guenter Butschek is also being evaluated for the role. Fiat Chrysler CEO Mike Manley is, however, out of the race. Whoever steps into Speth’s shoes has a challenging task to steer JLR out of the woods. The company reported losses (a pre-tax of 400 million pounds) for fiscal 2020. JLR was showing turnaround signs late last year from the impact of a slowdown in China and Brexit, but the pandemic affected its business in the fourth quarter, which generally is a strong quarter for the automotive industry. The success of JLR is key for the Tata Group, which purchased the British automotive maker for $2.3 billion in 2008. Going by the recent CEO appointments at various Tata companies, chances are high that group chairman N Chandrasekaran may prefer an external candidate for JLR. However, there could also be an exception, said a person close to the command centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jlr-set-to-get-new-chief-as-speths-term-ends-in-sept/articleshow/77026970.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 18, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Farm labourer held for raping daughter for 3 years||RAJKOT: A 40-year-old farm labourer was detained on Friday for allegedly raping his 19-year-old daughter and impregnating her in Bhacha village of Una taluka in Gir Somnath district. Police said the accused had allegedly been raping the survivor for the past three years when she was a minor. The matter came to light when the survivor developed a baby bump. “Her mother took her to Una Civil Hospital where she was found to be a few months pregnant. On being quizzed, the survivor confided to her mother that her father had been sexually assaulting her,” said V M V M Chaudhary, inspector with Una police station. Following this, the girl, accompanied by her mother lodged, the complaint against her father. “We have detained the accused at present. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test. We have also collected the samples of the survivor’s foetus and sent them for DNA matching with the samples of the accused,” added Chaudhary. The accused was booked under section 376 of Indian Penal Code and various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The survivor is the eldest of her three siblings — two sisters and one brother. She has studied up to Class VIII. Her parents are farm labourers. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farm-labourer-held-for-raping-daughter-for-3-years/articleshow/77026089.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||Ad body welcomes new consumer law||MUMBAI: The Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) has welcomed the new Consumer Protection Act, which is set to be enforced from July 20, 2020. ASCI chairman Rohit Gupta said, “Our efforts, as an advertising self-regulatory body, are also to protect the consumers’ interest. We expect to see a significant impact in the control of misleading advertisements — currently very high in educational as well as healthcare products and services sector and teleshopping genre. " "We would soon be launching monitoring of potentially misleading advertisements appearing on digital media, in addition to the print and TV surveillance. We see our role to be complementary and promoting responsible advertising by providing guidance to marketers and celebrities via Code for Self Regulation in Advertising and Guidelines thereof,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ad-body-welcomes-new-consumer-law/articleshow/77027103.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad district administration worried about cluster transmission of novel coronavirus||Dharwad: The spread of the novel coronavirus at the cluster level in Dharwad district has been a cause of worry for the district administration. Dharwad, which was in the orange zone in March-April, slowly slipped into red zone and the number of primary and secondary contacts of Covid patients getting infected increased suddenly after the lockdown was withdrawn. Another lockdown has been imposed for 10 days from Wednesday. But, deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil feels to contain the spread of the infection at cluster level particularly among the vulnerable groups it is necessary for people to be more cautious. He said they need to maintain social distancing even in houses irrespective of anyone in the family being symptomatic or asymptomatic. As cases of all members of a family testing positive are increasing, people must maintain social distancing in their houses and keep the house clean and tidy, he said. “Those who go out to work must be extra cautious on their return. They should compulsorily wash their hands, legs and face with soap and use sanitiser before coming in contact with children and senior citizens in their family. Use of sanitiser should be frequent and going outside unnecessarily should be avoided,” he said. The DC said shops should install hand sanitiser vending machines at the entrance and ask every customer to use them before entering. Face masks should be worn throughout business hours and thermal screening and pulse oximeters should be used, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-district-administration-worried-about-cluster-transmission-of-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/77025068.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 18, 2020||Patna||Stay positive to ease mental stress: Experts||PATNA: The growing number of Covid-19 cases is taking a toll on the mental health of people in the city. The constant fear of getting infected by the virus is leading to a sense of anxiety and helplessness among people of all age groups. Mental health experts said these ailments can end up being traumatic or chronic, which can be more disastrous than the pandemic itself. Delhi-based mental health expert Dr Vidya Nair said accepting that the pandemic is not in our control is the only way to deal with it. “People need to understand that stressing out or panicking about the current situation won’t improve it. Instead, they should use this time on their personal growth. Many people face problems in sharing their feelings. They should, thus, write a journal or a letter to themselves,” she said. Nair said people should focus on the positive aspects. “They should see the factsheet, which shows mortality rate is much less than recovery rate in the country,” she said. City-based clinical psychologist Dr Binda Singh said people need to understand that there is always a solution to every human problem. “People need to accept that the virus has affected everyone equally and they are all dealing with it. Losing patience in times of crisis is not an option as it can worsen everything,” she said. Elaborating on how the pandemic brought positive changes in lives of people, Singh said, “One of my regular patients, who used to complain about her son not giving her importance, said Covid-19 has completely changed his behaviour. The woman’s son now spends time with her and helps her in the kitchen.” As the pandemic has also led to job losses and unemployment, the uncertainty about future has led to surge in anxiety and frustration among mant. Nodal officer and associate professor of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) De-Addiction Centre Santosh Kumar said, “Whenever something like this happens, people stop thinking about positive aspects. I agree there has been an increase in unemployment, but lockdown is the time when people can actually enhance their skills. Moreover, this is the first time in decades that they have actually got some time to spend with their loved ones.” For 24-year-old Mohit Dahiya, the first two months of the pandemic were very frustrating. It was only in June when he realised that he could actually use this time in good things. “I have planned to start a business after the pandemic ends. This way I will be able to save a lot of extra time,” he said. Shagufta Nazreen, a collegian, said her friends helped her in coming out of the dark phase when she used to get anxiety and panic attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stay-positive-to-ease-mental-stress-experts/articleshow/77025108.cms||Archi Rani
July 18, 2020||Vadodara||77 added to Covid tally as deaths remain at 60||Vadodara: New Covid-19 cases reported in the city and district since Thursday equalled the highest single day spike of 77 cases registered on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total number of cases went up to 3,447. According to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) the new cases were detected from 539 tests conducted in the city and district. The death toll due to Covid-19 as the primary cause of death remained at 60 with the civic body not announcing any more deaths. Amongst the new cases registered since Thursday evening, the highest number of cases were registered in the west and south zones of the city where 19 new cases came to light in each zone. This was followed by the north zone where 17 cases were reported. The east zone saw three more cases being registered. Outside the VMC limits, 19 fresh Covid-19 cases came to light. These included cases in Padra, Vadu, Karjan, Dabhoi, Savli, Talsat, Karodiya, Waghodiya and Khatamba. With 87 patients being discharged from hospitals as well as home isolation, the total number of discharged patients went up to 2,540. This leaves 760 persons in hospitalisation. The condition of 597 of the hospitalised patients is said to be stable. The serious patients include 38 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 125 on oxygen support. As many as 1,572 persons were quarantined in the city. These include 42 in government facilities and 14 in private facilities. The remaining 1,512 persons were in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/77-added-to-covid-tally-as-deaths-remain-at-60/articleshow/77024845.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Surat||Volunteers add cheer to Covid treatment at NCH||Surat: They paint, sing, play music, or even organize impromptu quiz — all of it only to pep up Covid-19 patients’ spirit and ensure their will to fight the virus remains intact. This is how a group of five volunteers from a city-based NGO, Seva Foundation, has started helping Covid-19 patients recover at the hospital on Thursday. From connecting the patients with their kin through video calls to arranging home-cooked food, the volunteers will ensure distressed patients are comfortable while in the treatment facilities. Heeding to a call by city’s municipal commissioner asking NGOs to chip in with help, the NGO will send around 30-odd volunteers to the two main Covid hospitals. At a time when over 85 doctors of the New Civil Hospital (NCH) are themselves infected of Covid-19, people like Rajendra Gautam, 66, a retired textile mill manager and a cancer survivor, didn’t fear for their lives to serve patients in the hospitals. “I am enjoying my second lease of life after I fought against mouth cancer for a decade. Almighty has given me a bonus life, which I want to live serving needy people. I am not afraid of being infected and want to ensure patients stay happy and recover fast,” said Gautam, whose 29-year-old daughter, Monika Vyas, too is among the five volunteers deployed at NCH. “This is a once in a lifetime opportunity. On the very first day, we helped two patients on oxygen support connect with their kin through video calls. Their happiness was our biggest reward,” Monika told TOI. Rajeev Omar, president of Seva Foundation told TOI, “Patients need compassion and belongingness. Our volunteers will provide all this and more. We deployed five volunteers on the first day and soon, add 25 more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/volunteers-add-cheer-to-covid-treatment-at-nch/articleshow/77025865.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Surat||Ahead of festival, textile traders urged to shut shops for a week||Surat: The textile traders in Surat are in a dilemma. On one hand the market is witnessing some movement in demand for saris and dress materials ahead of Rakshabandhan festival, while on the other hand the city civic body officials have indirectly made an appeal to voluntarily keep shops shut for a week to contain the spread of the coronavirus.Currently, less than 30% of the shops in the textile markets on Ring Road are operational.According to the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC’s) health department, about 1,350 people associated with textile trade have been infected with the Cvoid-19 virus. Of this, 800 were reported in the last one-and-a-half-month.Following the appeal made by the deputy mayor Nirav Shah for voluntary lockdown, the health teams of the SMC has started visiting the textile markets with appeal to traders to keep their shops and markets shut for a week or 10 days.Lalit Sharma, president of Japan Textile Market said, “Civic officials visited our market and urged us to keep the market shut for a week. But, we told them that only 15% of the shops are open. These traders have got orders for Rakshabandhan festival from North Indian markets, so they are coming to the market.”In the last three days, about 20 textile markets on Ring Road have shut voluntarily.A senior civic officer asking anonymity said, “Diamond and textile industry are the two main sectors where the Covid-19 cases are on the rise. It is in the interest of the city that these sectors must voluntarily keep their units and markets shut.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ahead-of-festival-textile-traders-urged-to-shut-shops-for-a-week/articleshow/77025944.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||After firing 800, Curefit furloughs 500||TNN Bengaluru: Health and fitness startup Curefit has now furloughed around 500 of its staff as its physical outlets remain shut as India Covid-19 infections continue to rise. Curefit, according to two people aware of the matter, has told the affected staff that they are being sent on leave without pay and that they will be called back once its offline centres open. The company had come under fire from its staff after it asked at least 800 or 10% of the total team to resign in May. Sources said the company was expecting it would be able to restart operations by next month, at least in parts, but the government has not allowed it, owing to the steady spread of the virus in India. The company runs 230 fitness centres across the country and has offline food outlets as well as cloud kitchens to serve online orders. Due to the pandemic, it was forced to change strategy and focus on online sessions but they haven’t picked up as fast as initially estimated, according to trainers who have done classes. A Curefit spokesperson said the online sessions have seen good adoption and that it hosts 5 lakh live sessions daily. “With ambiguity on normalcy and reopening of gyms across the country anytime soon, we have had to take necessary measures to ensure business continuity. We have had to furlough a few employees across the organisation. We will ensure the affected employees are taken care of,” a company spokesperson said. The firm did not comment on the number of employees furloughed. Of the 800 people fired in May, many have received their full and final settlements, one of the former employees said. “They (Curefit) are telling affected employees that they will be recalled but no one is sure given the uncertainty,” she said. In an email to staff in May, Curefit co-founders Mukesh Bansal and Ankit Nagori had said, “We don’t see life returning to full normal until a vaccine is found and the entire globe is vaccinated. Till then, we will have a new normal with limited movement and severe restriction to mass gatherings, which include group workout formats like Cult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-firing-800-curefit-furloughs-500/articleshow/77026902.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||India hits record 6.9bn app downloads in Q2||TNN Bengaluru: India achieved a record 6.9 billion app downloads, growing 30% quarter-over-quarter, during the second quarter of 2020, putting it much ahead of countries like the US, Brazil and Indonesia, according to data from Sensor Tower. This is the highest after the numbers reached 5.3 billion during the same period (May-June) in 2019. The numbers come at a time when the government is also promoting local developers to build apps, even as there has been a ban on 59 Chinese ones including TikTok. Telecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has said that, while India downloads a lot of apps, it should also “upload” apps. Interestingly, the government’s contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu was seventh-most downloaded in the general category across the world with close to 130 million downloads. Ludo King, developed by a Mumbai-based bootstrapped startup Gametion, was at No. 5 in the gaming category globally with over 50 million daily active users. Indians were also the most hooked to their smartphones across the world, as time spent on non-gaming apps increased by 35% to 36 billion hours a month in the second quarter, according to data from App Annie. This is much higher than Brazil, where time increased 20% to 14-15 billion hours a month, and the US, where it increased by 15% to 11-12 billion hours a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-hits-record-6-9bn-app-downloads-in-q2/articleshow/77026927.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Surat||Central team assess Covid-19 situation in Surat||Surat: A four-member central government team on Friday visited Surat to assess the gravity of Covid-19 situation in the Diamond City and held series of meetings with senior civic body officials and doctors. The team is headed by director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi Randeep Guleria and includes R P Ahuja, additional secretary of union health and family welfare department; Niti Ayog member Vinod Mall and director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargav. The visit of the central team comes in wake of sharp rise in infections after Unlock-1. Surat district has so far recorded 9,451 cases of which 395 have succumbed. It is second only to Ahmedabad.The team met Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officers and doctors engaged in Covid-19 treatment at New Civil hospital (NCH) and took stock of the ground situation.“During the meeting with doctors, we discussed about the line of treatment followed in Delhi and other parts of the country for Covid-19 patients. This interaction will help private and government doctors in treating patients in a better way,” Guleria told media persons. “If we concentrate on patients, contact tracing and testing, number of infections would reduce slowly like in Ahmedabad,” he added. When asked about scarcity of life saving injections in Surat city, Dr. Guleria said that the government was formulating a policy in this regard.“Needy patients should get it on priority. There is a need to stop the misuse of the life saving injections,” he added. The team also visited containment zones in the city before leaving for Ahmedabad.Box: 1,000-bed Covid facility inauguratedGujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel on Friday dedicated a 1,000-bed facility in the Stem Cell Hospital building on New Civil Hospital campus for Covid-19 patients. The inauguration was done from Gandhinagar through a video conferencing. “The new Covid-19 facility, prepared in just two weeks also has 211 ICU beds. With addition of 1,000 more beds, the total number of dedicated Covid-19 beds have gone up to 3,300 in Surat,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/central-team-assess-covid-19-situation-in-surat/articleshow/77025835.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers plan state-level protest against new agri laws||Ambala: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana and other farmer bodies are jointly planning a state-level tractor rally on July 20 in protest against the three agriculture-related ordinances passed by the Union government. The Haryana Arhtiya Association has also extended its support to the farmers and announced to join the protest. The farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents) said the central government is planning to end the grain market system and privatise this sector. They alleged that the government is trying to help the capitalists and planning to end the farmer-arhtiya relationship. Confirming the move, BKU (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “We have called a state-wide tractor rally on July 20 in protest against the ordinances issued by the central government.” The BKU (Haryana) workers are visiting farmers at the village level to invite them to the state-level tractor rally with black flags to protest the ordinances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-plan-state-level-protest-against-new-agri-laws/articleshow/77027089.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Determined to shine in life, plucky trio beats means with merit & hard work||Malda/Kolkata/Howrah: Son of a retired cotton mill labourer, Joy Mandal couldn’t afford to have any private tuition and had to depend on his school teachers to study. But that didn’t stop him from scoring 498 out of 500 in the Higher Secondary examinations this year. This student of Raiganj Coronation High School has come second in the exam. He had ranked ninth in the Madhyamik two years ago. Joy, whose family lives in a thatched hut, used to study mostly during the day time since he couldn’t afford to use electricity. “My father has to sustain our family of four on a meagre pension and he couldn’t afford to give me private tutors. I know I have problems, but these are my advantages too. After I did well in Madhayamik, the entire school stood beside me and extended all the help I needed. No words are enough to thank them,” Joy said. Though he hopes to become a doctor, Joy doesn’t know how to manage that. “Leaders from different political parties came and promised to help him, but I don’t know whether my son’s dream will be compromised for want of money,” said Joy’s father Jyotirmoy Mandal. Sk Arsad Ali, who scored 490 out of 500 in his HS, had to take up the burden of his family after his father lost his job during the lockdown. For him, getting the result was part of just another day of fighting with hunger and uncertainty. Arsad — the only bread earner of the family of 10 — has now planned to use his high score to bring students to give tuition to so that he can improve on the Rs 1,500 that he earns at present. A student of Bantra Madhusudan Pal Chowdhury School, Howrah, Arsad could never imagine taking private tuition. “We are poor and cannot dream big,” he said when asked what would he like to do next. “I cannot think of even taking up an honours course in college unless I get a scholarship. I don’t know what will happen next,” said the resident of a slum in Belilious Road, Howrah. “He is an example of that old adage — where there’s a will there’s a way,” said school principal Tanmoy Chakraborty. When her father Tilu Das died of a sudden heart attack in November 2016, Paromita’s world came crashing down. A loose rice seller in the Bosepukur market, Tilu was the only earner of the family of four — a wife and two daughters. His elder daughter had to sacrifice her education when she started helping her widowed mother at their stall. Four years of struggle paid off on Friday when Paromita — the younger of the two sisters and a student of Silver Point School in Kasba — managed to top in the humanities stream in her school with 88.2% marks. Her elder sister Priyanka offered to sit in the stall because she wanted Paromita to continue her studies. “I owe my success to my elder sister’s sacrifice,” Paromita said. Speaking of taking private lessons, the youngster, who also helps out at the stall at times, said, “It is not that I did not want tuition. We just couldn’t afford it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/determined-to-shine-in-life-plucky-trio-beats-means-with-merit-hard-work/articleshow/77026776.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 18, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna most preferred by Covid patients||PATNA: Be it a VIP or a common man, everyone found infected with Covid-19 virus in state are preferring AIIMS-Patna for treatment. Even doctors associated with various government medical colleges and hospitals and found infected are undergoing treatment at AIIMS-P, which is the fourth dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Bihar. There were 390 Covid patients admitted there till Thursday afternoon. They included BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and his family members, a few IAS and IPS officers, two doctors of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, including its director, and civil surgeon of Samastipur. Earlier, Bihar Vidhan Parishad acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh with his family and senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh had been treated for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna. Of the 390 patients, 18 were on ventilators and around 150 on oxygen. “We earlier had the capacity of 400 people, but we increased 60 beds on Thursday. Now, we target to increase the capacity to 600 beds,” AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. When asked why the majority of people were opting for AIIMS-Patna, he replied, “People will tell better, but yes the quality of treatment and dedication of our team towards Covid-19 positive people is a reason.” He further said apart from AIIMS and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, no other hospital in Patna is providing treatment for Covid-19 patients. “Even IGIMS is referring patients to our hospital,” added Dr Sanjeev. In a memorandum to state health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday, state IMA demanded 50% of the beds at AIIMS reserved for doctors as everyone from across the state was preferring this hospital and doctors were finding it difficult to get a bed there. “NMCH is a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, but at least 25 anaesthetist posts are vacant there. We need patients to put a ventilator. Similarly posts of several technicians and doctors are vacant in state government’s hospital,” sad a doctor. Gola Road resident Manoj Kumar, 43, who was discharged from AIIMS on Wednesday had all praises for the hospital. “I tried admission in private hospitals but none of them were allowed. On the other hand, I have had a bad experience with other government hospitals of Patna in the past and I know they are dirty and unhygienic. Hence, AIIMS was the only option.” Manoj appreciated the dedication of health workers and doctors at the hospital. “They used to come and do routine check-ups and were not hesitant in touching us. We felt like at home. Five people with me in the ward had the same opinion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-p-most-preferred-by-covid-patients/articleshow/77025146.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 18, 2020||Patna||‘Darbhanga most Covid vulnerable district’||PATNA: Eight districts from Bihar are among the 20 most vulnerable districts in the country in terms of long-term effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, says a study published in the global medical journal ‘Lancet’. This despite the fact that the state does not figure among the top-10 worst-hit states in the country. Among the eight districts in Bihar flagged by Lancet, Darbhanga is the most vulnerable with an overall vulnerability of 1, followed by Samastipur (0.997), Saran (0.995), Sheohar (0.994), Vaishali (0.991), Saharsa (0.989), Munger (0.978) and Khagaria with 0.972. Darbhanga also tops the national list as the most vulnerable for long-term impact of the pandemic. The vulnerabilities have been rated on a scale from zero to one, measured using 15 indicators across five parameters, including socio-economic, demographic, housing and hygiene, healthcare facilities and epidemiological. Bihar has the second-highest vulnerability rate among 30 large states, including Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, and Gujarat. As of now, the total number of positive cases in Bihar is 23,300 and 14,997 have already recovered from the disease. Experts point at the largescale arrival of migrant workers during the nationwide lockdown as one of the major reasons for the spike in cases in Bihar. “Most migrant workers travelled to Bihar from some of the most vulnerable states as mentioned in the vulnerability indices. These workers returned from states with large number of active cases, including Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu,” said Dr Arun Shah, a Muzaffarpur-based senior paediatrician. With a vulnerability index of 0·879 in the socioeconomic domain, 0·588 in demographic, 0·903 in housing and hygiene conditions, 0·833 in unavailability of healthcare and 0·800 in epidemiological, no wonder Darbhanga tops not only among the districts in the state but also nationally. Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM said the current situation might be very challenging but there isn’t any specific threat in the near future. “The district’s vast geographical area of 2,279sqkm is one of the topmost reasons behind the findings of the Lancet study. However, the situation is under control as we have one of the highest testing rates. Of the 462 overall Covid-19 positive cases, only 67 are active,” he said. Talking about the health infrastructure, he said measures are being taken to improve the health facilities in the district. “As of now, we have one Covid-19 dedicated hospital — the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital, where a majority of patients have been treated,” he added. Bibekanand Thakur, under-secretary, state health department, too cited the arrival of migrant workers as one of the reasons behind the spread in the cases. “There are several other factors such as exit from the lockdown. But as far as migrant workers are concerned, the uncertainty and lack of basic items made them return to their native places,” he said, adding, that health workers and doctors are trying their best to combat the virus. As non-availability of healthcare facilities is also one of the major reasons, the Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association senior vice-president Ajay Kumar said ‘healthcare’ is one of the most neglected sectors in Bihar. “There’s no denying that the study has been published after utmost research. All the factors, be it lack of medical facilities or human resources, exist here. And the government is not the only one to be blamed. Health workers don’t want to work here. They leave the state for better opportunities. In fact most of them are not ready to work in rural areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-most-covid-vulnerable-district/articleshow/77025128.cms||Archi Rani
July 18, 2020||Rajkot||Bull bullies away two lionesses feasting on prey near Gujarat's Rajula||RAJKOT: Two lionesses who were feasting on the carcass of a cow they had preyed upon had to cow down before a bull, which bullied them away, literally on early Friday morning. The incident, a video of which has gone viral on WhatsApp and social media, was reported from Nageshri village of Jafrabad in Amreli district. Video: Two lionesses who were feasting on the carcass of a cow they had preyed upon had to cow down before a bull,… https://t.co/2Jja9fMzyp— TOIRajkot (@TOIRajkot) 1595046663000The video shows that two lionesses are feasting on the cow’s carcass in Nesadi area of Nageshri village. Suddenly, a bull arrives at the scene and, lunging forward with pointed horns, drives the big cats away. “The incident is reminiscent of similar scenes witnessed in the African Savanna where bisons or buffaloes in a group drive away a pride of lions,” said a forest official of Shetrunji division. On the outskirts Nageshri village, there lives a pride of six of which two lionesses had entered the village and had preyed on the cow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bull-bullies-away-two-lionesses-feasting-on-prey-near-gujarats-rajula/articleshow/77026205.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mysuru||Kabaristan Sewa Committee formed to conduct last rites of Covid victims||MYSURU: Leaders, doctors and social workers from the Muslim community here have jointly constitituted a Kabaristan Sewa Committee to assist health officials in conducting the last rites of people sucumbing to Covid-19. According to sources, the committee comprises religious clerics, doctors, social workers and volunteers and is supervised by former corporator Suhail Baig. The committee will extend services to families seeking help for burial of their family member who succumbed to the virus. “This committee has been formed to help the district administration,” said corporator and former mayor Arif Hussein. The committee has reserved a separate plot at its burial grounds (Kabaristan) for the last rites of Covid-19 victims. We also hope to spread awareness among people and eliminate their fear of contracting infection while performing the last rites. As the government has approved both the burial and cremation according to the faith of the deceased, the committee will oversee the final rites of people from Muslim community by adhering to guidelines of the health department, Hussein added. The committee has also trained volunteers and workers to conduct burials and last rites as per the Standard Operating Procedure. Workers under the supervision of the committee has already conducted the last rites of Covid-19 victims in Udayagiri, Bademakan and other areas, said sources. Speaking to TOI, community leader and former mayor Ayub said the they have also launched Quba Covid-19 helpline to facilitate ambulance, hospital bed, Covid -19 care centres for isolation among others for infected persons. The committee has sought DC’s approval to convert ESI hospital in Azeez Saitnagar into a Covid Care Centre. The committee has also decided to convert Quba Public School in Udayagiri and Rajivanagar, and Farooquia Women’s College into Covid Care Centres with a capacity of 600 beds after taking necessary permission from Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar. All these centres will also welcome patients from other communities, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kabaristan-sewa-committee-formed-to-conduct-last-rites-of-covid-victims/articleshow/77025877.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Rajkot||MPed girl students accuse two Saurashtra University lecturers of harassment||RAJKOT: Girl students of Saurashtra University’s master of physical education (MPed) department have alleged that were subjected to physical and mental harassment by two contractual lecturers. The university has received two complaints in a week, one of them being from a former student.A student of Upleta sent a complaint to vice-chancellor (VC) Nitin Pethani on Thursday stating that when she was studying in the department in 2018-19, the two lecturers had allegedly harassed her physically and mentally. “I was forced to respond to messages sent after 10pm and told that I would get gold medal if I complied.” She stated that because of harassment she left the course mid-way. The student said she mustered courage after getting to know that another girl had also filed a similar complaint. In the complaint filed by a present student, she also made similar allegations and claimed to know at least two other girls who left the course mid-way due to harassment. “I belong to scheduled caste and I receive government grant for study. He was harassing me so that I don’t concentrate on studies and fail to receive the grant. He also resorted to character assassination,” the student alleged. She further alleged that she was forced to run 40 to 50 rounds of 400 metres and another student was forced to play basketball in the rain and she suffered a leg fracture as she fell down. Despite the injury, she was forced to attend classes, the complainant stated. When contacted, Pethani said, “Both complaints are being handled by the internal complaint redressal committee. In the first complaint, they have held one meeting and will investigate the second one too. I have told them to submit the report as soon as possible.” These lecturers are hired on 11-month contract and they are working with the SU for the last three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mped-girl-students-accuse-two-su-lecturers-of-harassment/articleshow/77026055.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Pune||Pune to adopt Dharavi model to curb Covid spread||PUNE: The Dharavi model of public participation will be replicated in Pune to fight against Covid-19. A team of special officers has been appointed to increase citizens’ involvement in monitoring Covid-19 spread. Civic groups, NGOs, Ganapati mandals and others will be roped in for the surveillance. They will be assigned the task to monitor citizens, check if they follow restrictions and report any breach of rules and regulations to the administration. Citizens will help ensure the outbreak is controlled in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations, cantonments and rural areas in Pune district. “The outbreak cannot be controlled by government officials alone, public participation is a must. This has been proven in Dharavi. Government officials in Pune are taking steps to replicate the model,” said Rajendra Nimbalkar, chief executive officer of slum rehabilitation authority. Nimbalkar has been appointed as a special officer to improve public participation. He said office bearers of housing societies will be made part of the groups. “The administration will provide ID cards to volunteers. They will also get some relaxation from the restrictions,” said Nimbalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/district-to-adopt-dharavi-model-to-curb-ncov-spread/articleshow/77026458.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Surat||Bharuch following Surat as Covid-19 hotspot||SURAT: Bharuch district is following Surat to become the second largest Covid-19 hotspot with cases touching 600 mark on Friday. According to the health officials, cases spiked from 100 to 600 in the 30 days ending July 16 with 12 fresh cases added on Thursday, taking the total to 607 so far. In the last three days, the district has recorded about 100 new cases.Looking at the surge, the district administration had issued a notification allowing the retail and wholesaleshops in the entire district to operate between 7am to 4pm to contain the spread of the virus starting from July 9 to July 22. On Friday, the Ankleshwar Notified Area authority issued a notification stating that the shops, except for the medical stores and grocers, will operate between 7 am to 1 pm. The decision was taken after the spike in the Covid-19 cases in Ankleshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-following-surat-as-covid-19-hotspot/articleshow/77026006.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Pune||Wholesale market unlikely to open on Sunday: APMC||PUNE: The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee on Friday said the wholesale market cannot open from Sunday until the district authorities and the civic bodies extended or changed its operation timing beyond the window of 8am to noon. Sunday would be the first day of phase-two of the 10-day lockdown imposed in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Grocery shops, vegetables and grains wholesale markets would be allowed restricted operations for four hours — 8am to noon — from then. Pune Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) administrator B J Deshmukh, in a video released on Friday, said, “In phase-two, only shops and wholesalers selling essential items have been allowed to remain open from July 19-23 between 8am and 12noon. When it comes to APMC, Pune, the various activities at the market like arrivals, buying, selling and dispatches will be impossible to be undertaken in this short operational window. We have, therefore, asked for guidance from the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad corporation authorities in this regard, apart from requesting for a change in these timings — if at all the market has to start operations from Sunday. Till such guidance comes from authorities, APMC will remain closed.” Deshmukh told TOI, “We have spoken to the authorities, who are still deciding on the matter.” Bharatlal Ganpatlal Unecha, the owner of wholesale firm Dhanavat Pedhi in Market Yard, said, “In the last lockdown, the timing of the grains wholesale market was 10am to 5pm. It was enough to undertake operations. The four-hour window in this lockdown will be insufficient.” Dhaval Shah, the director of Jairaj Group in Gultekdi wholesale market, said, “About 200 trucks enter the market in a day. One truck has to move around the market eight to 10 times. The market thus needs at least eight hours to run smoothly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wholesale-market-unlikely-to-open-tomorrow-apmc/articleshow/77026480.cms||Neha Madaan
July 18, 2020||Pune||PMC limits’ active caseload tops 12,000, more than 21,000 discharged||PUNE: The active Covid caseload in the Pune municipal limits climbed to 12,016 on Friday with the addition of 868 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing its total tally to 31,622. Overall, 1,904 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, pushing the region’s tally to 46,872. Besides, 29 more patients succumbed to the infection, taking the PMR death toll to 1,243. Among the new cases, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas added 690, while the rural and Cantonment areas together added 346. With the latest addition, the total case count in PCMC limits has crossed 10,000-mark. As many as 773 patients were discharged in the PMC limits on Friday after they were declared cured, pushing the cured count in the municipal limits to above 21,000-mark. “The number of critical patients in the PMC limits increased to 527 by Friday evening, of whom 82 were on ventilator support,” a civic official said. A PMC report stated that 6,811 swab samples were collected on Friday, including 2,800 samples for rapid antigen test. The deceased included an 82-year-old man from Mahatma Phule Peth, a 67-year-old man from Dhankawdi, a 76-year-old man from Junnar, a 77-year-old man fom the Mhalunge area, a 70-year-old man from Kothrud, a 68-year-old man from Indiranagar, a 72-year-old man from Sinhagad Road and a 76-year-old man from Vadgaonsheri, a 67-year-old man from Nana Peth, a 70-year-old man from Sadashiv Peth, a 60-year-old man from Shivajinagar, a 77-year-old woman from Wagholi, a 78-year-old man from Jalna, a 63 -year-old woman from Pimpri, a 52-year-old man from Shirur and a 74-year-woman from the Khadki area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-limits-active-caseload-tops-12k-more-than-21000-discharged/articleshow/77027119.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Short of doctors, Telangana govt to recruit 1,200; Rs 100 crore boost to Covid fight||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 cases rising on one hand and shortage of doctors being felt on the other, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday directed the health department officials to induct 1,200 PG students who have completed their course into government service. He said vacancies of 200 doctors in the primary health centres would be filled soon. The CM said an additional Rs 100 crore would be allocated to take up urgent measures to contain the coronavirus cases and to provide treatment to the patients. “The amount will be kept with the health minister and chief secretary,” KCR said. The CM announced that the government would implement UGC scales for teachers working in various government medical colleges. He said the newly-recruited nurses would also get pay on a par with the nurses presently working in the government hospitals. Bringing cheer among Ayush department doctors and teachers, the CM said their retirement age has been enhanced to 65 years. “The government doctors and staff are well equipped to treat any number of patients,” the CM said at a review meeting with health department officials on the pandemic at Pragathi Bhavan on Friday. KCR directed the officials to ensure that all private hospitals maintain transparency in availability of beds. “The government will act sternly if an artificial shortage of beds is created. They should be a display at every hospital on how many beds they have and how many have been occupied. This information must be given to the government from time to time,” he said. The CM also directed the officials to extend Covid-19 incentive of 10% additional pay to everyone working in the medical and health department, including outsourcing employees. It was also decided to extend the incentive given to cops and sanitary workers working in the municipalities and gram panchayats. The CM said there was no need to panic on surge in the Covid-19 cases. “When compared to the national average, Telangana’s mortality rate is less. The recovery rate in the state is also much higher,” he said. “The unlock process is going on in the country and we have come to a stage where living with the coronavirus is a must,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/short-of-doctors-govt-to-recruit-1200-rs-100cr-boost-to-covid-fight/articleshow/77027131.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Toll doubles in Pimpri Chinchwad in 9 days||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The time taken for the death count to double in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits has accelerated to nine days from 13-14 days observed since the first death was reported in the area in April. This at a time when the civic body only has limited resources, 175 ICU beds and 629 oxygen beds, to deal with critical patients. On the bright side, however, the PCMC’s fatality rate is still lower than 2% as against national’s 2.6%. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar has attributed the low fatality rate to early detection and better awareness among citizens. Considering the rise in cases, PCMC officials and doctors have been counselling asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients to avail of home isolation if they have a separate room with an attached bathroom. “Societies are also warming up to the idea that the disease is not a taboo,” a senior civic official said. On the positivity rate, PCMC limits’ count is twice the national average with one in every five people testing positive compared to 1 in 10 nationally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/toll-doubles-in-pimpri-chinchwad-in-9-days/articleshow/77027127.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Fake items push KVIC to sell khadi masks online||CHENNAI: With an increasing demand for masks, Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) has started selling khadi cotton and silk masks online. While the cotton face masks are priced at Rs 30 a piece, the silk masks are available for Rs 100 each. KVIC has begun selling khadi masks online so that people get genuine products, said chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena. “Many online portals have been selling ‘khadi’ masks which are neither handmade nor made of genuine khadi fabric. People fall for such misleading ads.” Khadi fabric, also known as khaddar, is a hand woven natural fibre that is quite porous and breathable. To make sure droplets don’t pass through the fabric, the khadi cotton face masks are made of double-twisted cotton and are double-layered with three pleats. The silk masks are triple-layered with two inner layers of 100% khadi cotton and a top layer of khadi silk fabric. The masks comply with ICMR quality. While the cotton ones are available in small, medium and large sizes, the silk masks come in a standard size with adjustable, beaded ear loops. “The silk masks are available in a wide range of colours in solid, printed fabric,” said Saxena. Customers have to place a minimum order of Rs 500 on http://www.kviconline.gov.in/khadimask and the products are delivered within five days of purchase. The khadi masks being made at Gandhigram Trust are also priced at Rs 30 each. “Initially, our sale will be through the depot but we plan to sell them online when we start mass production,” said Gandhigram Trust secretary V K Shivakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fake-items-push-kvic-to-sell-khadi-masks-online/articleshow/77026467.cms||B Sivakumar
July 18, 2020||Meerut||Covid +ve teen cuts iron grill, flees Baghpat facility||MEERUT: When an Army subedar saw a 16-year-old boy crying on the roadside in Meerut towards June end, he took the boy in and offered to provide him shelter till the lockdown eased and he could go back home to Bihar. Soon after, the boy allegedly fled with the subedar’s licensed pistol, 55 cartridges and Rs 35,000 cash. A two-week long police hunt ensued and the boy was traced at last to Bihar. Having tested positive for Covid-19, he was placed at a medical facility in Baghpat. On Thursday night, the boy allegedly escaped again, having managed to cut iron rods of a window at the facility he was lodged at. Police so far have no idea how he managed to cut the metal. “He (the accused) tested positive for Covid-19 on June 11 before being sent to juvenile home. He was admitted at a hospital and later referred to a health centre in Khekda,” said Om Gautam, police post in-charge in Doghat. Dilip Singh, circle officer, Khekda, said, “He fled from the community health centre on Thursday night. It wasn’t till Friday morning that people noticed he was missing. We immediately launched a manhunt. Three police teams have been formed to search for the boy. He had been admitted at the facility in Khekda on July 14, after spending three days at another hospital,” Taking quick action, Baghpat SP Ajay Kumar suspended two head constables stationed at Khekda for dereliction of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-positive-16-year-old-accused-of-fleeing-with-subedars-pistol-cuts-iron-grill-flees-baghpat-facility/articleshow/77025408.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 18, 2020||Allahabad||Help pours in for Nepal youth unable to fulfil IIM-A dream||Prayagraj: Amid strained ties between India and Nepal over border issue and the recent comment by Nepalese PM about Lord Ram, financial help has poured in or a poor student from the Himalayan country to realise his dream of doing the PG course at IIM-Ahmedabad. Aashik Jayswal, 24, hails from a farmers' family of Dahiyar village (bordering Raxaul, Bihar) and after completing his BSc (agriculture) from SHUATS, Naini he has been selected for two-year PG programme in Agribusiness Management from IIM-A. But celebration is yet to begin. The course fee of Rs 24 lakh is something which is beyond their reach. His father being a temporary teacher in Nepal and with small land holding, which barely feeds the joint family of 17 members, Aashik is finding it hard to deposit an amount of Rs 3.25 lakh as the first instalment by July 31. The problem has worsened in present Covid-19 pandemic as some of his Indian relatives -- his maternal ancestors hailing from Bihar -- are unable to help him for their business has derailed in the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/help-pours-in-for-nepal-youth-unable-to-fulfil-iim-a-dream/articleshow/77026913.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Villagers near Mattewara refuse to budge, say industry will pollute region||Ludhiana: Although the government has promised that the Mattewara industrial park project will not utilise forest lands, locals are still resisting the idea. According to those living in the neaby villages of Mattewara, the project will bring about severe, irrepairable damage to the local ecology, even f the government spares forest lands. Most villagers said they are angry with their panchayat representatives who signed an agreement with the state government to give away the lands of their villages for the project. A video of a sarpanch of one of the villages is doing rounds in social media. The video shows the testimony of sarpanch stating that she signed the documents wihout realising what she was getting into. Speaking on the issue, Maninderjit Singh Bawa, a prominent progressive farmer of Machian village, said, “The villagers are not against development. But any project that will have repercussions on the environment and the future of our area, which is the most green in the entire district and even Punjab, is not advisable. Moreover, it makes no difference whether the forest land is used or panchayat land is used for the purpose — any such industrial project will not only lead to deforestation, but will also cause other issues like depletion of water table and pollution in the Sutlej.” According to Bawa, the government would have had better luck if it had thought of some tourism project in the area. “This would have not only given sure shot employment and business to the locals, but would have also ensured that no damage is caused to the precious flora and fauna of the area. Right now, the government and departments concerned are claiming that no damages will be done by this project, but Ludhianvis clearly remember how the Buddah Nullah, which was once fresh water body got polluted after industrialisation near it. It has become an embarrassment for Punjab. Same is going to happen to the natural resources here in our area, if the industrial park project comes up here.” Dr B S Gill, a doctor and an agriculturist from Mattewara, said “We don’t want any polluting or heavy industry to come up in our area, which is one of the cleanest in Ludhiana. Most often, whenever such industrial parks and projects are conceived, it leads to humanitarian crisis, as lot of the villages are dislocated and hundreds of villagers are displaced. Moreover villages like Mattewara, Hawas, Machian, and Mangat are CIS-Sutlej territories, which hold great historic importance. Unfortunately, people of these villages have been displaced several times earlier. Everyone knows that Ludhiana is a textile hub and textile industry is entirely dependant on dyeing units, which are must for completing the chain and since this area has a very sensitive ecological balance and if dyeing industries come up here it will be a complete disaster. If the government wants to set up any industrial activity here, it should allow service industry or trading industry — even a food park can be considered — which would be much safer option than any other kind of industry. It is the duty of government that this area should be conserved at any cost.” Meanwhile, lashing out against the panchayat heads, who had signed the agreement with the government for transfer of the panchayat lands, Bachhitar Singh, from Mangat village said, “The panchayat heads who agreed for the acquisition of the land are the ones who will be responsible for any consequences, whether on the environment or on humans. We will not let go even one inch of land for acquisition even if the contract has been signed, as we have been living here for generations and we will neither leave these areas nor let any industry come here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/villagers-near-mattewara-refuse-to-budge-say-industry-will-pollute-region/articleshow/77027129.cms||Mohit Behl
July 18, 2020||Pune||Eatery owner, staffer booked for running food delivery service in Pune||PUNE: The crime branch on Thursday booked an eatery owner and his employee for delivering food parcels to customers from his establishment near Nyati County housing society in Undri in defiance of lockdown orders. Assistant inspector crime branch (unit V) Santosh Tasgaonkar said, “We had received information that the eatery owner was accepting order online and delivering food. We then verified the information and found that the eatery had been opened and it’s operator and employee were cooking and delivering food parcel.” An offence of disobedience under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Covid-19 Rules and Epidemic Diseases Act was registered with the Kondhwa police, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eatery-owner-staffer-booked-for-running-food-delivery-service/articleshow/77026491.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Assault on green cover is unacceptable, Mattewara must be preserved||Public outcry on the proposal to develop another industrial cluster was bound to happen as successive governments did not care for the environment .The decision to develop the area in close proximity to the forest land is definitely an ill advised and hasty one, as this is going to affect overall environment in the name of industrialisation and employment . Save and develop existing green cover Ever since it was decided to widen the G T road (NH1), thousands of trees have been cut for the six-lane road project (from Karnal to Jalandhar) and also another project from Ludhiana to Kharar. Many a trees cut were centuries old and were of sheesham, acacia and jamun, which suited the climate of Punjab. Road side did witness the plantation of eucalyptus trees, but that did not adequately compensate the loss of green cover and even on these trees were axed multiple times in the name of road widening. In an RTI reply it was informed that 1,27,086 trees were allowed to be axed for facilitating NH-1 patch falling under Ludhiana forest division alone. In Punjab, the number of trees felled for development were 3,53,755. The mandatory compensatory afforestation in Mattewara and other areas is only in the name, as saplings either not planted as promised or, if planted, were not cared for. It is an uphill task to elicit information from Punjab Forest department for compensatory forestation. The department has not updated it’s website since 2007. So, it will be prudent to save the existing green cover first. NGOs have valid reasons to believe that once industrial activity kicked off, it will be unplanned and unbridled, as is seen from the existing polluting units. The Sutlej may be polluted further Buddha Darya, an offshoot of the Sutlej near Machhiwara till late 1980s flowed clean and was potable. But it became Buddha Nullah with dumped with industrial discharge along with Ludhiana’s untreated sewerage discharge at many a places coupled with milk dairies waste and garbage. Already the Buddha Nullah has immensely polluted the Sutlej when it rejoins into the river again. The newer industrial activity near the river is a new threat of water pollution. Also, the proposed industrial site will also encourage further illegal sand and soil mining in the area near the Sutlej to cater to the construction activities. Earlier, there was a proposal to ensure a ‘nature reserve’ in the area with a promise of developing the area as a tourist hub, but nothing has been heard of this. Political appeasement seems to promote industrialists interests alone, forgetting general public and environment. Take a cue from developed nations Let our state take a cue from the GM ford manufacturing in Detroit in Michigan in USA. It brought hundreds of ancillary units since 1900. But, the industrial development went full circle and there started the downside of activity with the fall of GM Ford manufacturing worldwide and USA government ordered to remove industrial structures and started ploughing down vast area to restart agriculture. It was better if the lands of villages were developed for growing vegetables and fruits. Strengthen existing focal points Dhannasu industrial cluster, where Hero group will lead to construct cycle manufacturing valley is yet in nascent stage. The apparel manufacturing park development Doraha is nowhere to be seen even after 15 years. Further, Hambran focal point started earlier as well as Ladhowal area side (proposed for food processing units) is also not being taken care of. Development of existing areas will help reduce costs, as these are in close proximity to mainline rail and road transport also. The starting of industrial activity in this Mattewra belt, thus will be eroding the serenity of the area, which should have been developed as a tourist circuit alongside the bank of the Sutlej — from Laddowal to Machhiwara and further till Anandpur Sahib. People can’t afford closed-door decisions Corona times have locked down people inside their homes. Such decisions must be discussed in the public domain or in legislative assembly. Pleasing a certain section of industry people at the peril of greater environmental interests is not welcome. The Punjab government is requested to put on hold this decision. (The writer is a social activist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/assault-on-green-cover-is-unacceptable-mattewara-must-be-preserved/articleshow/77027134.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||After Jagraon, traders in Raikot reduce opening hours for shops to check Covid spread||Ludhiana: Taking cue from market associations in Jagraon, which have reduced the business hours to check the spread of Covid-19, Raikot market associations have also decided to reduce opening hours from Friday. This practice started after a meeting of various traders association under the aegis of All Traders Association Raikot. “There was no pressure from police and administration and we seriously thought about curtailing the hours to check Covid-19. In the meeting of various associations under the aegis of All Traders Association Raikot on Thursday, which was attended by Hira Singh, station house officer of Raikot City police station, we decided to keep shops open from 7am to 6pm,” said Parveen Aggarwal, president of the All Traders Association Raikot. He added that the decision was implemented from Friday and around 500 members of the association cooperated with them. The association members include footwear association, dhaba and restaurant association, kiryana association, vegetable and fruit association, halwai union and swarankar sangh. It added that they have formed WhatsApp group to keep the members in loop about its various decisions. Ludhiana rural police meanwhile appreciated the decision of association members. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ludhiana rural police, Vivek Sheel Sony said they had urged the associations for such step and they appreciate them for doing so. He added that normally the shops can be opened from 5am to 10pm, but the association members decided to close shops at peak hour in the evening to avoid gathering. The police officer said they hope such steps will help in checking the spread of the disease in the area. He added that apart from Raikot, market associations in Jagraon and Dakha are also taking such steps to avoid spread even as they are not in community spread stage. The SSP said they have issued minimum challans and want to make people, including associations, realise that they are into this together and have to battle it in a collective manner. Many shopkeepers also said they fully support the measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-jagraon-traders-in-raikot-reduce-opening-hours-for-shops-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/77027138.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 18, 2020||Meerut||Meerut MP slams ‘cop-criminal’ nexus after murder of temple worker||MEERUT: Latching on to the murder of a temple worker, Meerut MP Rajendra Agarwal on Friday slammed the local police for giving “patronage” to a history-sheeter and said that Kanpur-like incident will not repeat if they are checked in time. “The murderers of Kanti Prasad-- the victim-- have got patronage of a history-sheeter who had cordial ties with local policemen. Criminals like Vikas Dubey are emboldened by the patronage of policemen. If they are not checked in time, they can create further trouble,” Agarwal said. Prasad, in his 60s, was thrashed by a youth, Anas, after a minor argument in Bhawanpur area of Meerut on July 13. Injured, he went to a local police station to file a complaint. The next day, Prasad’s condition deteriorated and he died in a hospital. Anas was booked and sent to jail, police said. “Prasad’s medical examination was conducted and he was referred to the district hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Anas was arrested before the death of Prasad,” said Avinash Pandey, superintendent of police (rural). According to police, MP Agarwal was referring to Nadeem Mewati, a history-sheeter from Bhawanpur police station. “Mewati is in jail,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-mp-slams-cop-criminal-nexus-after-murder-of-temple-worker/articleshow/77025435.cms||Piyush Rai
July 18, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru lags behind state’s Covid-19 testing average||Milton.Lawrence Mysuru: Although the number of Covid-19 cases being reported in Mysuru district has witnessed an upward surge in the past week, with more than 85 cases being reported on average every day, the number of people being tested for a population of 10 lakh in the district is among the lowest in the state. In Mysuru district, around 1,972 people are being tested for every population sample of 10 lakh in 10 days, while the average in the state is 3,151. Interestingly enough, all the other districts in the Old Mysore region fare much better when it comes to testing: While Chamarajanagar is conducting 5,435 tests per million, the figure for Kodagu is 3,531, 3,266 for Hassan and 2,962 in Mandya. However, authorities in the district attributed the poor average in Mysuru to the lack of adequate equipment to perform tests. Dean and director of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute Dr CP Nanjaraj said that they were conducting, on average, 600 tests daily against a target of 730. “We have managed to achieve 90% of our target. We have considerably fewer equipment than the neighbouring districts. We have sought advanced machines so as to help conduct more tests, which will improve the testing average in our district, Dr Nanjaraj said. Mandya deputy commissioner Dr MV Venkatesh said that the number of tests being conducted in the district was in excess of the target set by the state government. “Our target per day is 620 tests, of which 550 are being conducted by the Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences, while the Adichunchanagiri Medical College is performing 100 tests. We are not facing any difficulties on meeting our target,” he said. Kodagu DC Annies Kanmani Joy pointed to the rise in the number of patients reporting influenza-like-illnesses given that the monsoon had set in across the state. “People are also volunteering to get tested. We also have a mobile unit that can reach every nook and cranny of the district. We are conducting 350 tests every day, while our target is 270,” Kanmani told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-lags-behind-states-covid-19-testing-average/articleshow/77025432.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Human trials begin for Covid-19 vaccine||HYDERABAD: Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has kicked off human trials for its Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, an inactivated vaccine that it has developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Virology (NIV). The company commenced Phase I of the human clinical trials for Covaxin on July 15 with the first volunteer being administered the dose at AIIMS Patna, sources said. Apart from AIIMS Patna, volunteers at hospitals like PGI Rohtak have since been administered the vaccine dose on Friday. As many as a dozen hospitals across the country, including Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) Hyderabad, King George Hospital at Vizag, AIIMS Delhi, among others, are participating in the Covaxin trials. Bharat Biotech said the clinical trial for Covaxin is a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled one being conducted on 375 volunteers across the country. A double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial is one where the human participants don’t know who is getting the actual dose of the vaccine or drug and a placebo (substance that has no therapeutic effect) is given to a control group. Covaxin is India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine to have received approval from the Indian drugs regulator Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) in June end. Bharat Biotech, which has a Bio Safety Level-3, high containment manufacturing facility at Hyderabad, hopes to complete the first and second phase of human trials by October this year. The SARS-CoV-2 virus strain for Covaxin was isolated from an asymptomatic Covid-19 patient at NIV, Pune, and transferred in early May to Bharat Biotech, which developed the vaccine candidate at its Hyderabad facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/human-trials-begin-for-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/77027143.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun admin releases online video series on works done during lockdown||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun district administration has released a YouTube video series called “Lockdown Stories”. The videos are based on the different stages of the lockdown and the collective efforts of the administration, police, and the civil society in managing the Covid-19 crisis. DM Ashish Srivastava said, “The videos will serve as a documentation of the collective effort made to handle Covid-19 crisis and be a reference for handling any such complex situation in the future. The video series will also be a reminder of the tough time that everyone has been through. The videos will re-establish the significance of taking precautions.” The second episode of the video series was released on Thursday. It highlights the different phases of the lockdown and the preparations made by the district administration to trace Covid-19 patients and ensure supply of daily necessities to the people. The videos have been made in small parts where the efforts have been made to showcase some key decisions like establishing the Covid-19 Surveillance Room which tracked the movement of the people from other states. In addition the series has also shown how the Anganwadi workers inspected over 10 lakh households in Dehradun to identify individuals with any symptoms of Covid-19. “It has been a long journey and we are still making efforts to keep the people safe by means of generation. The video series is a tribute to the efforts made by the government, doctors and other medical staff, district administration, police and people from the civil society who have worked round the clock during the lockdown,” added DM Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-admin-releases-online-video-series-on-works-done-during-lockdown/articleshow/77025437.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||IIT Madras team develops game about Covid||CHENNAI: When the pandemic forced students into virtual classrooms, long lectures and digital presentations, students at Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M), were playing games. As part of a new elective course ‘let us play to learn’ introduced in the curriculum, students designed and developed board and card games on complex science and engineering concepts including Covid-19, which would be used in classroom teaching from the upcoming semester. Professor Preeti Aghalayam, department of chemical engineering, who is a co-facilitator, said in the nine-credit general elective course introduced last semester, students were encouraged to pick a topic of their choice to develop a game and use it to teach others. “We had 30 students from different branches and programmes. We wanted them to choose topics that they enjoyed or struggled to learn in their course and see how it can be fit into the mechanics of common board or card games,” she said. From tissue engineering, aircraft design, building and construction to interstellar and space travel, students and research scholars from different departments teamed up to develop nine different full-fledged board and card games as their final project. As the world began to grapple with the Covid crisis, a team developed a board and card-based game where players could turn into news reporters and travel across the world busting myths, raise awareness about the infection and share technical information about vaccines under development and diagnostic methods used. And what better way to spark their creativity than to play more games to design one? Kartic Vaidyanathan, founder, Play2Learn and an IIT-M alumnus, also a co-facilitator, said students were allowed to play games to learn the basic concepts and mechanics involved in game developing. “Once they learned the theory and started playing games, they got an idea on how to build them. After that, we allowed them to build games pertinent to their subjects, themes or courses,” he said. Deploying games in classroom teaching is not new in IIT-M campus. Professor Aghalayam had earlier deployed game playing activities in her classes and found it perked up students’ interest. Vaidyanathan found gamification a proven technique to make learning fun in the corporate world. What started as a program to encourage students’ leisure time activity has now been restructured into a course. The nine final projects from the course, which are now being digitised, will be deployed for testing in IIT-M next semester. It will later be shared with faculty in other engineering colleges. “More than 150 students have shown interest in registering for the course in the upcoming semester,” said Vaidyanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-m-team-develops-game-about-covid/articleshow/77026492.cms||U Tejonmayam
July 18, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur AIIMS OPD to reopen by July 20||Gorakhpur: AIIMS is set to reopen smart OPD from Monday. Patients can call on 0551-2205501 and 0551 -2205585 for appointment. No one is required to visit Gorakhpur AIIMS for appointment, said head of media management committee, Dr HS Joshi. “Initially, doctor consultation and other discussions will be made on call only, and if doctors feel the need of direct appointment, they will send a message to the patient regarding the same. A screen shot or printout of the appointment message has to be shown before entering the AIIMS campus. The patient can only enter the AIIMS campus an hour before the given appointment time, beyond which entry won’t be allowed. The appointment message is valid only for the given date,” said Dr Joshi. “The patient can bring one attendant but s/he should not be suffering from cough or fever. Everyone has to wear mask and bring with them a government approved identity card with the photograph. During entrance in AIIMS, everyone will be tested for flu, and I appeal everyone to follow the Covid-19 protocol and social distancing on the campus” Dr Joshi said. “I appeal to everyone not to come to AIIMS for appointment or card making,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-aiims-opd-to-reopen-by-july-20/articleshow/77026926.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man waiting 2 days for ICU bed at Sassoon hospital dies||PUNE: A 76-year-old Covid-19 patient died at Sassoon general hospital on Thursday after a futile two-day wait to get an intensive care unit (ICU) bed with ventilator support at the state-run health hub and also at two private hospitals in the city. This is the fifth instance in the past few days in the city of a patient not getting an ICU bed in time and subsequently dying of complications. A resident of Junnar, the man was brought to Sassoon hospital on Tuesday and kept on basic oxygen support in the casualty ward for two days. His condition worsened on Thursday and he died of respiratory complications around 7pm. With the number of Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) rising every day, the stressed health infrastructure and seeming lack of planning and coordination between the district administration and designated private hospitals have left patients and their relatives in the lurch. The man had fever and developed breathlessness on July 12. He was initially taken to a Covid-care centre in Junnar but could not be admitted as the place did not have oxygen support. The family brought him to a private hospital in Shivajinagar around 2pm on July 12. After initial treatment and investigation, the hospital advised the family to shift him to another hospital because they had no vacant ICU bed. The family took the man to a non-Covid private hospital on Paud road the same evening. But when he tested positive for Covid-19 early on July 14, the hospital advised the family to take him to any hospital treating Covid-19 patients. After contacting the PMC’s helpline for availability of beds, the family was told to approach two private hospitals — one in Koregaon Park and another in Kondhwa. The family took him to the Koregaon Park hospital after its officials confirmed over the phone that they had an ICU bed. However, by the time the man was taken there, the vacant bed was occupied. When contacted, the Kondhwa hospital said they did not have any vacant bed. After calling a few other hospitals for ICU beds in vain, the family took the man to Sassoon hospital around 1pm on July 14. However, he could not get an ICU bed with ventilator till he died. A doctor of Sassoon hospital said, “Our staff tried other Covid hospitals for an ICU bed. But we could not find any.” The man’s grandson, a resident of Kondhwe-Dhawade, said, “We went to the Koregaon Park hospital and called every other Covid hospital and health centre in the city for an ICU bed. We also contacted the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) helpline, which confirmed ICU bed availability at two private hospitals. However, both said they did not have a vacant ICU bed. At Sassoon hospital, he was on the waiting list for an ICU bed for two days prior to his death.” He said the private hospitals provided his grandfather with basic medical care, oxygen support and also searched for an ICU bed in other hospitals. “They also provided paid ambulance service with oxygen support while shifting him,” he said. S Chockalingam, state settlement commissioner who is overseeing the Covid-19 management and infrastructure at Sassoon hospital, told TOI that there would not be any probe in the incident as there was no bed available in the ICU. “We cannot just shift other patients to accommodate a new one, unless there is a vacancy. The only solution is to increase ICU beds. Three days ago, we converted 10 oxygen beds into ICU beds. Within no time they were full. We are adding 30 more ICU beds by July 21 and 50 more by August 10. The capacity of ICU beds (all ventilated) will increase to 120 by August 10 at Sassoon hospital,” he said. When contacted, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “The dashboard has been set up to give information about the availability of beds and ventilators. The relatives of the patients should check it. Even if a bed is not available in a hospital where the patient is admitted, arrangements can be done at another hospital. The citizens can approach the PMC if they are not getting beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-fails-to-get-icu-bed-for-two-days-dies/articleshow/77027147.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 18, 2020||Varanasi||Fringe group tonsures Nepali man in Varanasi||VARANASI: Members of a little-known right-wing group – Vishwa Hindu Sena (VHS) – allegedly tonsured a Nepalese citizen in Varanasi and forced him to raise slogans against Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli for his recent controversial comments on Lord Ram. The incident took place somewhere on the bank of the Ganga in Samneghat area on Thursday. Bhelupur police Inspector Uday Pratap Singh told TOI on Friday that an FIR has been lodged against Arun Pathak, the so-called head of the outfit who has also uploaded a video of the incident on his Facebook account and claimed the responsibility for the act. “We have lodged an FIR against Pathak, a resident of Jain Dharmashala, Bhelupur, in connection with the incident under sections 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of IPC and IT Act. He is absconding,” he added. “One person, Santosh Kumar Pandey, a resident of Ghasiyari Tola, has been arrested on Friday for allegedly shooting the video of Nepali youth during head shaving and being forced to raise slogans,” he told TOI. More names are likely to be included in the FIR as the investigation progresses. A manhunt has been launched to nab Pathak, who is absconding, he said, adding that the police swung into action after the video of the incident went viral. However, the Nepalese citizen whose head was tonsured was untraced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/fringe-group-tonsures-nepali-youth-in-varanasi/articleshow/77026931.cms||Binay Singh
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Halwai traders want to keep shops open on Sundays||Ludhiana: A delegation of city’s sweets’ manufacturers met cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Friday. The businessmen are worried over the falling sales and are of the view that ban on opening non essential shops like sweets shops on Sunday is proving to be a huge setback for them as it was the only day when maximum number of customers used to turn out for purchases. The delegation also demanded from Ashu that considering the grim scenario, the minister should urge Punjab government to at least allow them to open their shops on August 3, when the festival of Rakhi is falling. Later in the day the businessmen also met the senior police officials and also apprised them of their demand of opening shops on August 3. Narinder Pal Singh, state president of the Halwai Association, said, “The sales have nosedived to unprecedented levels due to fear among the public. The Sunday ban is like another nail in our coffin, as it was our busy sales day. We have requested the minister to allow us to open the shops on Sunday for limited hours. We should be allowed to open the shops on Rakhi festival at least.” According to Charanjit Singh, president of Halwai Association, Ludhiana, “We have assured the minister that if we are allowed to open our shops on Rakhi, we will comply with all safety norms. We will take full responsibility for cleanliness and hygiene in our shops and also ensure that there are no crowds inside the shops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/halwai-traders-want-to-keep-shops-open-on-sundays/articleshow/77027142.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Authorities await AAI’s approval for construction at Halwara airport||Ludhiana: More than two weeks after deputy commissioner (DC) had claimed that the construction work at Halwara airport would begin within a fortnight, the state authorities are waiting for approval from AAI (Airport Authority of India) to start work. The PWD (B&R) authorities said they are waiting for AAI for the approval. On July 2, DC Varinder Sharma during his visit to the site at Aitiana, where the civil terminal of the international airport is to come up, had said the work on the airport coming up at Halwara would start in two weeks time. He had said the road leading to the airport site would be widened and the PWD (B&R (Roads and Buildings)) officials have been directed to start the work on the boundary wall of the international airport at the earliest. Executive Engineer (B&R) Ludhiana, Rakesh Garg said either GLADA or PWD (B&R) will carry out the work for construction of boundary wall, but that can be started only after approval from AAI which they are yet to give. He added that they have got the drawing for the construction of the boundary wall and once work is started it will take about nine months to complete the same as it is a long wall. “We will start tender process once we get approval from AAI,” said a PWD source. PWD (B&R) officials said two types of estimates were given by the agency for boundary wall, one that of bricks (which costs around Rs 3 crore) and other of concrete (which costs around Rs 5 crore). They added that porta cabin (portable temporary structure) will also be constructed by the state agencies. AAI officials confirmed that delay is on their end. “Our AAI board gives approval for such projects and that has already approved construction of boundary wall and approval for porta cabin was also in pipeline and is already expected. However, after the approval from board, chairman of AAI has to put signature on that after which the agency concerned, which will get the project executed, is informed. We expect that we will get the approval soon after which the work will start on the project,” said an AAI officer on conditions of anonymity. “We also want that at least the boundary wall and portable cabin structure is completed soon, so that we shift operations from Sahnewal to Halwara. We need a cargo shed to carry on our operations from Halwara. Once that happens, construction of permanent set up can go on and will take around two to three years.” Meanwhile, the residents are anxiously waiting for the construction of Halwara airport. “Halwara airport will definitely benefit all sections of the society, including industrialists, businessmen, students, professionals and other workers and will create more jobs in Ludhiana district. It will also help the people living near the airport and they will get maximum share of the avenues and business,” said Sandeep Kumar, a businessman from Dugri area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/authorities-await-aais-approval-for-construction-at-halwara-airport/articleshow/77027146.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||9k may be left out of commerce courses||Ahmedabad: As many as 9,000 candidates may miss an opportunity to secure admissions in commerce courses at Gujarat University after they did not fill enough number of options in the choice filling exercise, said sources. “At a time when the varsities are faced with the issue of vacant seats, such missteps by the candidates only add to the admission committee’s burden,” said a GU official. The university had recently completed the registration of 36,514 students for 37,000 seats available for five courses including BCom, BBA and BCA, among others. The provisional merit list declared for admission to five commerce courses at the colleges affiliated to the Gujarat University has left out 996 students whose online forms were left incomplete. The admission committee reviewed the form-filling process and found that of these 966 students, about 90 had forgotten to press the form submit button, while the remaining had left the form incomplete. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/9k-may-be-left-out-of-commerce-courses/articleshow/77026504.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa Forward Party, AAP slam education department on salaries||PANAJI: The directorate of education’s circular asking aided schools to pay salaries from the management funds drew criticism from Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Both the parties have sent letters to governor Satya Pal Malik seeking his intervention. GFP and AAP requested Malik to ensure that the teachers of the 800-odd grant-in-aid schools get July salaries. “Aided schools are living hand to mouth and are not like private schools which have a lot of money,” said GFP president Vijai Sardesai. “It looks like the government is not worried about the teachers, the students and the schools.” Sardesai said that the education department asking the managements to pay the salaries of 14000-odd employees because the department clerks are quarantined, exposes the government of bankruptcy. Education director Vandana Rao issued a circular stating that salaries of aided school teachers should be paid by the school managements because the clerk who issues salaries has got Covid-19 and two other clerks who process bills for grant in aid institutions are home quarantined. This shows that the department depends on the attendance of one or two clerks without any contingency plan, said AAP convenor for Goa Elvis Gomes. “This decision places huge stress on the school managements to bear the expenditure towards salaries,” said Gomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-aap-slam-edu-dept-on-salaries/articleshow/77027895.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Another accused nabbed in realtor murder case||LUDHIANA: The Division Number 5 police have arrested another accused in the murder case of realtor Shamsher Singh Atwal of BRS Nagar. Atwal was stabbed to death by his worker Manish for money. After killing Atwal, Manish had stolen Rs 2 Lakh from the office and handed over to his friend Arun, 22 of village Sunet. The police on Friday have arrested Arun however he has not revealed where he has kept the money. On July 11, Manish, 30 of Rachi Colony, BRS Nagar killed Atwal at his office on Malhar Road. When Manish stabbed Atwal, he resided and during that Manish too get injured. Thereafter, he escaped in Atwal’s car and got admitted in a hospital. Atwal’s family reached office as he was not responding to calls, following which the matter came to light. Sub-inspector Richa Rani, station house officer at Division number 5 police station said Manish had joined the office about 15 days before the incident. When he observed that Atwal keeps cash with him in the office, he planned with his friend Arun to loot the cash. Though Arun was not actively involved in the murder, but he kept Rs 2 lakh stolen by Manish with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/another-accused-nabbed-in-realtor-murder-case/articleshow/77027150.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kanpur||City records 130 Corona cases in 24 hours, 6 dead||Kanpur: Industrial city on Friday witnessed a massive surge in number of Corona cases. A record 130 persons were tested positive for Covid-19. This was the highest number of persons testing positive in a span of 24 hours since the first case was detected in March. With this the total Corona tally jumped to 2,217 from 2,087. Also six persons died due to Covid-19 in 24 hour duration. On Thursday, seven persons had succumbed to Coronavirus. On the previous day, six persons had died.  In last three days, 19 people have lost their lives to this deadly virus. So far (since first case was reported in the city), a total of 111 deaths have occured due to Covid-19. With 130 new cases and also 30 persons getting discharged on Friday, the total active cases in the city reached 868. The speedy increase in the Corona cases has left the district authorities worried. However, health department stated that all those who died were also suffering from some or the other ailment such as high blood pressure, diabetes. Health department collected 1,169 samples for tests and the results are expected in a day or two. New Corona cases have been reported from Kursawa, Hanspuram, Pheelkhana, Nawabganj, Parampurwa, Krishna Nagar, Gandhigram, Panki, Anand Bagh, Chandra Nagar, Ratanlal Nagar, Barra-2, 7 & 8, RK Puram, Geeta Nagar, Bara Sirohi, Billhaur, Babupurwa, Maswanpur, Shyam nagar, Jarauli, Gujjaini, Rampuram, Safipur, Rajeev Nagar, Nehru nagar, Armapur Estate, HAL, Cantt, Bhauti, Ghumni Bazar, Faithfulganj, Harbans Mohal, Harjinder Nagar, Kabadi Market, Bhagwatghat, Raipurwa, Moti Nagar, Indra Nagar, Fazalganj, Lal Bangla, Vijay nagar, Kakadeo, Patkapur, TP Nagar, Chaubeypur, Gwaltoli, Naseemabad, Canal Road, Kidwai nagar, kaushalpuri, Rammohan Ka Hata, Swaroop Nagar, Arya Nagar, Medical College Campus among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-records-130-corona-cases-in-24-hours-6-dead/articleshow/77027148.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Neighbours assault man over drain repairs||Ahmedabad: A man from the Astodia area of the city on Friday filed a complaint at Khadia police station alleging that two men and their father who live in his neighbourhood attacked him, following a dispute over contributions to repair a drainage line in the area. Biharilal Tiwari, 40, a resident of Balaji Chawl in Astodia, said that his neighbour, Montu Yadav, called him up on Friday morning but as Tiwari was busy, he did not answer the call. After a while, Montu came to Tiwari’s house and said that a drainage line in their needed to be cleared and Tiwari would have to bear his share of the cost of repairs. To this, Tiwari said that he had paid Rs 800 when the line got choked a few months ago and said that it was the duty of the civic body to repair it. This irritated Montu who began verbally abusing him. On hearing Montu, his father Jangbahadur Yadav and brother Rahul Yadav arrived and they began hitting Tiwari. Montu hit Tiwari with an iron rod, causing him a severe injury. He was taken to LG Hospital in Maninaga r. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/neighbours-assault-man-over-drain-repairs/articleshow/77026526.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||SHOs of 6 police stations transferred||Chandigarh: In a major rejig, UT police department transferred SHOs of six police stations to other wings and stations. Five new inspectors have been appointed as SHOs of police stations while others have been transferred. The police department has reshuffled 10 policemen, including SHOs. However, despite CBI court directions to take action against SHOs of sectors 34 and 39 for allegedly pressurising the complainant in a graft case to turn hostile, they remain unchanged. TOI had published a report on the impending reshuffle of SHOs in the July 11 edition. The reshuffle plan came in the wake of registration of a graft case against Jaswinder Kaur, former SHO, Manimajra police station by CBI on June 29. In accordance with the orders, Rajdeep Singh, SHO, Sector 31 police station has been transferred to the security wing and inspector Paramjit Kaur Shekhon has taken charge as SHO, Sector 31. Earlier, Paramjit Kaur was posted in the security wing. Sarangpur SHO Ram Rattan Sharma is now SHO of Sector 17 police station. Jaspal Singh Bhullar, SHO of Sector 17 has been sent to the security wing. SHO, Industrial Area police station, Jasbir Singh has been appointed SHO of Sarangpur and inspector Harminderjit Singh is the new SHO of Industrial Area phase-1 police station. Two crime branch inspectors, Ranjit Singh and Sher Singh have been appointed SHOs of Maloya and Sector 3 police station respectively. Jaspal Singh, SHO, Sector 3 police station has been sent to the traffic wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shos-of-6-police-stations-transferred/articleshow/77025468.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Agra||AMU to seek reply from student accused of threatening girl on social media over veil||AGRA: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has decided to issue a show-cause notice to a student of Bachelor in Architecture (BArch), who allegedly threatened a fellow engineering student on the social media that she would be forced to wear a “brass hijab” once the university opens after the lockdown. AMU’s spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said, “The university has zero tolerance to such cases and we condemn such incidents. The show-cause notice will be issued to the student who has written objectionable remarks on social media regarding the girl student.” The varsity has already constituted a three-member committee to probe the matter. The engineering student had also filed a police complaint into the matter on July 13 and an FIR was registered by the police a day after following the intervention of a State Women Commission member. According to the complaint filed by the girl student, a student of BArch had used “uncivilized language” against her on a social media site while she was only expressing her opinion on girls being forced to cover themselves in some colleges. She also alleged that the student along with some others had been targeting her since the CAA/NRC bill was passed as she had supported the Act. She claimed that she had received abusive messages that time too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-to-seek-reply-from-student-accused-of-threatening-girl-on-social-media-over-veil/articleshow/77025460.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Pune||On-bail criminal fatally assaulted in Ramtekdi||Pune: Two days after a 19-year-old criminal on record was released on bail from the Yerawada Central Prison, he was fatally attacked by six men with sharp weapons at Ramtekdi on Thursday night. The murder of Pavitrasingh Gabbarsingh Tak was a fallout of past enmity, Wanowrie police said, adding that he was involved in over 60 cases of property offences in Pune. Police said Tak and his friend Vishal Nanaware visited the observation home at Yerawada in a car to secure the release of his brother on Thursday afternoon. Since his brother was not released, the duo then visited Dhole Patil road and consumed liquor. They later reached Ramtekdi and chatted with each other. According to the police, six men, including four criminals, brutally attacked Tak with sharp weapons on his head, hands, legs and shoulder and took to heels after the incident. Tak was rushed to the Sassoon General Hospital where he later succumbed to injuries. Police initially registered a complaint of attempted murder and rioting against the suspects under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and Maharashtra Police Act. After the victim succumbed to injuries around 6am on Friday, police invoked murder charges against the assailants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/on-bail-criminal-fatally-assaulted-in-ramtekdi/articleshow/77159623.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||US passenger flights to India can resume from July 23: US transportation dept||WASHINGTON: The US transportation department said on Friday the government of India has agreed to allow US air carriers to resume passenger services in the US-India market starting July 23. In June, the department had accused the Indian government of engaging in "unfair and discriminatory practices" on charter air transportation services to and from India and had issued an order requiring Indian air carriers to apply for authorization prior to conducting charter flights. The Transportation Department said it was withdrawing the order and said it had also approved an Air India application for passenger charter flights between the United States and India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/us-passenger-flights-to-india-can-resume-from-july-23-us-transportation-dept/articleshow/77028244.cms||---
July 18, 2020||India||US passenger flights to India can resume from July 23: US transportation dept||WASHINGTON: The US transportation department said on Friday the government of India has agreed to allow US air carriers to resume passenger services in the US-India market starting July 23. In June, the department had accused the Indian government of engaging in "unfair and discriminatory practices" on charter air transportation services to and from India and had issued an order requiring Indian air carriers to apply for authorization prior to conducting charter flights. The Transportation Department said it was withdrawing the order and said it had also approved an Air India application for passenger charter flights between the United States and India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-passenger-flights-to-india-can-resume-from-july-23-us-transportation-dept/articleshow/77028240.cms||---
July 18, 2020||World||US passenger flights to India can resume from July 23: US transportation dept||WASHINGTON: The US transportation department said on Friday the government of India has agreed to allow US air carriers to resume passenger services in the US-India market starting July 23. In June, the department had accused the Indian government of engaging in "unfair and discriminatory practices" on charter air transportation services to and from India and had issued an order requiring Indian air carriers to apply for authorization prior to conducting charter flights. The Transportation Department said it was withdrawing the order and said it had also approved an Air India application for passenger charter flights between the United States and India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-passenger-flights-to-india-can-resume-from-july-23-us-transportation-dept/articleshow/77028239.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad woman leaps to her death with 6-year-old son||AHMEDABAD: A 29-year-old woman from Chandkheda on Thursday committed suicide, jumping off her apartment building while holding her six-year-old son. The reason may be frequent quarrels with her husband, said police. A case of accidental death has been lodged. The deceased has been identified as Mamta Jadhav. Her son was a Class I student. An official of the Chandkheda police station said that the death occurred at around 1.15pm on Thursday. He said the residents of the building heard a loud thud and the scream of a woman. The residents found Jadhav and her son in a pool of blood. They called a 108 ambulance and took the two to a nearby private hospital where they eventually died. An investigator said that it was difficult to immediately determine whether the woman had jumped from the terrace or the third floor of the 10-storey building. “Disputes broke out between the woman and her husband Chirag after he lost his job during the lockdown,” the cop said. “The financial crisis continually triggered fights.” Inspector B K Gamar of the Chandkheda police station said that clues were yet to be gathered in the case. His superior, assistant commissioner of police, L division, D S Patel said that it appeared prima facie that the woman was pushed to the brink by the harassment from her husband. “The deceased woman’s father on Friday registered a complaint of abetment to suicide and domestic violence against her husband with the Chandkheda police,” Patel said. Another cop said that Chirag used to thrash the woman over petty issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-leaps-to-her-death-with-6-year-old-son/articleshow/77026536.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||TN to buy more nasal cannulas to manage breathless Covid patients||Chennai: The state government will soon buy more high-flow oxygen cannulas to manage Covid-19 patients suffering from breathlessness. The government had sanctioned Rs 76.55 crore to buy 2,414 cannulas for patients at government-run health centres. Of this, 530 have been procured already and the rest will be purchased soon, said an official release from the health department. Patients suffering from breathlessness are supplied oxygen through existing equipment at the rate of 12 litres per minute. Since Covid-19 infects the respiratory system it impairs oxygenation of the blood. Patients with the infection end up with hypoxia which can often be life-threatening, said a doctor at Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. “Oxygen flow rate should therefore be high (close to 60 litres per minute) and only high-flow nasal cannulas can do this efficiently,” the doctor added. Nasal cannulas have not only helped in controlling breathlessness but also in preventing lung damage and assisting recovery of affected patients, said state health minister C Vijayabaskar. Doctors or nurses don’t need any special training to handle nasal cannulas, use of which is recommended by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and World Health Organisation (WHO). “Even patients can wear or remove it themselves based on their need,” he added. Besides the cannulas, the state government had spent another Rs 150 crore on creating oxygen beds in hospitals, a press release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-buy-more-nasal-cannulas-to-manage-breathless-covid-patients/articleshow/77026534.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Pune||Private doctors to put in 15-day stint at Covid hospitals in Pune||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Thursday issued a notification making it mandatory for private doctors in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural parts of the district to treat Covid-19 patients at designated government and private hospitals for 15 days as and when required. The doctors have been given three days to convey their willingness and place of choice (Covid hospital) to render their clinical services. Failure to report to the hospital will attract action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the notification stated. Some private doctors claimed that they did not get any response when they contacted the district collectorate’s helpdesk number as mentioned in the notification even a day after it was issued. The people deployed there were clueless about it, they said. Ram said, “We shall sort out this issue by deploying informed people at the helpdesk. If required, we may start a new helpline number, especially for doctors. On this number, they can register or get in contact with us as and when required. Our officials will work in tandem with them to achieve the desired results.” The district collector’s notification is aimed at tackling the surge in positive cases and the rise in seriously ill infected patients across the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). Ram told TOI, “These private doctors will be on ‘standby mode’ and they will be roped in as and when the need arises at dedicated Covid hospitals, dedicated Covid health centres and Covid care centres in the city. This exercise will also help us to know the actual strength of practising doctors across the city. This additional strength will be utilised appropriately to strengthen our healthcare services.” There are over 10,000 private registered medical practitioners in Pune. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said showcause notices would be issued to the private doctors not complying with the directive and the future course of action would depend on their response. A day after the district collector issued the notification, confusion prevailed among private doctors after they contacted the collector’s helpdesk number, provided in the notification to report their willingness within three days from the date of notification. “When private doctors in the city contacted the helpdesk number provided in the notification to convey their willingness to work, the staffers deployed there were clueless about the notification. This led to confusion among doctors. We have been with the district administration in the fight against Covid-19 right from the beginning of the pandemic in Pune,” said Sanjay Patil, the president of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Wing of India, Pune branch. Radiologist Prashant Chaudhari, who practises in Aundh, said, “I was at my wits’ end when I contacted the helpdesk to convey my willingness, but the staffers there said there was no such notification mandating the private doctors. When I insisted, the helpdesk asked me to call another number, where the staffers again directed me to another number. Nobody in the collector’s office knew about it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dist-collector-mandates-private-doctors-to-treat-covid-19-patients-for-15-days-helpdesk-clueless-about-notification/articleshow/77027166.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 18, 2020||Delhi||Trial and error: Doctors find way to treat Covid-19, but no cure yet in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After experimenting with a number of drugs and therapies, doctors in hospitals across the city say they have finally developed a therapy for Covid-19 that is effective and yields better results. However, there is no cure for the infection as yet, they add. The therapy involves three key components: drugs to prevent clotting of blood, steroids to suppress a cytokine storm and drugs to reduce the viral load. According to Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, when Covid-19 was first reported in India, the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) was used to treat patients. HCQ was additionally used among the healthcare workers for preventive purposes. “New evidence doesn’t strongly support the drug’s usefulness in treating admitted patients,” Guleria said. Dr Ram Gopalakrishnan, an infectious disease specialist at Apollo Chennai, who is part of the team of clinicians setting the protocol for Covid treatment for the hospital chain, similarly remarked that HCQ hadn’t proved to be as successful in treating coronavirus patients and, therefore, it was no longer being administered to hospital patients. Gopalakrishnan revealed the new strategy his hospital was following. “We start with low molecular weight heparin, which helps prevent clotting of blood in patients unless there is active bleeding,” he said. “Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, is given to patients who are on oxygen support but not on mechanical ventilation. Dexamethasone, a corticosteroid, is used commonly. And in severe cases when other drugs aren’t working, Tocilizumab is given to the patient.” Dexamethasone, employed for a wide range of conditions for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects, was tested in hospitalised patients with Covid infection in the United Kingdom’s national clinical trial and was found to have benefits for critically ill patients. Dr Gopalakrishnan said it is the only drug used for Covid that has shown evidence of mortality benefit. Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director of Apollo Hospitals, said that the hospital chain had revised its treatment protocol for Covid around 21 times in the last five months. “The Covid pandemic has led to an ‘infodemic’. Large numbers of researches are being published daily claiming evidence of benefit of a drug or therapy. We decide our clinical protocol on the basis of emerging evidence and not opinions,” he explained. Regular reviewing of the treatment protocol is also carried out at Max Saket. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine, said, “Earlier, HCQ was a candidate drug for treatment and prophylaxis, alongside antibiotic azithromycin and antiretroviral drugs Ritonavir and Lopinavir. They have now been replaced by antivirals like Favipiravir for mild disease and Remdesivir for moderate to severe disease. Another important drug that is now being routinely used in moderate to severe disease is dexamethasone.” Tickoo added, “For patients who are going into cytokine storms, anti-IL-6 immunomodulator drugs like Toculizumab and Itolizumab are marked for restricted emergency use.” Convalescent plasma is also being widely used now to help patients fight moderate to severe illness, Dr Pratibha Kale, associate professor, microbiology department at ILBS, said. Dr Y K Gupta, former professor and head of pharmacology at AIIMS, said plasma therapy is popular, but there isn’t enough data to confirm its usefulness. “Most drugs and therapies being used for Covid are based on anecdotal evidence or at best early findings of clinical trials in process. We are yet to find a cure,” he observed. Watch After experimenting with a number of drugs and therapies, Delhi doctors find way to treat Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trial-and-error-doctors-find-way-to-treat-covid-19-but-no-cure-yet/articleshow/77027170.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sanction to prosecute suspended SHO under consideration, DIG to CBI court||CHANDIGARH: Deputy inspector general (DIG), Chandigarh Police stated in CBI court that the grant of sanction for prosecution of suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur is still under consideration in another bribe case involving SI Mohan Singh, which dates back to 2017. The special court of CBI headed by Dr Sushil Kumar Garg had directed DIG, Chandigarh police to submit a status report regarding grant of sanction to prosecute Kaur in another bribe case. DIG Omvir Singh filed a reply in court on Friday. On February 13, the CBI Court directed the police to take “necessary action” against her and directed CBI to place before the sanctioning authority (SSP Chandigarh) all the material or evidence collected in the case so that the authority could apply its own mind on whether to give sanction for prosecution or not. The court could not summon the SHO on its own as the accused because SHO is serving public servant and sanction by authority is required to prosecute any public servant. The accused, Mohan Singh, was nabbed by the CBI while accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh on October 24, 2017. The matter has been adjourned till July 22. Meanwhile, Kaur, who has been booked by the CBI in another bribery case, is at large. Complainant Prem Singh moved an application in CBI court questioning delayed sanction for prosecution of the accused despite the SC specifying in 2012 that sanction should be accorded in three months. It was pointed out that the CBI court forwarded the matter to Chandigarh police on February 13. Five months on, the competent authority has not taken any decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sanction-to-prosecute-suspended-sho-under-consideration-dig-to-cbi-court/articleshow/77025480.cms||Neha Sharma
July 18, 2020||Agra||NHRC issues notice to UP health department over death of an unborn child||AGRA: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought the response of UP’s health department over the death of an unborn child in the mother’s womb after she failed to get treatment during the lockdown. In a notice issued on the complaint of an activist, the panel has directed the principal secretary (medical and health) of UP and district magistrate of Agra to file the reply. A resident of Agra’s Belanganj locality, Praveen Rathore’s wife Neeta was getting treatment at a private hospital. On April 24, she got labor pain and went to the same hospital. According to Praveen, the doctor at the hospital refused to admit his wife due to Covid-19 lockdown. The doctor asked to take the patient to some other hospital. Later, after much effort, Praveen managed to admit his wife in a private hospital at Sikandar. “Due to the delay in treatment, my child died in the womb. My wife gave birth to a stillborn child. It happened due to carelessness of the hospital we initially visited. I made a formal complaint at the Chatta police station and with the office of chief medical officer, but no action was taken,” he said. Child rights activist Naresh Paras said, “The child could have been saved had the woman suffering from labor pain was provided treatment in time. In this regard, a complaint was made with NHRC. Taking cognizance of the complaint, a notice has been issued by NHRC to the principal secretary (health) of the state government and district magistrate seeking required action."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nhrc-issues-notice-to-up-health-department-over-death-of-an-unborn-child/articleshow/77025470.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Locals halt trucks at Bicholim, Sakhali||By: Pritam ChodankarBICHOLIM: Upset with the frequent movement of trucks laden with e-auctioned ore on the first day of the lockdown, locals stopped transportation of the ore at Bicholim and Sakhali on Friday. Former Sakhali sarpanch Pravin Blaggon criticised the government for “allowing transportation of iron ore”. “Seems like this lockdown is only for the poor people, but meant to facilitate free movement of the mining trucks,” Blaggon said. Former deputy chairperson of the Bicholim municipality Bhagwan Harmalkar questioned how the trucks were permitted to ply during the lockdown. Congress member Manoj Naik and Anand Narvekar of the Bhandari Samaj brought to the notice of Bicholim PI Sanjay Dalvi the muddy condition of entire road caused by the speeding trucks. Shiv Sena’s state general secretary Milind Gawas said the government was taking the people of the state for granted by clandestinely allowing tranportation of e-auctioned ore even during the lockdown period. On July 10, Sakhali villagers had blocked ore-laden trucks as the sludge had spilled on the roads and made them slippery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-halt-trucks-at-bicholim-sakhali/articleshow/77027713.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Meerut||Heavy rainfall brings respite to Meerut||MEERUT: Residents heaved a sigh of relief on Friday as heavy rainfall lashed the district, bringing a respite from the sweltering heat. The temperatures dipped and it became pleasant. “The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded in Meerut on Friday were 32.2 degrees Celsius and 27.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded here were 92% and 77%, respectively,” said Brij Mohan, Meerut Met in-charge. The district recorded 11.5mm rainfall, making the temperatures dip. The maximum temperature was 3 degrees less than that of Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/heavy-rainfall-brings-respite-to-meerut/articleshow/77025504.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||RMC sanitation workers strike called off after mayor’s intervention||RANCHI: The proposed strike by over 500 sanitation workers of Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) was averted on Friday after mayor Asha Lakra announced that she will request the state government to provide Covid incentives to front-line workers of the civic body. Earlier on Friday morning, more than 500 sanitation workers and drivers of garbage-collection vehicles, among others, assembled near Albert Ekka Chowk and blocked traffic for nearly three hours. The agitators demanded that the civic body continue to pay them a monthly Covid incentive of Rs 2,000. The protesters decided to withdraw the agitation only after Lakra rushed to Albert Ekka Chowk and assured them about talking to the government. Talking to TOI, Lakra said: “We had decided during a board meeting to give an additional sum of Rs 2,000 to all our front-line workers for three months from March to May, to boost their morale in the fight against Covid-19. But as RMC is also facing financial constraints, we have not been able to continue the incentive scheme after the initial three months.” “I have written to the state urban development department to provide us funds so that we can pay our front-line workers the additional amount, but the state government does not appear to be serious about the issue,” Lakra added. A sanitation worker, Hemlata Devi, said, “Everybody wants to be clean and sanitized these days owing to the threat of coronavirus. But they do not want to take care of people who are helping to keep their environment and the surroundings clean.” “Is this fair?” she asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-sanitation-workers-strike-called-off-after-mayors-intervention/articleshow/77027647.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu schools and colleges can collect 40% of fee as advance: Madras high court||CHENNAI: In a big relief to private schools and colleges that were barred by the state government from collecting any fee, the Madras high court on Friday allowed them to collect an ‘advance’ fee of 40% from students before August 31. Since the fee fixed for some of these institutions had expired and fee fixation committees were yet to frame the new fee structure, the state government had provisionally fixed this year’s fee at 75% of the fee collected last year. Taking note of this fact, the court said: “The balance 35% of the fee (deducting the 40% advance) shall be collected within two months from the date of reopening of institutions and commencement of physical classes.” The institutions have also been permitted to collect last year’s arrears, if any, by September 30.  The directions were issued by Justice N Anand Venkatesh on a batch of petitions filed by associations of private educational institutions. The institutions were challenging a government order prohibiting them from demanding fees during lockdown. The judge also made it clear that teaching and non-teaching staff of these private institutions should not insist on any increment in salary or other entitlements until the restoration of normalcy. Committees for fixation of fees for private schools and colleges have also been directed by the judge to immediately start the process of the determining the tuition fees for the respective institutions, and make an attempt to complete the process within eight months from August. Justice Anand Venkatesh also asked Tamil Nadu government to immediately consider the request made by the institutions to supply textbooks and notebooks to students, either free of cost or at some nominal rates, to reduce the financial burden of parents. As per the submission of the state, the fees will be fixed by the committee after taking into consideration the decrease in day-today maintenance expenses of such institutions during lockdown. The judge noted that these interim directions had been issued considering the present situation and in order to find an interim solution to clear the logjam and in order to balance the interest of all the stakeholders. He then adjourned the hearing to October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-tn-schools-colleges-can-collect-40-of-fee-as-advance/articleshow/77027172.cms||Sureshkumar
July 18, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Driver of JCB used in Bikru ambush arrested||KANPUR: The police on Friday arrested the JCB driver who blocked the policemen’s way when they were headed to arrest the notorious gangster Vikas Dubey at Bikru village on July 2 & 3 night. The police have identified the JCB driver as Rahul Pal. After the killings of eight policemen that night by Vikas, the police had seized the JCB machine and later during investigations it came to fore that the gangster and his aides had used the JCB machine to ambush the police party. To recall, the JCB machine that was used to block the police’s path in Bikru village during the raid, was also used in demolishing the house of gangster in the village. Pal, revealed that on July 2, he was busy doing some work when Vikas’s maternal uncle Prem Prakash Pandey came to him and asked him to take the machine to Vikas’s house as the latter had asked him. Later, Pal said when he reached Vikas’s house, he parked the JCB machine by the road side. “To this, Vikas asked me to park the JCB machine in the middle of the road. It was when I tried to question him, like why he is asking me to park JCB in the middle of the road, he issued death threats to me, asking me further not to query and to listen to his instructions,” said Pal while talking to media persons. Rahul further said that after blocking the path with the JCB, a few aides of Vikas took him to roof-top of his house, already being occupied by 25 to 30 armed men. “As soon as policemen came across JCB, the prepared armed men started firing on them,” said Pal and added, “After spraying bullets for over 15 minutes, they all escaped from the site.” Pal also told investigators that majority of the men, who had opened fire at policemen from roof-top, were locals of Bikru village. “We have arrested Rahul Pal, who had brought the JCB to gangster’s village on July 2 & 3 night. The gangster had used JCB machine to block the path of policemen. Police is questioning him to piece together the sequence of events,” said SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/driver-of-jcb-used-in-bikru-ambush-arrested/articleshow/77027155.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 18, 2020||Meerut||One dead, 6 injured in accident after driver loses control of bus in Shamli||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A man died and six people were injured after a private bus turned turtle as the driver lost control of the vehicle on the Panipat-Khatima highway in Shamli late on Thursday evening. After the incident, a large number of people gathered at the spot and launched a rescue operation. After being alerted, police reached the spot and shifted all six injured to the hospital where a passenger, identified as Waseem resident of Shamli, died during treatment. Kairana sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Udhav Tripathi said, “The bus from Panipat was en route to Shamli. An investigation is being conducted and action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/1-dead-6-injured-in-accident-after-driver-loses-control-of-bus/articleshow/77025506.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Scolded for stunts, duo attacks man||Ahmedabad: A man from the Vadaj area of city on Friday filed a complaint of assault against two men from neighbourhood, who allegedly attacked him with a knife and a stick, due to a quarrel over motorcycle stunts that took place five months ago. Sanjay Parmar, 30, a resident of Rohidas Vanshinagar in Vadaj, stated in his FIR that Nilesh Parmar and Mukesh Parmar first abused him verbally when he was in front of his house and then assaulted him. “Nilesh and Mukesh asked me why I had reprimanded them when they were performing stunts on their motorcycles five months ago. Before I could respond, they began hitting me,” said Sanjay in his FIR. Nilesh pulled out a knife and Mukesh brought a stick. Nilesh slashed Sanjay’s arm multiple times and Mukesh hit him with stick on his head. Sanjay’s mother Bhikhi rushed to the spot and rescued her son from the duo, the FIR states. Sanjay was later admitted to the Asarwa Civil Hospital where he gave a statement to police. Sanjay told police that he had scolded the accused as they were performing dangerous stunts on their motorcycle which could harm them or the children playing in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scolded-for-stunts-duo-attacks-man/articleshow/77026541.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: HC seeks replies on PIL on Mollem project approvals||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Friday sought replies from the government in a PIL seeking the quashing of approvals issued for construction projects in the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem national park. The chief wildlife warden, Goa state wildlife board, Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, and other authorities have to reply by July 24. The PIL, filed by Goa Foundation, pertains to nods given for the four-laning of a national highway, a transmission line and doubling of a railway line in these protected areas. The plea seeks a court order to stay the felling of trees and any other development work related to the three proposals. The petition says that there will be diversion and destruction of 170 hectares of forest land, which will irreparably destroy the sanctuary. It also states that the approvals were issued in violation of the mandate given by Article 48A of the Constitution, provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and also are contrary to public policy . “The environmental impact assessments of the projects, wherever done, have been shoddily carried out, with little or no proper evaluation on the impact on wildlife habitat, including its biodiversity,” the petition states. “No cumulative impact assessment of the three projects collectively has been carried out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-seeks-replies-on-pil-on-mollem-project-approvals/articleshow/77027911.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man bangs wife’s head against wall, booked||Ahmedabad: Manisha Parmar, 30, was brutally beaten by her husband, kicked, and her head banged against the wall until she fell unconscious and had to be hospitalized by her neighbours. Her fault? After a hard day’s work on Thursday, where she had to go out several times on the scooter for the family’s work, she forgot to close the scooter lock’s lid after parking the vehicle at home. In her FIR lodged from her bed in Civil Hospital on Friday morning, Manisha, of Majoorgam, narrated the tale of domestic cruelty to Kagdapith police. Cops have registered a case under Sections 323, 294(b) and 506 (2) of IPC against her husband Ashwin Parmar, who works at a private company in Jamalpur. Inspector M A Singh of Kagdapith police said they are waiting for the CT scan report of the complainant, and probing the case. Manisha, who has a four-year-old son, told police that on Thursday afternoon, her mother-in-law had called her up and said Ashwin’s younger brother’s wife, Bharti, who is pregnant, had to be taken to hospital. Manisha took Bharti to the hospital on the scooter and returned at about 5pm. Then, at about 6.30pm, she had to go out on the scooter to buy vegetables and essentials and returned at about 7pm and parked the scooter in its place at home. But she forgot to lock the scooter and close the lock’s lid. When Ashwin came home at about 8.30pm he found the scooter’s lock open. “He went inside and began abusing Manisha. He said if rainwater got into the vehicle through the open lock it would have caused damage. Then he began beating Manisha till she fell unconscious. Neighbours rushed in at her cries of help and brought her to Civil Hospital,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-bangs-wifes-head-against-wall-booked/articleshow/77026546.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||Warriors back up to save lives by donating plasma in Delhi||NEW DELHI: They have faced the novel coronavirus in the line of duty. While many have successfully battled the infection, a few have succumbed to Covid-19. Now the Corona warriors who have recuperated will help save precious lives. The Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi’s first and biggest Covid-19-only facility, is going to organise a special camp next week for personnel of Delhi Police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and other security forces, who will donate plasma to help critical patients battle Covid-19. On Tuesday, the facility became the second hospital in Delhi after Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) to house a plasma bank. More than 200 people have taken plasma from ILBS and the medical director of the Lok Nayak Hospital, Dr Suresh Kumar, said the response from plasma donors had been encouraging. “Total 15 people have donated their plasma, including six on Friday. This has helped in providing convalescent plasma therapy to nine patients, including five on Friday,” Dr Kumar said. “The plasma from healthy donors will greatly benefit patients.” Dr Kumar said a large number of security personnel infected with novel coronavirus were admitted to Lok Nayak. “We have requested about half of them who were treated here and they have agreed,” he added. Delhi government has set up the country’s first plasma bank at ILBS to maintain a plasma stock from those who have already recovered from Covid-19 and within 15 days, the second facility was inaugurated at Lok Nayak by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The hospital was chosen as it is located in central Delhi and it will be easier for people from many areas in the city to access it. Kejriwal has repeatedly said plasma has an important role in the declining death rate of Covid-19 patients and until a vaccine comes, the convalescent plasma therapy should be looked at as an effective treatment for Covid-19. “We do not want to store plasma in the plasma bank forever, but no one should suffer for lack of plasma either... So far, as many people are coming for plasma, they are getting it and no one is denied plasma,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/warriors-back-up-to-save-lives-by-donating-plasma/articleshow/77027202.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 18, 2020||Patna||Central team to visit Bihar as Covid tally crosses 23,000||PATNA: The Centre on Friday said it will send a three-member central team to Bihar to review the Covid situation in the state. This comes on a day the state health department reported a new high of 1,742 cases, taking the overall tally to 23,300. With six more deaths, the toll has now reached 173 and the number of active cases stand at 8,128. Among the fatalities are three city residents, including an 11-year-old Phulwarisharif girl, who died at AIIMS. Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwani Kumar Choubey held talks with senior health ministry officials on Friday and discussed the situation in Bihar. Through a press release, Choubey stated that the Centre was keeping an eye on the situation in Bihar and both governments have together initiated all possible steps. He said a high-level team comprising Union health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal, National Centre for Disease Control director Dr SK Singh and AIIMS New Delhi medicine department associate professor Dr Niraj Nischal will reach on Sunday. Sources said Dr Ranjeet Prasad, consultant (epidemiologist) at the NCDC has already reached Patna. Choubey said discussions on testing, containment zones and hotspot districts were completed on Friday. “The state government has initiated important steps. People need not worry, rather they should have patience and follow the instructions from the Centre and the state,” Choubey said. As per the state health department, Friday’s Covid-19 cases were reported from 37 districts and deaths from five districts on Wednesday and Thursday. While two deaths were reported from Bhagalpur, taking the toll to 16, with one official death from Patna, the toll has reached 28. One death each was also reported from Banka, Gaya and Katihar. As per the two-day data provided by the health department, maximum cases were from Siwan where 122 people tested positive for Covid-19. Patna, which reported 378 cases a day before, reported 99 positive cases. Other districts with large numbers are Nalanda (105), West Champaran (98), Bhagalpur (63), Munger (58) and Nawada (47). AIIMS-Patna nodal in-charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar confirmed three deaths at his hospital on Friday, including a 11-year-old Phulwarisharif girl who was admitted on Thursday. A 65-year-old male who died at AIIMS was from Katihar and another 73-year-old deceased is from Begusarai. Death of two Patna residents was also reported from NMCH on Friday. NMCH epidemiologist Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said one of the deceased was a 50-year-old resident of Boring Road. He was admitted on Thursday and died on Friday of cardiac arrest. Another 67-year-old male was from Patna City locality died on Thursday night. “He too died of cardiac arrest,” Dr Mukul added. As per the health department, 896 people recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 14,997 and the recovery rate now stands at 64.3%. In the same time period, 10,273 tests were done and so far 3,57,730 samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/central-team-to-visit-bihar-as-covid-tally-crosses-23000/articleshow/77026595.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Extramarital affair ends up in beating and death threat||Ahmedabad: A 62-year-old man, a resident of Sardarnagar, lodged a complaint against one Chintu Sonija of Kubernagar for an affair with the complainant’s married daughter. The complainant alleged that the accused abused them and beat his son.According to the FIR, the complainant’s daughter, 24, was married to a man from a nearby village about eight years ago. She has two children — a daughter (7) and a son, who is seven-month old.The complainant has stated that according to their customs, the daughter comes to her parental house and stays there for a long period after her marriage. “After giving birth to a son, her daughter often used to come to her parental house. During this time, the complainant came to know that his daughter has an affair with a man named Chintu of Kubernagar.On July 13, his son-in-law had come to take his wife. “Both left at about 4.30 in the evening. Sometime later, the son-in-law called up the complainant and called him to a market area. The son-in-law said that his daughter has gone away somewhere with their son, leaving her daughter behind,” said a police source.According to the FIR, the complainant, as he knew about his daughter’s affair, went to Chintu’s house and informed his mother about the development and returned home. The FIR mentions that, thereafter Chintu came to the complainant’s house on Thursday night and started abusing them and beat up the complainant’s son. “He also allegedly threatened the complainant that if he sends his daughter to her matrimonial house again, he will kill the whole family,” said a police source.Inspector Hemant Patel of Sardarnagar police station said the girl has returned to her parental house while they are hunting for Chintu, who is absconding.Police have registered an offence under sections 323, 294(b) and 506(2) of IPC against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/extramarital-affair-ends-up-in-beating-and-death-threat/articleshow/77026553.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Only govt servants as panch witnesses’||Ahmedabad: To try to ensure that witnesses do not turn hostile in court and allow accused persons to be acquitted, the state home department issued a resolution on July 15, mandating that only government employees be made panch (independent) witnesses in cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS).  City police commissioner Ashish Bhatia said the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) also uses government employees as panch witnesses and the practice will now be employed in NDPS cases. “Government employees who become panch witness can depose freely and if they turn hostile, action can be initiated against them,” Bhatia added. The resolution issued by the home department says police take effective action against drug traffickers or peddlers but when they catch them with narcotics, they often use panch witnesses from the spot. The resolution says that such panch witnesses sometimes turn hostile and the accused gets off. The resolution adds that to stop drug peddling and protect the youth from drugs, police should use panch witnesses who can depose without fear, based on which the accused can be be convicted. Hence, it has been resolved that government employees should be used as panch witnesses in such cases. The resolution also says that the heads of government departments and all departments of the secretariat have been directed to ensure such panch witnesses are made available to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-govt-servants-as-panch-witnesses/articleshow/77026569.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Allahabad||Five held in UP's Pratapgarh with Rs 2-crore ganja smuggled from AP||PRAYAGRAJ: Five men allegedly involved in peddling drugs across the state were arrested with ganja worth Rs 1,606kg — worth Rs 2 crore — in Pratapgarh on Friday. The accused were identified as Dheeraj Singh, Surendra Kumar alias Rahul Yadav, Ravi Yadav, Pankaj Yadav and Saurabh Singh. The accused are residents of Aspur Devsara in Pratapgarh and Kadipur in Sultanpur. Police also recovered a truck and one SUV from them. SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh said, “A joint team of crime branch and Antoo police recieved a tip-off that a group of drug peddlers were planning to unload a consignment of ganja near an underconstruction house in Lohangpur village. The team raided the spot and nabbed the five.” During the interrogation, one of the accused Dheeraj told the police that he used to bring illegal drugs hidden coal-laden trucks from Vishakhapatnam. The accused were in contact with a man named as Ranjeet in Vishakhapatnam, who used to help them smuggle the drugs. Police said that Dheeraj had served time in jail for the same charge in 2018 as well. The accused were arrested while unloading the drugs from a truck and were planning to take it to Ambedkarnagar. The ganja was bought at the rate of Rs 5,000/kg and would later be sold at twice the price different districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/5-held-in-pratapgarh-with-rs-2-crore-ganja-smuggled-from-ap/articleshow/77027174.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM satisfied with CM’s actions||Thiruvananthapuram: The CPM state secretariat that met here on Friday discussed the gold-smuggling case through diplomatic channel case in detail and concluded that the corrective measures initiated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to clear the mess in his office are satisfactory. “What Vijayan has done is a model for others,” said CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan after the meeting. During the debate, a few senior leaders pointed out the centralisation of power in the CMO at principal secretary M Sivasankar and suggested more involvement from the chief minister to rein in wrong officials, according to sources. Vijayan explained the course of events and the steps taken by the government, including the suggestion of government to hand over the probe to central agencies. The leaders accepted the explanation and resolved total support to the CM and the government. Balakrishnan said when aberration on the part of Sivasankar was noticed by the CM, he was kept out of the office. “Later, when the report of chief secretary-led probe panel was submitted, he was suspended immediately. It is clear that the government and the CM don’t want to protect anyone. Still, the opposition is creating a fuzz out of the issue. Now, the high court has to intervene to stop the farce in the name of protest,” Kodiyeri said. He also questioned parallels drawn between solar scam and smuggling scam. “In the solar case, the victim levelled serious allegations directly against the then CM Oommen Chandy and ministers. One businessman revealed that he paid the money as directed by the CM. Did anything like that happen now?” asked Kodiyeri. He welcomed the notice for no-confidence motion moved by the UDF against government and said the resolution would provide a chance to ascertain government’s innocence in the issue. The CPM also welcomed the NIA probe in the case and hoped that the probe will bring out all truths. The CPM state secretariat also decided to launch a mass movement to create awareness about Covid-19 spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-satisfied-with-cms-actions/articleshow/77025595.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Vadodara||Feisty labourer fights off crocodile||Vadodara: A 46-year-old resident of Waghodia taluka narrowly escaped death after being attacked by a 10-foot long crocodile in Dev River. Jagdish Vasava, a resident of Patiyapura village, put up a fight against the reptile forcing it to let him go. Vasava was admitted to SSG Hospital after suffering severe injuries on his hands and chest. Forest officials have set a trap on the banks of Dev River to rescue the crocodile. Vasava, a casual labourer, went to the river bank on Wednesday night to take a bath. “The crocodile suddenly attacked Vasava and caught hold of Vasava’s hands. The reptile began dragging Vasava inside the water but he put up a fight,” said a forest official from Waghodia taluka. The water was very shallow so the reptile couldn’t drown Vasava who hit the reptile with his bare hands. “After few minutes, the reptile let him go. But Vasava suffered severe injuries. Some passers-by heard his loud cry and rushed to help him,” the forest official said. This is the second incident of crocodile attack in Dev River in the last 15 days. On July 3, an adult crocodile had killed Mangiben, a resident of Mahadevpura village when she was washing clothes on the bank of the river. “We have been urging the villagers to stay away from the river. Several signboards have been put up asking people to not enter the river,” said Chandrika Chaudhary, range forest officer (RFO), Waghodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/feisty-labourer-fights-off-crocodile/articleshow/77025929.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Vadodara||Two crocs rescued in 8 hours||Vadodara: Two crocodiles that ventured out on land were rescued by the Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) within eight hours. The reptiles were handed over to the forest department by WRT volunteers. The first call came from Itola village on the outskirts of city. “A five-feet-long crocodile had ventured out of a waterbody nearby and entered the front yard of a local, Mukesh,” said Arvind Pawar of WRT. On Friday at around 6 am, residents of Kelanpur village called WRT after they spotted a seven-feet-long crocodile in the field. The reptile must have ventured out of Vishwamitri River that flows from the outskirts of the village. Meanwhile, Jagdish Vasava (46), resident of Waghodia taluka, was severely injured after being attacked by a 10-feet long crocodile in Dev River. He put up a fight against the reptile that finally let him go a few minutes of struggle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-crocs-rescued-in-8-hours/articleshow/77025951.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: District officials to keep an eagle eye on violators||NEW DELHI: While the number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths seem to have plateaued, Delhi government is trying its best to ensure that complacency doesn’t set in. District authorities have stepped up the process of penalising those violating quarantine, social distancing norms, not wearing masks or spitting in public places. An order was also issued on Thursday to streamline the process of reporting violations. “We have initiated stricter action so that the cases don’t go up again,” said district magistrate (East) Arun Kumar Mishra, adding that apart from revenue officials, police and municipal officials have been given the authority to penalise violators. “This is the right time to strictly ensure that all norms are followed so that there is no resurgence of cases,” he said. Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Thursday issued an order reiterating on Delhi Epidemic Cases (Management of Covid-19) Regulations, which was notified on June 13. Violators would have to cough up Rs 500 as fine for the first time and Rs 1,000 for repeat offences. The regulations include observing quarantine rules, maintaining social distancing, wearing face mask or cover, prohibition on spitting and consuming paan, gutka, tobacco, etc in public places and workplaces. Data of action taken on violations by officials in their respective districts would have to be maintained daily and a weekly report would have to be submitted on the “Corona Foot Warrior Portal” of the revenue department. A South district official said, “Action against violations of quarantine, social distancing and other norms necessary for public safety are already being carried out strictly.” Officials of North district, however, said at the moment the focus was on strictly maintaining movement restrictions and quarantine in containment zones. “We are putting most of our efforts in strict perimeter control in containment zones and ensuring quarantine is followed. At the moment, it will be difficult to divert resources to penalise people violating norms on the roads. We have sought the help of Delhi Police for that,” said a North district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/district-officials-to-keep-an-eagle-eye-on-violators/articleshow/77027246.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Imposter on matrimonial site dupes woman of Rs 35 lakh||PANAJI: A 33-year-old woman from South Goa was allegedly cheated of around Rs 35 lakh by a man she met on a matrimonial website after she received various calls that she would have to pay customs duty, GST and other taxes for a gift he had sent her from the UK. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saxena told TOI that the cyber crime cell of the Goa police has registered an offence against the accused for cheating. In her complaint, the woman said her mother had got her registered on a matrimonial website, following which the accused showed interest in her. Her mother subsequently accepted his request on the site and began chatting with him to verify his antecedents. After she was satisfied that the man was genuine, the mother shared her daughter’s phone number with him. The duo then began chatting. The woman further said that the accused had subsequently told her that he was to travel to Los Angeles. He also told her he had bought some gifts for her, which she refused to accept. Later, the accused is alleged to have told the complainant that he had been selected for a job opportunity in Spain. He told her he had accepted the offer as he would be able to take a “medical flight” from Spain to India. “He then told me he would be sending me a parcel containing his belongings and the gifts he had bought me earlier,” the woman stated in her complaint. The accused, however, did not mention the exact details of the parcel, she said, adding that she got a call regarding the consignment only when it supposedly arrived at Delhi airport. She said she and her mother subsequently received calls from “customs clearance” instructing them to deposit money in various accounts, which they unwittingly complied with. “The accused took advantage of our innocence. The payments, totalling Rs 34.9 lakh, which we made towards the parcel were from my parents’ life savings,” the complainant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/imposter-on-matrimonial-site-dupes-woman-of-rs-35l/articleshow/77027973.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Fake Sri Lankan T-20 league cricket match kingpin gets bail||Mohali: A local court in Kharar granted six-week bail to kingpin Ravinder Singh Dandiwal who was recently arrested for his allegedly involved in conducting the fake Sri Lankan T-20 league in Sawara village. He has been granted bail till August 28, his counsel advocate Ranjodh Singh Sarao said. Dandiwal is also accused of allegedly holding the international tennis match-fixing scandal. His co-accused Durgesh has been released on bail. They were remanded in judicial custody on Thursday and bail was granted a day after. Durgesh was arrested from Delhi last week. Sarao, counsel for Dandiwal said, “We had prayed before the court that name of Dandiwal does not appear in the main FIR but was later nominated and those who have been named in main FIR, Pankaj Kumar Arora and Rajesh Garg have already been released on bail and there was also no direct complaint against Dandiwal.” Dandiwal and Durgesh had had filed the bail application on Thursday through their counsels after they were sent to judicial custody. Durgesh allegedly supplied high-resolution cameras for live-streaming of the matches of the fake Sri Lanka T-20 league. Dandiwal, who is on the radar of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), is facing charges of hosting a cricket match of the Uva T20 league on June 29 that was aired in Sri Lanka through YouTube. The BCCI team last week reached Mohali to question Dandiwal. Police have identified 22 players who had played in the fake cricket league and questioned them. Earlier, police arrested Raju and Pankaj, who booked the cricket ground of the Strokers Cricket Association for Rs 33,000 from June 29 to July 5 and formed four teams for the league.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fake-sri-lankan-t-20-league-cricket-match-kingpin-gets-bail/articleshow/77025574.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Thane, Kalyan cases soar from 10,000 to 15,000 in 2 weeks||MUMBAI: Even as Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli on Friday breached the 15,000 mark in Covid-19 cases, having added the latest 5,000 cases each in less than two weeks, the big question is if the lockdown in these areas would be extended for a third time beyond Sunday. While discontent is brewing, with traders and political parties against another extended lockdown, sources said rising cases in the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits may force the civic bodies to rethink on relaxing curbs. Thane reported 342 new cases on Friday, taking its tally to 15,174, whereas Kalyan-Dombivli added 407 new cases to reach 15,005. With 14 more deaths, the death count in Thane now stands at 537, while nine deaths have taken the Kalyan Dombivli toll to 231. Thane has added its latest 5,000 cases in 13 days and Kalyan-Dombivli in just nine days. Thane had crossed its first 5,000 mark in 93 days while KDMC had taken 103 days to cross that figure. The two civic bodies had reached 10,000 cases in 114 days each from the time of recording their first cases. Thane overtook KDMC in active cases and its recovery rate was behind KDMC at 56% as 6,269 patients are still under treatment in hospitals, compared to 6,172 in Kalyan-Dombvili. Till Thursday, KDMC had more patients in hospitals. TMC deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi attributed the rise in cases to increased testing, coupled with residents’ failure to follow safety protocols during Unlock 1.0. Thane has so far done more testing (66,000 swabs) than Kalyan (32,000 swabs). While the lockdown in Thane and KDMC ends on Sunday, the one in Mira-Bhayander ends on Saturday. Civic bodies across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, barring Mumbai which has not had a shutdown, are likely to take a decision on lockdown extension on Saturday. Traders in Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Mira-Bhayander, Navi Mumbai and Panvel are rooting for relaxations. Rakesh Mutha, president of Kalyan Traders Association said, “We have suffered huge losses. A further shutdown will wipe us out.” In Mira-Bhayander traders have threatened to forcibly keep businesses open on Sunday if the civic body decides to extend lockdown. Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Friday relaxed the lockdown and allowed vegetables, fruits and essential shops to be open from 9 am to 5 pm. Panvel had 145 cases on Friday, taking the total to 4,616. One death took the toll to 108. Navi Mumbai traders in a letter to the municipality said it is unfair to allow APMC market to operate while retail shops are shut. Navi Mumbai’s total is 10,786 with 240 new cases on Friday. Eight deaths have taken the toll to 330. (Inputs from Umesh Parida, Sanjay Banerjee, Vijay Singh and Shrutika Sukhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thane-kalyan-cases-soar-from-10k-to-15k-in-2-weeks/articleshow/77027711.cms||Manoj Badgeri
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK revamp on to add muscle at grassroots||CHENNAI: In a bid to strengthen the AIADMK at the grassroots months ahead of a do-or-die poll battle, the ruling party is carving out new panchayat unions and filling up posts across Tamil Nadu. The party on Friday doubled the panchayat unions to 10 in Cuddalore West. Sivaganga district will have 30 panchayat unions, Thanjavur South 13 and Namakkal 20. This is part of a move to appoint more younger functionaries and balance it with experienced partymen for better micro-management of the party units. Each panchayat union comprises 20 to 40 village panchayats represented by a presidium chairman, secretary, joint and deputy secretaries, treasurer and representatives of the district. The announcements about other districts are expected shortly. AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami have been reviewing the process. The district units are working on delimitation of the unions to bring in new faces and add renewed vigour in the run up to the 2021 assembly election. Lack of charismatic leadership has proved a setback for the party with the opposition sweeping the assembly byelections and Lok Sabha polls last year. Intra-party feuds in the district units among the erstwhile OPS and EPS factions have added to the troubles. The AIADMK leadership is focused on a strategy to strengthen the party’s grassroots to reach out better to people. The fresh appointments will be a recognition of the partymen’s service to the public which will help them work with enthusiasm, said revenue minister R B Udayakumar. “The recognition will boost their confidence and they will take to the masses the government’s achievements on various fronts, including health, agriculture, electricity and law and order,” he told TOI. The newly-formed Madurai Rural West district headed by him received an impetus with a new set of office-bearers. The five-member petitions committee, comprising deputy coordinators, K P Munusamy, R Vaithilingam, ministers P Thangamani, S P Velumani and former minister Natham R Viswanathan decided on the contours of delimitation of district units in line with the newly-constituted district. “With Thangamani hospitalised with Covid-19 infection, the next meeting is uncertain. But the high command will decide soon,” said a senior leader. The objective is to bring the youth into party affairs in various wings, including J Jayalalithaa Peravai, popularly known as Amma Peravai and the IT wing. “The reorganisation is aimed at expediting party work. It is a continuous process,” Munusamy told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-restructures-at-grassroots-for-better-micro-management/articleshow/77026656.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NIA, crime branch agree to cooperate in the probe||Thiruvananthapuram: National Investigation Agency officers have held discussions with the crime branch regarding the previous cases that involve Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the gold smuggling case. SP (NIA, Kochi unit) S Rahul on Thursday had held telephonic discussions with DSP (crime branch) B Anilkumar regarding the case against Swapna being probed by the crime branch. Later, an NIA team led by DSP Vijayakumar visited the crime branch office at Jawahar Nagar here, and held discussions regarding the cases in detail. The NIA team also shared some details about Swapna with the crime branch team. The two agencies decided to exchange the details and cooperate in the probe. The crime branch is already probing a case in which a complaint was filed against Swapna when she was an employee with Air India SATS. The case has been pending with the crime branch for some years now. With Swapna being accused in the gold smuggling case and the state police coming under fire for not being able to nab her after the gold smuggling controversy erupted, the police have begun actively following up the crime branch case against her. In addition to the crime branch probe, the police have also registered a case against Swapna as the first accused, and PricewaterhouseCoopers and Vision Technologies as the second and third accused, for forging documents to get her a job in the Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL). The case was charged on the basis of a complaint from the managing director of KSITL, Jayashankar Prasad. The charges slapped in this case are under sections 406, 465, 468, 471, 420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with criminal breach of trust, forgery, cheating and using forged document for one’s advantage. The charges, if proven, can attract an imprisonment of up to seven years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-crime-branch-agree-to-cooperate-in-the-probe/articleshow/77025622.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Goa’s economy may be worst hit, likely to contract 14.3% in FY21||PANAJI: Goa, which has been reeling under the twin blows of loss of revenue from mining and fewer tourist footfalls, is likely to be the worst-hit as Covid-19 pandemic drags down the economy in 2020-21 and may see a contraction of 14.3%. The state is likely to face the steepest contraction, followed by Gujarat, credit rating agency India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said in a recently released report. Assam and Sikkim are also expected to witness a double-digit contraction in gross state domestic product (GSDP) growth, the Fitch Group company said. For the financial year ended March 31, 2020, Goa’s GSDP stood at Rs 84,889 crore and was expected to grow 8.7% to Rs 92,260 crore in this fiscal. Goa’s economy relies heavily on tourism, mining and manufacturing, which have seen a significant impact. The contraction in the economy has already affected the state’s revenues with first quarter GST collections being reduced by 74%. Against the Rs 350 crore expected as GST collection for June, the state earned just Rs 160 crore with Rs 102 crore as SGST (state goods and service tax) and Rs 58 crore as IGST (integrated goods and service tax). “Since agricultural activities were less impacted, the states having a higher share of agriculture are expected to have suffered less compared to the one where the share of agriculture is low,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist and director (public finance) at Ind-Ra said. Based on analysis of the lockdown impact on different states and sectors, Sinha has projected a contraction in the range of 1.4% to 14.3% for the states’ economy in this financial year. The ratings agency said though a nationwide lockdown was enforced on March 25, several economic activities defined as essentials remained operational, while it impacted sectors like agriculture, industry and services. Although the lockdown is going to adversely impact the revenue performance of all the states, those with a higher share of its own tax revenue in the total revenue will see more impact. The most vulnerable are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Telangana and Haryana. Sinha said the states that have a greater share in banking and financial services and IT and IT-enabled services are expected to have suffered less during the lockdown, because these sectors were able to shift to remote operations rapidly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-economy-may-be-worst-hit-likely-to-contract-14-3-in-fy21/articleshow/77027267.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Congress leaders take to Twitter to counsel aggrieved Sachin Pilot||CHENNAI: The political drama in Rajasthan has made several present and former youth Congress members use social media, especially Twitter, to tell the aggrieved party leader Sachin Pilot that he needs to wait for his time. Former youth Congress members like B Manickam Tagore and Jothimani told Pilot that even though they did not belong to a political family, still they have become MPs and that is due to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. They say that Rahul has provided them a chance to come up in the party. Those who belong to political families like Mohan Kumaramanglam and Gaurav Gogoi have tweeted as to how they had to work hard to come up in the party. “Im the son of a Tamil teacher. Delhi politics for us was a distant dream. Yet, at 34, I became an MP in 2009. The 1 reason:Rahul Gandhi. He saw me work in Youth Congress. His efforts to promote the youth is why I am here today. No legacy (sic),” tweeted Tagore. Im the son of a Tamil teacher. Delhi politics for us was a distant dream. Yet, at 34, I became an MP in 2009.The 1… https://t.co/Bl2DRqmzX0— Manickam Tagore MP🇮🇳✋மாணிக்கம் தாகூர் (@manickamtagore) 1594829797000Jothimani is another leader who became an MP with the blessings of Rahul in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “There is always a hope for reconciliation in a family despite the differences. The country is facing its ever biggest threat from the RSS/ BJP ideology. It’s very important to fight united to save this great nation (sic),” tweeted Jothimani. “I come from a backward district in Maharashtra where I was a Block Samiti, ZP member. Rahul-ji made me an MLA, then the IYC president, then MP and I am now an invitee to the CWC. Congressmen know it is because of Rahul Gandhi (sic),” tweeted Rajeev Satav. I come from a backward district in Maharashtra where I was a Block Samiti , ZP member. Rahul-ji made me an MLA, the… https://t.co/Prz35QwN6u— Rajeev Satav (@SATAVRAJEEV) 1594833060000Kerala’s first-time MP Ramya Haridas tweeted, “I am in this position to serve people as their MP because of RahulGandhi ji. Thank you RahulGandhi ji for trusting me & inspiring me. I am Proud of #MyLeaderRahulGandhi who always stands by the truth (sic).” As an MP, I was encouraged by @RahulGandhi to speak up for my people inside Parliament and outside as a spokesperso… https://t.co/sitQPus4NW— Gaurav Gogoi (@GauravGogoiAsm) 1594834788000All the leaders stated above are MPs but not from any political family. Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi’s son Gaurav Gogoi tweeted, “As an MP, I was encouraged by RahulGandhi to speak up for my people inside Parliament and outside as a spokesperson, promoted to election screening committees in Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka, became a deputy whip in Lok Sabha, and in-charge of 4 states (sic).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cong-leaders-take-to-twitter-to-counsel-aggrieved-pilot/articleshow/77027258.cms||B Sivakumar
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu banks on fever camps in Covid hotspots||CHENNAI: Concerned over the surge in fresh cases across Tamil Nadu, the state government on Friday directed the district collectors to adopt special interventions like strategic location of fever camps to pre-empt new hotspots. Excluding Chennai, the rest of the state recorded 3,295 new cases and took the total to 4,538 on Friday. Chief secretary K Shanmugam, along with DGP J K Tripathy, health secretary J Radhakrishnan and revenue administration commissioner K Phanindra Reddy held a three-hour-long video conference with district collectors and reviewed the progress of Covid management. “The chief secretary directed the administrators to strategically locate the fever camps and advised them to undertake focused testing to capture all potential cases ahead of emerging a hotspot,” said a source. The top bureaucrat is said to have expressed concerns over the big surge in cases in Chennai and its neighbouring districts, besides Madurai, where 3,043 persons under treatment, including those home quarantined as on Friday. Virudhunagar (1,859), Tuticorin (1,768) and Vellore (1,608) are the other top concerns. The fever camps are held to ensure that the districts have a targetted approach to contain the spread locally at a preliminary stage itself. Mapping of the cases will help concentrate the areas of containment and carry out the disinfectant exercise. The administrators need to have a better control over containment zones and in the buffer areas to curtail the spread, besides distributing immunity boosters in these areas. “The chief secretary told the collectors to improve enforcement in market areas and crowded spaces and make the staff accountable. The districts should evolve plans to increase the capacity of Covid care centres when they reach the utilisation of 75% of the total capacity,” said an official. A few district collectors had even brought up the issue of health infrastructure and workforce like technicians. They were told to conduct walk-in-interviews to appoint technicians for a period of three or six months depending on the requirement. While prolonged lockdown impacts livelihood and state’s revenue, the district collectors were told to deal with the situation appropriately with micro-management. “The districts were also told to do street mapping and identify the high-risk streets. This is for active surveillance, door-to-door surveys, perimeter control measures and monitor any developing cluster,” said a district collector. A Central team that visited the state last week had pointed to lapses in containment management plans, contact tracing in a few districts and advised the administration to do a death audit where mortality rate is high, instead of focusing on comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/locate-fever-camps-strategically-tn-govt-tells-collectors/articleshow/77026659.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 18, 2020||Patna||Polls shouldn’t increase Covid cases in Bihar: Opposition to EC||PATNA: Buoyed by the Election Commission’s (EC) decision not to extend the postal ballots facility to people above the age of 65, nine opposition parties from poll-bound Bihar on Friday urged the EC to ensure that the entire electoral exercise does not turn into a Covid19 “super spreader event” for the state already reeling from the pandemic. In a joint memorandum submitted to the EC, the opposition parties described the situation in the state as “very grim” and said people of the state needed explicit clarity so that wholesome participation of the majority of voters in the state was not adversely impacted. “The people expect from the commission to ensure and satisfy that the entire poll exercise doesn’t become a super spreader event for the deadly virus,” the memorandum read. The opposition leaders further said that Bihar has a population of around 13 crore and 7.5 crore of them were eligible to vote. “We want to know from the poll panel how it plans to ensure physical distancing of at least two yards recommended by the WHO and the ICMR at the polling booths across the state,” the memorandum stated, adding that the situation could be gauged from the fact that as many as 89 containment zones were in Patna alone and over 16 districts in the state have been put under lockdown. Referring to the virtual election campaign, the opposition leaders said the ruling parties have pushed the proposal on virtual election campaigns through the digital media and prohibiting the traditional campaign methods despite the fact that only 34% of the people in Bihar have a smartphone. “It will be a travesty of unpardonable proportion to officially legitimize a mode of the election campaign which is not severely limited by its reach but exclusively by its design,” RJD’s Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha said. The memorandum, which was signed by RJD, Congress, CPI, CPI-ML (Liberation), HAM(S), VIP, LJD and others, said the state was badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic and the number of positive cases were rapidly increasing day by day. “We request you to review and reassess the situation in consultation with public health experts and other stakeholders, keeping in mind the rapidly worsening situation,” the joint representation said. On Thursday, the EC amended its earlier order and decided to not to extend the postal ballots facility to the people above the age of 65. The opposition parties had objected to the changes in the rules and urged the EC to withdraw its order. The assembly elections in the state are due for October-November. The Bihar assembly’s term ends on November 29 and a new assembly has to be constituted before that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dont-let-polls-spread-corona-in-bihar-oppn-to-ec/articleshow/77026662.cms||Ramashankar
July 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Opposition serves notice for no-confidence motion against govt||Thiruvananthapuram: Stepping up the attack on Pinarayi Vijayan government, Congress-led opposition on Friday served a notice on assembly speaker and secretary to move a no-confidence motion against the government when legislative assembly convenes on July 27. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the notice was served as the public has lost faith in the LDF government mired in corruption. “The government may defeat the motion by the numbers it has in the House. But it remains our duty, as the opposition, to reflect the growing public distrust against the government. CM Pinarayi Vijayan should take note of the complexity of the maze he has slipped into. He should step down immediately and face CBI inquiry. Officials in IT department under Vijayan have stooped to the level of mafia members,” Chennithala said. Suspension of CM’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar did not mean the end of all the ill doings in the IT department, which was viewed as gold mine by many who were close to the CM, Chennithala said. “All appointments in the IT department and the contracts signed by the department with agencies should be brought under review. All agreements signed by the IT department when Sivasankar was the secretary should be scrutinized. Bevco App issue, appointment of PwC as consultant and violation of norms in selecting partner for e-mobility project are some of the gross violations of norms by the IT department,” he said. How could a state minister accept the help and gifts of a foreign country without the approval of the Union ministry of foreign affairs? Chennithala said, while reacting to the reports that minister K T Jaleel had violated rules by sourcing kits of essential items from UAE. Commenting on the spread of Covid-19 in the state, Chennithala said it was the lack of vision of the state government and its failure to set up adequate infrastructure that worsened the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/opposition-serves-notice-for-no-confidence-motion-against-govt/articleshow/77025644.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mysuru||Infected woman delivers baby girl||A Covid positive woman delivered a healthy baby girl at the Covid hospital in Chikkamagaluru on Thursday. The 23-year-old woman from Kadur admitted to the district Covid hospital last week. The woman had reportedly contracted the infection from her mother who succumbed to the virus recently. “After losing my mother, God has gifted me a baby girl. I believe my mother has reborn as my daughter,” said the woman. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/infected-woman-delivers-baby-girl/articleshow/77025634.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Relief for Telangana CM as court junks plea against secretariat demolition||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s ambitious new secretariat project got a shot in the arm when the Telangana high court on Friday dismissed a petition, challenging the demolition of the old secretariat buildings. The court, which on July 10 passed an order staying the ongoing demolition of the blocks, gave the go-ahead with the Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) stating that rules require prior environmental clearance (EC) for big constructions only when the actual construction work commences and not for demolitions preceding such constructions. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, while dismissing the plea of the petitioners, also acknowledged that the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), in its report, had said that prior permission for demolition was not the mandate of the law. Assistant solicitor general N Rajeswar Rao furnished to the court the reply given by the MoEF, which said that demolition does not require a prior EC, but a new structure, before commencement of construction, does require it. At this point, advocate general BS Prasad said that the government would obtain it at that stage. The judges also perused the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act and concluded that the petitioners did not produce any evidence that the government was pressing ahead with the demolition without taking required precautions at a time when the pandemic is sweeping across the state. “The AG is saying that the government is alive to its duties and is doing all that is required,” they said. The AG also argued that preparation of the ground by demolishing existing structures does not require prior EC from the MoEF. “What was required under the same EIA notification rules 4(3) is to take approvals from the local authorities for disposal of waste. The government is aware of its constitutional and statutory duties and has taken all permissions and precautions to prevent air pollution in the vicinity,” he said. The petition was filed by professor PL Vishweshwar Rao of Telangana Jana Samithi and Cheruku Sudhakar of Telangana Inti Party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relief-for-cm-as-court-junks-plea-against-secretariat-demolition/articleshow/77026664.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 18, 2020||Delhi||A lot to sacrifice: Lack of buyers this Bakri Eid gets sellers’ goat in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Despite the dull pickings in his hardware business this year due to the Covid lockdown, Daryaganj resident Abdul Wahabuddin put aside some money bit by bit to be able to buy goats for Eid Al Adha, or Bakri Eid, on July 31. It is, after all, a farz, or duty, to sacrifice animals on the special day. But unlike earlier, he will not have the pleasure of walking over to old Delhi’s Meena Bazar to see which of the thousands of goats on sale at the month-long caprine market impressed him. The coronavirus has disrupted the annual ritual of buying and selling goats there, and Wahabuddin will have to approach the sellers who are taking their bleating flock around the colonies. “Meena Bazar would have thousands of goats and people from across the city. This year, the place is empty,” said Nazim, an autorickshaw driver, who misses the extra income he earned from ferrying people to the market. There sellers like Mohammad Imran of Moradabad, UP, set up temporary stalls a month before Eid Al Adha. This year, Imran is doleful. “We are hobbled by the lack of transport. It will be very difficult to make a profit,” the 32-year-old said. With no market, goat sellers like Imran have scaled down their expectations. Qamar of Amroha, UP, said, “I arrived here yesterday with just four goats. I have been going around old Delhi areas to sell them, one pair for Rs 32,000, the other for Rs 26,000. They are nice goats and I hope I find buyers so I can at least earn back the investment I put into rearing them over two years.” Despite the price being munasib, or affordable, as he claims, Qamar hadn’t found takers till Friday. Veteran goat seller Noor Chacha, a regular at Meena Bazar for over 30 years, grumbled about how bringing goats to the city was a big hassle this year. Near Jama Masjid, he did evince the interest of some customers. But they were put off by the price he was asking for his fairly large goats. “Since there is no market at Meena Bazar, I can bring just only five or six of my best goats and recoup from their sale the transportation cost and the expense of staying in Delhi for two weeks. Police at the borders also want some money,” he alleged. “If we are unable to sell the goats specially reared for Eid, we may have to give them to butchers at a much lower price.” Mohammad Qayamuddin, president of the Tool Market Association of Meena Bazar, said the goat sellers were banned this year to avoid congesting the market when social distancing was mandatory. His son, Mohammad Nadeem, however, noted that people anyway couldn’t afford to splurge on the goats this year. Haji Fazlur Rehman Qureshi, owner of Rahmatullah Hotel in Matia Mahal, confirmed this. “Those who normally bought 10 goats don’t have enough to buy three this year,” he claimed. “Because of poor business, people will think twice before buying the goats and keeping them till the day of the sacrifice.” M Faizi, a car spare parts seller, will buy one goat to “fulfil our festival duty”. He said, “We don’t have much to spare, but the purpose of Bakri Id is charity. We give away three quarters of the meat to the needy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-lot-to-sacrifice-lack-of-buyers-this-bakri-eid-gets-sellers-goat/articleshow/77027266.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Fisherfolk not happy with Kisan Credit Scheme||Mangaluru: A move by the NDA government in its second term to set up a separate ministry for fisheries has not satisfied the fisherfolk, at least in this part of the state. This was apparent in a high-powered meet that minister for fisheries Kota Shrinivas Poojari convened to discuss situation of coastal fishing. Fishermen were not happy with terms under which loan has been made available to them as part of the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme. Fishermen and dairy farmers were brought under the ambit of KCC scheme in May 2019 which was meant exclusively for farmers growing crops. Fishermen community leader Naveen Bangera said KCC is a non-starter. With maximum credit of Rs 2 lakh available under KCC with a requirement that collateral be provided for loan above Rs 1.6 lakh as per RBI norms, there are not many takers. Most fishermen invest more than the Rs 2 lakh credit limit, he said. “We are not allowed to pledge our house as collateral for they are in the CRZ areas as they have been traditionally there since many years,” he said. Yashpal Suvarna, another leader said fishermen must be considered on par with farmers and given liberal credit to carry out what is a traditional and skilled operation. Ramakrishna, director, department of fisheries too averred that banks are very rigid when it comes to giving KCC for fishermen. Praveen M P, lead district manager said concept of KCC for farmers, which is to provide them with an overdraft facility for maintenance purpose as per a scale of finance determined by the district level task force committee, holds good for fishermen and dairy farmers too. As per this very scale of finance, fishermen with boats of 15-24m length are eligible for KCC limit of Rs 2 lakh, those with boats of 10-15m length for credit limit of Rs 1.25 lakh Banks in Dakshina Kannada have disbursed Rs 2.25crore to 230-odd fishermen applicants of KCC since January this year, Praveen said. The state level task force is empowered to increase the scale of finance, Praveen said, adding it could also take a call on issue of allowing houses in CRZ area for collateral. State government could also form a trust for fishermen on lines of Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises, Praveen noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fisherfolk-not-happy-with-kisan-credit-scheme/articleshow/77026170.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 18, 2020||Mangaluru||25k rapid antigen test kits sanctioned for DK||Mangaluru: Deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan has agreed to sanction 25,000 rapid antigen test kits for Dakshina Kannada. The minister said this while interacting with district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari, MLAs D Vedavyas Kamath, Harish Punja and U T Khader, and officials of the district on Friday, via video conference. “As per the requests from the minister and MLAs, rapid antigen test kits and 15 ambulances will be sanctioned for Dakshina Kannada, immediately. People need not worry about the increased cost of the Covid-19 test as the rapid antigen test will be done for free. The government will also bear the expenses of Covid-19 patients, who are admitted to their nearest private hospitals in case of emergency,” he said, and directed officials to increase the number of beds with oxygen facility in all government hospitals in the district. When officials said that Wenlock Hospital has only 150 beds equipped with oxygen, the minister directed that a proposal be submitted to increase the number of such beds to 450, immediately. He also directed the district administration to enter into an agreement with eight medical colleges in the district, and reserve sufficient number of beds for Covid-19 patients. “The entire treatment of Covid-19 patients will be free in private hospitals if they are referred there by government hospitals. The district administration should introduce a dashboard displaying the availability of beds in various hospitals in the district. No patient should be denied treatment just because of non-availability of beds. A centralised reporting system should be introduced for this purpose,” the minister said. Helpline started The Dakshina Kannada district administration started a helpline on Friday for Covid-19 patients, who are home quarantined in the district. Helplines have been set up in all the urban local bodies, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. “The government has allowed asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to remain isolated in their homes. We have started helplines in Bantwal, Ullal, Someshwara, Sullia, Puttur, and Moodbidri. These helplines will monitor all asymptomatic patients, who are under home isolation in the district. They will be given support, guidance and information on their health, and will be connected to the authorities on a real-time basis,” she said. Gayathri Nayak, project director, district development cell, said teams of officials from the respective local bodies, along with doctors, will interact with all asymptomatic Covid-19 patients through video calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/25k-rapid-antigen-test-kits-sanctioned-for-dk/articleshow/77025646.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nashik||NMC officials make surprise visits to 32 private hospitals in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has expressed concer about the inflow of Covid-19 patients from outside the district in city’s private hospitals. Five teams comprising 30 senior officials of the civic administration made surprise visits to 32 private hospitals in the city on Thursday night for inspecting the number of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, infrastructure, and mainly the beds occupied by Covid patients from outside the district. The inspection of private hospitals by the NMC teams that began on Thursday continued till 2 am on Friday. The reports about the findings will be submitted to municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game in a day or two. As per primary details, around 30% beds in four hospitals were found to be occupied by Covid-19 patients from outside the district. “Our major concern is about the beds being occupied by Covid-19 patients from other districts of North Maharashtra. The flow of Covid-19 patients from outside Nashik district may create shortage of beds for the patients from the city and the district” said NMC officials. “In fact, Covid-19 patients are needed to be treated in their respective districts. We are already making efforts to acquire more beds for Covid-19 patients in the city considering the projection of spike in the number of cases by July end,” said NMC officials. According to civic officials, the teams verified whether the number of beds suggested by the NMC have been reserved for Covid-19 patients and whether there is adequate infrastructure in the hospitals to cater to the needs and requirements of coronavirus patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-officials-make-surprise-visits-to-32-pvt-hosps-in-city/articleshow/77026669.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 18, 2020||Nashik||Panchavati’s Covid count surpasses Nashik East||NASHIK: Panchavati division has now emerged as a major Covid-19 hotspot with a large number of positive patients in the past two days, leaving Nashik East division at the second spot. Of the total six divisions of Nashik Municipal Corporation, Panchavati and Nashik East have 56.79% of the total Covid-19 patients. Earlier, around a fortnight back, 64% of the total patients were from these two divisions alone. However, the trend has now changed with patients being reported from Nashik Road and Cidco divisions too. Earlier, Nashik East was on top of the Covid chart in terms of patients, but there has been a spike in the number of cases in Panchavati division too. Of the total 4,870 cases reported so far, Panchavati houses maximum 1,427 patients, followed by Nashik East with 1,339 patients and Nashik Road with 756 patients. In Panchavati, the cases are being reported from Phule Nagar, Ram Nagar, Datta Nagar and other parts of the division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/panchavatis-covid-count-surpasses-nashik-east/articleshow/77026674.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||NMC staffers among 5.4k fined Rs21.28L for Covid rule breach||Nagpur: The daily spiralling Covid infection cases have failed to deter many from violating Covid guidelines as is evident from the number of persons, including shopkeepers and NMC employees, penalized by the civic body’s nuisance detection squad (NDS).Apart from penalizing people elsewhere in the city, the NDS has fined 140 persons, mostly NMC employees, at the civic body’s headquarters in Civil Lines for violating mandatory mask rule and recovered Rs28,000 fine.In many areas, shopkeepers continue to flout the odd-even rule for which the NDS has recovered Rs13.02 lakh fine from 1,302 since the regulation was introduced on June 5. The NDS also penalized 4,131 people between April 15 and July 16 for not wearing mask and recovered Rs8.26 lakh fine.The NMC is imposing Rs200 fine on people not wearing mask while going out, while Rs1,000 penalty is being levied on shopkeepers for not adhering the odd-even formula, introduced to avoid crowding in shops.Shops under Dharampeth zone, which comprises market areas like Sitabuldi, Ramdaspeth, Dharampeth and Gokulpeth, are notorious to ignore the odd-even rule. As per NDS data, civic cops have penalized 288 shopkeepers for violating the odd-even and collected Rs2.88 lakh fine. The civic cops also recovered Rs91,200 fine from 456 people wandering outside without wearing face mask. Under Mangalwari zone, the NDS has penalized 754 people for not wearing mask and collected Rs1.50 lakh fine. Under this zone, the NDS team also penalized 117 shops for violating the odd-even formula and recovered Rs1.17 lakh penalty.The NDS team also collected Rs1.76 lakh fine from 176 shopkeepers in Gandhibagh zone, which comprises commercial areas like Gandhibagh, Mahal and Central Avenue. The civic cops caught 171 people roaming outside without mask and collected Rs34,200 fine. NMC health officials have warned that if the violation of Covid-19 rules is not curbed, there is a higher possibility of spike in cases and the outbreak could be disastrous for Nagpur. “We are at a critical stage and maintaining Covid distancing apart from necessary precautions like wearing mask while venturing out is essential,” mayor Sandip Joshi urged citizens. “If the guidelines are not followed strictly, NMC will be left with no choice but to re-impose complete lockdown,” warned the mayor.Zones----------No Mask---Fine---Shops---FineLaxmi Nagar---334---28,000---63----63,000Dharampeth---456---91,200---288----2.88 lakhHanuman Nagar---278---55,600----113---1.13 lakhDhantoli---734---1.46 lakh---163---1.63 lakhNehru Nagar----428---85,600---171---1.71 lakhGandhibagh----171---34,200---176---1.76 lakhSatranjipura---217---43,400---93---93,000Lakadganj---180---36,000---42---42,000Ashi Nagar ----440---88,000---76---76,000Mangalwari ---753---1.50 lakh---117---1.17 lakhNMC HQ---140---28,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-staffers-among-5-4k-fined-rs21-28l-for-covid-rule-breach/articleshow/77024705.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||VS seeks further probe in SNDP micro finance scam||Thiruvananthapuram: Former chief minister V S Achuthanandan approached a special vigilance court in the state capital on Friday seeking a probe into suspected destruction of evidence in the SNDP micro-finance corruption case. The new petition is in addition to pending petition filed in 2016 seeking probe against SNDP yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan and president M N Soman on the same case. K K Mahesan was also an accused in the case as per VS’s original petition. In his new petition, VS pointed out the suicide of Mahesan, who was Kanichukulangara area secretary of SNDP and former state convener of SNDP micro-finance scheme. He prayed that the court should monitor the probe, and statements of Mahesan’s relatives need to be recorded. He also detailed about the public statements made by persons like Subhash Vasu who had split ways from SNDP leadership and suggested to collect evidence from them. The micro-finance scam in SNDP came to light in 2016 and VS had used it as a major campaign topic in the run up to 2016 assembly poll. The allegation is the SNDP yogam availed Rs 15 crore from Backward Classes Development Corporation for this purpose at an interest rate of 2%. The loan amount was then distributed to beneficiaries at an interest as high as 12%. In addition, a section of SNDP leaders forged documents to siphon off money from the loan amount, VS had alleged then. Though he demanded a CBI probe into the case, the government ordered a crime branch probe which is continuing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vs-seeks-further-probe-in-sndp-micro-finance-scam/articleshow/77025684.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nashik||NMC fines over 200 citizens for not wearing mask in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has fined over 200 erring citizens in past 15 days for not wearing masks in public places and collected Rs 40,000 from the as fine. The civic body has started slapping fine of Rs 200 if someone is found without a mask in a public place. Till date, action has been taken against 315 citizens for not wearing masks in public places and Rs 63,000 has been collected from them as penalty. Apart from this, the NMC is also slapping a fine of Rs 1,000 each on those who are found spitting in public places. As many as seven people have been fined by the civic body in the past fortnight. “We want residents to take all precautions and follow safety protocols to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic. But a section of people are not serious. Around 20% of people are still not wearing masks in public places,” an NMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-fines-over-200-citizens-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/77026683.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Undertrial escapes from hospital's Covid ward, traced||WARANGAL/HYDERABAD: An undertrial prisoner, who gave the slip to the police from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH) in Warangal on Thursday night, was nabbed by the police and sent back to the Warangal central prison on Friday. According to Warangal police, the undertrial prisoner, who was identified as Sayyad Kaiser, a resident of Police Colony in Hanamkonda, was admitted to the Covid-19 ward at the MGMH after he developed fever and cough and began showing Covid-like symptoms on Thursday morning. However, he escaped from the hospital though two policemen were escorting him at the hospital. On Friday morning, his reports came negative. A preliminary probe revealed that the two policemen were unwilling to catch him as he was a Covid-19 suspect. Further, Kaiser escaped from the hospital ward when the two policemen were having lunch. “Special teams were formed by Warangal police after the prison authorities lodged a complaint and the undertrial prisoner was traced at a bus stand late on Friday evening and sent back to the local police station,” said police. Warangal police said that Kaiser was held in a house burglary case a week ago and stolen property worth Rs 34 lakh, including 637 grams of gold and 1.18 kg of silver ornaments, was recovered from him. The undertrial prisoner, Sayyad Kaiser, a resident of Police Colony in Hanamkonda, was admitted to the Covid-19 ward at the MGMH after he began showing Covid-like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/undertrial-escapes-from-hosps-covid-ward-traced/articleshow/77026689.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||795 +ve, new low as Covid cases touch another high in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: With Rewari emerging as a major hotspot along with worst-hit Gurugram and Faridabad districts, Haryana beat all its past records of new Covid-19 patients on Friday as 795 people tested positive for the virus and the overall tally reached 24,797. Also, five patients died, taking the casualty count to 327. At least one case was reported in 17 of the 22 districts of the state. In all, 533 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of people who have recovered from the virus so far to 18,718. The recovery rate is now 75.48%. There are 5,752 patients still under treatment for Covid and 76 of them are in a critical condition. They are either on ventilator or oxygen support. Faridabad yet again reported the highest number of cases, 160, taking the district’s tally to 6,211. There were no fresh deaths and the district’s casualty count continued to be 104. There are 1,111 people under treatment in the district. Faridabad is followed by Rewari, which reported 156 new cases. Rerwari’s tally has risen to 975. Gurugram had 133 new patients with two deaths. It continue to top the state tally with 7,483 patients and 112 fatalities so fr. The district has 1,052 active cases. Sonipat had 69 new patients, which took the district’s tally to 1,563 with 24 deaths. There were 57 new cases in Mahendergarh, 43 new caes and two deaths in Nuh, 39 in Hisar, 26 in Panchkula, 25 in Jhajjar, 24 in Karnal, 15 in Panipat, 12 new cases and a death in Palwal, 10 new patients each in Bhiwani and Sirsa districts, nine in Kurkshetra, six in Yamunanagar, and one in Kaithal. Haryana’s testing rate rose to 16,753 tests per million of population as it had 4,24,692 tests by the time this report was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/795ve-new-low-as-covid-cases-touch-another-high-in-haryana/articleshow/77027292.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||Despite losing both legs, Ashraf scales the academic summit||Nagpur: Like any teenage, he too had dreams to make it big until a tragedy struck two years back on June 28, 2018. Ashraf Joya lost both his legs when he slipped from a train at Makrana in Nagour, Rajasthan, and came under the wheels of the train.However, even such a bit loss did not deter this 19-year-old from scoring an impressive 93.07% in Std XII results declared on Friday and becoming a probable city topper in from physically challenged category. The gritty student CP and Berar School aims to crack the civil services and help the poor and the needy.“Earlier, I thought of seeking admission into engineering college but now I’ve decided to join BSc mathematics,” an elated Ashraf, flanked by his mother and sister, said.He was critically hurt in the accident as one after another hospital refused admission to him but he still survived miraculously. “After a couple of hospitals refused to treat me in Ajmer, I was taken to Jaipur. In the meantime, I lost a lot of blood and only 400ml was left in the body. The doctors in Jaipur did a fantastic job to save me,” he said.Ashraf’s father Shahabuddin is a civil construction contractor doing tiles/marbles fitting work while mother is a homemaker. He is youngest of the four children. The family had gone to Rajasthan for marriage of his eldest sister when the tragedy struck. “I lost both legs from the thighs, but with the help of prosthetics, I am managing some movement by myself. I need help of a walker,” he said. The Borgaon resident scored 88% in Class 10 as a student of Blue Diamond High School. Asked how he managed to divert his mind from his sudden disability and focus on studies, he said he never paid attention to it as it was past. “My sister Zareena, who is a gold medallist in BSc and now pursuing MSc is my biggest support, apart from my parents. She used to drop and pick me from the coaching classes and clear my doubts,” he said.Family’s neighbour Amjad Khan, working as a vice-president in a multinational, now wants to help the boy secure scholarship so that he could realize his dreams of higher studies. “I know the entire family since long and saw their children really working hard despite financial and other adversities. Not only is this boy an inspiration for entire area but so is his sister. I am trying for arrange good quality prosthetics for him so he can walk comfortably without a walker. The entire family is truly inspirational,” Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-losing-both-legs-ashraf-scales-the-academic-summit/articleshow/77024698.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 18, 2020||Nashik||CM Uddhav Thackeray to visit Nashik early next week: Chhagan Bhujbal||NASHIK: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to visit Nashik district early next week to review and assess the Covid-19 situation here, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said. Bhujbal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Nashik with the senior officials, including divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane, rural and city police chiefs and officials from the revenue department. “CM Uddhav Thackeray will visit Nashik early next week. He will be accompanied by senior officials and experts from health, economy and industry departments, who will collectively assess the situation of the district before taking any decision on lockdown in the city and the district,” he said. Bhujbal pointed out that he was against the lockdown, especially considering the impact on economic activities. “I am not against anybody. There have been some efforts by people or groups in organizing lockdown. But it has not helped. I am of the belief that the Covid-19 fight has to be fought by everybody and without hurting the economic activities,” Bhujbal said. He said the number of patients was a result of intense testing of the people from the city and rural areas. He underlined that the death rate in the district was quite low and all efforts would be taken to reduce it further. On being asked about unavailability of beds in hospitals, Bhujbal said that there were at least 1,200 beds available and the administration was making more beds available across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cm-to-visit-nashik-early-next-week-bhujbal/articleshow/77026688.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa govt pulls circular on teacher salaries, CM says education director didn’t consult him||PANAJI: The state government on Friday withdrew a circular asking all government-aided schools to pay teachers’ salaries for July from their own funds. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that director of education Vandana Rao issued the circular without sending him the file. “If one goes by the rule book, it was the right decision,” Sawant said. “However, I have asked the department to rectify the decision. The circular was issued without the file being put up to me.” The state government clarified that the salary disbursal of staff of aided schools for July is likely to be delayed, as all the staff employed in the grant-in-aid (GIA) section of the directorate of education (DoE) have been placed under home quarantine. “It is clarified that since all staff members of the GIA sections of the DoE engaged in processing salary bills of aided schools have been placed under home quarantine, the work of preparation of salary bills has been hampered,” said Rao. “... Salary disbursal for the current month is likely to be delayed. Once the staff members rejoin their duties, the salary bills will be processed.” There are around 800 government-aided primary, secondary and higher secondary schools in the state, with thousands of staff members. In an earlier circular, Rao had said, “All the heads of management of aided, primary, secondary and higher secondary schools are hereby enjoined upon to disburse the salary of their respective staff members from their own funds as per rule 62 of the Goa, Daman and Diu School Education Act, 1964, and Rules, 1986”. Sawant also said that no decision has been taken on another circular, which granted permission to re-appoint teachers on contract or lecture basis in government and government-aided schools till the end of academic year 2020-21. Even as the state government withdrew the July 16 circular, it left teachers and school managements fuming. “I have been working as a teacher for the past 28 years, and the circular was something unprecedented,” said Dattatreya Naik, president of the All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association. “It set a wrong precedent. Aided schools do not take money for appointment of teachers or take donations from students, how can the government think they have so much of money to pay staff salaries running in lakhs of rupees? Because aided schools do not engage in such practices, their managements have the respect of teachers and students.” Satyesh Kakodkar, manager of The New Educational Institute, Curchorem, said that his school has around 40 teachers and another 10 non-teaching staff, and that it would require the school’s accounts to have at least Rs 50 lakh to be able to pay that amount. “The salaries would just have remained unpaid because no school management has that kind of money,” he said. Shantaji Naik Gaonkar of Shree Katyayni Baneshwar Vidyalaya, Canacona, said that the directorate of education did not even consult school managements to inquire if they have the required money before issuing the circular. “If the department is unable to pay teachers’ salaries because a few staff members have gone into home quarantine, what does that say about the department’s efficiency?” asked Vithoba Dessai, headmaster of Shishu Niketan High School, Navelim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-pulls-circular-on-teacher-salaries-cm-says-edu-dir-didnt-consult-him/articleshow/77027289.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Partial lockdown clamped in north-east Mysuru||Mysuru: The seven-day lockdown clamped from Friday morning by deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar in four police station limits in the heart of the city and north-east of Mysuru, to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, brought life to a standstill, with no commercial activity happening in those areas. Abhiram has imposed restrictions on commercial activities in Mandi, Lashkar, NR and Udayagiri police limits till July 24. The order was issued late on Thursday night, to ensure that people in the areas don’t leave in panic. The decision was taken in consultation with the district minister, MLAs, corporators and religious leaders. The authorities were however relaxed with regard to the movement of the public on the first day of the lockdown, as some people weren’t aware of the order passed late in the night. Restriction will be strictly implemented from Saturday and those in violation of the norms will be dealt with strictly. Police have cordoned off the main entry points in all these police station limits. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) A N Prakash Gowda said that the lockdown will be enforced strictly from Saturday. While passing the order for the lockdown, deputy commissioner Abhiram has pointed out that the spike in the number of cases in these places have compelled them to take such measures, in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus as well as reduce fatalities. Mysuru has been recording over 100 Covid-19 cases since a week, and more cases have reported in the areas where the lockdown has been clamped, the DC said. Restrictions All commercial activities to remain shut Grocery, vegetable, fruit and shops selling essentials to remain open All tea shops to remain closed. Only parcel service (takeaway) in hotels and restaurants allowed Meat shops to remain open only on Tuesdays and Fridays Places of worship to remain closed There is no restriction on employees passing through these localities. People loitering about will be punished No movement allowed in these areas The district administration has restricted all kinds of activities and the movement of the public in Muneshwaranagar, Udayagiri, Rajivnagar, KBH Colony, Beedi Colony and Sathgalli, where more Covid fatalities were reported. All shops including grocery, milk and vegetable shops are allowed to open between 6 am and 10 am in thses areas till July 24. Meanwhile, rapid antigen tests will be done in the radius of 400 metres of these localities. Eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/partial-lockdown-clamped-in-north-east-mysuru/articleshow/77025690.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 18, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation now woos doctors with double salary offer||NAVI MUMBAI: After an earlier recruitment drive got a tepid response, NMMC is overhauling its health machinery, as cases of Covid-19 are increasing, with a massive recruitment drive. It will recruit 5,485 personnel, including 1,869 doctors and 3,616 paramedical staff, at almost double the salary. A doctor with an MBBS, MD qualification will get a salary of Rs 2.5 lakh, instead of Rs 1.25 lakh offered earlier. NMMC carried out a drive last month to fill 590 posts, including 240 doctors and 350 paramedical staff but it failed to get required candidates, attributed to meagre remuneration. With testing expedited, NMMC wants to recruit lab technicians and data entry operators too. The minimum contractual tenure will be for six months, which may be extended depending on the situation. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar told TOI, “We have doubled the salary so that a good number of candidates will come forth. This is the best offer compared to neighbouring civic bodies. We intensified our containment strategy while carrying out antigen tests, for which more manpower is needed.” NMMC needs 300 MBBS, 1,500 BAMS, BHMS and BUMS besides, 30 MD, four microbiologists and 35 intensivists. It also requires 1,600 bedside assistants and 1,000 staff nurses and 800 auxiliary nurses. Earlier, NMMC offered a monthly honorarium of Rs20,000 to Rs 1.25 lakh. Now, doctors with MD degrees will get Rs 2.5 lakh instead of Rs 1.25 lakh, while MBBS doctors are being offered Rs 1 lakh instead of Rs65,000. A staff nurse can draw Rs45,000 against Rs30,000 earlier, followed by an auxiliary nurse’s Rs35,000 instead of Rs25,000 earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/nmmc-now-woos-docs-with-double-salary-offer/articleshow/77026862.cms||B B Nayak
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets 348 new cases, tally 9,442; 9 lose battle||CHANDIGARH: With 348 new Covid-19 cases recorded in Punjab on Friday, the total number of persons testing positive for the virus so far in the state has reached 9,442. Nine lives were also lost to the disease during the day, taking the death toll to 239. Two Covid-19 patients each breathed their last in Ludhiana and Patiala districts, whereas Ferozepur, Mohali, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts registered one death each. Highest 78 cases were reported from Jalandhar district, followed by 62 in Ludhiana, 56 in Patiala, and 34 each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur, 14 in Mohali, 15 in Moga, 11 in Sangrur, seven each in Ropar and Faridkot, six each in Gurdaspur and Muktsar, four in Fazilka, three each in Pathankot and Kapurthala, two each in Bathinda and Mansa, and one each in Ferozepur, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran. Thirteen of the new patients are cops — six from Ludhiana, three from Moga, and two each from Fazilka and Faridkot districts. One doctor each tested positive in Amritsar and Faridkot districts. Five jail inmates in Moga prison were also found infected. An Army official tested positive in Amritsar. Total 96 patients were also discharged from various hospitals in Punjab after their recovery on Friday, taking the tally of recovered persons to 2,380. Out of the total 2,830 Covid-19 active cases in Punjab, Jalandhar is at the top with 626 cases, followed by Ludhiana (559 cases), Patiala (491), Amritsar (192), Mohali (186) and Nawanshahr (100). Amritsar district has recorded the highest 60 Covid deaths till now, followed by 41 in Ludhiana, 33 in Jalandhar, 21 in Sangrur, 15 in Patiala and 10 in Gurdaspur. Though the state government’s Covid-19 bulletin said there were 14 cases in Moga, district officials said there were 17. While bulletin said there were four cases in Fazilka, district officials said there were two each in Fazilka and Faridkot. In Amritsar, district officials said there were 43 new cases, but additional cases were yet to be added to the daily bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-gets-348-new-cases-tally-9442-9-lose-battle/articleshow/77027298.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: ‘TikTok app fake, malware source’||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police cyber crime cell has warned people against downloading any ‘.apk’ files that mimic the services of TikTok or any other popular apps banned by the Indian government as these can be sources of malware. The cell has issued the warning amid reports of a message being circulated via instant messaging services, SMS or WhatsApp, that the banned Chinese app TikTok was now available as ‘TikTok Pro’ in India. A URL is provided with the message for the users to download the app. The cell has found that the malware called ‘TikTok Pro’ is a fake app with a logo that is closely replicated the real app. However, the fact that this fake app is not available for download either on Google Play Store or Apple App Store clearly indicates it is a fraud, said a cyber crime cell official. He pointed out that the Union government had recently banned TikTok, along with 58 other mobile apps, for engaging in activities prejudicial to India’s sovereignty and integrity. It has also been found that the url provided as download link did not follow basic security protocol as it started with http but not https.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tiktok-app-fake-malware-source/articleshow/77027302.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Eating camel meat punishable, tell this to people: HC to Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday directed the government, its municipal, police and animal welfare department officials to campaign all over the state to spread the message that it was illegal to eat camel meat and also prosecute those who were found slaughtering the animals. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy told this to state’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar while hearing a PIL filed by Dr Shashikala Kopanati of Earth Quotient, an NGO, seeking directions to curb the smuggling of camels into the state and also their likely slaughtering during the ensuing Bakrid. “As long as it was believed by people that it is a custom to eat camel meat during Ramzan or Bakrid, people tend to think that it is legal to consume it. You must tell them that slaughtering a camel or selling and consuming its meat is a punishable offence,” the judges said while expressing serious reservations over the dismal functioning of the core committee formed by the state government for the purpose. The judges also pointed out that the authorities did not do much to curb illegal smuggling and slaughtering of camels in the state. “The figures of your (officials) confiscations and prosecutions between 2013 and 2017 and the laxity of the law enforcing authorities speak a lot about lack of will power to implement the law in this regard,” the judges said. Directing the state government to keep strict vigilance at least now, the judges said it would look at the officials’ actions in controlling the violators in the next 10 days. The case was posted to July 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eating-camel-meat-punishable-tell-this-to-people-hc-to-t/articleshow/77026703.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 18, 2020||Shimla||40 test +ve in Himachal Pradesh, but as many patients recover; tally now 1,417||SHIMLA: A total of 40 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the hill state on Friday. These included 10 from Sirmaur district, seven from Chamba, six from Shimla, five from Kullu, four from Solan, three each from Kinnaur and Kangra, and two from Mandi. Also. 40 patients have recovered, including 14 from Kinnaur district, 10 from Kangra, nine from Solan, four from Bilaspur, two from Hamirpur, and one from Chamba. With this, the number of positive cases in the state has increased to 1,417 of which 382 cases are active while 1,011 patients have recovered. Thirteen persons have migrated out of the state, nine died of Covid-19 while two patients from Chamba and Shimla died of non-Covid reasons. A total of 66,486 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Friday. Of them, 44,720 have completed 28-day surveillance, while 21,766 are under active surveillance. In Shimla, four cases are from Boilouganj, of whom 3 patients had arrived from Jammu and Kashmir on July 5. A truck driver who had to deliver goods in Shimla and an ITBP jawan posted in Rampur too have tested positive. In Kangra district, new patients include a 30-year-old woman from Pathiar who arrived from New Delhi on July 7, a 32-year-old man from Nagrota Bagwan who arrived from Noida on July 13, and a 26-year-old man from Bhat Lahri who arrived from Delhi on July 7. In Kullu district, five cases are from Anni subdivision, where two are fruit traders from Uttar Pradesh, two are fruit traders from Bihar, and the fifth is a 29-year-old woman who came from Panchkula. A total of 66,486 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Friday, of them 44,720 had completed 28 days of surveillance. So far, 1,10,585 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 1,08,954 have tested negative and results of 214 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/40-test-ve-in-hp-but-as-many-patients-recover-tally-now-1417/articleshow/77027300.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Two more held in Kerala gold smuggling case||KOCHI/KOZHIKODE/THRISSUR: Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive), Kerala, are closing in on the end buyers of the contraband smuggled into the state by the racket behind Thiruvananthapuram gold-smuggling case. Raids were held at three jewellers in Malappuram and Kozhikode to find the end buyers. Meanwhile, the agency has recorded the arrest of Abdul Hameed P M (54) of Koottilangadi, Malappuram, and Aboobacker Pazedath (60) of Koottilangadi, Malappuram who were the financiers of the racket. The duo was arrested after being summoned to customs office in Kochi based on a statement from Said Alavi, who was arrested the other day, customs officials said. Hameed and Pazedath were active smugglers in the 1980s and have experience in smuggling gold and foreign goods, sources said. They had stopped the business after getting caught by the customs, said an official. “The duo seems to have invested the money into gold smuggling after facing a crisis during the lockdown. They have suspectedly invested more than Rs 1 crore hoping to double the amount,” said an official. Jewellery owners to be interrogatedCustoms sleuths said the role of jewellery owners in Malappuram and Kozhikode is being probed and they would be interrogated. The customs raid at Heza Jewellery at Arakkinar in Kozhikode on Friday unearthed 3.7kg of unaccounted gold. The jewellery is owned by Muhammd Abdu Shameem, his brother and another person. The customs team also conducted search at the house of one Jifzal at Vattakkinar in Kozhikode. Laptop, seal recovered from Sandeep’s residenceThe customs sleuths conducted searches at the residences of Sandeep and his friend in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday, a source said. The customs has recovered a laptop reportedly belonging to Sandeep. It is suspected that the laptop was used to forge documents for sending diplomatic baggage from Dubai. Some seals were also recovered from the residence of Sandeep, the sources said. Customs raid Faisal Fareed’s houseCustoms officials on Friday raided the house of Faisal Fareed, one of the accused in the gold-smuggling case, at Moonnupeedika near Kaipamangalam in Thrissur district. Computers and some other documents were seized from the house. Faisal and his family members are in Dubai and the house was remaining locked for the last two years. The officials were initially planning to leave after sealing the house in the presence of village officer. But they got the house key from a relative of Faisal and opened it. The raid lasted for about four hours and the customs officials checked all the rooms in the two-storeyed house. The house has been pledged with cooperative bank at Pappinivattom, near Moonnupeedika, by Faisal’s father. The bank has initiated preliminary steps for auctioning the house because of delays in repaying loan instalments, said bank official Biju Poklai. Technical director of the bank Murukeshan said the Fareed used to be prompt in repayment of loans, and but the instalments were getting accumulated for some time. There are reports that the Indian government has frozen the passport of Faisal and the UAE has imposed a travel ban on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/2-more-held-in-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/77032075.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kochi||Two more held in Kerala gold smuggling case||KOCHI/KOZHIKODE/THRISSUR: Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive), Kerala, are closing in on the end buyers of the contraband smuggled into the state by the racket behind Thiruvananthapuram gold-smuggling case. Raids were held at three jewellers in Malappuram and Kozhikode to find the end buyers. Meanwhile, the agency has recorded the arrest of Abdul Hameed P M (54) of Koottilangadi, Malappuram, and Aboobacker Pazedath (60) of Koottilangadi, Malappuram who were the financiers of the racket. The duo was arrested after being summoned to customs office in Kochi based on a statement from Said Alavi, who was arrested the other day, customs officials said. Hameed and Pazedath were active smugglers in the 1980s and have experience in smuggling gold and foreign goods, sources said. They had stopped the business after getting caught by the customs, said an official. “The duo seems to have invested the money into gold smuggling after facing a crisis during the lockdown. They have suspectedly invested more than Rs 1 crore hoping to double the amount,” said an official. Jewellery owners to be interrogatedCustoms sleuths said the role of jewellery owners in Malappuram and Kozhikode is being probed and they would be interrogated. The customs raid at Heza Jewellery at Arakkinar in Kozhikode on Friday unearthed 3.7kg of unaccounted gold. The jewellery is owned by Muhammd Abdu Shameem, his brother and another person. The customs team also conducted search at the house of one Jifzal at Vattakkinar in Kozhikode. Laptop, seal recovered from Sandeep’s residenceThe customs sleuths conducted searches at the residences of Sandeep and his friend in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday, a source said. The customs has recovered a laptop reportedly belonging to Sandeep. It is suspected that the laptop was used to forge documents for sending diplomatic baggage from Dubai. Some seals were also recovered from the residence of Sandeep, the sources said. Customs raid Faisal Fareed’s houseCustoms officials on Friday raided the house of Faisal Fareed, one of the accused in the gold-smuggling case, at Moonnupeedika near Kaipamangalam in Thrissur district. Computers and some other documents were seized from the house. Faisal and his family members are in Dubai and the house was remaining locked for the last two years. The officials were initially planning to leave after sealing the house in the presence of village officer. But they got the house key from a relative of Faisal and opened it. The raid lasted for about four hours and the customs officials checked all the rooms in the two-storeyed house. The house has been pledged with cooperative bank at Pappinivattom, near Moonnupeedika, by Faisal’s father. The bank has initiated preliminary steps for auctioning the house because of delays in repaying loan instalments, said bank official Biju Poklai. Technical director of the bank Murukeshan said the Fareed used to be prompt in repayment of loans, and but the instalments were getting accumulated for some time. There are reports that the Indian government has frozen the passport of Faisal and the UAE has imposed a travel ban on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-more-held-in-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/77025732.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa NCP chief Jose Philip tests positive for Covid-19||VASCO: The president of Nationalist Congress Party, Jose Philip D’Souza, who lives in Vaddem, Vasco, has tested positive for Covid-19. His family was also detected with the virus. D’Souza’s wife, two daughters and son were shifted to the Covid care centre at Margao Residency on Friday. Sources said that D’Souza and his family members were suffering from fever, and after they noticed Covid-like symptoms they got themselves tested at the sub-district hospital at Chicalim. Their reports came on Thursday.  D’Souza’s elder brother Pascoal, Mormugao Municipal Council councillor, succumbed to the virus on July 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-ncp-chief-jose-philip-tests-ve/articleshow/77027719.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: No academic timeline, but top colleges seek 50% fee||HYDERABAD: Even though the state government is yet to start the Degree Online Services, Telangana (DOST) for admissions to three-year undergraduate courses, many top colleges in the city are demanding the prospective students to pay about 40%-50% of the total fee in advance to book their seat. The students and parents have raised questions on being forced to pay although there is no clarity on when the new academic year will begin. “If needed, the college should ask for a token amount for seat confirmation. Instead, they are forcing parents to pay 50% of the fee Rs 28, 000, immediately. They are saying that admissions will be closed if we wait longer,” said a student, who is seeking admission in B.Com (General) course at a well-known college in Somajiguda. The student said that they have even filed a police complaint on the issue as the management is asking them to pay in cash and is not accepting any other mode of payments. Another student, who has taken admission in the BA course at a degree college in Begumpet, said that the management confirmed her admission only after she paid Rs 20, 000. Members of the Telangana Private Degree Colleges Association, meanwhile, said that it is illegal to fill seats before the government releases a notification. “Out of 1,000 colleges in the state, hardly 15-20 might have started the admission process. This is nothing but illegal and the state should initiate actions against them,” said G Nagaiah, president of the association. He added that it’s not fair on the part of the colleges to start admissions as there is a chance of this year being declared as a zero year. DOST convenor R Limbadri, who is also the vice-chairman of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education, said that parents should either approach the council or university if they notice any colleges starting the admission process. “Even the self-admission colleges have to wait for DOST notification,” he said. While degree seats are filled through DOST, about 40 colleges went to the HC and got permission to do so on their own. However, they also have to wait for UGC to release alternate academic calendar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-academic-timeline-but-top-colleges-seek-50-fee/articleshow/77025706.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 18, 2020||Nashik||MIDC asks industries to maintain safety protocols||NASHIK: Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has asked the industries to maintain the safety protocols to contain the spread of the infection after some workers in the district tested positive for Covid-19 According to sources in the industries, around 150 workers from 25 industrial units in Gonde, Sinnar, Satpur and Ambad industrial areas have tested Covid positive so far. Of the workers who tested positive, 90 were from a Gonde-based private company. So, the industries have been asked to ensure workers from containment areas are not working in the factories. Nitin Gavli, the regional officer of MIDC, Nashik region, said, “I recently had a meeting with the office bearers of industrial associations, asking them to ensure safety protocols are maintained by all the industries in the district.” “It is difficult right now to inform how many industrial workers in the district have been infected, but there are some workers from industrial unit who have tested Covid positive,” said Tushar Chavan, secretary of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA). Industries have already incurred heavy losses due to closure of the factories for almost two months. It takes some time for industrial activities to begin after the lockdown, said Chavan. “Hence, it is not affordable for the industries to close factories now. Industries are ensuring that workers coming to the factories are not from the containment zones,” said Chavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/midc-asks-industries-to-maintain-safety-protocols/articleshow/77026702.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM calls for tighter screening at state borders||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan directed the district collectors in the state to ensure proper vigil at the inter-state borders. The chief minister was reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state via video conferecing on Friday. Later the additional chief secretary, home SN Mishra in an advisory asked the officials to keep a tab on Covid-19 cases and infections in the bordering areas in other states and take effective measures to ensure that no person arrives in the state without proper screening. He said that wherever necessary the district collectors and officials can regulate inter-state movement. Several districts have ensured that any person entering the state gives the details about his arrival to the district control room so that they could be screened properly. He asked the all district collectors to follow this practice. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said, excellent work has been done in Ujjain to control the spread of coronavirus.  “Initially, corona was spreading rapidly in Ujjain, but due to the diligence of the district administration and the support of the residents, the infection has been controlled. Today, Ujjain is the least infected district of the state, and for this everyone including the district administration deserves to be lauded,” he said. The CM said, soon Ujjain district will win over corona with the cooperation of all, but we still need to be extra careful to defeat Corona. People must follow physical distancing, and essentially wear masks. The chief minister gave directions that patients with general symptoms should be kept in home quarantine. Doctors should visit them in their homes and examine them. He said that now it is necessary to ensure that no patient dies due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-calls-for-tighter-screening-at-state-borders/articleshow/77025708.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||90-yr-old cured of Covid as Goa records 196 new cases||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 count rose to 1,337 on Friday after 196 new infections were detected, the second-highest single-day caseload since the pandemic began. The Covid death count, too, increased to 21, after an unidentified person who was found dead on the streets of Margao tested positive. The day also saw 129 patients declared cured and discharged, including a 90-year-old woman, one of the oldest persons in the state to be cured of Covid. She was at the ESI-Covid hospital for 23 days. A doctor said that though she was critical when admitted and suffered from dementia and malnutrition, her condition improved with treatment, and has been sent home. A couple of weeks ago, a 91-year-old woman was cured of Covid and discharged. While the state crossed the 1 lakh mark for testing on Thursday, on Friday, it crossed the 1 lakh mark for reports received. The state leads the national list in terms of tests per million, with the figure standing at over 67,000. Health officials said that the state’s strategy is to test at least 100-200 people in in area that reports more than one case. Vasco, which has been severely hit by the pandemic, reported a rise in infections in Baina, New Vaddem and Zuarinagar, which is inching closer to the 200-mark. A former state cabinet minister from the port town and his family also tested positive on Friday. Recently, his brother succumbed to the virus. Dean of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital Dr S M Bandekar said that the increase in cases is so high, they see at least 10-15 walk-in patients test positive for the virus everyday. The tertiary care hospital has two isolation wards, and patients are either referred to the ESI-Covid hospital or a care centre after the test. While new cases were reported across the state, areas that witnessed a jump include Indiranagar in Chimbel, Panaji, Porvorim, Sakhali and Usgao. Porvorim added 8 more cases to its tally, taking it to 18, while Indiranagar now has 64 cases after 14 on Friday. A health official said that intensive contact tracing was underway in Porvorim, where most of the new cases are contacts of those who tested positive for the virus over the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/90-yr-old-cured-of-covid-as-state-records-196-new-cases/articleshow/77027306.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||More bureaucrats shifted in Maharashtra as 10 still await fresh postings||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday appointed principal secretary (protocol) Manisha Mhaiskar-Patankar to lead environment department in place of Anil Diggikar, while BMC joint commissioner Ashutosh Salil will be new managing director of Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation. Patankar was appointed to protocol department less than six months back, while Salil was appointed to BMC a year back. Mhaiskar-Patankar and Salil will report to environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray. No new assignments have been given to Diggikar and Kale, while no IAS officer has been appointed to lead protocol department. Senior bureaucrats said the CM must come out with a comprehensive posting and transfer policy. Senior bureaucrats Sitaram Kunte, S V Srinivas and Manoj Saunik are looking after two departments. Kunte has home and general administration, Srinivas information technology and housing, and Saunik has finance and public works. More than 10 bureaucrats are waiting for a prolonged period. Additional chief secretary Rajeev Jalota is without an assignment since January 7, former Jalgaon collector Avinash Dhakne, former Thane municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal, former principal secretary to CM, Bhushan Gagrani, former additional municipal commissioner A L Jarad, former NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal, principal secretary Shyam Tagde and former Mira-Bhayander municipal commissioner Chandrakant Dange are awaiting new assignments. More than 15 bureaucrats, who have completed their two-year tenure, are also awaiting transfers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-bureaucrats-shifted-in-state-as-10-still-await-fresh-postings/articleshow/77026863.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab women’s panel to hear cases online||CHANDIGARH: In view of the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab State Commission for Women has decided to hear the pending cases through e-Court starting July 23. Manisha Gulati, chairperson of the panel, said given the increasing number of complaints being filed by women with the commission and their pendency, the commission has decided to start hearings from July 23 through e-Court, which would be set up through Zoom app. The chairperson made it clear that at present, no court is being set up at the women’s commission for private hearings. During the online hearing of cases, the DCP, ACP, SP or DSP (crime against women) of the districts concerned would remain present through the digital platform, so that the decision taken by the commission could be implemented, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-womens-panel-to-hear-cases-online/articleshow/77027305.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nashik||Three blood banks get nod for plasma retrieval||NASHIK: Three blood banks from Nashik district and one from Jalgaon district have received permission to retrieve and store the plasma of patients, who have recovered from Covid-19. The plasma, which is the liquid component of the blood, contains antibodies. The plasma of a patient, who has fully recovered from Covid-19, is used for the treatment of other patients. Recovered Covid-19 patients are being encouraged to donate their plasma. The blood banks have been given permission for plasmapheresis, which is the process through which only plasma is removed from the blood. It uses a machine through which the blood drawn from the body of the donor is processed to segregate the plasma and reflows the processed blood into the donor. “The permission has been given to three blood banks in the district and one in Jalgaon district, while the applications of one bank each in Dhule district and Ahmednagar district is being processed,” Dushyant Bhamre, joint commissioner food and drug administration Nashik, said. The process for giving permission for plasmapheresis, includes presenting the papers of these institutions to the food and drugs department, New Delhi. Dr N K Tated of Nandkishor Education Society’s Arpan Blood Bank, which is one of the three blood banks in the district to have received the permission, said they had started conducting tests of the donors to see if they can donate plasma. “The tests are compulsory and have to be conducted before the process. It takes two to three days to be completed, after which, plasma is actually drawn from the body of the donor,” he said. He added that they have to test if the patient has been declared ‘cured’ at least 28 days before and is again tested negative for the infection. Secondly, the presence of antibodies in the blood sample of the donor is checked. “If the conditions are fulfilled, the donor is asked to go through the process of plasmapheresis, through which 500 ml of plasma can be retrieved,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/three-blood-banks-get-nod-for-plasma-retrieval/articleshow/77026705.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB: Ex-minister approved dubious deals at home||HYDERABAD: The probe into Employees State Insurance Corporation fraud has revealed that former labour minister K Atchannaidu conducted crucial meetings at home and got minutes drafted to approve companies against the rules. The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) has booked two cases in the ESI scam - one regarding irregularities in hiring companies for services and another regarding the purchases. So far, ACB has arrested 13 accused in both cases. Atchannaidu and ESI director CK Ramesh Kumar were arrested in the services case and around 11 others are arrested in the other case. Sources in ACB said that they are going through voluminous records. In a counter filed in the AP High Court against the bail application of Atchannaidu, the investigating agency said that the minister forced officials to favour companies which he liked. “The minister conducted a meeting on Chandranna Bheema in his house instead of the office and the minutes mentioned about hiring the services of the company,” said an ACB official. In the ACB remand report, it was alleged that in the two cases around 19 persons, including the former minister, former ESI directors, five joint directors, four company directors, were involved in the scam. ACB alleged irregularities in the purchase of drugs, furniture, surgical equipment. So far around Rs 150 crore misappropriation has been found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-ex-min-approved-dubious-deals-at-home/articleshow/77025739.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 18, 2020||Nashik||21 Nashik rural policemen to donate plasma||NASHIK: A number personnel from Nashik rural police, who have recovered from Covid-19, have agreed to donate their blood plasma for the state government’s ambitious Mission Platina project. Most of these policemen had contracted the infection while being posted in Malegaon last month. Confirming the development, superintendent of police (Nashik rural) Arti Singh told TOI that these personnel have come forward to donate their plasma. All these 21 policemen were sympomatic. “We are in the process of the names of sharing the details of these 21 policemen with the local health authorities,” she said. Under the Project Platina, the state medical education and drugs department plans to give convalescent plasma therapy to serious Covid-19 patients. Singh added that they are also approaching other policemen, who were symptomatic, and have recovered from the disease. So far, 54 recovered patients of Dhule and two from Jalgaon have come forward to donate plasma at the two government medical college hospitals in these two districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/21-nashik-rural-policemen-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77026712.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Amritsar||Plan for job fairs in September, Punjab frames safety rules||CHANDIGARH: After being forced to halt job placement fairs under its flagship scheme Ghar Ghar Rozgar due to Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab government intends to resume monthly fairs, subject to conditions. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, placement camps were a regular feature of Captain Amarinder Singh-led government. In 2019-20, the government organised 790 camps, helping 1,43,586 persons find jobs. This year, the government set a target of organising 800 camps to help 1,50,000 people get employment. The government is highly unlikely to achieve the target due to coronavirus. It intends to organise job fairs simultaneously covering all districts in September. To discuss and frame guidelines for holding physical job fairs in compliance with protocols of health department, Punjab secretary, employment generation and training, Rahul Tiwari on July 16 held a meeting with additional deputy commissioners, who head district bureaus of employment and enterprises (DBEEs) in their respective districts. Depending on vacancies on offer and expected footfall, each district administration will select a venue where Covid-19 protocols could be followed. The number of people who could be present at the venue at one time is to be ascertained by the district administration. But, in case the situation worsens and conducting fairs becomes unfeasible, fairs will be conducted virtually. All DBEEs have been asked to ascertain the number of job seekers whom the employer could interview in a time slot. It has been recommended to conduct interviews in two slots per day, from 10am to 12.30pm and then from 2.30pm to 5pm, with intervening two hours to be used for disinfecting the venue. On the day of interview, candidates are to be screened at the entry and they will be allowed to enter the venue only 10 minutes before their slotted time. Number of people inside the venue cannot more than the number ascertained by the district administration. Entry and exit numbers should be checked and special teams have to be stationed at the venue to enforce guidelines. Medical team will be deployed thermal scanning and checking. Tiwari said SOPs have been framed keeping in mind prevailing circumstances. In case of virtual job fairs, chat and videoconference tools will be used to organise interactions between job-seekers and employers. DBEEs will facilitate online interviews on their premises if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/plan-for-job-fairs-in-sept-pb-frames-safety-rules/articleshow/77033892.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 18, 2020||Kochi||Leaked letters: HC orders probe||Kochi: The high court has ordered a probe on how correspondence between central and state governments got leaked and reached the hands of a petitioner. One of the leaked letters had the signature of a Union minister. A division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly ordered the state government to conduct an inquiry after considering a petition by Shibu Majeed, coordinator of an organization named Warriors for Anti Corruption and Social Justice, based at Thiruvananthapuram. He had questioned an alleged directive to renew driving licences that expired up to five years earlier. A copy of a letter written on December 31 by the Union transport minister to his counterpart in Kerala was produced as part of the petition. It contained signatures and file notings of both the ministers. The other letters produced were one from principal secretary to government, transport (B) department to the transport commissioner and another by the transport commissioner to all deputy transport commissioners, RTOs, and joint RTOs. The petitioner had sought a court order to quash the directive issued by the transport commissioner in the letter to his junior officers. When the court asked how the petitioner accessed the letters, it was told that the transport commissioner’s letter was provided by a motor vehicle inspector named Harikumar and the other letters are available on departmental websites and social media. Stating that it was not satisfied with the explanation and the petitioner was not entitled to get any reliefs sought for, the court said in the judgment that an enquiry on how the petitioner got the letters should be conducted by the secretary of the transport department at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/leaked-letters-hc-orders-probe/articleshow/77025754.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Bhopal||Humid weather sticks around despite showers||BHOPAL: There were showers in parts of the city on Friday, but not strong enough to give respite from hot and humid weather in the day. The temperature in Bhopal remained above the normal mark in the daytime. Met officials said monsoon trough is passing from Guna and Satna. Besides, there is cycer over south Rajasthan and a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat. All these systems would soon enhance the rainfall activity in state and bring down the temperature. Day temperature in Bhopal on Friday was 33.1 degrees Celsius, three degrees more than normal mark and night temperature in city was recorded at 24.2 degrees Celsius, which was at the normal mark. Wind direction in city was south easterly and average wind speed was 20 kilometres per hour. Places that recorded showers between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm in the day are Ratlam (2mm), Bhopal (1.6 mm), Indore (4.2 mm), Hoshangabad (1.0 mm), Pachmarhi (0.4 mm) and Umaria (2 mm). In the forecast for Bhopal on Saturday, Met officials said there would be cloudy sky with possibility of thunder and showers in parts of the city. Day and night temperature would be at 33 degrees and 24 degrees Celsius, respectively, while average wind speed will be 16 kilometres per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/humid-weather-sticks-around-despite-showers/articleshow/77025738.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two held for illegal sale of Covid drugs||HYDERABAD: Task Force sleuths raided two pharmacy stores in Chilkalguda and Ramgopalpet on Friday and arrested two persons for illegally procuring and selling medicines used to treat Covid-19 patients. The accused, Sunil Agarwal, proprietor of Sonu Medical at Padmarao Nagar in Chilkalguda and Sonu Agarwal, proprietor of Sonu Pharmacy near Paradise hotel in Ramgopalpet are brothers. According to DCP (Task Force) P Radhakishan Rao, the accused were selling Remdesivir, Favipiravir and pulse oximeters at exorbitant rates. Police seized four vials of Remdesivir 100 mg injections (COVIFOR), 30 strips of Favipiravir (Fabiflu 200 Mg) tablets and 135 pulse oximeters worth Rs 5.6 lakh from the possession of the accused. “The accused were selling Remdesivir, priced at Rs 5,400, for Rs 35,000. Similarly, Fabiflu tablet strip, which is sold for Rs 3,500 , was sold for Rs 5,000 while pulse oximeters, which cost Rs 940 were being sold for Rs 2,000,”the DCP said. The accused were illegally procuring the medicines from K Venkata Subramanyam and Ankam Srikanth, who are absconding, for commission and were selling them to customers at a high price without prescription. The accused were handed over to the police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-illegal-sale-of-covid-drugs/articleshow/77026717.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab to give online job counselling||CHANDIGARH: Punjab is going to take steps to provide counselling and jobs to the state youth in the private sector across the globe. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has directed the department of employment generation, skill development and training to start providing online counselling to the job aspirants and also online placement opportunities. An official spokesperson of the government said to begin with, the department was organising a webinar on ‘Emerging Dynamics in Employment of Youth post Covid-19 - Challenges and Opportunities’. It would create awareness regarding changed scenario of employment, emerging sectors and employment opportunities, so that job seekers could prepare themselves to meet the requirements of the industry and other establishments and get employed. The spokesperson said the webinar would be held at 3pm on July 24. About 25,000 students/ professionals with backgrounds like engineering, management, medicine, pharmacy and humanities are expected to attend the webinar. The spokesperson said the webinar would be addressed by the eminent panellists from renowned companies like Microsoft, Walmart, Pepsico, Dell, and Amazon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/state-to-give-online-job-counselling/articleshow/77033872.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to give online job counselling||CHANDIGARH: Punjab is going to take steps to provide counselling and jobs to the state youth in the private sector across the globe. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has directed the department of employment generation, skill development and training to start providing online counselling to the job aspirants and also online placement opportunities. An official spokesperson of the government said to begin with, the department was organising a webinar on ‘Emerging Dynamics in Employment of Youth post Covid-19 - Challenges and Opportunities’. It would create awareness regarding changed scenario of employment, emerging sectors and employment opportunities, so that job seekers could prepare themselves to meet the requirements of the industry and other establishments and get employed. The spokesperson said the webinar would be held at 3pm on July 24. About 25,000 students/ professionals with backgrounds like engineering, management, medicine, pharmacy and humanities are expected to attend the webinar. The spokesperson said the webinar would be addressed by the eminent panellists from renowned companies like Microsoft, Walmart, Pepsico, Dell, and Amazon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-to-give-online-job-counselling/articleshow/77027315.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab to give online job counselling||CHANDIGARH: Punjab is going to take steps to provide counselling and jobs to the state youth in the private sector across the globe. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has directed the department of employment generation, skill development and training to start providing online counselling to the job aspirants and also online placement opportunities. An official spokesperson of the government said to begin with, the department was organising a webinar on ‘Emerging Dynamics in Employment of Youth post Covid-19 - Challenges and Opportunities’. It would create awareness regarding changed scenario of employment, emerging sectors and employment opportunities, so that job seekers could prepare themselves to meet the requirements of the industry and other establishments and get employed. The spokesperson said the webinar would be held at 3pm on July 24. About 25,000 students/ professionals with backgrounds like engineering, management, medicine, pharmacy and humanities are expected to attend the webinar. The spokesperson said the webinar would be addressed by the eminent panellists from renowned companies like Microsoft, Walmart, Pepsico, Dell, and Amazon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/state-to-give-online-job-counselling/articleshow/77033873.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Plan for job fairs in September, Punjab frames safety rules||CHANDIGARH: After being forced to halt job placement fairs under its flagship scheme Ghar Ghar Rozgar due to Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab government intends to resume monthly fairs, subject to conditions. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, placement camps were a regular feature of Captain Amarinder Singh-led government. In 2019-20, the government organised 790 camps, helping 1,43,586 persons find jobs. This year, the government set a target of organising 800 camps to help 1,50,000 people get employment. The government is highly unlikely to achieve the target due to coronavirus. It intends to organise job fairs simultaneously covering all districts in September. To discuss and frame guidelines for holding physical job fairs in compliance with protocols of health department, Punjab secretary, employment generation and training, Rahul Tiwari on July 16 held a meeting with additional deputy commissioners, who head district bureaus of employment and enterprises (DBEEs) in their respective districts. Depending on vacancies on offer and expected footfall, each district administration will select a venue where Covid-19 protocols could be followed. The number of people who could be present at the venue at one time is to be ascertained by the district administration. But, in case the situation worsens and conducting fairs becomes unfeasible, fairs will be conducted virtually. All DBEEs have been asked to ascertain the number of job seekers whom the employer could interview in a time slot. It has been recommended to conduct interviews in two slots per day, from 10am to 12.30pm and then from 2.30pm to 5pm, with intervening two hours to be used for disinfecting the venue. On the day of interview, candidates are to be screened at the entry and they will be allowed to enter the venue only 10 minutes before their slotted time. Number of people inside the venue cannot more than the number ascertained by the district administration. Entry and exit numbers should be checked and special teams have to be stationed at the venue to enforce guidelines. Medical team will be deployed thermal scanning and checking. Tiwari said SOPs have been framed keeping in mind prevailing circumstances. In case of virtual job fairs, chat and videoconference tools will be used to organise interactions between job-seekers and employers. DBEEs will facilitate online interviews on their premises if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plan-for-job-fairs-in-sept-pb-frames-safety-rules/articleshow/77027310.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Plan for job fairs in September, Punjab frames safety rules||CHANDIGARH: After being forced to halt job placement fairs under its flagship scheme Ghar Ghar Rozgar due to Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab government intends to resume monthly fairs, subject to conditions. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, placement camps were a regular feature of Captain Amarinder Singh-led government. In 2019-20, the government organised 790 camps, helping 1,43,586 persons find jobs. This year, the government set a target of organising 800 camps to help 1,50,000 people get employment. The government is highly unlikely to achieve the target due to coronavirus. It intends to organise job fairs simultaneously covering all districts in September. To discuss and frame guidelines for holding physical job fairs in compliance with protocols of health department, Punjab secretary, employment generation and training, Rahul Tiwari on July 16 held a meeting with additional deputy commissioners, who head district bureaus of employment and enterprises (DBEEs) in their respective districts. Depending on vacancies on offer and expected footfall, each district administration will select a venue where Covid-19 protocols could be followed. The number of people who could be present at the venue at one time is to be ascertained by the district administration. But, in case the situation worsens and conducting fairs becomes unfeasible, fairs will be conducted virtually. All DBEEs have been asked to ascertain the number of job seekers whom the employer could interview in a time slot. It has been recommended to conduct interviews in two slots per day, from 10am to 12.30pm and then from 2.30pm to 5pm, with intervening two hours to be used for disinfecting the venue. On the day of interview, candidates are to be screened at the entry and they will be allowed to enter the venue only 10 minutes before their slotted time. Number of people inside the venue cannot more than the number ascertained by the district administration. Entry and exit numbers should be checked and special teams have to be stationed at the venue to enforce guidelines. Medical team will be deployed thermal scanning and checking. Tiwari said SOPs have been framed keeping in mind prevailing circumstances. In case of virtual job fairs, chat and videoconference tools will be used to organise interactions between job-seekers and employers. DBEEs will facilitate online interviews on their premises if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/plan-for-job-fairs-in-sept-pb-frames-safety-rules/articleshow/77033891.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 18, 2020||Vadodara||SPU professor elected to UK’s Royal Society of Chemistry||VADODARA/ ANAND: A professor working with the Department of Chemistry of Vallabh Vidyanagar-based Sardar Patel University (SPU) has been elected uncontested at the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC), London. Professor H M Patel is an active member of RSC, UK and the American Chemical Society, USA since the last five years. He had filed nomination to get elected as member of RSC’s organic division council in January this year. He was invited by the RSC to join its online annual general meeting (AGM) recently in which more than 400 members from across the globe participated. “It is a matter of immense pride that I have become the first Indian to get elected as member of the council without using the electoral ballot,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/spu-prof-elected-to-uks-royal-society-of-chemistry/articleshow/77026119.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Shimla||Amid pandemic, power disconnection shock for bill defaulters in Himachal||MANALI: The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) has started serving disconnection notices to consumers who have not paid bills during the Covid-19 lockdown period. In its notices to consumers, the board is making an emotional appeal, saying it did not levy late payment charges but was reeling under severe financial crisis due to non-payment of bills by thousands of consumers. “As HPSEBL is reeling under serious financial crunch, we are constrained to issue a notice to deposit outstanding amount within 15 days, failing which the supply of electricity shall be disconnected without any further notice,” it says. An HPSEBL official said notices are being served under Section 52 (1) of the Electricity Act, 2003 and clause No. 7.1.2 of Himachal Pradesh Electricity Supply Code, 2009. “HPSEBL had extended the bill payment date time to time due to lockdown and last extension was till May 30. The board facilitated the conummers to pay bills by June 30 without facing disconnection. Many people did not pay the bills despite relaxation. As HPSEBL is facing financial crisis, we are now issuing the 15-day notice to defaulter consumers,” he said. A large number of domestic consumers have not paid the bills since lockdown was enforced. Thousands of shops, restaurants, hotels and other commercial units in Himachal have been lying closed for over three months. Owners of many commercial units have shifted to their native places and many have left permanently. Many tenants who left for their native places have not returned as their businesses are still closed. They have also not paid the electricity bills and are being served notices. The hoteliers have been demanding that they be charged domestic rates for the time the hotels have been closed. Many have received huge bill amounts and are requesting discount or payment in installments. Himachal government has condoned demand charges on electricity of hotels for six months but not all hotels are benefitting from it. On June 25, the government had announced to cut subsidy on consumption of more than 125 units of electricity per month, which is another blow to lakhs of consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/amid-pandemic-power-disconnection-shock-for-bill-defaulters-in-himachal/articleshow/77027320.cms||Suresh Sharma
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Home ministry, disaster management authority added as parties to PIL on exams||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday directed ministry of home affairs (MHA) and state disaster management authority (SDMA) to be added as parties to a PIL that challenged a state government decision not to hold exams. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai, hearing the PIL by Dhananjay Kulkarni, clubbed matters for and against exams of professional and non-professional courses, including medicine, dental and law. It posted hearing on July 31, after which further pleas will not be entertained. “Let the uncertainty get over at the earliest. Let it be heard at one stroke,” the CJ remarked. To a bench query, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, with assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan, iterated the government stand. “Government has decided not to allow a single exam. In case of professional courses, it is for professional bodies to take a call,” he said. Advocate Rajshekhar Govilkar, for Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) said final PG medical exams will be held from August 25 and exams for undergraduates will not be held this month. “PG exams are a must. We will take all care. Presently, Bangalore is conducting the exams. In some states, exams are being held during the pandemic,” he said. While an advocate said students have to travel to give practical exams, Govilkar countered, “It is unthinkable academically and impossible to judge students merely on theory. Practical exams have importance and due weightage.” Advocate Uday Warunjikar, for Kulkarni, said after the PIL was filed, University Grants Commission on July 6 released more guidelines and there was a press release by MHA which also permits exams to be held. He said SDMA on July 13 decided not to permit exams. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh said UGC’s guidelines were based on MHA’s guidelines. Therefore, the judges directed MHA and SDMA to be made parties to get their response. The AG said all exam-related matters across the state would be brought before the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/home-ministry-disaster-mgmt-authority-added-as-parties-to-pil-on-exams/articleshow/77026865.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, e-pay traffic violation challans on the spot in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Finally, the facility of e-payment of traffic violation challans on the spot was launched in the city on Friday. UT administrator V P Singh Badnore initiated the e-challaning system at Punjab Raj Bhawan. Officials said e-challan is the project of the ministry of road transport and highways developed by NIC that provides a number of user-friendly features, covering all the functions of traffic enforcement system like issuance of traffic e-challan and on-the-spot cashless payment.  Now, traffic violators need not stand for hours in queues at Traffic Lines in Sector 29. With the project, which was initiated in 2011, traffic violators can pay fines through debit/credit cards for compoundable offences like riding without helmet, triple riding, wrong parking, not wearing a seat belt and zebra line violations in the first phase. In the second phase, payments through UPI would be accepted, cops said. Traffic police will no longer accept fines in cash at Traffic Lines or on the spot, with people required to pay through debits and credit cards only.  For drunken driving, red light jumping, driving while using a mobile phone and speeding, there will be no option of on-the-spot payment as cops will seize the driving licence and send it to the court. All traffic cops will have e-challan devices that will have in-built facilities for making online payment with cards. These devices will also have a history of challans pertaining to the offending vehicles with their payment status. Axis Bank has provided 200 e-challaning devices. The bank will also provide on-the-spot field support to traffic police for the project. These hand-held devices are connected to the Chandigarh Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) and traffic police server. Information of previous offences will also be mentioned on the traffic ticket.  On the occasion, Chandigarh Traffic Police sent bulk SMS to over 60,000 motorists informing them about online payment gateway for payment against their pending postal challans.  The administrator also inaugurated the website of Chandigarh Traffic Police https://chandigarhtrafficpolice. This website will give information about services like payment of postal challans and driving history record, among others. The 10th edition of annual report on “Road Safety in Chandigarh-2019’’ was also released by the administrator. Manoj Kumar Parida, advisor to the administrator, UT, Sanjay Baniwal, DGP, Shashank Anand, DIG, traffic and security, DK Das, executive VP and head of government business group, Axis Bank, were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-e-pay-traffic-violation-challans-on-the-spot/articleshow/77026736.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||In high demand: Specialised tutors for kids learning from home||CHENNAI: Tutors teaching maths, science and other subjects are passé. Parents now look for those specialising in algebra, human anatomy, optical and mechanics among others for their children. “Though my son is good in mathematics, algebra is an area where he struggles to cope,” said Saad Fagun, who recently hired an algebra specialist. “I want my son to do well in his Class X boards. Since he’ll also have to learn algebra for the next three years, as he wants to take up science stream, this is the best way.” Many now want their children taught specific topics. While a few go for tutors based on their interest and need to excel in certain concepts, others do it mainly to help them score better. “In the last three weeks I might have received about 20 calls from parents,” said T Kedarnath, a former teacher who only helps students with algebra and trigonometry. Kedarnath takes 10 classes a week, for four students, for 45 minutes, on a one-on-one basis online. “I’m currently not taking more students since I need to prepare the lessons and find more creative ways to help children learn these concepts better.” Chiranjeev Reddy of KVR Educational Services, said he had been getting several requests to teach geometry to higher secondary students. “Students largely struggle in this and need individual attention. So I teach them that.” Many of these private educators, who are paid ₹15,000 and above a month and often hired by affluent families, make use of digital platforms like Google classroom, Class Dojo and Moodle where they get to create a personalised learning environment. Obuli Chandran, co-founder of Mango Education, teaches optics and mechanics and data analysis like mean, median, and mode, often linking them to astronomy. “Parents especially are able to see a difference in the way their children approach the subjects, and they are happy.” While many of the tutors are trained teachers, parents are also looking at experts from different fields who have a strong base in concepts like ecology and wildlife. To help children understand the role of plants and animals, a part of environmental science, a few parents rope in wildlife education specialists. “Wildlife is not only about tigers and lions, but it’s also about ants, bugs, and all that is present in your backyard,” said Payal Molur, a wildlife educationist. Cataloguing contents in textbooks, she plans her curriculum. Her assignments include calculating motion of bees hovering around flowers, studying spiders and time taken to build a web. “This has also made them sensitive to the ecosystem and has improved their mathematical skills.” George Samuel, a parent of a class eight student, said that he too has hired a tutor to teach his son about rivers and ecology. “Though this is a part of his curriculum, my son is very interested in this topic. It is also a way to explore education in a sense that is not confined to classrooms, textbooks, and responding to our children’s interests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-high-demand-specialised-tutors-for-kids-learning-from-home/articleshow/77026737.cms||Aditi R
July 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Infection spreads thick & fast, 4,425 test positive in just 7 days||BHOPAL: It took 55 days to report the first 4,426 positive cases of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh. Now, in just seven days, 4,425 new positive cases have been reported in the state. It was on March 20 when the first positive case was reported in the state. On May 14, the tally of positive cases in the state was 4,426. Now between July 11 and July 17—a total of 4,425 positive cases have been reported. The duration in which these new 4,425 cases were reported is nearly eight times less than the duration in which the first 4,426 cases were reported in the state. The spread of Covid-19 could be well gauged from the fact that on May 14, it were only 15 districts of MP where new positive cases were reported. Now, on an average, fresh cases are reported daily from 35-45 districts of state. However, on the brighter side, the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested — has remained the same, or rather reduced, though by only a little. Till May 14, a total 89,760 samples were tested in the state and, of those, 4,426 had tested positive, i.e. at least 4.9 people out of every 100 samples tested were found positive. Now with the increase in testing capacity in the state, a whopping 1.06 lakh samples have been tested in just seven days between July 11 and July 17 and, of those samples, 4,425 have tested positive, i.e., 4.1% people out of every 100 tested were found positive. Number of active cases has increased roughly by three times—while there were 2,018 active cases in the state on May 14—there are 5,870 active cases in the state as on July 17. While only 232 people had died in the first 55 days of Covid-19 in the state. 54 people have died in the past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/infection-spreads-thick-fast-4425-test-positive-in-just-7-days/articleshow/77025772.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Is it tough to identify people in CCTV footage, HC asks Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday came down heavily on the state for investigations into the death of a man, who police claimed was lynched by a mob while committing a theft. “You have CCTV footage of the lynching. Is it difficult to identify persons? Some of them could have been identified. As it is, nobody took pain to go through CCTV footage,” said Chief Justice Dipankar Datta on one of two lockdown deaths in Mumbai referred to in an NGO’s report. Along with with Justice Anuja Prabhudessai, the CJ heard a PIL by advocate Firdause Irani on police excesses, including assault faced by him and his family. Irani referred to a discrepancy in a police reply on labourer Sagir Khan’s death. It stated that CCTV footage showed him at Bhendi Bazaar when he had already collapsed in his room. The judges said there had to be sufficient material to establish Khan died of police brutality as the post-mortem report revealed no external injuries. Irani said Raju Devendra’s autopsy showed he sustained 63 injuries. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia said Khan’s death was accidental, while an FIR was filed in Devendra’s death. “Today, he (Irani) is trying to show the deaths were due to police brutality. Time has to be given for investigations,” Kantharia said. Kantharia said the probe was transferred from Juhu police to ACP (Bandra division), who was unable to carry out investigations as the area of the incident was a Covid-19 “hotspot slum area”. The CJ asked why investigations (into Devendra’s death) were pending for so long when they commenced on March 31. Telling police to “look into CCTV footage”, the judges directed a report be submitted on the status of investigations. DCP (operations) Shahaji Umap said no police officer had committed acts of brutality against citizens during lockdown. “If any officer is found committing such acts, he will be dealt with in accordance with law and departmental action will be initiated,” he said. Goregaon SI Harish Goswami’s reply said, “Police officers were required to use force on him (Irani) as he was adamant and was not ready to see reason why police officers had asked him to go inside his house and not to stand outside in a group of five without wearing a mask.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/is-it-tough-to-identify-people-in-cctv-footage-hc-asks-state/articleshow/77026866.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly monsoon session: Preparations on||CHANDIGARH: The monsoon session of the Haryana assembly is all set to be convened in the Vidhan Sabha premises, with strict adherence of the norms of social distancing. With this, the possibility of conducting online session has been completely ruled out. The dates for the session will be finalised by CM Manohar Lal Khattarr and his ministerial colleagues during the next meeting of cabinet. Meanwhile, the staff of Haryana assembly secretariat has started the preparations and all MLAs have been told to send their questions and proposals for the motions to be moved. Haryana assembly has sitting arrangements of 90 MLAs in the house. Now, as per proposed plans, 45 MLAs will be accommodate in the main hall and rest will be given seats in the visitors’ gallery, which has the sitting capacity of 100 persons. “We have sufficient space in assembly premises to conduct the session. Dates will be finalised by cabinet and the duration and proceedings will be finalised by business advisory committee. While the questions to be taken up in the session shall be finalised through the draw of lot,” said assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta. Most of the MLAs had rejected the idea of an online assembly session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-assembly-monsoon-session-preparations-on/articleshow/77027325.cms||Manvir Saini
July 18, 2020||India||21% increase in sown area of kharif crops||NEW DELHI: In an encouraging sign for the farm sector and the rural economy, agriculture operations across the country is progressing smoothly with kharif (summer) crops recording 21% higher sown area as on Friday compared to the corresponding period last year. Acreage of all major kharif crops such as paddy, pulses, coarse cereals and oilseeds has crossed last year’s corresponding figures despite lockdown-linked disruptions during the initial week. Underlining positive farm indicators while releasing the latest sown area data, the agriculture ministry said on Friday, “There is no impact of Covid-19 on progress of area coverage under kharif crops as on date.” Backed by several exemptions from lockdown restrictions in the agriculture sector, farmers across the country had prepared well for the kharif sowing period. Sale of seeds, fertilisers and farm equipment was not disrupted much during the pre-monsoon phase when farmers were getting ready for the peak sowing season (June-August). Good monsoon rains in most parts of the country witnessed steady sowing operations right from early June. It resulted in kharif acreage of 692 lakh hectares as on Friday compared to 571 lakh hectares during the corresponding period last year. Though nearly 40% of area is still to be covered, the pace of sowing at this juncture indicates that kharif acreage this year will cross the normal sown area of 1,063 lakh hectares much before the sowing season ends. Better live water storage position in major reservoirs of the country also Indicates the prospect of better winter crop situation, leading the country to another year of record foodgrain output in the 2020-21 crop year when other economic activities are affected by the Covid-linked lockdown. “Good rains in summer means better soil moisture condition in winter for Rabi (winter) crops. The winter sown crops are also benefited by adequate irrigation when the water storage position in reservoirs is good. Better Kharif and Rabi seasons will definitely help India achieve its new record output of foodgrain in 2020-21,” said an official who keeps track on sowing operations and farm indicators. Banking on performance of the farm sector, even the government’s technology think tank – Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC) – in its White Paper on impact of Covid-19 on India economy had last week flagged that the agriculture sector would help India in covering losses posed by other sectors during the pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/21-increase-in-sown-area-of-kharif-crops/articleshow/77028331.cms||Vishwa Mohan
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Fire at Sec 46 general store, doused after 6-hr operation||Chandigarh: A major fire broke out at Haryana General Store, Sector 46, on Friday morning. Over half-a-dozen fire tenders, including two water boozers, took six hours to douse the flames. The fire was accumulated in the basement of the store. Since there was no entry and exit from the outside to there, after dousing the flames at the ground floor, the firemen broke the floor to enter the basement. The exact cause of fire could not be ascertained, but sources in the fire and emergency service wing of the MC revealed short-circuit could be a reason. The exact loss has not been calculated so far as the officers concerned are yet to talk to the owner. “We received a call around 8.45am and fire tenders from stations of sectors 32, 38, 17 and Industrial Area Phase-I and Phase-II were rushed to the spot. The vehicles made multiple rounds to douse the flames and over 24 firemen, officers and supporting staff were involved in the exercise. After extinguishing the flames at the ground floor, we felt heat from the basement and when we checked, the basement was under 700 degrees heat. As it was an old building, there was no entry or exit point to it, so we had to cut the ceiling of the basement to put in heavy pipes to douse the flames. Our one vehicle is still there to keep an eye on the building,” said Lal Bahadur Gautam, station fire officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fire-at-sec-46-general-store-doused-after-6-hr-operation/articleshow/77026757.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Bhopal||Bank staff seek new rules for new normal in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Exposed to a large number of people every day in close surroundings in bank branches, bankers have urged the chief minister that an amended “banking working plan” is required to be implemented in the state in view of the coronavirus spread. Bank employees said that it was “very difficult” to control the large number of customers, including those who visit banks as beneficiaries of different government schemes. Many bank branches do not have enough space to have long queues of such customer and thus end up violating social distancing norms. The state unit of All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) urged the chief minister and the State-Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) to “initiate measures for safeguarding bank personnel from coronavirus without compromising the bank services”. Bank employees and officials have urged the government to provide guards or police to maintain social distancing norms. President of the association, Ashish Tiwari, and secretary, Madan Jain, wrote to the chief minister on July 16: “After the experience of the last five months, the crowd of bank customers is required to be organized and this can be done with the help of either private guards or the police personnel. This would help maintain social distancing norms of six feet distance and other guidelines.” The confederation of bank officials also urged the CM to direct the bankers’ committee for mandatory coronavirus testing of all bank employees and officials. The organizations of the bank personnel said that “the commercial banking hours can be reduced from 10.30 pm to 2 pm. The bank offices and branches can have a reduced capacity of 50% officers every day.” The organisation also asked the CM to include bank personnel in the corona warrior category in view of their vulnerability. “They should also be given Rs 50 lakh insurance cover,” it said. The organization also wants the rural bank branches to be opened on alternate days to check the spread of coronavirus. There are over 40,000 bank personnel working across the state since the outbreak of the pandemic. Banks were open even during the lockdown. “This is one service that cannot and should not stop functioning, but they feel vulnerable in view of the spread of Covid-19 and the government need to look at the issues raised by them,” said Virendra Sharma, coordinator of United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/amend-banking-ops-in-view-of-covid-19-govt-urged/articleshow/77025795.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Soon, people in Rajasthan to get free access to research papers||JAIPUR: To make scientific research articles free and accessible to the public, the department of science and technology along with National Law University, Delhi, has framed a policy ‘Open Science and Open Innovation Policy’. Under the policy, if a person from Rajasthan government-run universities publishes an article or research paper in any journal, then he/she has to make it available for the public. This has been globally accepted by most of the Ivy League universities to publish the research articles in open platform that would help the future researchers and also to know about the standard of the published article. Arul George Scaria, associate professor at NLU, Delhi who headed the entire policy framework said that this is will be a revolutionary step. “Rajasthan will be the first state to implement it in the country. There is a need of such policy so that the person with the help of money from public institutions should be made responsible to publish the article that would be helpful for the future generation of researchers. Moreover, this will also help to curb fraud that is going on in the name of research by a few academicians.” Calling it a welcoming step, professor Gyan Singh Shekhawat from Jay Narayan Vyas University, said that it costs people thousands of dollars to read an article in reputed journals. “There are journals that would cost 1,000 to 1,500 dollars per article. Universities in Rajasthan do not subscribe to the journals, so we have to call up friends in other state varsities to get access research article. I think this will leave a positive impact,” said Shekhawat. Secretary of department of science and technology Mugdha Sinha said that they have completed the policy framework and now waiting to complete the administrative work for its implementation. “If the policy is implemented, then it would help common people to get access to these prestigious articles who are at present just read by scientists. This policy will outreach benefits of science by making it open to people,” said Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/soon-people-in-raj-to-get-free-access-to-research-papers/articleshow/77026759.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||ITBP, CRPF jawans among 27 +ve in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans have tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula as the district witnessed the highest single-day spike of 27 cases on Friday, said Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur. Apart from them, 12 family members of two employees of the directorate of medical education and research (DGMER), Panchkula, have also tested positive, she said. She added that six positive cases came from Maheshpur village and seven from Ashiana Complex, Abhaypur. Both the colonies are likely to be sealed by the district administration. Dr Kaur said, “The surge in cases is primarily due to testing of the family members and contacts of the positive patients. Twelve family members of two positive employees of DGMER tested positive and 11 jawans of ITBP and CRPF, who had returned to Panchkula from other states, have also contracted the virus. The other cases are from various places across the district.” The patients include a 42-year-old woman of MDC-5, two men and two women from Marranwala, a 15-year-old girl and a 41-year-old woman from Sector 26, one case each was reported from sectors 25, 15, 2, and 4, two men from DGMER, a 28-year-old man from Chandimandir, a man and a woman from ITBP, a 22-year-old woman from Barwala, three men and two women from Maheshpur, two from Kalka, a 21-year-old woman from Nadda Sahib, and a 29-year-old woman of Pinjore. She said the district so far has recorded 320 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/itbp-crpf-jawans-among-27-to-test-ve-in-panchkula/articleshow/77026749.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||20 test positive, 16 recover in Mohali||MOHALI: As many as 20 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Mohali on Friday. Of them, 14 are women. Meanwhile, Kharar civil hospital and two private banks have been sealed after their employees tested positive. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said a 52-year-old woman working as a staffer at Kharar civil hospital has contracted the virus. Besides, a 25-year-old woman working as a cashier with a private bank in Derabassi and a 43-year-old man working as a manager in a public sector bank at Zirakpur have tested positive. Both the banks have been sealed, the DC added.  Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the other positive patients include a 18-year-old woman of Phase 3, a 28-year-old woman of Banur, a woman, 54, of Sector 71, a 28-year-old woman of Phase 1, a 29-year-old man of Aerocity, a 36-year-old woman of Kharar, a 64-year-old man of Baltana, a 23-year-old woman of Lalru, two women (aged 75 and 36) of Kharar, a 24-year-old man of Phase 5, a 65-year-old woman of Zirakpur, a 16-year-old man of Kharar, two women aged 33 and 37 of Sector 80, a 61-year-old man of Baltana and a 37-year-old woman of Mohali. Besides, 16 patients have been cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/20-test-positive-16-recover-in-mohali/articleshow/77026752.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Probe ‘EC hired BJP-linked co’ claim: Cong||Mumbai: The Congress has demanded a detailed inquiry by the Election Commission of India into allegations that the chief electoral officer of the state hired a firm owned by a BJP national office-bearer for its social media promotions in the run-up to the assembly election last year, reports Prafulla Marpakwar. The polls were conducted under the supervision of Baldev Harpal Singh, an IAS officer of the 1989 batch. Former CM Prithviraj Chavan asked the CEC for a high-level probe on Friday. He wrote to the chief election commissioner on the matter.“The ECI must institute a high-level probe into the manner in which the work was allotted to the firm owned by a BJP IT cell leader by the CEO and take stern action against all erring officials of the election branch,” former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said on Friday. Chavan wrote to the chief election commissioner on the matter. Singh responded to the controversy with a statement: “It is misleading and incorrect to suggest that the office of chief electoral officer has issued any advertisement through any agency on political considerations. As per standard practice, electoral awareness campaign is launched through the information and public relations department (DGIPR), Government of Maharashtra. They, in turn follow a laid down procedure for selecting an appropriate agency for public awareness and not by CEO Office.” The controversy erupted on Thursday, after a former journalist, Saket Gokhale, tweeted about the matter. The tweet prompted the EC to issue a response, in which it said it had sought a reply from the state chief electoral officer. In his statement, Singh said: “In as for the specific imputation made in the tweet of Saket Gokhale, an interim reply of facts has been sent to Election Commission of India. Meanwhile, some other representations on the matter have been received from some public representatives, which are also being addressed and a detailed response in this regard shall be sent to the commission soon.” Chavan raised three questions, asking what was the process of selecting the social media agency by the CEO, whether the process was transparent, and if there was political pressure on the CEO to award the contract to the firm owned by the BJP IT cell leader. “The CEO ran an advertisement campaign on Facebook. In these advertisements, the firm’s address was mentioned and not of the CEO. On inquiry, it was found the address of the company belonged to an advertising agency and was appointed by the erstwhile BJP government and the same address was used by another agency, Social Central,’’ Chavan said. Chavan said all these agencies belonged to and worked for the BJP. Social Central is owned by Devang Dave, an office-bearer of the BJP, national convener of the BJP IT cell and the social media cell of the Bhartiya Janata Yuwa Morcha. A DGIPR official said that due process of law was followed while granting the Rs 80 lakh social media campaign during the 2019 assembly election. Sources said the chief electoral officer of the state in his interim report to the EC denied any connection between the CEO’s office and Dave, or that any work was awarded to his agency, Social Central Media Solutions, by either the CEO’s office or the DGIPR. It was clarified that Signpost India Pvt Ltd was appointed by the DGIPR, which selects agencies for all types of advertisements and engages them for government departments, on the CEO office’s request after following due process. CEO office had approached DGIPR for engaging suitable agency for SVEEP campaign for social media, before Lok Sabha election and during Lok Sabha election and state assembly election. Sources said the work handled by Signpost India was limited to SVEEP campaign aimed at spreading voter awareness and the agency had no access to any database maintained by EC. (With inputs from Bharti Jain)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/probe-ec-hired-bjp-linked-co-claim-cong/articleshow/77160596.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||1 week on, garbage collection vehicles resume work in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The garbage collection vehicles went door-to-door for collecting trash in the city, after a week. Due to the strike owing to the clash between the BVG company, contractors for garbage collection, and the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), work was halted. The tussle regarding payment has been going on between the two parties for years. The company claimed that more than Rs 100 crore is due on JMC, while the officials claimed that the company is not working efficiently enough to be paid the bills presented. There have been times in the past when contractors have stopped working in the city due to this, causing severe problems to the public. A JMC official while talking to TOI said, “The strike has ended and work was resumed from Friday afternoon. The vehicles went to almost all the areas of the city and if there are places where they didn’t, from Saturday onwards, the work will be resumed.” Ramesh Sharma from Raja Park said, “JMC needs to fix their issue of the strike. This situation had arisen in the past as well. We had to keep the garbage accumulated in our houses or had to throw it on the roads. For the past one week, the situation has been difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-week-on-garbage-collection-vehicles-resume-work-in-city/articleshow/77026754.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Patanjali can’t use ‘Coronil’ trademark: Madras high court||CHENNAI: Patanjali’s controversial drug ‘Coronil’ which faced flak as it was claimed as a ‘cure for Covid-19’ faced another blow -- this time from the Madras high court which has restrained it from using the trademark ‘Coronil’. Justice C V Karthikeyan passed the interim order valid till July 30 on the plea moved by a Chennai based company – Arudra Engineering Private Limited which has claimed that ‘Coronil’ is a trademark owned by it since 1993. According to the company, which is into manufacturing chemicals and sanitisers to clean heavy machineries and containment units, it registered the marks ‘Coronil-213 SPL’ and ‘Coronil-92B’ in 1993 and has been diligently renewing the trademark since then. “Currently, our right over the trademark is valid till 2027,” the company said. Claiming that its products with the trademark have a global presence, the company claimed that its clients include BHEL and Indian Oil. To substantiate its claim, the petitioner produced sales bills of the products for the past five years. “The mark adopted by Patanjali for its drugs are clearly identical to the marks registered by the company,” the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/patanjali-cant-use-coronil-trademark/articleshow/77026756.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man’s body found in river, probe begins||JAIPUR: The city police is still looking for the accused who allegedly killed a 55-year-old man whose body was found in Shivdaspura police station area on Thursday. According to initial investigation, the man was strangled to death following which his body was dumped in Dravayawati River. The deceased was identified as Chajuram. A case under IPC Section 302 (murder) was registered. Police are checking the CCTV camera footage of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mans-body-found-in-river-probe-begins/articleshow/77026763.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Another Congress MLA joins BJP, ‘horse-trading’, says Kamal Nath||INDORE/BHOPAL: Another Congress MLA, Sumitra Devi Kasdekar, resigned from the party on Friday and joined BJP. Just five days ago, Pradyumna Singh Lodhi had quit Congress and walked into the saffron fold, and was made chairperson of Civil Supplies Corporation, with cabinet minister rank, within hours. With 24 resignations, Congress is now down to 90 in the 230-seat assembly, and the number of bypolls to be held has gone up to 26. Kasdekar, 35, is said to be close to former PCC chief Arun Yadav. A first-time MLA, she had won the Nepanagar seat in a hard-fought battle in 2018, defeating her BJP rival Manju Dadu by 1,264 votes. Manju has welcomed Kasdekar’s decision to join BJP. Nath accused BJP of horse-trading, and said: “They (BJP) are calling MLAs and offering them money and posts. They are making deals in Rajasthan too. Democracy has no meaning this way. Just make a deal and do politics.” Kasdekar said she was feeling suffocated in Congress. “During Congress rule, I used to visit Bhopal to meet the then CM Kamal Nath to talk about the development of my constituency. But Nath had no time to meet MLAs. As a result, development work in the area was stalled,” she said. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan rejected the allegation, and said: “Congress is a sinking ship and is facing a stampede. The senior leaders know the situation, so they are jumping ship.” Senior BJP leaders claim some more Congress MLAs are in touch and could soon switch over. “We will win all seats in the upcoming polls. One Congress MLA (Lodhi) has come, two more will,” minister Prem Singh Patel had told mediapersons in Indore on Thursday. After Kasdekar’s exit, Nath said: “I knew there are some who’ll leave, so they left. It’s not surprising.” CM Chouhan and state BJP chief VD Sharma welcomed Kasdekar into the saffron fold. “Congress is the setting sun. It has been headed by the same family for years. For BJP, development and public welfare are the priorities,” the CM said, adding: “Under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, BJP is carrying on the mantra of development.” Congress alleged that BJP is luring its MLAs through money power. “BJP is trying to convert the country’s politics into a ‘mandi’. Neither democracy nor the public will forgive this,” said Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta. CM Chouhan asked Congress to introspect and said: “When Congress was entangled in infighting, Kamal Nath was challenging Congress workers to hit the streets. In such circumstances, they resigned. After the Congress government came into the minority, we made a claim to make government, what’s wrong with it?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/another-cong-mla-joins-bjp-horse-trading-says-nath/articleshow/77028827.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Blow to CBI in cheating case against Rana Kapoor||MUMBAI: In a blow to CBI in the cheating case against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his daughter Roshini and DHFL promoters, Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, the special CBI court on Friday refused to take cognisance of offences mentioned in the chargesheet under Prevention of Corruption Act as sanction was not obtained to prosecute public servant accused, Rana Kapoor. Kapoor has been regarded as a public servant as he was CMD of Yes Bank as per Banking Regulation Act, 1949. With the court taking note only of Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections relating to cheating and conspiracy, as sanction was not required for those, the case will now be remitted to the magistrate court. The chargesheet was submitted against the accused last month. On Friday, CBI told court it had not initiated proceedings to receive sanction as investigations were pending against Kapoor. The court said this aspect cannot be kept pending indefinitely, and with only sections under IPC remaining, the case was now triable by the magistrate court. The case was remitted to the magistrate court. Special judge S U Wadgaonkar said at this stage the case was triable by the lower court as prima facie offences were made out only under IPC sections relating to cheating and criminal conspiracy to commit criminal breach of trust. On July 10, while initiating proceedings to take cognisance of the chargesheet, the court said it noticed there was no mention of sanction in the document. The court directed the prosecution to submit a status report. The court, however, said, “It is to be noted that when the principal chargesheet has come to be filed against accused and still there is no initiation of proceeding to obtain sanction, it is not appropriate or legal to keep present proceeding lying before court for an indefinite period when there is no assurance by prosecution exactly when it would initiate proceedings for sanction.” The court directed the court registrar to transfer documents relating to the case to the metropolitan magistrate. The pending bail pleas of Wadhawans in the case will also be sent to the magistrate court. CBI, in its probe, said Rana received Rs 600 crore kickbacks from Kapil through his daughters’ company DOIT Urban Ventures. The Rs 600 crore was in lieu of Rs 3,700 crore loan (debenture investment) Yes Bank, then headed by Kapoor, gave to DHFL group. DHFL had defaulted on repayment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/blow-to-cbi-in-cheating-case-against-rana-kapoor/articleshow/77026867.cms||Rebecca Samervel
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||650 samples collected from Ambala Cloth Market||tnnAmbala: District health department collected 650 samples from the Cloth Market on Friday, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. The first case from the market was detected on June 29, when a 60-year-old merchant had tested positive. Dr Singh said, “So far, more than 250 Covid-19 cases have come from the Cloth Market area in Ambala City, including Aggrasain Chowk Market and Old Cloth Market. We are conducting intensive sampling and suspected patients and their family members have been quarantined at facilities and their homes. We came to know that some people were hiding their travel history. The administration will act strictly against them.” The administration has allowed opening of the market for only four days in a week to cut surface transmission. MC teams have been instructed to sanitise the area. There are about 10,000 people employed at this market and many traders and shopkeepers travel to different states for business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/650-samples-collected-from-ambala-cloth-market/articleshow/77026765.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 35-year-old Churu man flies to Hyderabad to donate plasma||JAIPUR: A 35-year-old man from Churu has set an example of humanity beyond religion when he flew to Hyderabad on Friday to donate his plasma to a person suffering from coronavirus. Imran Khokar donated his plasma to Suresh Sharma (name changed) whose condition is critical at present. Suresh’s family, which originally hails from Churu and currently resides in Delhi, was looking for an AB+ blood group person who had recovered from coronavirus for plasma donation. This, however, was found to be difficult and after contacting medical authorities in all big cities, they got a positive news from Churu medical department. Video: A 35-year-old man from Churu has set an example of humanity beyond religion when he flew to Hyderabad on Fri… https://t.co/9HrUdl9cpt— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1595048999000CMHO Churu Ehsaan Gohri contacted a blood group organisation active in the district. “Suresh has been working in Hyderabad for many years and got infected with coronavirus and was in need of urgent plasma donation. I contacted RJ Help Foundation who gave me information about Imran who had recovered from coronavirus recently,” Gohri said. When Imran was told about the situation, he immediately agreed. “I returned from Qatar on May 30 and was found positive and later on negative. Now, I am told that my plasma can save a person’s life, so I agreed to go to Hyderabad. Nothing is above humanity. I even told the doctors that I can bear my own expenses. But Suresh’s family sent the flight tickets and a cab to take me to Jaipur airport,” said Imran with pride. President of RJ Help Foundation Amjad Tuglaq, who is in contact with 12,000 blood donors in the state, said AB+ is not a rare blood group, but a person who had recovered from coronavirus was difficult to find. “Suresh’s family was running pillar to post to find a donor for the last one week. As Imran was under quarantine in Churu district I was able to get hold of his details and contacted him. Without any hesitation, Imran agreed to go to Hyderabad to save a life. Humanity has no religion and the act of Imran proves it,” Tuglaq said. Watch Rajasthan: Churu man flies to Hyderabad to donate plasma||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/35-year-old-churu-man-flies-to-hyderabad-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77027347.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Two health workers among Covid positive in Curchorem||MARGAO: Two health workers, both residents of Curchorem, have tested positive for Covid-19, thus taking the total number of cases under the jurisdiction of the Cacora PHC to seven. While one is attached to the Hospicio hospital, Margao, the other is working at the primary health centre, Quepem. “Both the patients were in quarantine since their swab samples were drawn after the end of their duty period. They have been shifted to a Covid care centre,” an official of the health department said. Eight new cases were detected in Margao on Friday. Some policemen and personnel of the 108 ambulance were subjected to Covid-19 tests after the unknown person whom they helped shift to the Hospicio tested positive post mortem. Meanwhile, sources said that in the containment zone of Moti Dongor, the situation has returned to near normalcy with almost all the persons who had tested positive being discharged and no new positive cases detected. The South Goa district administration has ensured that all the residents of the containment zone are provided with essential items as and when needed. While arrangements were made to transport essential commodities from the nearby fair price shop to the containment zone, 167 persons without ration cards were provided with groceries free of cost. Besides 900 food kits containing 17 essential items were distributed in the area, it was informed. Necessary arrangements have also been made for supply of LPG cylinders to the containment zone. A mobile ATM van has also been stationed at the containment zone to enable them withdraw cash, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-health-workers-among-covid-positive-in-curchorem/articleshow/77027361.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Another Congress MLA joins BJP, ‘horse-trading’, says Kamal Nath||INDORE/BHOPAL: Another Congress MLA, Sumitra Devi Kasdekar, resigned from the party on Friday and joined BJP. Just five days ago, Pradyumna Singh Lodhi had quit Congress and walked into the saffron fold, and was made chairperson of Civil Supplies Corporation, with cabinet minister rank, within hours. With 24 resignations, Congress is now down to 90 in the 230-seat assembly, and the number of bypolls to be held has gone up to 26. Kasdekar, 35, is said to be close to former PCC chief Arun Yadav. A first-time MLA, she had won the Nepanagar seat in a hard-fought battle in 2018, defeating her BJP rival Manju Dadu by 1,264 votes. Manju has welcomed Kasdekar’s decision to join BJP. Nath accused BJP of horse-trading, and said: “They (BJP) are calling MLAs and offering them money and posts. They are making deals in Rajasthan too. Democracy has no meaning this way. Just make a deal and do politics.” Kasdekar said she was feeling suffocated in Congress. “During Congress rule, I used to visit Bhopal to meet the then CM Kamal Nath to talk about the development of my constituency. But Nath had no time to meet MLAs. As a result, development work in the area was stalled,” she said. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan rejected the allegation, and said: “Congress is a sinking ship and is facing a stampede. The senior leaders know the situation, so they are jumping ship.” Senior BJP leaders claim some more Congress MLAs are in touch and could soon switch over. “We will win all seats in the upcoming polls. One Congress MLA (Lodhi) has come, two more will,” minister Prem Singh Patel had told mediapersons in Indore on Thursday. After Kasdekar’s exit, Nath said: “I knew there are some who’ll leave, so they left. It’s not surprising.” CM Chouhan and state BJP chief VD Sharma welcomed Kasdekar into the saffron fold. “Congress is the setting sun. It has been headed by the same family for years. For BJP, development and public welfare are the priorities,” the CM said, adding: “Under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, BJP is carrying on the mantra of development.” Congress alleged that BJP is luring its MLAs through money power. “BJP is trying to convert the country’s politics into a ‘mandi’. Neither democracy nor the public will forgive this,” said Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta. CM Chouhan asked Congress to introspect and said: “When Congress was entangled in infighting, Kamal Nath was challenging Congress workers to hit the streets. In such circumstances, they resigned. After the Congress government came into the minority, we made a claim to make government, what’s wrong with it?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-cong-mla-joins-bjp-horse-trading-says-nath/articleshow/77025859.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||Gated residential complexes allowed to set up small Covid care facilities in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a bid to reduce the burden on the health infrastructure, the Centre has issued guidelines to enable resident welfare associations and voluntary organisations to set up small Covid care facilities in gated colonies to cater to pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic and very mid cases among the residents. The community based isolation facilities, to be set up only after approval from the district authorities, will not keep the elderly, children, those with co-morbidities and pregnant women. Funded by the willing residents’ associations or NGOs, these centres will be inspected and monitored by the authorities. The health ministry in its guidelines justifies the possibility of allowing such small isolation/care centres in gated complexes pointing out that “this may be more acceptable to the residents and will help reduce the burden on existing facilities”. The guidelines state these facilities may be set up in community halls or common utility areas within the premises of a residential complex or empty flats, which are isolated from the rest of the occupied dwellings. “The facility must be declared as an isolation area. The care facility will be linked to the surveillance team (IDSP) and an ambulance provider. The District Rapid Response Team (RRT) will visit the Covid care facility and check the requirements and ensure there are no gaps before the centre is made functional,” it said. The local RRT/District Surveillance Officer or their nominee will be responsible for clinical assessment and admission of the patient to the facility. The ministry has also issued an advisory for residential complexes. It said in such complexes, posters and AV board may be displayed prominently on preventive measures about Covid-19, common signs and symptoms and need for early reporting and sanitisation of the premises. There must be provision for hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) at entry points and in work areas. “Thermal screening of visitors/staff is to be carried out at entry points and only asymptomatic individuals shall be allowed to enter the premises. Vendors, household helps, car cleaners, delivery personnel etc. will also undergo such screening daily,” it stated. Large gatherings, parties, functions, prayer meetings etc. must be avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gated-residential-complexes-allowed-to-set-up-small-covid-care-facilities/articleshow/77026843.cms||Ambika Pandit
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Political fiasco takes focus away from reviving economy||Jaipur: The shadow of political crisis has also fallen across various departments where crucial decisions and strategies are hanging fire. The fiasco has come at a time when the state was required not only to fight the Covid pandemic with a united force but also resurrect the economy and industry that is crucial to provide jobs to the unemployed masses and push the pedal on revenue mobilisation that shrunk substantially. Tourism and industry seem to be among departments that have been hit hard by the political upheaval. Sources in the both departments said that there are some crucial decisions that can only be taken in consultation with the political bosses. For example tourism policy that has been in the worked for quite some time but is yet to see light of the day. Also a marketing strategy that requires the stamp of approval from the minister. With the minister having been suspended from the party, these decisions will also get delayed, said the source. Tourism, which has taken a severe blow due to the health pandemic, contributes about 23% to the state’s GDP and a lot of economic resurgence depends of the sector’s revival. The power tussle in the department between the bureaucrats and the minister ensured delay in many areas of development. Similarly, the industry department was also raring to go after having done the ground work of putting in policies governing the sector. The department had initiated talks with foreign countries to woo investments from China-wary companies. “The political uncertainty does affect how the bureaucrats work. The officials need cues from the political bosses. Right now they are also curious spectators and cannot take any important decision. In that sense, it affects the productivity of the department. The political logjam, coming as it did at a time when the state needed to give a vigorous push to attract investments, is no service to the revival of the industry,” said the source. The bureaucratic reshuffle had its own share of blame on slowing down all the processes. “It seems the bureaucracy is as good as their political masters. They should be given a free-hand to do their work if the state really wants to come out of the economic muddle. By chopping and changing constantly does not help, it will only hurt the interests of the state,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/political-fiasco-takes-focus-away-from-reviving-economy/articleshow/77027352.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 84 new cases in Ambala, tally crosses 800||Jaskaran Singh | TNNAmbala: The district recorded 8th death due to Covid-19 as two persons with co-morbidities died within 24 hours of each other. The district reported 84 fresh positive cases and 107 patients were discharged after they tested negative on Friday, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.“With recovery rate of 66.58% and mortality rate of 0.97%, the total tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Ambala district reached 820 on Friday. Of these, 546 patients were discharged, eight died and 266 are active cases,” said Dr Kuldeep.“Two Covid-19 deaths were reported in Ambala district within 24 hours. One is a 65-year-old man of Ballopur village in Shahzadpur area. He was a cancer patient who died at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh on Wednesday. He tested positive after his death on Friday. He was admitted at GMCH on Tuesday with diarrhoea symptoms. His cremation has been conducted in Chandigarh”, said Dr Kuldeep.“The second deceased is a man (57) with chronic disease and infection in the lungs. He belongs to Bihar and had been living in Baldev Nagar area of Ambala City. His cremation has been conducted in Ambala,” the civil surgeon said. “A total of 107 patients were discharged on Friday after they tested negative for Covid-19,” he added.“Eighty-four people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, out of which, 45 are from Ambala City areas, 26 from Ambala Cantt, six from Chourmastpur areas, three from Shahzadpur, two each from Mullana and Naraingarh”, said Dr Kuldeep.“On Friday, our health teams conducted 450 antigen tests, out of which nine persons tested positive and 650 RT-PCR samples were collected from the cloth market of Ambala City,” said Dr Kuldeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-deaths-84-new-cases-in-ambala-tally-crosses-800/articleshow/77026774.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Why some parents are setting up home libraries in Chennai||CHENNAI: Homemaker S Vijayalakshmi has always been keen on inculcating the reading habit in her children. But with the ongoing lockdown, it’s difficult to keep going to the library to pick up books. That’s when she decided to set up one at home. “I wanted books for my younger daughter who is in Class IV as her online classes have started and she is spending a lot of time on the computer,” says Vijayalakshmi. With online learning becoming the norm, parents are setting up home libraries so that their children spend time with books instead of gadgets. Vinod Sridhar, who started Preloved Books Library in July 2018, says that he has been getting more requests during lockdown from families to set up libraries. “We have set up 35 out of which eight have been done during lockdown,” says Vinod. “Since online classes have started, many parents feel their children are spending too much time on devices. Schools are also encouraging the trend, as they want children to keep in touch with the habit of learning from books,” says the 25-year-old. Vinod started Preloved Books Library with an online subscription model. “People chose books online and we delivered it to them. But soon we got into the business of setting up libraries in offices and homes,” he says. “Before lockdown our clients included offices, cafes and homes.” The way it works is simple. Once customers register, they receive a call and are given a questionnaire. “We get an idea of their interests, the books they like to read and what may appeal to them,” he says. “All books are chosen based on their interest and 10% of it can be fully chosen by customer.” Customers can keep the book for four months and then have the option of returning it and getting new ones or adding new books to the existing set. “Before we send more books we take feedback, so that the service gets more personalised,” he says. Vijayalakshmi, for instance, opted to take 50 books. “We have kept aside a cupboard for the books and my daughter spends time every day picking out books she likes,” she says. Sathya Thiruvengadasamy set up her home library last month, opting to take 100 books per quarter. “My husband and I, both IT professionals, are now working from home,” says Sathya, whose son, Pranav Sriram, is five years old. “Our son gets bored of colouring or playing with toys. And we don’t want him to be occupied with gadgets or TV. This way, I read books to him every night and also in the afternoon before nap time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-some-parents-are-setting-up-home-libraries/articleshow/77026777.cms||Priya Menon
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Three Army jawans test Covid +ve in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Three jawans of the Indian Army tested positive at the military station in Jaisalmer on Friday. The soldiers, who had recently returned from holiday and were under quarantine, have now been shifted to the Army Hospital. As a preventive measure, the Army and the Air Force have not given any relaxation in movement to their personnel. There is ban on moving out of the premises. The BSF has also banned movement at all battalions and sector headquarters. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Mehta, expecting increase in infection after residents tested for the first time, has directed the officials to strictly follow the guidelines to prevent the spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-army-jawans-test-ve-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77027354.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Agra||Liquor mafioso, kin attack raiding team in Aligarh, 2 women cops among 3 hurt||AGRA: Three police personnel, including two women constables, were injured when a police raiding party was allegedly attacked by a liquor mafioso and his family members in Aligarh’s Sakra village on Thursday night. The police party had gone to the village to arrest the suspect, Jagan Malla, an infamous illicit liquor brewer of the area, and his son, Sanju, when it was attacked. The duo is wanted in a case registered at Palimukumpur police station under section 272 (adulteration of food or drink intended for sale) of the IPC and provisions of the Excise Act. The police party was surrounded by Jagan’s family members when it took the suspect in custody. While sub-inspector Harikesh Yadav of Sakra police chowki sustained a head injury, two women constables -- Shivani and Anita -- sustained minor injuries after being attacked with sticks and stones. Meanwhile, Jagan escaped from police custody. An FIR on attempt to murder has been registered along with other sections of IPC against 13 persons, including seven women, who allegedly attacked the police team with sticks and pelted stones at it. Police have launched a search to nab all the people who attacked the police personnel during the raid and helped the suspect to flee from police custody. Atul Sharma, Aligarh superintendent of police (rural), said one of the women family members of the suspect has been arrested and soon, others will be in police custody. He said teams have been formed to raid each possible place connected with the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/liquor-mafioso-kin-attack-raiding-team-in-aligarh-2-women-cops-among-3-hurt/articleshow/77025825.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||Final decision on Ignou exams likely on July 21||Nagpur: Lakhs of non-final year students of Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) will have to wait till July 21 to know whether or not they have to appear for exams. A high-ranking official at the university told TOI that the Academic Council meet is scheduled for that day and that’s when “a final decision will be taken”.Ignou has to take a call if they can promote students to the next semester/year by completely waiving off the exam condition. For final year students, Ignou has complied with UGC guidelines and issued a notification on Thursday. The notification, signed by Ignou’s registrar VB Negi, makes it clear that final year/semester exams will be held from the first week of September. UGC had directed universities to conduct exams for final year students. While the popular perception is that exams will be cancelled, the official told TOI that for an open university like Ignou it might not be the best option. “In Ignou there is automatic promotion for students to the next year, but on the condition that all papers from previous years have to be cleared. Students also get a longer time frame to complete their degrees as most of our students are employed,” said the source. The official said that term end exams (TEE) are conducted twice a year at Ignou, which further complicates things. “We have a January and July session, with TEE being held in December and June. So for whom it is to be waived off is also an issue. If those who were scheduled to appear in June TEE get a waiver then those scheduled for December TEE will also demand it, so there is no end to this,” said the official. Apart from the technicalities of an open university, the official said another issue was about credibility. “At Ignou, we maintain very high standards and that ensures credibility and acceptance of degrees everywhere. So, cancelling exam may affect credibility of an open university and these are things which the board members have to consider while taking a final decision,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/final-decision-on-ignou-exams-likely-on-july-21/articleshow/77024812.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||City reports 25 cases||tnnChandigarh: Twenty-five Covid-19 cases were reported in the city on Friday. These patients included three from Sector 45, eight from Dhanas, one each from Sector 46, Bapu Dham, Sector 29, Ram Darbar, sectors 44, 35, 63, 30 and 20 and Burail. This takes the active cases count to 169, while confirmed cases are 660, including 11 deaths. Four patients were discharged on Friday, and till date 480 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-reports-25-cases/articleshow/77026778.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||With 151 new Covid-19 cases, Lucknow still on top of UP tally||LUCKNOW: A BJP MLA and a senior office-bearer of LMC executive committee were among 151 new Covid-19 patients reported in the city on Friday, taking the city’s caseload to 3,387. Though the number of new cases declined by nearly 50% in comparison to Thursday, the number of ‘active cases’ in Lucknow was 2,060, the highest among districts of the state. This is because the city has been recording the highest number of cases consecutively for the past nine days, except for a day on July 9 when it was the second highest. Bamba Lal, MLA from Safipur in Unnao, got himself tested at SGPGI after developing influenza-like illness. The swab sample was taken on Wednesday and the report on Friday confirmed that he had novel coronavirus infection. Rajnish Gupta, a BJP corporator from Yahiyaganj and vice-chairperson of the executive committee of Lucknow Municipal Corporation got himself tested after several employees of the civic body were diagnosed with the disease. His report on Friday confirmed Covid-19. Both politicians have been admitted to SGPGI. With this, 12 politicians, including three ministers and four MLAs, besides 17 of their contacts, have tested positive for the infection so far. Abhay Seth, former deputy mayor, succumbed to the infection on July 6. Four patients under treatment in the emergency ward of SPM Civil hospital for various ailments also tested positive for the infection. “All four patients were aged 35-45 years and were suffering from influenza-like illness at the time of admission. They were kept in isolation and their samples tested through the TruNat machine. When the results came positive, all four were shifted to Lokbandhu hospital,” said medical superintendent of Civil hospital Dr Ashutosh Dubey. “A nurse was also diagnosed with the disease on Friday. She had not been coming to the hospital since July 12 after developing fever,” he added Other cases included 11 people from various parts of Gomtinagar, nine each in Indiranagar and Aliganj and six each in Cantonment, Jankipuram and Rae Bareli Road. Meanwhile, 61 patients were discharged from various hospitals after recovery, taking the number of people who have successfully defeated the infection to 1,282. However, as the surge in the cases continued, 62 more localities were converted into containment zones. The city now has 566 such areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-151-new-covid-cases-city-still-on-top-of-up-tally/articleshow/77027340.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Collector directs officials to declare containment zones||Jaipur: District collector Antar Singh Nehra on Friday directed the officials appointed as incident commanders to immediately visit those areas where new Covid positive cases are found and, in coordination with the medical officer and police, declare the area as a containment zone. He also directed them to immediately issue an order declaring the areas as a containment zone. The order also directed them to determine the number of Covid positive cases and the areas affected.  Meanwhile, chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup on Friday directed the district collectors to take strict action against the factories and other institutions in the districts for flouting the Covid guidelines and norms. He also asked them to prepare an action plan to control spread of Covid infection in their respective districts. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-directs-officials-to-declare-containment-zones/articleshow/77027357.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Come, explore alternative careers with TOI||Chennai: After successfully completing 11 sessions featuring more than 35 speakers in its first leg on college admissions, Mission Admission, The Times of India’s virtual conclave on new and emerging courses and career options, will move into its second leg with ‘alternative careers’ from July 18. The sessions will cover off-beat career options with insights from some the industry’s best, such as Oscar-winning composer and founder of KM Music Conservatory A R Rahman talking about the advancements and growth in the field of music; celebrated director Gautham Vasudev Menon throwing light on the scope of filmmaking and allied fields; resident editor of The Times of India, Arun Ram, exploring the prospects and new avenues in journalism; and celebrity and advertising photographer, Karthik Srinivasan, and wildlife photographer Dinesh Kumble discussing a career in photography - among others. With a set of nine webinars spread over the next few days, the second leg of Mission Admission will begin with ‘Allied Careers in Sports’ with Ramji Srinivasan, founder-director of Sports Dynamix, and strength and conditioning coach of the Indian Cricket Team 2011, and Sumiran Tandon, sports and performance psychologist, on July 18 at 10am. To talk about the opportunities in fashion technology, celebrity stylist and fashion designer Chaitanya Rao will be joined by Kaustav Sengupta, associate professor and centre coordinator, Foundation Program at NIFT Chennai, and Neethu Deepak, faculty, fashion design, DOTS School of Design. The webinars also include sessions on advertising, featuring Jitender Dabas, COO & CSO, McCann Worldgroup India and opportunities in radio, featuring ‘Mirchi’ Shivshankari, RJ, Radio Mirchi. Readers can register for the seminar at www.toi.in/matn and watch the sessions live on www.facebook.com/chennaiTOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/come-explore-alternative-careers-with-toi/articleshow/77026789.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Business||Uber India techies lead map updates in 150 cities globally||Hyderabad: Uber India on Friday said that its global scaled solutions (GSS) team based out of Hyderabad and Bangalore has been leading map updates across over 150 cities globally, factoring in road closures, new routes and Covid containment zones during the recent lockdown. About 80% of Uber’s GSS team is based out of Hyderabad and Bangalore and consists of over 100 program managers, engineers, analysts and product managers that work on transforming digital assets for Uber, accelerating the product development lifecycle and enabling products and businesses to scale globally in line with its aim of building in India for the world. Uber said its GSS team has, over the past few months, led more than 200 localisation projects, including in-app messages in local languages to keep riders and drivers updated about new offerings, closure of services, various earning opportunities and financial assistance for drivers. Uber’s GSS team, which runs scaled programs for multiple products and businesses including Rides, Eats, Freight, Advanced technologies and Uber for business, also improved product launches through data engineering and analytics programmes and scaled quality assurance for all products and features launched globally, from India. Uber said the GSS team developed the mask verification safety feature in the app, which verifies if drivers are wearing a mask before they go online. In May, Uber made it mandatory for all riders and drivers globally to wear a mask or face covering during a ride. “From creating new products to launching new business units quickly, the Uber tech team has been steering varied technology innovations enabling Uber to rapidly cater to the needs of cities and citizens around the world. GSS has helped accelerate these efforts from our hubs in Hyderabad and Bangalore,” said Megha Yethadka, director, program management, tech, Uber, who leads the GSS teams globally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uber-india-techies-lead-map-updates-in-150-cities-globally/articleshow/77026794.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Follow guidelines else more restrictions can be imposed: Guv||Times News NetworkChandigarh: UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday expressed concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh. He appealed to the residents to strictly follow the guidelines issued for containing the infection spread. He directed the residents to stay indoors, maintain social distancing and wear masks regularly. He said the residents must avoid crowded areas and should not venture out of their homes unless there is an unavoidable work. He advised the citizens to self-monitor their temperature and immediately report to local health authorities, if there is any symptom.  He added that more restrictions and even curfew could be imposed in case it is found that the residents do not follow the guidelines issued by the administration. Meanwhile, Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, in the meeting said that they have tested 459 Covid samples from Chandigarh, Punjab and Leh, out of which 25 were found positive on Friday.  Dr BS Chavan, director principal, GMCH-32, stated that they have tested 174 Covid samples, out of which 17 were found positive.  Dr G Dewan, director, health services, stated that they have completed second round of house-to-house screening of entire Manimajra. During the drive, 48,598 people from 2,241 houses were thoroughly examined and 12 suspected cases have been referred for testing. Dr. Dewan also stated that second round of screening in sectors 16 and 32 has been started. As many as 14 teams comprising 30 health workers have been deputed for the work. In the meeting, Mohali DC said they have 169 active cases, Panchkula DC said they have 93 and Chandigarh DC said they have 148.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/follow-guidelines-else-more-restrictions-can-be-imposed-guv/articleshow/77026782.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||FAO report says fewer locusts to enter India||Jaisalmer: There is good news for farmers of Rajasthan as FAO in its recently issued report has said that the population of locusts in Iran, Pakistan and Baluchistan areas has almost come to an end and very few pests will come to India in the coming days which will be easily destroyed. In Jaisalmer and Barmer, plans to control locusts are underway. In a meeting with sub-divisional officers, Jaisalmer collector directed to make plan to destroy locusts prior to morning, when they are less active. Meanwhile, locusts are being destroyed through airstrike by Indian Air Force’s MI-17 helicopter in Barmer. Jaisalmer’s locust control department officer Rajesh Kumar said that FAO in its recent report mentioned that in the last 2.5 months total 84 groups of locusts entered into the Indian border. But in the coming days, there is little possibility of more locusts arriving. The report added that locust habitat areas in Iran, Pakistan and Baluchistan have been destroyed. He added that luckily 75% of the 84 groups of locusts that entered India were pink in colour. The pink locusts become yellow when they become adults. So, most of the young locusts were destroyed before they could turn adults. Due to less number of yellow locusts, the possibility of breeding is also less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fao-report-says-fewer-locusts-to-enter-india/articleshow/77027358.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||757 beds added in hotels, private hospitals & water park||Lucknow: As many as 757 ‘paid’ beds were added for Covid-19 patients in the city on Friday in view of the steep rise in cases over the past few days. These include five private hospitals that have been allowed to admit patients with mild symptoms on 190 beds. The hospitals are Chandan Hospital in Chinhat, Atharv Hospital on IIM Road, Mayo Hospital in Gomtinagar, Altis Hospital in Madiaon and Shekhar Hospital in Indiranagar. On the other hand, five hotels with 447 rooms and a water park with 120 rooms have been converted into Covid-19 care facilities for asymptomatic cases below 65 years of age and without comorbidity. The five hotels are Hyatt Regency, The Piccadily, Golden Tulip, Levana and Crystal Inn. They will be operational from Saturday, said officers. Anandi water park was converted into a facility on Friday and will be available for patients soon, they added. Charges for the ‘paid’ beds and facilities in private hospitals, hotels and water park have been fixed by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/757-beds-added-in-hotels-private-hospitals-water-park/articleshow/77027351.cms||---
July 18, 2020||India||Railways’ freight-loading back to 92% of July 2019 level||NEW DELHI: Freight-loading has bounced back to 92% this month as compared to July last year, the railway ministry said on Friday. While it said the focus will be more on increasing revenue from freight movement this year, the ministry has also set the target to improve infrastructure in the next five years in a big way and to provide rail connectivity to five state capitals in North East — Shillong, Gangtok, Aizawl, Kohima and Imphal by March 2023. Speaking to reporters, Railway Board chairman V K Yadav said about Rs 13.6 lakh crore will be spent in the next five years for upgrading infrastructure. This includes the big impact project of upgrading 11,295 km comprising seven high density corridors to allow passenger trains to run at 160 kmph by March 2025. These stretches are Delhi-Howrah, Howrah-Mumbai, Mumbai-Delhi, Delhi-Guwahati, Delhi-Chennai, Chennai-Howrah and Chennai-Mumbai. Railways has also set the target to complete the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla rail link by December 2022. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-freight-loading-back-to-92-of-july-2019-level/articleshow/77028353.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||BJP slams Congress for dragging Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s name||Jaipur: BJP has filed a complaint against Congress national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, chief whip Mahesh Joshi and OSD to CM Lokesh Sharma for hatching a conspiracy against BJP leaders to show their involvement in toppling of the government, said BJP spokesperson, Laxmikant Bhardwaj at Ashok Nagar police station late on Friday. “These leaders are making inflammatory and defamatory statements against BJP leaders on frivolous grounds. This conspiracy was planned at chief minister residence. Those involved in the crime have misused their powers and position. The three doctored videos were released by Lokesh Sharma to the video with an aim to publicise the information through media,” said Bhardwaj. His complaint further reads that Surjewala had read the content in the tapes before the media and used objectionable words for the party and its leader. Jaipur: Senior BJP leaders of the state on Friday lashed out at the Congress for dragging Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s name in the horse trading controversy. Shekhawat and other leaders denied that it was his voice in the audiotapes about toppling the government. It is a conspiracy of the Congress, claimed BJP, in a press conference held at its headquarters on Friday. State BJP president Satish Poonia has hit back at chief minister Ashok Gehlot of dragging BJP leaders in internal fight by levelling false allegations against its leaders. “The latest episode in the Congress-sponsored political theatre alleged the audio tapes pointing the Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s involvement in the political crises which is far from true,” said Poonia, while calling it a conspiracy of the falling Congress government. Reacting on the Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala for slapping the allegations against Shekhawat in a press conference from a hotel where Congress MLAs are holed up, Poonia, said, “Surjewalla was levelling the charges as if he is the DG of SOG. It is a matter of great concern to know that how he knows everything which is the subject of investigating agency,” said Poonia. In defence of the union minister, he fired a series of questions at the Congress. “The state and the BJP would like to know the status of the audio tapes. Who has issued these tapes? Where did Congress get these tapes? On what capacity, CM Gehlot OSD Lokesh Sharma has circulated these audio tapes? It appears that CMR has become a centre for circulating fake audio messages,” said Poonia. He told media persons that the union minister has cleared that they Gehlot can get it investigated the audio tapes from any agency. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria raised questions on the tapping of the phone calls. “The phones cannot be tapped unless the home department gives in writing. I would like to know on what basis they have tapped the phones. It shows that Gehlot has lost his senses and it is a result of their internal fight which the entire county is aware of,” said Kataria. The BJP also questioned the Gehlot government for how many more days the government will be a hostage in a hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-slams-cong-for-dragging-shekhawats-name/articleshow/77027363.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||6 die in road mishap near Sirohi||JODHPUR: As many as six persons, including five women, were killed in a road accident near Sirohi on Friday afternoon. All the victims were related and were going to attend an engagement function in a village near Sirohi in a tempo. The driver of the tempo, however, escaped unhurt and fled from the spot leaving his mangled tempo on the spot. According to the SHO (Sirohi Kotwali) Om Prakash Bishnoi, the accident took place about 5 km away from the city on Sirohi-Barloot Road at about 2.15 pm, when the tempo overturned as the driver lost control in order to save a monkey, which apparently emerged on the road. At the same time, a camper vehicle coming from the opposite direction hit the tempo, pushing it to the side of the road. “These six persons, including five women and a man, were going to Padiv, a nearby village, to attend an engagement function,” said Bishnoi. He said that there were no noticeable injury marks on the body of victims and all of them died due to head injuries, after the tempo overturned followed by the collision with the camper and that the rear part of the tempo was completely damaged, turning fatal for the passengers. According to the information, three persons died on the spot while three others succumbed in the hospital during treatment. As the information spread, district magistrate and the other officials including the police rushed to the spot and coordinated rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-die-in-road-mishap-near-sirohi/articleshow/77027364.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Firms pitch in to help people hit economically by pandemic||Jaipur: The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the economically weaker sections hard who have lost livelihood opportunities. Corporate entities and industrial houses have undertaken various relief activities to reach out to the disadvantaged and displaced segment. Shrivats Singhania, executive director (Business Development) of Udaipur Cement Works Ltd (UCWL) says they are looking at long-term livelihood schemes to ensure income for the economically-hit families. “Though a lot of activities have come to a grinding halt threatening livelihood of daily wagers, hawkers and vendors, there are opportunities in newer areas since habits and rituals of all communities across all strata of the society have undergone tremendous change,” explains Singhania. UCWL has trained women in mask-making. “While a few batches have already started producing masks in high numbers, others are being trained with an aim to make the region of rural Udaipur self-reliant in mask-making,” added Singhania. UCWL is a member of JK Organisation, a leading cement manufacturer in Rajasthan. Similarly, Ambuja Cement through its Skill and Entrepreneurship Development Institutes (SEDI) has helped 588 people in Rajasthan to get placements between April and July. Through its foundation, it trains young people across rural India to provide jobs in different industries to provide livelihood opportunities. “SEDI is a functional structure to promote productive employment and micro-enterprise courses for the rural youth to uplift them out of poverty. We empower them through both theoretical and practical courses at our dedicated training centres,” said an official of the Ambuja Foundation. After the coronavirus outbreak, many companies have come forward to do their bit in reaching out to the needy people who have been displaced economically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firms-pitch-in-to-help-peoplehit-economically-by-pandemic/articleshow/77027362.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 11-year-old girl dies in freak mishap at home||MUMBAI: In a freak mishap, an 11-year-old girl, playing with her younger sister, died after her dupatta allegedly got entangled with a rod at her Mira Road home on Thursday night. Kashimira police registered a case of accidental death based on preliminary reports and parents’ statements but a further probe is on. The girl was rushed to hospital but was declared dead on arrival. She had climbed onto an empty LPG cylinder to reach the ceiling when her dupatta allegedly got entangled. As she tried to release the dupatta, the cylinder gave way. Her sister raised an alarm, alerting her mother. Her father, a security guard, was at work. The mother’s screams alerted neighbours. Police said the body was sent for autopsy to know the exact cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/11-yr-old-girl-dies-in-freak-mishap-at-home/articleshow/77026868.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jodhpur||6 die in road mishap near Sirohi||JODHPUR: As many as six persons, including five women, were killed in a road accident near Sirohi on Friday afternoon. All the victims were related and were going to attend an engagement function in a village near Sirohi in a tempo. The driver of the tempo, however, escaped unhurt and fled from the spot leaving his mangled tempo on the spot. According to the SHO (Sirohi Kotwali) Om Prakash Bishnoi, the accident took place about 5 km away from the city on Sirohi-Barloot Road at about 2.15 pm, when the tempo overturned as the driver lost control in order to save a monkey, which apparently emerged on the road. At the same time, a camper vehicle coming from the opposite direction hit the tempo, pushing it to the side of the road. “These six persons, including five women and a man, were going to Padiv, a nearby village, to attend an engagement function,” said Bishnoi. He said that there were no noticeable injury marks on the body of victims and all of them died due to head injuries, after the tempo overturned followed by the collision with the camper and that the rear part of the tempo was completely damaged, turning fatal for the passengers. According to the information, three persons died on the spot while three others succumbed in the hospital during treatment. As the information spread, district magistrate and the other officials including the police rushed to the spot and coordinated rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/6-die-in-road-mishap-near-sirohi/articleshow/77030722.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||LDA to team up with RWAs to implement safety rules||Lucknow: Officials from Lucknow Development Authority will partner with resident welfare associations to ensure that Covid-19 safety protocols are followed in multi-storey apartments with three and more floors under its jurisdiction in Gomtinangar Extension and Jankipuram Extension. LDA vice-chairman Shiwa Kanth Dwivedi on Friday nominated executive engineers as nodal officers of various zones under the two areas. These officers will remain in constant touch with RWAs through WhatsApp groups. The decision was taken on the direction of the district administration in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. Apart from regular sanitization of apartments and maintaining record of visitors and domestic helps, the officers will ensure that people with travel history self quarantine themselves for two weeks. They will also help RWAs set up Covid-19 desks with facilities like thermal scanner and pulse oxymeter. CMO office will be alerted in case a suspected case is detected. Residents, however, complained that the order has been issued but contact numbers of the nodal officers were not provided to them. Dwivedi said that officers will contact RWAs and exchange numbers. He also said that residents can report their problems at WhatsApp number 9918002678.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-to-team-up-with-rwas-to-implement-safety-rules/articleshow/77027355.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: Number of cured people in Rajasthan crosses 20,000-mark||JAIPUR: The number of people defeated Covid-19 in the state has breached 20,000-mark on Friday. With 656 more people cured on Friday, the tally reached 20,626. Eight persons died, while 615 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, bringing the total count to 27,786 on Friday. With eight more deaths, the state’s toll reached 546. Two persons died in Kota, taking its total count to 29, while Sirohi and Udaipur reported their 10th fatality. One person died in Nagaur which was 19th death of the district. Rajsamand reported 4th death, while two persons died in Bharatpur, taking its tally to 45. Districts which reported new infections are Bikaner (108), Ajmer (99), Jodhpur (70), Jaipur (54), Bharatpur (40), Nagaur (31), Kota (27), Bhilwara (25), Barmer (25), Alwar (24), Churu (19), Rajsamand (13), Udaipur (12), Sriganganagar (11), Jhunjhunu (11), Dungarpur (10), Dholpur (9), Jhalawar (5), Pali (4), Sikar (4), Tonk (3), Sawai Madhopur (2), Dausa (2), Sirohi (2), Baran (1), Karauli (1), Pratapgarh (1) and two from other states. After 13 days of active cases touching new high every day, the cases on Friday have taken a slight dip. The state reported 6,617 active cases on Friday, which were 6,666 on Thursday. It was 6,405 on Wednesday and on Tuesday, the active cases were at 5,878. In the past 14 days, the state has reported 8,737 new infections with an average of 624 cases per day. Jodhpur has the highest number of active cases at 1193, followed by Alwar (790), Bikaner (767) and Jaipur (729). In Jaipur, 26 different places reported 54 cases, which include Sanganer (9), Mansarovar (5), Jhotwara (4), Jagatpura (4), Malviya Nagar (4), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Ramganj (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), Gadhi Nagar (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), migrants (2), Kotputli (2), while one each case was reported from Sodala, Bani park, Shastri Nagar, Dudu, Luniyawas, Khonagoriyan, Phulera, Manak Chawk, Sirsi, Hasanpura, Mahesh Nagar, Jamwaramgarh, Tonk Phatak and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/number-of-cured-people-in-state-crosses-20000-mark/articleshow/77029092.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot camp gets breather from speaker as court defers hearing||JAIPUR: In a breather to former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 Congress MLAs, speaker C P Joshi on Friday assured the Rajasthan high court that he would not act on the show-cause notices issued to them under the anti-defection law till Tuesday evening. The deadline given to the legislators to respond on the speaker’s notices, though, had ended at 1pm on Friday. A division bench comprising chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta deferred hearing in the matter until Monday morning when senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the speaker, would resume his arguments to counter Pilot camp’s plea that the notices were against the constitution and issued in haste. It was argued that the speaker enjoyed autonomous powers. The petition challenging the show-cause notices was premature and the judiciary should not interfere till an order on the notices was passed. Senior counsels Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the Pilot camp, completed their arguments while speaking during court’s pre- and post-lunch time. The senior counsels appeared through video conferencing, while advocate general M S Singhvi and others were present in the courtroom. When the court asked if the counsels wanted a lunch break, Salve, who was in London, said it was breakfast time for him. The court took a nearly 45-minute break. The 19 legislators, who have challenged the leadership of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, approached the court contesting that the speaker cannot give them defection notices for failing to attend Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings, as acts done outside the House were not violation of the anti-defection law. Disagreeing with ‘dictatorial functioning’ of the CM was freedom of expression and not defection, the court was told. Salve said party whips were not applicable for meetings held at homes and hotels, but to proceedings within the House when the assembly is in session. The speaker’s notices were based on Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi’s petition that these MLAs failed to attend two consecutive CLP meetings on July 13 and 14. The first meeting was held at chief minister Gehlot’s residence, while the second was held at a luxury hotel on the city outskirts. The court permitted Joshi to be party to the case on Friday. Advocate Prateek Kasliwal, who appeared on behalf of C P Joshi, told TOI, “The speaker has extended the time given to the MLAs to respond to 5.30pm till July 21, as the matter is being heard by the court. The speaker’s decision would be subject to any direction that may be passed by the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-camp-gets-breather-from-speaker-as-court-defers-hearing/articleshow/77027371.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Two more corona deaths, toll 45||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 toll in the city mounted to 45 with two more deaths on Friday. In both the cases, patients were middle-aged and died due to respiratory failure as they were brought to the hospitals at a late stage and by then the infection had severely damaged their lungs. Of total deaths in the city, 25 occurred in the past 13 days. One of the victims was a 45-year-old woman from Triveninagar. She died in a private hospital in Aliganj. She was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday afternoon with breathing difficulty and low oxygen levels. She was gasping for breath and immediately put on the ventilator. After her Covid-19 test report came positive on Thursday night, hospital administration decided to shift her to a government facility as per the protocol, but she died before any action could be taken. “Covid-19 had severely damaged her lungs. She also had diabetes and hypertension,” said Dr NK Gupta, director of the hospital. Ten staff members, including four doctors who examined the patient, have been quarantined and the ICU where the patient was admitted was closed for 24 hours for sanitization. The second death took place in KGMU where a 56-year-old man, resident of Rajajipuram, who was admitted on July 13, died in the ICU. “The patient was brought at a late stage. He had acute respiratory syndrome with fluid collected in air sacks of the lungs restricting oxygen absorption, said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-more-corona-deaths-toll-45/articleshow/77027359.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||CPI(M) MLA Poonia pledges support to Gehlot govt||Jaipur: CPI(M) MLA Balwan Poonia on Friday pledged his support to the Ashok Gehlot government saying any attempt to topple it will not succeed. Poonia was suspended for a year by the party after he voted for the Congress candidates in the recent Rajya Sabha elections. The CPM has two MLAs in the assembly. He said he will vote in favour of the Congress government if there is a floor test in the assembly. “The BJP is committing the sin of trying to topple an elected government. They will not succeed,” the MLA told reporters at his official residence here. He said his name was also mentioned in audio clips, purportedly having conversation among Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat and a person named Sanjay Jain, and that he will go to the Special Operations Group (SOG) to record his statement. Poonia said CPM MLAs were not for sale and were never in touch with any middleman. The CPM MLAs Balwan Poonia and Girdharilal’s names were mentioned as possible targets in the purported audio by middleman Sanjay Jain who is now being questioned by the SOG which is investigating the case of money being offered to Congress MLAs to topple the Gehlot government. Poonia said he would file a defamation case against those who took his name in the conversation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cpim-mla-poonia-pledges-support-to-gehlot-govt/articleshow/77027368.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19: Number of cured people in Rajasthan crosses 20,000-mark||JAIPUR: The number of people defeated Covid-19 in the state has breached 20,000-mark on Friday. With 656 more people cured on Friday, the tally reached 20,626. Eight persons died, while 615 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, bringing the total count to 27,786 on Friday. With eight more deaths, the state’s toll reached 546. Two persons died in Kota, taking its total count to 29, while Sirohi and Udaipur reported their 10th fatality. One person died in Nagaur which was 19th death of the district. Rajsamand reported 4th death, while two persons died in Bharatpur, taking its tally to 45. Districts which reported new infections are Bikaner (108), Ajmer (99), Jodhpur (70), Jaipur (54), Bharatpur (40), Nagaur (31), Kota (27), Bhilwara (25), Barmer (25), Alwar (24), Churu (19), Rajsamand (13), Udaipur (12), Sriganganagar (11), Jhunjhunu (11), Dungarpur (10), Dholpur (9), Jhalawar (5), Pali (4), Sikar (4), Tonk (3), Sawai Madhopur (2), Dausa (2), Sirohi (2), Baran (1), Karauli (1), Pratapgarh (1) and two from other states. After 13 days of active cases touching new high every day, the cases on Friday have taken a slight dip. The state reported 6,617 active cases on Friday, which were 6,666 on Thursday. It was 6,405 on Wednesday and on Tuesday, the active cases were at 5,878. In the past 14 days, the state has reported 8,737 new infections with an average of 624 cases per day. Jodhpur has the highest number of active cases at 1193, followed by Alwar (790), Bikaner (767) and Jaipur (729). In Jaipur, 26 different places reported 54 cases, which include Sanganer (9), Mansarovar (5), Jhotwara (4), Jagatpura (4), Malviya Nagar (4), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Ramganj (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), Gadhi Nagar (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), migrants (2), Kotputli (2), while one each case was reported from Sodala, Bani park, Shastri Nagar, Dudu, Luniyawas, Khonagoriyan, Phulera, Manak Chawk, Sirsi, Hasanpura, Mahesh Nagar, Jamwaramgarh, Tonk Phatak and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/number-of-cured-people-in-state-crosses-20000-mark/articleshow/77029093.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: Number of cured people in Rajasthan crosses 20,000-mark||JAIPUR: The number of people defeated Covid-19 in the state has breached 20,000-mark on Friday. With 656 more people cured on Friday, the tally reached 20,626. Eight persons died, while 615 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, bringing the total count to 27,786 on Friday. With eight more deaths, the state’s toll reached 546. Two persons died in Kota, taking its total count to 29, while Sirohi and Udaipur reported their 10th fatality. One person died in Nagaur which was 19th death of the district. Rajsamand reported 4th death, while two persons died in Bharatpur, taking its tally to 45. Districts which reported new infections are Bikaner (108), Ajmer (99), Jodhpur (70), Jaipur (54), Bharatpur (40), Nagaur (31), Kota (27), Bhilwara (25), Barmer (25), Alwar (24), Churu (19), Rajsamand (13), Udaipur (12), Sriganganagar (11), Jhunjhunu (11), Dungarpur (10), Dholpur (9), Jhalawar (5), Pali (4), Sikar (4), Tonk (3), Sawai Madhopur (2), Dausa (2), Sirohi (2), Baran (1), Karauli (1), Pratapgarh (1) and two from other states. After 13 days of active cases touching new high every day, the cases on Friday have taken a slight dip. The state reported 6,617 active cases on Friday, which were 6,666 on Thursday. It was 6,405 on Wednesday and on Tuesday, the active cases were at 5,878. In the past 14 days, the state has reported 8,737 new infections with an average of 624 cases per day. Jodhpur has the highest number of active cases at 1193, followed by Alwar (790), Bikaner (767) and Jaipur (729). In Jaipur, 26 different places reported 54 cases, which include Sanganer (9), Mansarovar (5), Jhotwara (4), Jagatpura (4), Malviya Nagar (4), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Ramganj (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), Gadhi Nagar (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), migrants (2), Kotputli (2), while one each case was reported from Sodala, Bani park, Shastri Nagar, Dudu, Luniyawas, Khonagoriyan, Phulera, Manak Chawk, Sirsi, Hasanpura, Mahesh Nagar, Jamwaramgarh, Tonk Phatak and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/number-of-cured-people-in-state-crosses-20000-mark/articleshow/77029094.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Number of cured people in Rajasthan crosses 20,000-mark||JAIPUR: The number of people defeated Covid-19 in the state has breached 20,000-mark on Friday. With 656 more people cured on Friday, the tally reached 20,626. Eight persons died, while 615 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, bringing the total count to 27,786 on Friday. With eight more deaths, the state’s toll reached 546. Two persons died in Kota, taking its total count to 29, while Sirohi and Udaipur reported their 10th fatality. One person died in Nagaur which was 19th death of the district. Rajsamand reported 4th death, while two persons died in Bharatpur, taking its tally to 45. Districts which reported new infections are Bikaner (108), Ajmer (99), Jodhpur (70), Jaipur (54), Bharatpur (40), Nagaur (31), Kota (27), Bhilwara (25), Barmer (25), Alwar (24), Churu (19), Rajsamand (13), Udaipur (12), Sriganganagar (11), Jhunjhunu (11), Dungarpur (10), Dholpur (9), Jhalawar (5), Pali (4), Sikar (4), Tonk (3), Sawai Madhopur (2), Dausa (2), Sirohi (2), Baran (1), Karauli (1), Pratapgarh (1) and two from other states. After 13 days of active cases touching new high every day, the cases on Friday have taken a slight dip. The state reported 6,617 active cases on Friday, which were 6,666 on Thursday. It was 6,405 on Wednesday and on Tuesday, the active cases were at 5,878. In the past 14 days, the state has reported 8,737 new infections with an average of 624 cases per day. Jodhpur has the highest number of active cases at 1193, followed by Alwar (790), Bikaner (767) and Jaipur (729). In Jaipur, 26 different places reported 54 cases, which include Sanganer (9), Mansarovar (5), Jhotwara (4), Jagatpura (4), Malviya Nagar (4), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Ramganj (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), Gadhi Nagar (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), migrants (2), Kotputli (2), while one each case was reported from Sodala, Bani park, Shastri Nagar, Dudu, Luniyawas, Khonagoriyan, Phulera, Manak Chawk, Sirsi, Hasanpura, Mahesh Nagar, Jamwaramgarh, Tonk Phatak and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/number-of-cured-people-in-state-crosses-20000-mark/articleshow/77027369.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Agra||Detergent, refined oil found in milk samples||AGRA: As many as 25 samples of milk, paneer and other dairy products collected by the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) on suspicion of adulteration failed the laboratory tests. Detergent, refined oil and externally added glucose were found in the milk samples. Khoya samples were also found to be laced with refined oil and starch. Some 25 samples of milk and dairy products were collected in February. Of these, detergent was found in six milk samples, five samples of khoya were found hazardous for human consumption and one sample of paneer also failed the lab test. Manoj Kumar Verma, designated officer at FSDA, said, “The 25 samples of milk and dairy products collected during a special campaign ahead of Holi have failed the lab test. Notices have been sent to them. We have asked the headquarters for permission to file a case against them under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.” Adulteration in milk can hamper physical and mental growth in children. If consumed regularly, it can cause acute gastritis, diarrhea, dysentery, dehydration and kidney inflammation, among other health issues. Adulteration in food items can lead to cancellation of food licences and imprisonment ranging between six months to life. Besides, the criminal offence attracts a fine up to Rs 10 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/detergent-refined-oil-found-in-milk-samples/articleshow/77025896.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Gadkari gives in-principle approval to broadening of highways leading to Gairsain||Dehradun: In a video conference session with Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat requested for better connectivity to the state’s summer capital Gairsain through broadening of NH-87 and state highway (SH) 309-A. CM Rawat added that there is a possibility of increase in traffic on the route as Gairsain has been declared as the summer capital. Taking cognisance of the demand, Gadkari gave his in-principle approval and sought a detailed project report (DPR) from the state. The CM said that making SH 309-A a two-lane stretch will further improve connectivity to places like Pithoragarh, Munsyari, Didihat, Gangolihat and Chakodi Berinag — which are very important in terms of tourism. He said that the DPR and the land acquisition have been approved for two-laning of this section of 208-kilometre length of this route. Under the first phase, a 126-km stretch from Chakodi to Almora road would be taken up. On Friday, Gadkari, forest and environment minister Prakash Javadekar, and minister of state for road transport General (retired) VK Singh held a video conference session with CM Rawat to discuss the progress of the Char Dham All Weather Road Project. The union ministers were informed that out of the 826-kilometre-long stretch of the All Weather Road Project, work has been completed in about 350 kilomteres. Gadkari said that the all-weather road is an ambitious project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and is also very important from a strategic point of view. He added that the pending cases of land acquisition, forest and environment clearance at the state and Centre levels should be resolved within the stipulated time span. He added that the central and the state officials should work in mutual coordination to complete the projects on time. Meanwhile, Javadekar said that all types of clearances related to the project are being cleared by the environment ministry at a rapid pace. General (retired) VK Singh said that Uttarakhand is “very important from a strategic point of view and in order to complete the work of all types of roads in Char Dham project, the Central and state government officials will have to fulfill their responsibilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gadkari-gives-in-principle-approval-to-broadening-of-highways-leading-to-gairsain/articleshow/77024865.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 18, 2020||Goa||In South Goa, heavy rain helps keep people indoors||MARGAO: Day one of the three-day lockdown in the state was characterized by near-deserted streets as almost all shops and commercial establishments remained closed in Margao. The lockdown was total in all towns of South Goa with only essential services like pharmacies remaining open. Hospitals and banks also remained functional with skeletal staff. With buses remaining off the roads, employees of hospitals and banks had to arrange their own transport to get to their workplace. Unlike the 21-day lockdown in March when the sudden announcement of the lockdown caught people unawares and unprepared, this time however citizens appeared to have braced themselves up for another shutdown considering the spike in covid positive cases in the state. Traders said that there was a mad rush at commercial markets on Thursday ahead of the 3-day lockdown to stock up on essential commodities with people suspecting an extension in the lockdown period. Milk booths remained open for a couple of hours in the morning and so were newspaper stalls. Unlike the police crackdown on lockdown violators during the March lockdown, this time people voluntarily remained indoors. Heavy showers throughout the day served to enhance the effect of the lockdown. “The timing of the rains has been perfect. People are indoors, streets are empty, and it’s raining heavily. It’s magical. Rains can be best enjoyed from indoors,” said a Margao resident. Grocery shops also remained closed in most parts of South Goa. South Goa collector Ajit Roy clarified that shops dealing in essential commodities were exempt from the lockdown. “Grocery shops come under essentials. They are allowed to remain open. Standalone shops can also remain open,” Roy told TOI when pointed out that most of the shops dealing in groceries and daily essentials had remained shut on Friday. The new municipal market, the Gandhi market and the SGPDA market also remained closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-south-goa-heavy-rain-helps-keep-people-indoors/articleshow/77027433.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nashik||8 inmates of Nashik central prison test Covid positive||Nashik: Eight inmates of the Nashik central prison, who were kept at the jail’s extenstion cell, have tested positive for Covid-19. The cell has been set up in a private school in the city on a temporary basis. The temporary cell is for housing inmates remanded in magisterial custody by local courts. The measure has been taken to cut down on the possibility of transmission of the contagion. The inmates who tested positive are asymptomatic and appropriate measures such as isolation, treatment, sanitization and personal hygiene are being taken in the extension cell, said an officer of the central jail. The officer said that Covid-19 tests have been conducted on all the 350 inmates housed in the temporary cell. “To be on the safer side, we have conducted tests of around 350 inmates and 50 employees, the reports of which are trickling in.” The officer added tat as of now, there is no person in the extension cell who needs serious medical attention from doctors as none of them have shown any symptoms of coronavirus. The health teams that visited the extension cell have said that the patients were in good condition and could recover in four to five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-inmates-of-nashik-central-prison-test-covid-positive/articleshow/77024862.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||SOG registers two FIRs, one arrested||Jaipur: The Special Operations Group (SOG) registered two FIRs on Friday after a complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi over perceived allegations to topple the ruling government in Rajasthan. One of the two FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Sanjay Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. While the FIR mentions Singh, it does not say if it is referring to the Union minister though he (Gajendra Singh Shekhawat) released a statement in which he has refuted the claims made by Congress in their press conference. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS, said, “We have registered two FIRs after the audio clips went viral. These FIRs have been registered under IPC Sections 120 A (sedition) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). We will investigate the matter and check the authenticity of the audio clips.” One person Sanjay Jain, allegedly a middleman was also arrested by SOG on Friday night. A team of SOG also went to Manesar to seek permission from court to take voice samples of the persons who could be heard in the audio and were named in the FIR. “The team will seek permission from the court for voice samples and take statements of those named in the FIR,” added the official. According to one FIR, Sharma and Jain were heard talking about getting adequate number of MLAs to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. After this, Jain patched the call with Singh who spoke with Sharma about the Congress MLAs staying at the resort. As per the audio clip mentioned in the FIR, Singh and Sharma spoke about a ‘list’ in which the latter’s name is not there. The FIR in which names have been mentioned claimed that, Jain was heard talking to Sharma and saying that they will have the ‘adequate numbers’ within a couple of days to which the latter agreed, adding that it should be around 30. During this Sharma also allegedly said that he was getting offers from the CM who promised him a Cabinet post but he apparently refused by saying that he does not want it. While the FIR mentions this part of the conversation, it does not mention that Sharma also claimed that he got calls from Congress leader Randeep Surjewala as well which can be heard on the viral audio recording. After a lengthy conversation in which the duo spoke about being in touch with a person called Girdhari, though there was no mention he was the CPM MLA and another being addressed to as ‘Saheb’, Jain patches the call to Singh. The FIR said that Sharma had a brief conversation with Singh in which they agreed that while the MLAs will stay at the hotel for 8-10 days, the government cannot run from there for longer. Singh can also be heard claiming that once the MLAs are allowed to leave the hotel, ‘they will come this side’. Sharma also told Singh that they will have numbers in a few days to which the latter replied that when that happens, ‘the other side will be brought down to their knees’. In the FIR, Joshi claimed that the conversation indicates that attempts were being made to topple the Congress government by exchange of money and called it an act of treason. According to sources, in the second FIR, in the recorded audio clip, the conversation is between Gajendra Singh and former tourism minister Vishvendra Singh though no names have been mentioned. While the FIRs mentioned that the complainant came to know of the audio clips after it was reported by media and circulated on social media, sources claimed that the clips were leaked out by Gehlot’s camp on Thursday evening. This is the third FIR registered by SOG and in the first one registered on July 10 against two businessmen, one of the accused applied for bail on Friday, but it was rejected. Box ‘Duo heard talking about exchange of money’ In the FIR filed by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, while no names have been mentioned, the conversation is allegedly between Gajendra Singh and former tourism minister Vishvendra Singh. According to the FIR, the duo were heard talking about exchange of money and one of the callers claimed that ‘their people sitting in Delhi have already received the first installment of the cash payment’. The same person claimed that he will be travelling from Agra. The two then talked about deciding the future action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-registers-two-firs-one-arrested/articleshow/77027381.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||Injured leopard rescued in Chanda village, dies||Chandrapur: An injured leopard rescued from a culvert near Vihirgaon village in Pombhurna tehsil died on Friday morning. The feline was moving around with a wire snare stuck on its neck and had severe injuries infested with maggots, officials claimed. Deputy conservator of forests, Central Chanda forest division, Gajendra Hire, said foresters of Pombhurna range on Thursday afternoon received report about a leopard holed up inside a pipe culvert near Vihirgaon village. Officials rushed to the spot and found that the leopard was injured and has a wire snare around its neck. “Foresters captured the beast in a cage without tranquillizing it. The leopard was immediately rushed to Transit Treatment Centre (TTC) in Chandrapur, where the snare was removed and the injuries treated. However, the beast succumbed to the infection on Friday morning,” said Hire. The DCF informed that the adult leopard was being monitored after it had injured a person three days back in the same area. “The leopard appeared to have been trapped in the wire snare over six days back, but managed to escape with the noose around its neck. The injuries due to the snare were deep and infested with maggots. Veterinary doctor at TTC cleaned the injuries, removed maggots and dressed it. However, the feline could not recover from the infection,” he added. Hire said forest department will register a case and conduct thorough inquiry. Postmortem was performed at the TTC and later the remains were incinerated in the presence of witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/injured-leopard-rescued-in-chanda-village-dies/articleshow/77025922.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||SOG arrests Sanjay Jain||Jaipur: Sanjay Jain, one of the persons who was recorded on the audio clip in which he was heard talking to two politicians over attempts to topple the present Congress government in the state, was arrested after undergoing interrogation by Rajasthan’s Special Operations Group (SOG) over his alleged involvement in the matter though he is yet to be formally arrested. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS said, “We had been questioning the accused since Thursday evening after the audio clip came to light and trying to ascertain his role in the matter. The questioning has been quite fruitful.” Jain was arrested under IPC Sections 120 A (sedition) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). His arrest was confirmed almost 24 hours after he was called in for questioning. According to officials, Jain hails from Bikaner though his affiliation to any political party has not been confirmed and Rathore said, “We do not know about any political party that Jain was affiliated with. It appears that he worked as a broker.” According to sources, Jain had prior affiliation with the Congress part and a political expert from Bikaner who wish not be named said, “Sanjay was the Congress block president of Lukaransar in Bikaner in 2000. Even his father was a member of the Congress committee in Lukaransar.” His father is a grain merchant in the local market though sources claimed that Jain essentially was into liasoning. Locals also claimed that Jain had tried his hand at working in film industry but did not succeed. Jain was called in for questioning after audio clips went viral in which he could be heard talking to Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and ‘Gajendra Singh’ following which Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi lodged two FIRs. The officials claimed that they questioned him about his conversations and still checking the authenticity of the audio recordings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-arrests-sanjay-jain/articleshow/77027374.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Remote village in Belthangady taluk turns into an island during monsoon||MANGALURU: Even seven decades after the Independence, 40 houses in Kadtimer, a remote village in Belthangady taluk with roads dating back to the British-era face a voluntary lockdown during monsoons. With their demand for a permanent bridge not being met, the people here are forced to live in an island during this monsoon. Every year, the villagers construct a temporary bridge across Yeluvare Halla near Kallanda-Kadtimer, but the stream widened during last year’s floods and they are unable to construct the bridge now. “We have been demanding the government and local administration for a bridge, but it has remained as a distant dream. Last August, ‘Yeluvare Halla’ has widened when the floods hit this village. Earlier we would build a temporary bridge across the stream every year, but it’s not possible this year,” said a helpless villager. ‘Yelluvare Halla’ stream flows between Mittabagilu-Malavantige village. When it rains, the stream swells and the people in and around Kadtimer cannot move out of village. The villagers, who eke out their livelihood through agriculture, have to reach Belthangady town for selling their products, purchase of essentials items and education. “The bridge will help people from Kadtimer, Badanaje, Yelyarakanda, Makki Parla, Kede, Kodi, Amei, Moodala, Malejodi, Banottu, Kakkeneji and adjoining villages,” said Ashok from Kadtimer. British-era roadsAccording to villagers, before Charamadi Ghat became prominent, the road was major connecting point to Belthangady in pre-Independenr India. Kings and others used to take route via Ballalarayana Durga and reach Belthangady in bullock carts. History also points out that Tipu Sultan also used same road to reach Jamalabad Fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/remote-village-in-belthangady-taluk-turns-into-an-island-during-monsoon/articleshow/77026445.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||HC adjourns hearing in PIL to retrieve bodies of victims of Kedarnath tragedy||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday adjourned the hearing for two weeks in the PIL requesting the court to direct the state and other authorities concerned to start a search for the bodies that were never retrieved after the 2013 floods that hit Kedarnath and its neighbouring areas. The bench of Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Narayan Singh Dhanik adjourned the hearing after the counsel appearing for the Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology said that he will obtain instructions and come up with the potential ways, if any, that can be used to retrieve the bodies. Ajay Veer Pundir, the counsel appearing for petitioner Ajay Gautam said that he had submitted before the court that something needs to be done to retrieve the bodies without disturbing the sensitive ecology of the upper Himalayan region. “Since it is an emotional issue, our argument has been that the government and other agencies should do whatever is possible to retrieve those bodies. We have also maintained that whatever steps are taken should be done keeping in view the sensitive ecology of the upper Himalayan region,” Pundir added. The June 2013 flash floods in the upper Himalayan region had swept through the hill districts of Rudraprayag, Uttarkashi, Chamoli and Pithoragarh. According to a report by the National Institute of Disaster Management, around 4,000 people died in the floods. The data given by the state government to the HC suggested that only around 680 bodies or skeletal remains have been retrieved or identified so far. The HC had, in July 2018, ruled that the state government would collect DNA samples of all the remains and skeletons, and perform a proper burial. The ruling was in the PIL filed in 2014 by Ajay Gautam who is the petitioner in the present case as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-adjourns-hearing-in-pil-to-retrieve-bodies-of-victims-of-kedarnath-tragedy/articleshow/77024874.cms||Prashant Jha
July 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Glitchy portal leads to long queues at property tax collection centres||Vijayawada: At a time when both the Centre and the state governments are asking the public to make online payments to prevent crowding, technical glitches in the online property tax payment portal have forced people to wait in long queues at tax collection centers. Urban local bodies (ULBs), which include municipal corporations and municipalities, have been offering a rebate on property tax if they were to pay their taxes before July 31. On Thursdays several tax collections centres across the city witnessed jostling crowds. When TOI approached some of the people standing in the queue at the tax collection center at AKTP Municipal High School, many of them complained that they wanted to pay their taxes online but they faced technical problems on the portals. Moreover, options to pay water and drainage charges online are unavailable, they said. “We have been paying our electricity bills online epayment gateways for years now. But the municipal administration department has not updated itself. I tried paying my property tax online twice and on both times the transaction failed owing to teachnical glitch. Besides, there is no provision to pay water and drain taxes online. We are forced to pay the bill at tax collection centers if we wish to get 5% rebate,” said Band I Satyanarayana, a resident of Gunadala. Moreover, a few other taxpayers complained that their wait had been protracted by frequent server errors. “Owing to poor connection at the tax payment center it is taking at least an hour to make a payment,” another person complained.  It was hence of little surprise that tax collection centers across the city were seen crowded and VMC authorities struggled to maintain physical distance. “Of course we are afraid of Covid-19 but there is no other option and hence here we are waiting in queues” said Vishunubotla Hari Narayana, a resident of Mutyalampadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/glitchy-portal-leads-to-long-queues-at-property-tax-collection-centres/articleshow/77007495.cms||Venu Lanka
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Third front never clicked in Raj||Jaipur: The bipolar politics of Rajasthan, since 1952, has survived at least a dozen attempts to develop a third front in the state. These ‘third option’ lasted, at maximum, for a decade or a couple of assembly polls before merged into either of two main parties making Rajasthan one of the few states with no established third front. The speculation over Sachin Pilot forming a new political party doesn’t seem to bother either the ruling Congress or the BJP given the failure of third fronts in the past. The most successful third front has been the Sawantra Party which contested three assembly polls (1962-1967-1972). Pitted primarily against the Congress, the party led by erstwhile Maharani Gaytri Devi of Jaipur emerged as an official opposition party in all three polls. In 1974, the party merged into Bharatiya Kranti Dal and vanished from the political landscape of the state. Since then several parties surfaced during the elections only to retire soon after the electorate buzz is over. The charm and charisma of the third front never touch It zenith even during the JP movement and since the rotation of power cycle between the Congress and BJP have become an unwritten law since 1985, the third front has become an illusion, except in 1990 polls. Rajya Sabha MP from BJP Kirori Lal Meena boarded the National People’s Party (NPP) which is mainly concentrated in the North East to dethrone its then arch-rival former CM Vasundhara Raje in 2012. The party which contested on 132 seats secured 13.12 lakh votes and snatched 4 seats in the 200-seat assembly in 2013. A former NPP party functionary lists out reasons for no possibility of the third front in Rajasthan. “Any party which claims to be an emerging third front in the state is immediately identified by the caste of its founder or top leader. In our case, our party was associated with Meena community leaving no support from the other dominant communities like Gujjars, Jats and Rajputs. The demography distribution of these castes is uneven and only a party with a national character can bring them together,” says a former NPP leader who is at present in BJP. The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party floated by former BJP leader Hanuman Beniwal has scored three seats in its maiden polls is an ally of BJP but still calls the third front in the state. Beniwal says that his front will last forever due to learning from the mistakes made by his predecessors. “None of the claimed third front leaders have spent a decade in the state raising public centric issues. Also, the existence of the third front is dependent upon social engineering or by politically associating with at least two dominant castes. The classic example is Samajwadi Party or RJD in Bihar ruled by Yadav-Muslims-Dalits,” said Beniwal. The party looked promising to be seen as a third front merged into BJP in March 2018. Other than Congress and BJP/BJS, the communist parties are consistently contesting polls since 1952 making their presence felt in the political landscape in the state. Every election the communist parties project themselves as the front runners for the third front but other than getting a few headlines their combined vote share doesn’t go beyond 2-3%. Amra Ram, MLA from Danta Ramgarh from CPIM says people in the state doesn’t have any regional aspirations and secondly penetration in the state which accounts for about 10% of the country’s land requires resources which is at present available at BJP or the Congress. “State has not seen any movement either related to the farmers or by industrial workers which would have exposed the two ruling parties,” said Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/third-front-never-clicked-in-raj/articleshow/77027386.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 18, 2020||Agra||AMU’s new academic session to start on August 5 through online mode||AGRA: The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has announced that its new academic session for 2020-21 will start on August 5 through online mode due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. An online viva-voce for final year students will also be conducted simultaneously. According to AMU officials, students will not be allowed to stay in hostels for the time being. The university has also urged students residing in hostels to vacate and leave for their hometowns in view of the university’s decision to have online classes for the new session. According to controller of examinations, Mujib Ullah Zuberi, 70% marks for the final year examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the 2019-20 academic session have already been evaluated by various means and the remaining 30% marks will be allotted on the basis of performance of students in the viva-voce conducted online from August 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amus-new-academic-session-to-start-on-august-5-through-online-mode/articleshow/77025915.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||Now, Lucknow University students can get all documents online with EASE||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University students will now have ‘EASE’ of obtaining and submitting documents to the university online. The facility of Electronic Access to Services of Examination (EASE) makes documents such as answer copies (viewing only), provisional degrees, migration, transcript, scrutiny and others available to students online. EASE was launched on Friday. Now, students will not need to take rounds of examination departments or wait for weeks to get documents. “At a time when social distancing is must, we are making efforts to ensure that everything is available online to students so that they need not come to the campus,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava. He said the students will get documents via university portal by registering with an email ID. An ID can be registered only once by uploading all required documents. Then, they can select the service they want to avail of. “The University will take 7-15 days to verify the request and the student will be notified about the status of their request via email and phone,” Srivastava said. In the coming days, more services will be added and the facility will be upgraded. The facility will not only save students’ time and energy but also the resources and manpower of the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-lu-students-can-get-all-documents-online-with-ease/articleshow/77027379.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Incessant rain damages houses, property in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU/ MADIKERI: Udupi and Dakshina Kannada (DK) districts received copious rain on Friday. There were reports of damage caused to houses and property due to the incessant rain, that has been lashing the districts since the past three days, While a house was damaged due to rain at Jalsoor in Sullia taluk, a compound wall of a house collapsed due to rain at Bajpe near Mangaluru. A house got completely damaged at Bondathila after a tree fell on it. A petrol bunk was also damaged after a hillslide at Mittakodi, Mudipu Gram Panchayat limits. In the last 24 hours till 8.30 am on Friday, the district received an average of 81 mm rain, with Sullia taluk receiving the highest rain at 95mm, followed by Puttur taluk at 81mm. Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks received 74mm and 77mm of rain, respectively. Udupi district received an average of 90 mm rain. The highest rain of 162 mm was recorded at Kirimanjeshawara in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district in the state. Udupi district received 74% excess rain as against the normal average for the day at 81mm. In DK, it was 50% more for the day at 57 mm and Uttara Kannada received 36 mm rain, which was 7% more than normal. The KSNMDC bulletin stated that high waves in the range of 2.7m-3.7m were forecast along the coast of Karnataka from Mangaluru to Karwar, and warned fishermen not to venture into the sea. House collapses in south Kodagu A 25-year-old woman sustained injuries when a house collapsed due to heavy rain in Ponnappasanthe, South Kodagu on Thursday. The woman, identified as Mallige, is undergoing treatment at Government Hospital in Madikeri. The family belonging to the scheduled caste had abandoned the house which was in a dilapidated condition and had moved into newly built sheet-roofed house. However, on Thursday, the old house collapsed on the new one. Fortunately, five other family members escaped unhurt. Ponnapmet sub-inspector D Kumar, revenue officer Harish and others visited the spot. In another incident, a house was partially damaged near Nellihudikeri College in Siddapur area after a huge tree fell on it on Friday in heavy rains. The house belongs to Madu Madappa. PDO Anil kumar visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/incessant-rain-damages-houses-property-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/77026246.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hubballi||Demand for oximeters surges in Hubballi-Dharwad||HUBBALLI: Hypoxia is a condition wherein the oxygen content in one’s blood dips below what is considered safe, and the reason this particular disorder has come into focus now is that it happens to be a symptom of Covid-19. The content of oxygen in the blood can be measured with the aid of oximeters, owing to which the device is now in huge demand in Hubballi-Dharwad. Moreover, with the health department in the state mandating possession of oximeters for asymptomatic patients opting for home quarantine, the demand for the relatively small medical instrument has shot up. Dr Ashok Gudagunti, a pulmonologist at Hubballi Asthma Allergy Chest Clinic, said that most asymptomatic patients suffered a peculiar condition called ‘happy hypoxia’, wherein there is a decrease in the partial pressure of oxygen in the blood. “Oximeters will help detect this and set it right,” Dr Gudagunti said. Pointing to the speed with which the results were displayed on the oximeter, the doctor said, “One can learn one’s pulse and blood oxygen level within seconds. If the reading for blood saturation level shows 90% or lower, it is a sign that the patient needs to rush to the hospital. People must follow the instructions in the manual while using the device in order to obtain accurate results.” Raju T Pawar of Somnath Medicals in Deshpande Nagar in Hubballi said that he had sold more than 40 oximeters in the past fortnight. “We are selling both Indian-made and Japanese oximeters at a discounted price,” he said. Sanjay Shetti, another pharmacist in Hubballi, said that in addition to the public, he had received orders for pulse oximeters in bulk from several hospitals and clinics. In Gadag, pulse oximeters were distributed to all the 122 gram panchayats in the district, with all the panchayat development officers being trained in its use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/demand-for-oximeters-surges-in-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/77025729.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
July 18, 2020||Trichy||‘Regular health check-up must for people with comorbidities’||Trichy: Medical experts have advised people in the high-risk category, irrespective of their age, to go for regular health check-ups as the number of cases is constantly rising in the central districts.According to the state bulletin, most of the 63 Covid-19 casualties in the central districts till July 15, were people above 60 years of age. They also had comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, heart failure, HIV and tuberculosis.Among these, a 39-year-old man from Pudukottai was the youngest to succumb to the disease. The patient, who died at the Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital on July 17, had decompensated chronic liver disease and portal hypertension besides Covid-19.Another 45-year-old patient who died at the government hospital in Thanjavur on July 13 had systemic hypertension, acute stroke syndrome, right hemiplegia, left thalamo capsular ICH and respiratory failure.Chief cardiologist of Rana Hospitals in Trichy, Dr Senthilkumar Nallusamy, said that people with any of the comorbidities should have their health checked as advised by the physician to shield themselves from the viral infection.Trichy collector S Sivarasu said on Thursday that only three of the 30 casualties in Trichy were below 60 years of age. “All of them had comorbidities,” he said.Dean of MGMGH, Dr K Vanitha said that a team of doctors was analyzing the cause of death of Covid-19 patients. “Diabetes and hypertension are the common comorbidities of those who died. People in their 40s can recover if they keep blood sugar level and hypertension under control,” she said.Deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy, Dr A Subramani expressed concern over the reluctance of the people with NCD in urban areas to visit government hospitals for follow-up due to stigma. “Early detection and visit to the government health facility will save life,” said Subramani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/regular-health-check-up-must-for-people-with-comorbidities/articleshow/77027388.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Joka Metro track laying starts after years of delay||KOLKATA: The Joka-Esplanade Metro corridor, a pet project of CM Mamata Banerjee that has missed several deadlines, has taken a step towards completion with the beginning of the track-laying process. Banerjee had flagged off the project, which she had conceived during her tenure as the railway minister in 2009-10, in July 2011. Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), which is implementing most of the Metro projects currently under way, hopes to complete the work — the laying of ballast-less tracks that has started near Joka Metro station — along the 8.5-km viaduct till Taratala by December this year. And if all goes well, the truncated stretch will be commissioned by September 2021. The latest hurdle to have hit the key Metro corridor was the collapse of the Majerhat bridge, for which the construction of the viaduct beyond Taratala and the station at Majerhat had been affected. Work for the Majerhat Metro station can start only after the bridge, a span of which had collapsed on September 4 in 2018, is completed and commissioned in September this year. Meanwhile, RVNL is facilitating the construction of the section till Taratala so that trains can start running along this stretch. With most of the land logjam resolved, construction activity is on in full swing for the terminal Joka station. The other stations are also being completed. “In ballast-less tracks, rails are rigidly fastened to a special type of concrete ties or sleepers that are set in concrete. Ballast-less tracks offer high consistency in track geometry. The advantages of ballast-less track over traditional superstructure are its highly consistent track geometry, longer life span and the reduced need for maintenance,” said an engineer. The ballast-less technology facilitates the movement of trains at high speed. Even though the nomenclature of the Joka-BBD Bag Metro project hasn’t changed, the corridor, originally planned as a 16-km link from Joka till Dalhousie Square or BBD Bag, would now terminate in Esplanade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/joka-metro-track-laying-starts-after-years-of-delay/articleshow/77026831.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 18, 2020||Nashik||‘Dhule may see fewer cases than projected’||Nashik: The Dhule administration on Friday said that the total number of positive novel coronavirus cases in the district would be lesser than what the government has projected. “The government has projected that the district would have about 7,000 positive cases by July 31. But, we are confident that the total number of cases would be much lower than that,” said district health officials. To buttress the claims, the official said that the projection of total number of positive Covid cases in Dhule by July 12 was 4,600. However, the district had around 1,500 cases. District Covid-19 coordinator Vishal Patil told TOI that the ongoing robust tracking and testing of suspected Covid-19 patients is aiding in curbing the spread of infection. Patients are being treated early after testing positive for Covid-19.  “About 250 health teams are active across the district, including Dhule city carrying out survey of suspected patients on a daily basis,” added Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-may-see-fewer-cases-than-projected/articleshow/77024887.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||No contact with cases, yet 4.7% test antibody positive||Nagpur: Even though no community spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) has been officially announced, around 4.7% of the persons who were non-contacts of Covid-19 patients have tested positive for antibodies in the district during sero-surveillance drive. TOI on July 13 had reported the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP) starting random sero-surveillance drive for conducting antibody tests of 850 persons each in city and rural. Of them, 700 were to be tested in non-containment zones and 150 in containment zones in both city and rural parts. As on date, the NMC has tested 608 persons in non-containment zones of which 19 (3.12%) tested antibody positive, indicating they may have been infected by the novel coronavirus but got cured. In rural areas, ZP conducted tests on 325 persons in non-containment zones of which 20 tested positive and 100 in containment zones of which nine came positive, for a positivity rate of 6.82% of all 425 cases. Overall, the district’s positivity rate is 4.7% as 48 have been found positive from the total 1,033 antibody tests. Further testing is continuing. If tested positive for antibody, it also means the person was asymptomatic when infected by Covid and cured on its own immunity. What is worrisome is that one Covid positive person can infect over 400 people if not isolated in time, as has been highlighted by a study of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As per World Health Organization, one Covid positive person can infect 800 others. In May, the ICMR for the first time had conducted sero-surveillance drive on pilot basis across the country. The study was conducted in 83 districts covering 28,595 households. In June, ICMR revealed that only 0.73% tested positive and declared there was no community spread in the country. The number of Covid-19 cases has increased to a great extent since easing of the lockdown from June 1. The number of areas from where cases have been reported also increased manifold. In comparison with ICMR’s study, the drive being conducted in the district revealed high percentage of positivity under the antibody test. Officials in the NMC and ZP told TOI, “There are no guidelines as to what steps should be taken after the drive. It is basically a study to know whether Covid-19 has spread in other areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-contact-with-cases-yet-4-7-test-antibody-positive/articleshow/77025982.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 18, 2020||Agra||Gram pradhan's son, aide arrested with Rs 32.70 lakh demonetised bank notes||AGRA: Agra police arrested two men, including a gram pradhan's son, with demonetised bank notes with a value of Rs 32.70 lakh. Identified as Bhav Singh and Neeraj Tomar, the duo was attempting to contact a banker in order to exchange the illegal currency into legal tender. Bhav Singh’s father, Atar Singh, is a gram pradhan of Ruppur village in Fatehabad area. Ajay Kaushal, SHO, Hariparvat, said, “During interrogation, the duo claimed that some seven months ago, a builder, Rakesh Shivhare of Bhawan Estate, had given them Rs 32.70 lakh worth demonetised notes in exchange for Rs 1.20 lakh new currency, as he urgently needed needed cash. But a few hours later, Shivhare committed suicide, leaving Bhav Singh and Tomar in the lurch with the demonetised notes.” Since then, the duo was trying to exchange the illegal currency into legal one. After an input from a source, they were caught while they trying to contact a banker to help them with the cash, said the SHO. The two were booked under IPC section 420 (cheating) and Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017. On Friday afternoon, the two were presented at the district court, from where they were sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/gram-pradhans-son-aide-arrested-with-rs-32-70-demonetised-bank-notes/articleshow/77025940.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Justice Malimath to be acting CJ of U'khand HC||Nainital: The Union ministry of law and justice on Thursday notified the appointment of Justice Ravi Vijaykumar Malimath as the acting Chief Justice of the Uttarakhand high court (HC) from July 28. Justice Malimath, the senior-most judge of the HC, will replace Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan who is set to retire on July 27. A notification to this effect was issued by Rajinder Kashyap, joint secretary (administration & appointment) of the department of justice. According to the Uttarakhand high court dossier, 58-year-old Justice Malimath was enrolled as an advocate in January 1987 in Bengaluru and practised in constitutional, civil, criminal, labour and service matters mainly at the Karnataka HC. He was later appointed as the additional judge of the Karnataka HC in February 2008 and permanent judge in February 2010. Justice Malimath joined the Uttarakhand HC in February this year The outgoing Chief Justice Ranganathan, meanwhile, had joined the Uttarakhand HC in November 2018 and served as the Chief Justice for a year and 20 months. The division bench headed by Chief Justice Ranganathan will deliver two significant judgements – on Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act and on the PIL seeking permanent campus for NIT Uttarakhand – before his retirement. The judgement in both these cases has been reserved by the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/justice-malimath-to-be-acting-cj-of-ukhand-hc/articleshow/77024888.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||After spurt in Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand enforces weekend lockdown in 4 districts||DEHRADUN: In the wake of sudden spurt in Covid-19 positive cases, the Uttarakhand government has decided to enforce a complete lockdown on Saturday and Sunday in four districts – Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar – which have reported the maximum number of infections in the state. The state government has permitted shops related to emergency services, dairy, hotels, liquor and medical stores to remain open during the weekend. Besides, construction activities, movement of goods on national highways and state highways, too, have been permitted during this duration. A circular issued by chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh to the senior state officials mentions that “there shall be a complete lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays in the districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital, except for essential services, including operation of industrial units in multiple shifts, agricultural and construction activities, liquor shops, hotels, movement of people associated with these activities, movement of goods on national and state highways, loading and unloading of cargo and people travelling to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes.” The circular further mentions, “There shall be an upper limit of 1,500 people per day, including those coming from trains and planes, and for all inbound individuals travelling to the state without undergoing RT-PCR tests. In exceptional circumstances, DMs will be allowed to issue around 50 permits, over and above this limit, to those in distress.” After 199 positive cases surfaced in the state on Thursday, 120 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state on Friday taking the total number of cases to 4,102. Out of these, 999 cases are from Dehradun, 671 from Udham Singh Nagar, 648 from Nainital and 455 from Haridwar. Out of the total of 4,102 cases, the four major districts make up for 2,773 cases. Speaking about the weekend lockdown decision, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “There has been a spurt in the number of cases. On Thursday alone, 199 positive cases were reported. We need to create a gap and stop the cycle. For long, traders, too, had been saying that shops should be kept open only for five days in the week. We therefore felt that the situation demands a lockdown.” He added, “Like earlier, we are going to use the weekend for proper sanitisation. Our focus would be in cities and areas from where the maximum number of positive cases have been reported.” On being asked whether the weekend lockdown would continue in future, he said, “We will analyse the situation next week and then decide accordingly. Throughout the unlock phase, we have taken decisions on the basis of the developments each week.” Earlier, the state government had enforced a lockdown during weekends in Dehradun. The move was initiated after a high number of Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state capital, especially in Niranjanpur wholesale vegetable market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-spurt-in-covid-19-cases-ukhand-enforces-weekend-lockdown-in-4-districts/articleshow/77024903.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 18, 2020||Trichy||Patients testing +ve after death continue||Trichy: Following instances of people being brought dead and declared Covid-19 positive, hospitals in Trichy have shifted focus on the need to carry-out screening to identify unnoticed cases. A 70-year-old man from EB Road in Trichy, who fell sick on July 12, was shifted to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) but was declared brought dead. Swab collected from the body later showed that he was infected with Covid-19. The Fort police registered a case of unnatural death on July 15. A 60-year-old woman from Pugazhiyapillai Street was brought dead to the MGMGH on July 14. Covid-19 test was done on her as per protocol and the result, which came on July 16, showed her as positive. The Fort police registered a case. According to police, both of them had some illness but did not get tested for Covid-19. Police sources said that their family members also had no clue as to how they contracted the disease. Other cases include a 77-year-old man from KK Nagar, who was declared brought dead at the MGMGH on July 4, and a 60-year-old man from Thillai Nagar, who was found dead inside his house on July 5. Both of them tested positive in the post-death Covid-19 testing. Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasuramanian said the process of identifying senior citizens has commenced. “Our workers are calling up the senior citizens by taking their contacts from the voters list. Some people feel that they are being disturbed but we appeal to them to come forward for screening to avoid health complications during the pandemic,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/patients-testing-ve-after-death-continue/articleshow/77027398.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Firhad nudge saves Amphan-hit tree||Kolkata: A 25-feet Radhachura tree, which got uprooted when Cyclone Amphan swept through south Bengal, got a new lease of life after a one-and-a-half-month-long wait. The tree was lucky for being a ‘neighbour’ of Firhad Hakim, chairman of the KMC board of administrators, on Chetla Road. A special team from Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) parks department was called by Hakim for the revival of the tree close to his house. Hakim was present while the civic team of workers and senior officials were at work to transplant the tree. An elated Hakim on Friday expressed his satisfaction through one of his tweets, saying the tree could be brought back to life. New leaves that have sprouted gave him joy and he pledged to take up more such efforts, whenever needed, to restore the greenery of the city. Sources in the KMC parks department confirmed that three large trees, which had been uprooted by Amphan on Pratapaditya Road, were restored after Mala Roy, a Trinamool MP and a local resident, requested the civic body for transplantation. “We are glad to notice that we have been able to save several full-grown trees across the city, which were uprooted by the cyclone,” said a KMC parks department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/firhad-nudge-saves-amphan-hit-tree/articleshow/77026835.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Embargo on flights to West Bengal from six ‘high-risk’ cities extended till July 31||KOLKATA: The civil aviation ministry on Friday evening extended the temporary restriction on flights from six cities in states with high Covid-19 prevalence to Kolkata till July 31. The embargo on these flights was scheduled to end on Monday. Officials in the civil aviation ministry said the decision had been taken following a request from the state government. Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha wrote to civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola on Friday morning, seeking the extension on the embargo on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur and Ahmedabad. Several other states including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra and Telangana have similar restrictions on flight arrivals. Though there is no official restriction on flights from Kolkata to the six cities, airlines have cancelled these flights as well citing logistics issues. The fortnight-long ban had come into effect from July 6 and was to end on July 19. Anticipating flights would commence, all airlines had opened bookings on these sectors and received enthusiastic response from flyers. Immediately after Kolkata airport’s official Twitter handle announced the news of the flight ban extension at 7.46pm, it triggered a flurry of queries from passengers booked on flights to these cities between July 20 and 31. “Is the IndiGo flight from Mumbai to Kolkata on July 21 cancelled? asked Saket Srivastava. “Does it mean the direct SpiceJet flight from Kolkata to Delhi on July 26 is also cancelled?” inquired Arijit Dey, who is booked on an international flight to Germany on July 27. Airlines officials said they had gone ahead and reopened bookings on flights as the state government remained silent on the ban issue till Friday. “We can understand that the state has concerns about allowing flights to operate from states that have high Covid cases to Kolkata. But it can spare passengers and airlines much hassle if the intent and decision is conveyed earlier,” an airline official said. The flight count at Kolkata airport had reduced from 65-70 prior to the ban to 40-41 after July 6. With the six sectors among the busiest routes, the ban led to the daily passenger count nosediving by 6,000-7,000 from 15,000-plus to around 9,000. The travel trade viewed the ban as yet another blow to the already foundering business and argued that Covid cases had actually spiked two-fold since the ban came into force. They also pointed out that passengers, who were desperate to travel from these cities to Kolkata, actually did so via other cities after coughing up for the additional flight leg. On Wednesday, one such flyer, who had tested positive, had boarded a flight from Mumbai to Guwahati before taking another to Kolkata. The Bengal government had earlier in May requested the civil aviation ministry to delay the restart of domestic flights, citing the difficulties it was facing in the aftermath of the Amphal cyclone. Hence, while flights resumed in the rest of the country on May 25, it took off in Bengal only on May 28. Then too, the number of flights had been restricted to just 10 initially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/embargo-on-flights-to-bengal-from-6-high-risk-cities-extended-till-july-31/articleshow/77026832.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 18, 2020||Trichy||4 more pvt labs in Trichy to perform Covid tests||Trichy: Four more private laboratories would start performing Covid-19 tests in Trichy district from Monday, collector S Sivarasu has said. The announcement was made after the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) gave its approval. The new labs will come up at the Apollo Hospitals in Trichy, GVN Hospitals Private Limited at Singarathoppu, Magnum Imaging and Diagnostics Private Limited at Sivaprakasam Salai in Thennur and Neuberg Ehrlich Laboratory Private Limited in Trichy. “The district already has one ICMR-approved private laboratory. The new labs would start functioning from Monday,” collector told reporters on Thursday. Doctors Diagnostics Centre (DDC) in Woraiyur, which was the first private institute to function in the district, performed 100 to 120 Covid-19 tests daily. The collector also said that the KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College has been equipped with facilities to churn out results for 1,050 samples in three shifts. In the past one week, Trichy recorded an average 1,140 Covid-19 tests daily. The highest number was 1,640 three days back, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-more-pvt-labs-in-trichy-to-perform-covid-tests/articleshow/77027392.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nashik||Civic commissioner reviews infrastructure at hospitals||NASHIK: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Friday visited the state government’s ESIS hospital and the Nashik district civil hospital in the city to review the infrastructure and explore the possibilities of increasing ventilators and oxygen beds there. The city’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Avinash Palod, district civil surgeon Suresh Jagadale and other officials were with Game during the vist. Civic officials said there has been an increase in Covid-19 cases in the city and the number is expected to shoot up by July-end. Hence, the review.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-commissioner-reviews-infrastructure-at-hospitals/articleshow/77024906.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||CM for Covid control centre in each dist||Lucknow: A day ahead of the second weekend curbs across the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath addressed district administration officials, health and police personnel via video conferencing, directing them to ensure that during Saturday and Sunday, a concerted sanitization, sanitation and Covid testing drives were carried out in their respective districts. The CM especially sought details of the Covid-19 situation, door-to-door surveys, surveillance, rapid testing, contact tracing for districts like Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur City, Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Etah, Mathura, Gonda, Basti, Gorakhpur, Kushinagar, Ballia, Varanasi, Sonbhadra, Prayagraj and Jhansi. These are the districts where Covid cases have been rising rapidly. Yogi has directed each district to set up an integrated command and control centre to establish coordination between the various agencies and officials who are involved in Covid duties. He has also said that districts are free to take decisions on containment zones but should ensure that there is strict compliance of rules. Rapid antigen testing is also to be increased in each district through the door-to-door surveillance mechanism. The CM said that during screening, if anyone is found to display any Covid-linked symptoms, they should be checked using rapid antigen kits and admitted immediately to hospital if they test positive. District administrations have also been told to establish contact with private hospitals, Indian Medical Association, and nursing associations to ensure that the best possible treatment can be given to Coronavirus patients. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi stressed on strict checking for wearing of masks, using public address systems to create awareness about Covid-19 and other communicable diseases, monitoring of containment areas using drones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-for-covid-control-centre-in-each-dist/articleshow/77027391.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nashik||Valuables worth Rs 1.40L stolen in house break-in||Nashik: The Mhasrul police have registered an offence against unidentified people for breaking into a closed house and decamping with gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 1.40 lakh. The incident occurred between 10 pm on Wednesday and 7 am on Thursday when the owner of the house was away, police said. The the complainant returned home and found valuables including a golden necklace, finger rings, ear rings, nose rings some silver jewellery and cash of Rs 20,000 cash missing. According to complainant Prabhakar Lahamge (46), a resident of Makhmalabad, he found that the main door was broken and most of the cupboards were forced open. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/valuables-worth-rs-1-40l-stolen-in-house-break-in/articleshow/77024916.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Madurai||South TN crosses 26K cases, records 11 deaths||Madurai/Trichy: The southern region of Tamil Nadu crossed the 25,000 landmark in Covid-19 positive cases so far on Friday when the ten districts added another 1,484 cases to touch 26,341 altogether besides registering eleven deaths. There were 13,168 active cases among them and 11 imported cases while 12,851 have recovered so far. On its part, the central region witnessed the highest single-day spike of 340 cases pushing the total tally of the eight districts to 6,129 and recording three more deaths to take the overall toll to 66. Among the 11 deaths in the southern region included a 42-year-old woman from Madurai who had learning difficulties. Admitted to a private hospital on July 11 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing, she died on Wednesday evening. Madurai (263) continued to add the most number of cases followed by Virudhunagar (196), Tuticorin (189), Theni (175), Dindigul (163), Kanyakumari (151) and Tirunelveli (119). Kanyakumari (2,041) became the seventh district in the region to cross 2,000 cases while Tuticorin (3,129) became the second district in the south to cross 3,000 cases. The positivity rate in Theni was 26.08% on Friday as 175 of 671 samples tested positive. Among the central districts, Thanjavur emerged on top with 117 cases on Friday taking its tally to 952.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-crosses-26k-cases-records-11-deaths/articleshow/77027432.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: East-West Metro site in New Town on revised containment list||KOLKATA: A pocket in New Town was for the first time included on the revised containment zone list for North 24 Parganas on Friday even as the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) intensified its fight against the novel coronavirus. The earmarked area is an East-West Metro’s project site—ITD-ITD CEM JV’s Rajarhat casting yard in Action Area II E.  As a measure to minimize the spread of the virus, the NKDA officials have decided to keep all market complexes in New Town shut this Saturday and Sunday, when a thorough sanitisation drive will be conducted and disinfectants will be sprayed over the weekend. “We are trying to break the chain of the novel coronavirus. As a preventive measure, we are keeping all markets in New Town closed this Saturday and Sunday. We are seeking everybody’s cooperation,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. NKDA Officials pointed out the closure rule would not be applicable on malls in the area for now. Apart from this, the authorities have deployed around 100 of their security guards across the township to ensure people wear masks and maintain social distancing while out on streets. The authorities are taking daily stock of the situation in its Covid war-room meetings. Drones are also being used to keep an eye on the township, especially on markets. Besides, hoardings have been put up and announcements are being made on dos and dont’s. In Salt Lake, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is keeping several markets closed on alternate days and urging all standalone shops to shut after 5pm. Markets in Baguiati area are also kept shut once in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-site-in-new-town-on-revised-containment-list/articleshow/77026837.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Agra||Two killed as SUV collides head-on with truck on NH-2||AGRA: Two people were killed and two injured at 2am on Friday when a speeding SUV suffered a head-on collision with a truck on NH-2. The accident took place near Naushera canal under Shikohabad police limits, where one side of the road was under-construction, as a result of which the two-way traffic had been diverted to one side. The deceased were identified as Harimohan Singh (40) and Deshraj Singh (28) of Sumerpur village of Sirsaganj. The injured, Govind (16) and Shailender (35), were relocated to Agra SNMC. Firozabad superintendent of police (rural) Rajesh Kumar said, “The victims were returning from a birthday party. Two of them were killed on the spot, as their car suffered a head-on-collision with a truck.” Another accident was reported in Makhnapur area, where a private bus coming from Delhi hit the rear of a truck parked on the side lane. Around 15 passengers were reportedly injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-killed-as-suv-collides-head-on-with-truck-on-nh-2/articleshow/77025991.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||Drones to keep vigil on sanitization, crowding in containment zones||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed officials to use drones to keep an eye on sanitation works and crowding in containment zones and ensure that Covid-19 protocol is followed, especially over the weekend. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said drone cameras would provide a hawk eye view to surveillance teams and help them implement restrictions in containment zones. “We will be able to monitor if crowd has gathered somewhere or whether people are following rules by remaining indoors in containment zones. Cameras will also be used to check whether sanitization drives are being implemented properly,” he said. “The CM has also said that an Integrated Covid Command Centre should be set up in each district and a central command centre for the state. These centres will help in establishing coordination between various teams and officials from the administration, health department and police who have been assigned Covid duty,” Awasthi added. These centres will also be used to organise medical screenings, ambulance services and surveillance. Awasthi said the centres would run on the lines of the relief commissioner’s office and added that a centre would be set up in Lucknow soon. The CM has also issued directions to strengthen door-to-door medical screening by surveillance teams in urban areas, especially in containment zones. “Rapid antigen testing will be used extensively during screening and a target has been set for each district depending on its population. In districts where population is less than 25 lakh, at least 500 rapid antigen tests should be carried out each day. If the population is more than 25 lakh, 1,000 tests will be performed every day,” Awasthi said. “We have set a target of 1,500 tests a day for Lucknow. At least 5,000 testing kits should be available in small districts and 10,000 in big districts. If someone is found with symptoms of virus during screening, surveillance team should immediately use antigen kit for testing. If Covid-19 test comes out to be positive, the patient should be taken to Covid hospital immediately,” Awasthi said, adding that the district magistrate and chief medical officers have been made responsible for the exercise. The CM has also given directions to strengthen ambulance services and keep separate ambulance service for Covid and non-Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drones-to-keep-vigil-on-sanitization-crowding-in-containment-zones/articleshow/77027403.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Trichy||Taluk govt hospitals to get beds with centralized oxygen supply||Trichy: Stepping up the fight against Covid-19, the Trichy district administration has shifted its focus to taluk government hospitals to equip the beds with centralized oxygen facilities. Ever since Covid-19 cases continued to rise, the government had asked the district administration and the health department to keep the beds except those reserved for emergency medical care, paediatrics, labour and dialysis, for Covid-19 treatment with oxygen facility.Speaking to TOI, joint director of health services (JDHS), Trichy, Dr S Lakshmi said that work on setting up of centralized oxygen supply facility, has commenced. The facility will come up at the government headquarters hospital in Manapparai, taluk government hospitals in Srirangam, Mannachanallur, Thuvakudi , Lalgudi, Thuvarankurichi, Musiri, Thottiyam and Thuraiyur. While the Manapparai and Srirangam hospitals would have around 100 beds each with oxygen facility, the other hospitals will have about 50% of the their total capacity.“The government has ordered to provide oxygen supply to beds in government hospitals in taluks. We are planning to complete the work on a war-footing in a week’s time,” Lakshmi said. A non-taluk hospital at Omandhur will also be considered for a similar facility. Sources said that these beds can be utilized in case of overcrowding of Covid-19 patients at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). The MGMGH is playing the role of a full-fledged hospital in treating Covid-19 patients. The hospital has already kicked-off work to provide oxygen supply to 600 beds in the six-storey super-specialty block. Sources said that the work is almost complete. Six more private hospitals have also joined the fight with around 350 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/taluk-govt-hospitals-to-get-beds-with-centralized-oxygen-supply/articleshow/77027409.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||HM charge of honeytrapper being BJP man roils the party||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, in city on Friday, stirred a hornet’s nest by claiming alleged honeytrapper Sahil Sayyed was ‘BJP member for last six years’ and also having ‘business partnerships’ with former guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and ex-BJP MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh with whom he was ‘close’.The audio clip regarding honeytrapping senior leaders, which TOI was the first to report, has now triggered a political blame game between BJP and NCP with supporters of both flooding social media with images of Sayyed with the leaders of opposite camp. Former mayor and BJP city president Pravin Datke said Sayyed was never a member of BJP and condemned the content of the letter Deshmukh wrote to leader of the opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis mentioning the allegations.On July 14, Fadnavis had written to Deshmukh demanding a high-level inquiry into the content of the audio clip in which Sayyed was allegedly discussing with another (Ashish Rathod alias Maddy, a murder convict) about honeytrapping Mayor Sandip Joshi and BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari for raising voice against the malpractices of a senior medical officer of NMC. Tiwari’s complaint has also now led to the registration of an offence of defamation, threatening and criminal conspiracy against Sayyed and another at Tehsil police station. The case is being probed by crime branch. Apart from demanding the probe, Fadnavis had also mentioned in his letter regarding the reference of the home minister’s name in the audio content by the speaker for anti-social elements. The home minister, in his reply to Fadnavis’s letter, mentioned Sayyed was trying to implicate the leaders from his own party through honeytrapping was ‘surprising’ and it was a matter of party’s internal dispute. He also stated that ‘BJP member’ Sayyed has mentioned ‘managing’ the judiciary following which he has instituted an inquiry. Talking to the media, Deshmukh later underlined the fact that Sayyed episode was all about BJP’s internal dispute which they must try and solve among themselves. Meanwhile, Bawankule and Deshmukh wrote to Fadnavis denying allegations labeled by him and demanding that the senior NCP leader must take back the charges of ‘business partnership with Sayyed’ leveled against them.Bawankule told TOI Sayyed’s father and his uncle were colleagues for 35 years and hence he knew him. “Let the home minister prove I have business partnership with him (Sayyed) then I will give him a reward (of Re 1) too. Writing such letter does not suit the home minister,” he said. “In politics, people do meet each other. It is routine,” said Bawankule.Former MLA from West Nagpur Sudhakar Deshmukh too had hit back at the home minister. “He (Sayyed) did come to meet me with his grievances of crematorium and other local issues as a resident of my constituency but nothing beyond it. The home minister must resign if he cannot prove the charges leveled against me,” he said. City BJP president Datke too released a video condemning the letter and demanding home minister Deshmukh should take his allegations back at once. “The offence related to the audio clip has just been registered and the probe is underway. The home minister had the police to get the facts checked and probed before penning such a letter indicting our leaders without any reason,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hm-charge-of-honeytrapper-being-bjp-man-roils-the-party/articleshow/77026041.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 18, 2020||Trichy||Intense lockdown brings down new cases in Trichy||Trichy: A week after Trichy Corporation established a containment zone with intense lockdown restrictions in Big Bazaar, new cases in the area have come down. From reporting 5-10 fresh positive cases per day in the previous weeks, it has come down to 2-3 cases per day in the last week. The lockdown has also prevented local transmission in the area. Since July 10, Trichy Corporation has sealed more than 30 entry points to Big Bazaar street on July 10, health officials said that no one could come in or go out. Wards 16, 17 and 18 were sealed as they were found to be spreading the infection to other zones and localities in the city. Since all the shops except those selling essential commodities were closed, traders and customers having their houses located in other parts of the city stopped accessing the commercial streets. Residents and the civic body officials acknowledged that the restrictions were adhered to by the local population. One week after the city’s largest-ever containment zone came into existence, officials have found that fresh infections have decreased by 60%. So far, 153 positive cases were reported in the three wards around Big Bazaar street, of which only 17 positive cases were reported in the last week during the intense lockdown. The 17 fresh positive cases were identified as primary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients and not to local transmission. Kalla street, Sandhukadai street and Kammala streets have not reported fresh cases while Sowrashtra street, White Betal street and Thayyalkara street had cases in the past week. While senior authorities have been mulling for relaxing the lockdown in Big Bazaar street in a phased manner, a section of health officials and residents pitched for continuing the restrictions till July 24. “A final decision is to be taken, but the recurrence of new positive cases has certainly come down due to the containment efforts,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/intense-lockdown-brings-down-new-cases-in-trichy/articleshow/77027425.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 18, 2020||Mangaluru||In Mangaluru, common burial ground for Covid victims planned||Mangaluru: In the wake of growing resistance from residents of various localities in Mangaluru against burial of Covid-19 victims in their vicinity, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has decided to identify a common burial ground. Recently, following protests by residents on Bolar, the body of a Covid-19 victim remained in the ambulance for hours together. The residents refused to allow the victim to be laid to rest at a burial ground attached to a mosque. The victim, who had been a resident of Idya in Surathkal, was subsequently laid to rest at a ground near his home. In a bid to avoid such instances in the future, the district administration has identified a burial ground on the outskirts of Mangaluru. Mangaluru MLA and senior Congress member UT Khader said that he had discussed the problem at length with the officials of the Dakshina Kannada district administration, and had suggested they look for a relatively isolated space on the outskirts of Mangaluru city in order to avoid confrontation with the public. “A parcel of land at Badaga Yekkuru, some 20km from the city has been identified as being suitable for the burial ground, but the district administration is yet to take a final decision,” Khader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/in-mangaluru-common-burial-ground-for-covid-victims-planned/articleshow/77026043.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||Ambush witness and Vikas Dubey aide’s wife may turn approver, gets cop cover||KANPUR: While slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s wife Richa was let off after a five-hour interrogation, Manu — wife of an arrested henchman Sashikant Pandey — is suddenly holding centrestage in police investigations after the surfacing of back-to-back audio clips in which she was purportedly heard mobilizing menfolk to take sniper position on rooftops and conniving with the don and misleading cops. After two days of rigorous questioning in detention, Manu, a crucial eyewitness to the Bikru bloodbath, was released on Friday and sent home under heavy police protection. With Manu singing in custody, police sources told TOI, she may be made an approver in the case. Manu confided to investigators that she and her husband were ready to provide details on the ambush. Police sources told TOI, their statements would be taken under Section 164 CrPC for recording confessions and statements by a magistrate during investigation. After 48-hour detention, Manu was sent back to her Bikru home under heavy police cover on Friday. “Though, she did not make a formal request for protection, two constables have been deployed round-the-clock outside her house after analyzing threat perception,” said a police official. This gives credence to the theory that she’s crucial to the probe and may turn approver, said sources. “During preliminary interrogation, Manu revealed details on aides who reached the Dubey’s residence on the fateful night and sequence of events leading to the carnage and what happened next. Besides Manu, her mother-in-law was another witness. Manu’s statements will give police crucial leads to investigate and verify multiple murders on the night of July 3,” said a police official. Manu’s husband Sashikant, who was arrested late Monday, had accused the gangster of orchestrating the ambush while talking to reporters. To a query by media persons on what happened on the fateful night, Sashikant had stated, “The shootout was executed at the behest of Dubey.” He further shared details of other accused, including Vikas Dubey and 25 of his aides involved in killing of eight policemen. He also confessed that three policemen, including slain DSP Devendra Mishra and a sub-inspector were killed and dumped in his house — a fact shared by his wife Manu, in an audio clip that went viral on Tuesday afternoon. He also told the media that Dubey had even threatened them, saying he will kill them all, if they did not open fire.” Firearms, including semi-automatic guns and 30 Springfield rifle were used in the carnage, he said. SP Rural Brijesh Kumar Srivastava told reporters, “If Manu or her husband Sashikant are made approver, we will serve them a notice for recording their statements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ambush-witness-don-aides-wife-may-turn-approver-gets-cop-cover/articleshow/77027417.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Madurai dist case positivity rate down, say authorities||Madurai: The case positivity rate in Madurai district has decreased from about 19% in the past few weeks to between 7% and 8% now, thanks to the combined efforts of all departments, but the next three weeks are expected to be challenging. Nevertheless, with the easing of lockdown measures, this could be overcome if people cooperate, said the monitoring officer for Covid-19 in Madurai, Dr B Chandramohan. He told reporters after inspecting Covid-19 care and prevention activities in Madurai along with revenue and disaster management minister Dr R B Udhayakumar and collector Dr T G Vinay that the positivity rate in Madurai in the initial stages had been just 3% to 4%, but then it had gone up to 18% -19% by June end. This was when the intense lockdown measures were implemented, which had helped bring it down to about 8%. It is indicative that the epidemic was going in a stable condition. Besides this, the number of tests had increased and people with symptoms were identified and Covid tests done. This was helping in the management. Mobile fever clinics were being held around places where more cases were reported the previous day, which too was helping in detecting cases. Oxygen therapy was the life-saving treatment in GRH now, and it had 600 beds with an oxygen facility, he said. Dr Chandramohan said the number of people requiring ventilator support was still less, and though the ICU had 20 cases, a very few of them needed ventilators. The treatment protocol at the hospital had been advanced and modified according to the situation with drugs like Remdesivir, Favipiravir and Lopinavir being given to patients. Home isolation was being allowed for those who were not senior citizens and free of comorbid conditions and were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. They needed to have isolation facilities and a caretaker at home, he said. People should definitely wear masks, when they are outside, properly covering their mouth and nose, maintain a six feet distance from each other and wash their hands regularly, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-dist-case-positivity-rate-down-say-authorities/articleshow/77027437.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Trichy||Delay in starting Bhel flyover project||TRICHY: There has been no progress even two years after a proposal was mooted to establish a flyover to bypass the Ganesa roundabout on Trichy-Thanjavur national highway (NH) near Bhel factory. NHAI proposed the flyover in December 2018 as there were frequent accidents at the Ganesa roundabout, situated near Bhel Trichy in between Thuvakudi and Thiruverumbur, industrial hubs. The flyover at a cost of Rs49.5 crore was mooted near Bhel Trichy in a manner bypassing the roundabout. Though soil test was conducted last year and land acquired, work has not yet started. The four-lane flyover will take off near Bhel factory entrance and end near Thiruverumbur taluk office. The flyover project is touted to eliminate the traffic snarls near Ganesa roundabout as Bhel employees used to criss-cross the intersection. “We lack a proper service road, NHAI should at least complete the flyover to ensure our safety,” said S Panjabagesan, resident of Thiruverumbur. NHAI earlier said that the Bhel flyover will be completed by September 2021, the assurance is unlikely to be fulfilled since the project will take a minimum 1.5 years to conclude. “Due to the Covid-19 situation, we had challenges and could not launch civil work. By the first week of August, construction work will commence,” a senior official with NHAI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delay-in-starting-bhel-flyover-project/articleshow/77027412.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 18, 2020||Agra||Mathura oil transporter with criminal cases & extra-marital affair commits suicide||AGRA: An oil transporter who was allegedly involved in some criminal cases of illegal transportation of oil, committed suicide by shooting himself in his house in Mathura’s Radha Town Colony early morning on Friday. He was the owner of Shiva Oil Carrier. According to police, besides cases of illegal oil transportation, the deceased, Shivraj Singh (40), was also named in cases of attempt to murder and unnatural offence. Circle officer (refinery) Varun Kumar said Singh’s body has been sent for post mortem, and the case is being probed in detail. Police also said preliminary investigations have revealed Singh had running fight with his wife due to his illicit relation with another woman, and that his wife had earlier lodged a police complaint against him. According to information received, Singh was once a truck driver, before he started his own oil transport company, and owned around 100 oil tankers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-oil-transporter-with-criminal-cases-extra-marital-affair-commits-suicide/articleshow/77026002.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||Silver shines again, hints at industrial revival||Nagpur: The price of per kg silver has surpassed that of per tola (10 grams) of gold. Prior to the lockdown, a kg of silver was priced less than a tola of gold. Last month, prices of both the precious metals had come neck and neck.On Friday, silver was quoted at Rs52,300 a kg and gold was Rs50,200 a tola. Traders say this is an indication that industrial activity is picking up. Apart from ornamental or investment purposes, silver is also an industrial input, and goes into making products like electronics. As business was down due to lockdowns globally, silver remained subdued. However, sources say, now even investment buying is seen to a certain extent in this metal. Apart from gold, which has been the traditional safe haven asset, money is expected to be flowing into silver too.The trade follows the gold-silver ratio as a thumb-rule. Traditionally, it has been at 1:50, which means one kg of gold could buy 50kg of silver. In March 2020, the ratio had touched 1:126. This means silver prices had slid and a kg of gold could fetch as much as 126kg of silver. By last month, the ratio touched 1:100, which was again attributed to industries starting again.Now, as gold rates have surged, silver too has caught pace, taking the ratio to 1:96, which is a further improvement.Pankaj Bakhai of M/s Anantrai and Sons at Itwari Sarafa Oli — the traditional jewellery market — said from April 2018 to March 2019, gold-silver ratio had remained 1:81. At present it is 1:96. Bakhai admitted that the change from 1:126 in March this year to 1:96 now shows that the demand of silver has gone up. “Although the rates are governed by global market, locally too there have been some inquiries about buying silver. It’s both for investment or buying silverware,” said Bakhai.Nitin Khandelwal, former president of Gold and Jewellery Council, said silver is up because of both — gradual increase in industrial activity across the world and investment buying. However, not much activity is seen at the local level because of restrictions on account of lockdown.Vinod Haygriv, managing director of Krishna Chetty Group of Jewellers, said, “The industrial activity has picked up. There is no lockdown in Singapore, many parts in America are coming back to normalcy. This can lead to an industrial demand. At the same time, supply remains affected as it may still take some months for the mines to begin operations again.”On investment buying, he said there may be a section of investors who are bullish on silver hoping that it may reach a peak Rs70,000 again. Silver had touched the peak in 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/silver-shines-again-hints-at-industrial-revival/articleshow/77026051.cms||Shishir Arya
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Option to book 2 seats for elbow room in sky||Kolkata: Passengers wary of sitting shoulder-to-shoulder while travelling by flight now have an option to book an additional seat at a lower cost and ensure that the next passenger is seated at an arm’s length. The scheme, while allowing peace of mind to passengers, also a revenue earner for airlines with most flights recording 30%-40% vacant seats. Low-cost airline IndiGo introduced the 6E double booking scheme on Friday, allowing passengers to book air tickets for twin seats, starting July 24. Vistara has also announced a twin-seat booking option where only the airline ticket component and GST will be charged and not airport levies like passenger service fee and urban development free. Vistara and GoAir have also introduced similar schemes sensing flyers’ willingness to pay extra to ensure safety. While Vistara allows passengers to purchase the additional seat at the time of booking, GoAir has introduced an option for passengers in the first two rows.IndiGo, too, has a rider. The airline has introduced the scheme only for passengers booking seats directly on the airline’s website but not through other travel portals, IndiGo call centre or airport counters. Also, passengers who have booked tickets earlier will not be able to avail of the twin seat offer.The airline said any kind of changes and cancellation charges based on the type of fare would be applicable on the extra seat. Also, booking the extra-seat will not entitle the passenger to additional baggage allowance.IndiGo chief strategy & revenue officer Sanjay Kumar said, “Even though air travel is the safest mode of travel at this point, we understand the passengers’ emotional need for safety. We had been receiving such requests and are happy to introduce the option to book two seats for a single passenger to ensure additional safety.” Travel agents said the offer was a gimmick given that flights were operating at low capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/option-to-book-2-seats-for-elbow-room-in-sky/articleshow/77026844.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Typewriting schools seek relaxation||Madurai: The state government has been directed to file a counter on a plea which sought relaxation for the functioning of typewriting institutes. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam of the Madras high court, was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Soma Sankar, president of the Tamil Nadu Typewritting- Shorthand- Computer Institutes Sangam in Virudhunagar district. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Thursday, the government informed that permission was not granted for the functioning of typewriting institutions due to the pandemic. The judges directed the state to file a counter-affidavit about its decision or consider providing financial assistance to them. The petitioner stated that there are more than 3,000 government-approved private typewriting institutes in the state. Following the lockdown announcement, all the institutes were closed. Most of them were functioning in rental buildings and due to the lockdown, they were not able to pay the rent and salaries to their employees for more than three months. The livelihood of those dependent on the institutes is affected. He stated that members of the association in their representation had given several undertakings such as spraying disinfectants at the centres every day, maintaining social distancing, use of hand sanitizers, face masks. There would not be any issue of overcrowding at the institutes as they have different time slots and accommodate only 10-15 students per session. After the government had issued lockdown relaxations to several sectors, he sent a representation seeking relaxation for typewriting institutes. Since, there was no response, the petitioner moved the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/typewriting-schools-seek-relaxation/articleshow/77027442.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: LG Anil Baijal rejects Delhi government list of lawyers||NEW DELHI: The power tussle in the capital took another turn on Friday with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal rejecting the AAP government’s choice of special public prosecutors to argue cases related to the northeast Delhi riots in Delhi high court. Since April, the LG and Delhi government have been in a deadlock over whose panel of public prosecutors should argue the cases in lower and high courts. Baijal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who is handling the home portfolio at present, discussed the issue through videoconferencing on Friday but couldn’t reach an agreement. “The LG wants the team of prosecutors proposed by Delhi Police, which reports to the Centre, to represent the state in the riot cases. Sisodia’s proposal of appointing Rahul Mehra, the standing counsel of Delhi government, was rejected by Baijal,” said a source. TOI did not get a reply when it contacted the LG office for a comment. The fresh round of confrontation erupted after the elected government rejected Delhi Police’s proposal to appoint lawyers of its choice as special public prosecutors to argue cases of the February riots and anti-CAA protests in the high court. A source said Delhi Police on July 10 had sent a proposal to the AAP government to appoint six senior lawyers, including Tushar Mehta and Aman Lekhi, to represent the prosecution in the high court in 85 cases of communal riots and anti-CAA protests. The proposal was rejected with Delhi government saying Mehra and his team were “capable” of representing the state and a separate appointment by the Centre was not required. The same day, Baijal asked Delhi government to send him the file concerned using his special powers vested under the Constitution. A meeting was fixed between the LG and Sisodia to discuss the matter two days later. The first round of confrontation was witnessed in May over the appointment of 11 public prosecutors proposed by Delhi Police to represent the state in lower courts. The contrary views of the elected government led to disagreements with the LG. A source said that after Delhi government pointed out “technical irregularities and mala fide intentions” in the proposal, Baijal asked Delhi Police to nominate a new team of lawyers. “When the Delhi cabinet rejected the second proposal, the LG, using powers vested under Article 239AA (4) of the Constitution, invoked the provision of difference of opinion and referred the matter to the President while allowing Delhi Police to go ahead with its team of public prosecutors in the lower courts,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-lg-rejects-govt-list-of-lawyers/articleshow/77026850.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||Cops, airport officials rescue youth with fever||Kolkata: A youth in his 30s, who was too weak to walk and was shivering with high fever outside the Kolkata airport, was rescued by the cops and airport officials on Friday afternoon. He was sent to a government quarantine centre in Rajarhat in a state health department ambulance, escorted by doctors and health workers. According to cops, officers posted outside the airport were first alerted by a taxi driver about the youth lying beside pillar no. 30, opposite to the airport’s departure gate no. 3C. Cops from the outpost walked up to him and realised he had high fever. They immediately approached the airport officials, who first checked his body temperature with a thermal gun and found he had temperature above 100 degrees F. The officials then called for the state health department officials, who finally took the youth. The area where he was lying was sanitised. On being approached by TOI the youth said he is a resident of Bhagabangola in Murshidabad and had come to Kolkata two days ago. “I was scheduled to fly to Punjab to join work but all my belongings got stolen in the bus. I even fell sick after coming to the airport,” the youth (name withheld) told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-airport-officials-rescue-youth-with-fever/articleshow/77026849.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||SIT begins probe, seeks evidence from people||Lucknow: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Friday opened an office on fourth floor of Bapu Bhawan and appealed people to come forward and submit evidence against slain gangster Vikas Dubey between 12 noon and 2 pm till July 25. The three-member SIT met in Lok Bhawan and sifted through evidence, six days after taking possession of documents during their visit to Bikru village and Chaubeypur and Shivli police stations. The SIT office will be open to anyone who can bring evidence on Dubey, said a team member. SIT also created an email — sit-kanpur@up.gov.in — where evidence can be uploaded and mailed. Till Friday night, nobody turned up with evidence nor was any mail received. SIT was formed by state government headed by additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy and two IPS officers as members to probe into the sequence of events leading to the ambush, properties amassed by Dubey and his henchmen and how the gangster managed to stock arms and ammunition at his residence in Bikru. Also, the team will examine the 12-month call data record of Dubey and his accomplices and recommend action to be taken. The team will also examine complaints filed against Dubey and probe launched into such complaints by station officer of Chaubeypur and other officers of Kanpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-begins-probe-seeks-evidence-from-people/articleshow/77027428.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Indore||A week on, masked men again steal cash & jewels by holding family at gunpoint||INDORE: Three unidentified masked men broke into house of a cooperative bank manager in Khandwa and made away with cash and jewellery by holding family members at gunpoint. The incident was reported at 3am in Govind Nagar on Jasvadi road. Complainant, the bank manager Lakhan Lal Kethwas, told police that he was sleeping in bedroom with his wife when the accused broke into the house by unscrewing front window of the house. “As they came inside the room and opened almirah, we got up. But two accused pointed guns and arms at us and asked us to keep quiet while threatening us of dire consequences,” said Kethwas. The accused were speaking in Nimadi language. While one of the accused was short in height, the other two were tall and were aged between 30 and 40 years. They also asked the woman to remove her earrings and mangalsutra and fled with all the items. There was some cash in Lakhan’s trousers, which was also stolen. Before leaving the house they also told Lakhan’s wife that they had come to know that they had a lot of cash and jewellery but that was not true Lakhan’s mother was sleeping in the next room when the incident took place. Khandwa CSP Lalit Gathre, Kotwali police station in charge BL Mandloi along with forensic experts reached the spot and took stock of the crime scene. Khandwa SP Vivek Singh said that teams had been formed to trace and identify the accused. The dacoity takes place just a week after a similar incident was reported barely 300 metres away from this spot in Narayan Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/a-week-on-masked-men-again-steal-cash-jewels-by-holding-family-at-gunpoint/articleshow/77026851.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Custodial deaths: Tuticorin court rejects SSI’s bail plea||Madurai: The Tuticorin principal district and sessions court on Friday dismissed the bail petitions of special sub inspector (SSI) Paldurai, who was arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district.The petitioner submitted through his counsel that he was working at Thattarmadam police station and had joined Sathankulam police station on deputation at 11.30am on June 19. The same day, he went for vehicle check up and was not present at the station at the time of occurrence of the incidents.However, Jeyaraj’s widow Selvarani filed an intervening petition stating that this petitioner was also involved in the brutal attack on her husband and son at the station and therefore he was also responsible for their murder. Selvarani’s counsel objected to the grant of bail on the ground that the petitioner could influence witnesses and abscond if enlarged on bail.CBI’s public prosecutor S Vijayan submitted that custodial interrogation of the accused is necessary as the investigation is only in the initial stage. Taking into account the submission, Tuticorin principal district and sessions judge N Logeswaran dismissed the petition.It may be recalled that inspector Sridhar and sub-inspector Balakrishnan had also sought bail from the Tuticorin principal district and sessions court. Since the counsel for the petitioner sent a memo stating that he has not pressed the petition, the court dismissed Sridhar's petition on July 13. The court subsequently dismissed Balakrishnan's bail petition on July 15. Initially, five policemen — Sridhar, sub inspectors Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj — were arrested in connection with the custodial death case. Subsequently, five more police personnel — constables Vail Muthu, Chelladurai and Francis, head constable Samidurai and SSI Paldurai — were arrested on charges of abetment as they allegedly held the victims while they were beaten up at the police station. All the 10 policemen involved in the case were suspended and are lodged in the Madurai central prison||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-deaths-tuticorin-court-rejects-ssis-bail-plea/articleshow/77027454.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Trichy||Trichy colleges stopped from conducting spot admissions||Trichy: A day after the declaration of class XII state board results, some city arts and science colleges started spot admissions on Friday throwing Covid-19 prevention norms to the wind. The colleges allowed parents and candidates to come to their campus and made spot admissions to self-financing undergraduate programmes by offering seats on a first come, first serve basis. However, later in the day, the colleges stopped the process after the office of the regional joint director of collegiate education (RJDCE) intervened and warned them. It is pointed out that the colleges were taking advantage of the parents’ anxiety triggered by the pandemic. With no clarity on the admission process, some of the parents approached the colleges to block a seat for their wards to be on the safe side. RJDCE T Arivudai Nambi cited a direction from higher education secretary S Apoorva to government aided and self-financing colleges to ensure that they issue application only through online mode. A faculty member at a government aided arts and science college in the city said that the college management formed an admission committee with staff from self-financing programmes on Thursday soon after the class XII results were announced. “A section of parents and students who had registered through the college website were asked to come to the college with marksheets for spot admissions on Thursday itself. The process was stopped midway after regional joint director conveyed the directions from the higher education secretary,” said the member. It is mandatory for colleges to fill seats in aided programmes before going ahead with the self-financing programmes. But it has become an annual affair for the colleges to throw norms to the wind, said former president of AUT K Pandiyan. While these points are mentioned in the admission guidelines which need to be followed by colleges for admission, Pandiyan said that the state government is at fault for not issuing admission guidelines so far and allowing the colleges to violate norms. Admission guidelines also specify the application fee that needs to be collected by colleges apart from other procedures to be followed by colleges. The regional joint director of collegiate education has asked colleges to receive applications online considering the pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-colleges-stopped-from-conducting-spot-admissions/articleshow/77027434.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC notice to ICMR on rapid test kits||MADURAI: The Madras high court has sought a response from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on a plea moved by Thiruparankundram DMK MLA Dr P Saravanan seeking to purchase and utilize rapid test kits authorized by the Central Drugs Control Standard Organization and ICMR, for testing. In his petition, Saravanan stated that RT-PCR test is adopted to detect Covid-19 positive cases. In order to effectively carry out Covid-19 testing, the government could use rapid antibody tests to identify the level of antibodies in an individual. The use of rapid test kits would reduce the money spent by the government in testing, as people with less immunity alone can be subjected to RT-PCR test. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Thursday, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam suo motu impleaded ICMR as a respondent in the petition and sought its response. The case was adjourned to August 7 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madras-hc-notice-to-icmr-on-rapid-test-kits/articleshow/77027452.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Madurai||HC asks govt to list steps taken to curb illegal groundwater extraction||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday directed the state government to file a counter on the steps taken to prevent illegal extraction of groundwater and the timeline for passing a legislation to monitor the extraction of groundwaterA division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by J John Amalraj, secretary of the Ramanathapuram District Consumer Rights Protection Association, who sought to prevent the illegal extraction of water by restraining the setting up of wells at Meyyampuli, Nochivadi, and Semmadam region at Rameswaram in Ramanathapuram district.The petitioner said that The Tamil Nadu Ground Water (Development and Management) Act, 2003 is the only legislation to regulate the illegal extraction of groundwater, However, the same came to be repealed in 2013 with an objective to bring a better legislation. Though seven years have passed, no proposals were made to bring any legislation regarding the protection and regulation of groundwater in the state.He added that a GO was passed by the government in 2014 to regularize the extraction of groundwater for commercial purpose and drinking purpose. Though Rameswaram was categorized as a semi-critical zone for extracting groundwater, people are engaged in illegal extraction of water.At present, the authorities have planned to set up wells and since the proposed site falls within 2km from the coastal area, it is in violation with the GO. Hence, the petitioner moved the court seeking not to set up the wells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-govt-to-list-steps-taken-to-curb-illegal-groundwater-extraction/articleshow/77027458.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||First among equals: Delhi government school students shine in Class X results||NEW DELHI: With 99.2% marks in his CBSE Class X examination, Vishant Malik, a Delhi government school student, is among three top scorers in the city. Malik, a resident of northeast Delhi’s Meet Nagar area, never took private lessons and doesn’t believe in mugging up the syllabus without understanding the concepts. Like his sister before him, who is also a product of Delhi government’s Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Nand Nagri and now in the MBBS first year, Malik wants to study medicine. “Though I took part in many co-curricular activities, my focus has always remained on studies and I believe in completing some part of the syllabus every day,” he said. “My school teachers have helped me a lot in understanding concepts and I never needed tuitions.” Delhi government schools’ 82.6% pass percentage in the Class X results is an increase of 11% points compared to 2019. The high scorers from Delhi government schools and their parents appreciated the rigorous learning and simple teaching practices of their institutions. Malik’s father, Madan Pal Singh, himself a teacher in another Delhi government school, never thought twice before admitting his children in government schools, though he could have afforded sending them to private institutions. “As a teacher, I know everything about the education sector and Delhi government schools are much better. If students work hard, the results will be good,” he said. “However, I have never put any additional pressure on my children to perform well. Vishant prefers medicine and I will support him in studying whatever interests him,” he added. Like Malik, another RPVV student, Pratibha, also wants to follow in her elder sister’s footsteps who studied at the same school and is now a medical student at Lady Hardinge College. The death of their brother due to muscle atrophy has pushed the sisters towards medicine. A student of RPVV, Dwarka Sector 10, Pratibha has scored 92% in her Class X boards. In another similarity between the high scorers, Pratibha, too, has been active in co-curricular activities, besides being a top scorer in her school. She credited her teachers for her results and said the subject teachers had always promoted rigorous learning for students and they never had to learn the whole syllabus by rote without understanding the concepts. “My father used to always meet my teachers for an update on my studies, and my performance in class. He has always tried to identify the challenge areas and better me. My teachers also guided me and my family on the right path,” she said. Pratibha’s father used to work in a private firm but has lost his job during the pandemic. Owing to her interest in the banking sector, Jyoti, a student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Chhatarpur who has scored 88%, said she had always thought of studying commerce, contrary to the expectations of her family that she would study science. “I could not have retained information had the teaching practices not been so simple and easy to remember. My father is a driver, my mother is a homemaker and my elder brother is studying BCom at Delhi University,” she said. “I would like to be a successful banker one day. I am sure that with such a great education model, I will be able to realise my goal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-among-equals-govt-school-students-shine-in-class-x-results/articleshow/77027463.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 18, 2020||Delhi||How Delhi University spent Rs 29 lakh on two ‘ghost programmes’||NEW DELHI: Delhi University continues to show expenditure against programmes it no longer offers to students. According to the expenditure details from the finance branch, DU spent Rs 29 lakh between 2017-18 and 2019-20 for the MTech programmes in nanoscience and nanotechnology, two courses that were discontinued in 2014 with the last batch graduating in 2017. DU started the three-year MTech programmes in nanoscience and nanotechnology were started in 2008. Their discontinuation in 2014 coincided with the scrapping of the four-year-undergraduate programme (FYUP) by the Union human resource development ministry. The final batch of the MTech programmes completed the courses in 2017. However, according to the finance branch record (copies of which are with TOI), Rs 29,56,186 was spent on these programmes in the past three financial years. While professor Yogesh Tyagi, vice-chancellor, DU, didn’t respond to TOI’s messages and calls, professor Ramesh Chandra, head of the department of chemistry, said the expenditure was incurred mainly for the maintenance of the laboratories and equipment. “There also was the payment of staff salaries. All expenses have been approved by the finance committee of the university. Also, the laboratories are being used by students from courses other than nanoscience and nanotechnology,” said Chandra. However, the expenditure details show only Rs 6.2 lakh being spent on maintenance. The chemistry department showed expenditures on chemicals, machinery and equipment in 2017-18 and 2018-19 to the tune of Rs 18 lakh, but none for salaries. In the 2019-20 too, Rs 43,160 was spent on these courses, whereas the last two non-teaching staff who were associated with the programmes were relieved of their posts in March 2019. According to a senior university official, the matter is under investigation for eight months now. A letter received by the Union HRD ministry and addressed to Tyagi on July 15, 2020 (a copy of which is with the TOI) stated that the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) had lodged four complaints and the same had been forwarded to the chief vigilance officer of the university for further enquiry. The CVO, DU, too registered a complaint in this matter on November 5, 2019. Watch Delhi University spent Rs 29 lakh against programmes it no longer offers to students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-du-spent-rs-29-lakh-on-two-ghost-programmes/articleshow/77026859.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown spurs nature enthusiast to take online route to sensitize children||Madurai: For Raveendran Natarajan, a nature enthusiast from Madurai, it has been a busy time, as he is making use of the lockdown period to its fullest by sensitizing children and elders on various topics related to biodiversity, environment, flora and fauna.He recently concluded his free online classes ‘Mr Owl’s Classroom’ for school and college students after 102 days. Around 100 students from various parts of Tamil Nadu and a few from countries like Qatar, Myanmar and United States took part. Every year, Raveendran of Iragugal, an environmental organization and an avid wildlife photographer, used to take summer classes for children covering various topics related to nature. But, this year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he was unable to, and shared his discontentment with his friend, who advised him to take the online route. He immediately collaborated with Podhigai Charal, a resource centre for biodiversity and started the classes.V G Ishani, a Class VIII student from Coimbatore, who attended around 100 classes said that although she has been going on field visits for birding, the sessions on various topics further widened her thoughts on various areas related to flora and fauna. “All the classes were useful, but I enjoyed the most on endangered animals, birds migration, birds and their habitat and topics covered by a range of experts after the 70th day,” she saidNot just students, their parents too joined the classes as they found them useful and interesting. Although the classes last for two hours, several hours of preparation goes into it. “I did not know what was happening in the outside world as it fully focussed on preparations and conducting classes. It was quite an experience for me as well as it helped me to refresh myself,” Raveendran said. He roped in at least 30 experts from various fields including academics to engage the participants. Photography technique, ethics in bird and wildlife photography, scope for profession, popular nature hotspots, scope for profession out of nature conservation, parasites and mammals were some of the topics. Raveendran said that he is planning to upload the classes on YouTube channel for wider reach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-spurs-nature-enthusiast-to-take-online-route-to-sensitize-children/articleshow/77027465.cms||V Devanathan
July 18, 2020||Trichy||Toilets to be built in 23 govt HS schools||Trichy: Twenty-three government higher secondary schools in the district were identified for constructing toilets under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. District collector S Sivarasu said that construction of toilets in government schools was included under MGNREGA recently and Trichy is ahead among districts to capitalise the scheme to construct toilets in 23 government schools. He expected the construction works to be complete before the schools reopen after the Covid-19 lockdown. Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi said that they had given the list of school which required additional toilets for students, especially for girls. Local body funds like Tamil Nadu Village Habitations Improvement Scheme and Nirmal Bharat Abhiyaan can be utilised for construction of toilets only in elementary schools. “Since there was no specific scheme covering government higher secondary schools, except for funds from the scheme, construction of toilet work under MGNREGA scheme indeed will help improve basic infrastructure in higher secondary schools,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/toilets-to-be-built-in-23-govt-hs-schools/articleshow/77027447.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kanpur||Rs 5 lakh reward on Vikas Dubey up for grabs||KANPUR: A week after Vikas Dubey was nabbed in Ujjain and later shot in an encounter in Kanpur, the Rs 5lakh reward money announced for clues on the don’s whereabouts when he was on the run, remains up for grabs. Now, UP Police have shot off a letter to their Madhya Pradesh counterpart, seeking details of individuals who could be entitled to the award for tipping off cops when he was ensconced in Ujjain’s Mahakal Temple. Madhya Pradesh police is yet to officially declare whether the gangster was nabbed on a tipoff by a temple florist or guards, who identified him and handed him over to police. “We have written to Ujjain police chief seeking details on cops or individuals, who detained Dubey at the Mahakaal temple,” IG range Mohit Agarwal said on Friday. Dubey, accused in more than 60 crimes, including murder, attempt to murder and other crimes, fled his native Bikru village in Chaubeypur and finally landed in Ujjain after orchestrating the killing of eight policemen on July 3. Police sources in Ujjain told TOI that a team comprising three additional SP-rank officials have been asked to analyse the sequence of events leading to the don’s detention and submit a report to Ujjain police chief. “A proposal will be dispatched to SSP Kanpur soon,” said a senior MP police official. Earlier, a senior MP police official said, a florist outside the temple first identified the gangster and tipped off a security guard, who in turn alerted his colleagues. Subsequently, policemen on temple premises arrested the don. Later, a team of UP Police STF) reached Ujjain and was given custody of Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rs-5-lakh-reward-on-don-up-for-grabs/articleshow/77027449.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 18, 2020||Indore||Trader files fake Rs 18 lakh robbery complaint, held||INDORE: An Indore-based trader reeling under debt and his two friends have been arrested for lodging a fake complaint stating that he was robbed of Rs 18 lakh. He told police that he was returning with the cash from Shajapur in his car when he was robbed. Complainant Rizwan Razzak and his friend Rajpal and Hemant Agnihotri have been arrested. When the complainant and his friend were questioned, their statements did not match which raised suspicion following which SP Pankaj Shrivastav asked the police officials to investigate further. Police had received information that unidentified men robbed iron trader Rizwan Razzak was robbed of Rs 18 lakh at Lalghati bypass, acting on which a team was sent to the spot. Rizwan had said that a black SUV had accosted them in the path and the accused made away with the bag at gunpoint. When CCTV footage was checked, it was found that no black SUV had followed the complainant. Rizwan and Rajpal were questioned separately in which suspicious facts came forward. Police said that Rizwan had given the cash he brought from Rajgarh to his friend Hemant at Maksi before approaching police. The accused revealed that he was reeling under debt and thus hatched the plan. SP Shrivastav said that a case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/trader-files-fake-rs-18l-robbery-plaint-held/articleshow/77026858.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s sole meteorite impact crater at Ramgarh earns global recognition||UDAIPUR/KOTA: In the 150th year of its discovery by Geological Survey of India (GSI), India’s third and Rajasthan’s only terrestrial Meteorite Impact Crater (MIC) at Ramgarh, a settlement located in Baran district, about 110 km northeast of Kota city, has been finally recognized by Meteoritical Society, the US-based world body for meteorites. Ramgarh and nine other sites were added as confirmed meteorite impact craters to the last world total of 190, which now stands at 200. In its official journal, ‘Meteoritics & Planetary Science’, renowned experts T Kenkmann of Germany and others published a 26-page detailed paper based on the latest remote sensing techniques, detailed field and laboratory studies, describing the various salient features of this natural heritage site. The recognition is expected to give a major boost to the geo-heritage site as it had been lying neglected for decades without any mention in the brochures and booklets of the state’s tourism department. Even GSI made no efforts to declare it a National Geo Monument (NGM). Interestingly, habitations have thrived for years at this heritage site and there is a 10th century Shiv temple situated in the center of the crater which attracts a large number of devotees on religiously significant days. INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage), Udaipur chapter, initiated the promotion for Ramgarh as MIC in November 2016 with the support of Natural Heritage Division of INTACH headquarters. The exotic Ramgarh structure remained an enigmatic land form for long, it was studied by different workers from Geological Survey of India and different universities. “It has now been concluded that the 200m-high, 4km diameter ring structure of hills in Baran district is result of collapse of the dome that had formed as a central uplift due to the impact. The complex meteorite impact crater has 10-km diameter, making it slightly smaller than the 11-km Dhala (MP) MIC, but larger than the 1.8-km Lonar (Maharashtra) MIC,” expert member of the Geo Heritage India group Prof P S Ranawat of INTACH, Udaipur chapter, told TOI. He further informed that the moderately oblique (45°–30°) impact occurred into a shallow water regime on the horizontally lying upper Vindhyan, 1,000-1,070 million years old, sedimentary rocks. The impact possibly occurred during upper-middle Jurassic, some 165 million years ago. Ranawat said that Ramgarh has the potential of being a UNESCO Geopark because of the associated educational, cultural and biotic heritage, which are attributes of public liking. These aspects are being taken up with the state department of tourism and the district administration and like-minded public institutions. A public interest compendium of images and concise text on Ramgarh MIC is also on the anvil with a possible film on social media platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthans-sole-meteorite-impact-crater-at-ramgarh-earns-global-recognition/articleshow/77026854.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||East Delhi municipal corporation plans to install CNG furnaces at two crematoria||NEW DELHI: Facing problems in cremating or burying bodies of Covid-19 victims on time till last month, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has started sprucing up its arrangements such as creating additional space at two burial grounds and working on a project to install CNG furnaces at two crematoria. Each of the crematoria at Karkardooma and Ghazipur will have two furnaces and the project will be completed in two months. Currently these two as well as a crematorium at Seemapuri are dedicated for Covid-19 — confirmed or suspected — victims’ bodies. Once operational, the eco-friendly facilities in east Delhi will help the civic agency reduce its dependency on the north corporation and speed up the cremation process, said officials. “Till the beginning of June, we had a tough time in cremation and burial of infected patients’ bodies as the staff needed to check with the north civic body every time for availability of space at Nigambodh Ghat and burial ground at ITO. Finally we started working on our projects,” said an EDMC Official. “For the Karkardooma cremation ground, Dharmashila Hospital will donate two furnaces and the department has held meetings with Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) for providing CNG connections. We are targeting to make the facility fully operational in 60 days,” said EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain. He added that IGL has already laid a pipeline till a point in Ghazipur crematorium. “So we will just require connection once the furnaces are installed. Regarding CNG furnaces and its installation, we have invited tenders and changes will be visible by October-end,” said the official. In mid-June, the two burial grounds of EDMC dedicated for Covid-19 and suspected cases at Mulla Colony and Bulland Masjid ran out of space. “The engineering department was successful in levelling the limited space available at the corners of the premises. This has helped us to create additional space for performing last rites of around 40 bodies. Every day we are getting one to two inquiries and those are entertained now,” said Sandeep Kapoor, former standing committee chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-plans-to-install-cng-furnaces-at-two-crematoria/articleshow/77026883.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Aadi festivities to be low key affair in temples||Madurai: Aadi festivities in temples of southern Tamil Nadu is going to be a low key affair this year, with most of the celebrations to be confined within the temple premises. The Tamil month Aadi which is soaked with a rage of temple festivals draws huge crowd throughout the month. Usually Fridays of this month are considered auspicious and all the temples will be decked up and given police protection to regulate the crowds. But this Friday with almost all the big temples remaining closed, it passed off without much festivities with only the priests performing poojas. The government is yet to allow temples to reopen in containment zones. Only those temples which earn an annual income of less than Rs 10,000 are allowed to open. Meanwhile, small temples in villages witnessed large crowds on Friday and priests tried to ensure that there was no overcrowding. It is believed that Goddess Andal was born in this month, and her birth anniversary is celebrated in a grand manner on the day of Aadi pooram. But this year in Srivilliputtur Andal temple, the flag hoisting ceremony to mark the beginning of the festival was a low key affair on Thursday. Joint commissioner of the temple, Dhanabal, trustee board chairman, Ramachandran and others participated in the ceremony held within the temple. The car festival of the temple is to be held on July 24, within the temple premises. Many other temples, including the Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram, and Alagarkoil Sundaraja Perumal temple have decided to conduct car festivals within the temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aadi-festivities-to-be-low-key-affair-in-temples/articleshow/77027468.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH lab closed after 2 test +ve||Nagpur: Two technicians working in Covid-19 testing laboratory at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) tested positive on Friday. Following this, the VRDL Laboratory, which has the capacity to test more than 700 samples a day, was closed immediately.Reports received on Friday revealed that two lab technicians — a woman and a man — tested positive for Covid-19. While the man was having mild fever since the last 3-4 days, the woman only had sore throat. Both were admitted in the Covid hospital of the same GMCH premises.The lab was completely sealed and authorities decided to test all doctors, technicians and workers attached to the lab. The lab will be fully sanitized for which it will remain shut for at least two days. Sources at GMCH said the lab will not restart before Monday.However, this will hardly affect testing for Nagpur city. GMCH lab largely caters to the samples coming from Gadchiroli and Bhandara districts as well as some from Nagpur rural. Now, samples coming from these places will be shifted to other labs in Nagpur. Bhandara still doesn’t have its own lab while Gadchiroli has a lab with TrueNat technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-lab-closed-after-2-test-ve/articleshow/77026098.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 18, 2020||India||Covid-19: Daily rise of more than 35,000 cases, week sees huge active case surge||NEW DELHI: Fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the country remained above 35,000 for the second day running even as 671 deaths were added to the toll on Friday, taking the total deaths past 26,000. Active coronavirus cases across the country crossed the 3.5 lakh mark while total recoveries from the disease went past 6.5 lakh, representing nearly 63% of the total cases. Active cases have surged this week on the back of a massive rise in infections. In five days of this week (Monday-Friday), India added as many as 47,761 active cases to its tally, a 49% rise from the same period last week, when the number stood at 24,583. Recoveries have also risen, but not at the same rate. As many as 81,758 have been recorded so far this week, an 8% rise from the same period last week. The higher growth rate of active cases this week can be attributed to the sharp rise in new cases. More than 1.32 lakh new cases have emerged so far in the five days of this week, as compared to 1.01 lakh in the same period last week. With 35,065 fresh cases recorded on Friday, India’s caseload has risen to 10,39,108, as per data collated from state governments. The death toll remained above 600 for the third straight day, with 671 fatalities reported, the second-highest single-day number so far after Thursday’s record of 684 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-daily-rise-of-more-than-35000-cases-week-sees-huge-active-case-surge/articleshow/77028405.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 cases cross 4,000 mark in Bhopal||BHOPAL: With 113 people testing positive in the city on Friday, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Bhopal reached 4,089. On Thursday, 128 people had tested positive in the city. It is apparent from the fresh cases reported in the city that spread of Covid-19 has slowed down in the areas which had remained hotspots like Jehangirabad and Ibrahimganj, but now Covid-19 is spreading to new areas, including the posh colonies. The recovery rate is also going down and the number of active cases in the city has increased exponentially in the past 17 days of July. On Friday, an employee of the district court also tested positive. All the other employees of the section in which the positive patient worked have been instructed to be in home quarantine. The areas where these new cases were reported on Friday includes Arera Colony (5 new cases), Rivera town (1), Ibrahimganj (1), Pride Gulmohar (2), Bawadia Kalan (2), Neelkanth Colony (2) and others. Overall, there are close to 1,100 active cases in the city and recovery rate of patients has also reduced to around 65%, which was more than 70% earlier. So far, 129 deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported in the state capital. Due to spread of Covid-19 in the city, the district administration has ordered for a 7-day lockdown in Ibrahimganj — which had reported a large number of cases — from July 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cases-cross-4k-mark-in-bhopal/articleshow/77026107.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Man arrested for marrying minor girl||Madurai: The Silaiman police on Friday arrested a 21-year-old for marrying a 17-year-old girl from a village near Karuppayurani in Madurai district recently. The accused has been identified as M Perumal, a daily wage labourer from Elamanur Pudur. He was arrested on charges of marrying a minor girl under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, while his parents Muniyasamy and Karupayee were booked for solemnizing the marriage. According to police, the marriage took place two weeks ago in Elamanur Pudur village. Based on an alert, the child welfare committee (CWC) and Childline officials rescued the girl and shifted her to a home. The case was registered based on a complaint from L Shanmugam, member of the CWC, Madurai district on Thursday. According to police officials in Madurai district, the number of child marriages incidents has increased sharply during the lockdown period. People involved in the crime will face strict action, they warned. People can complain of child marriages to the district police office or through Childline number 1098. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-arrested-for-marrying-minor-girl/articleshow/77027479.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||HC seeks UP govt reply on Raghuraj Pratap Singh cases||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has asked the state government if it has withdrawn criminal cases pending against former cabinet minister Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiya and if it is so then the government should explain the reason for withdrawal of cases by July 21. A division bench of Justice MN Bhandari and Justice Manish Kumar cautioned the state government if proper explanation was not given it might take suo-moto cognizance of the issue and examine if the withdrawal was proper or not. The bench said that liberal withdrawal of criminal cases has to be examined to assess whether it stood the test of judicial scrutiny or not. The bench passed the order on a writ petition moved by Shiv Prakash Shukla 'Senani'. His counsel SM Royekwar argued that the petitioner, who had contested the Assembly election against Raja Bhaiya, was facing a life threat and was given security cover. As the period of his security was expiring, he had moved a representation to the government to extend it. On an earlier petition, the HC had directed the state government to decide the petitioner’s representation, seeking extension of security, but the issue has not been decided so far. “To utter surprise the state government has withdrawn many criminal cases pending against Raja Bhaiya. He is a habitual criminal and has a long criminal past,” said the counsel. Under these circumstances, the HC should intervene into the matter and grant adequate security to the petitioner otherwise his apprehension of threat to his life may prove true, pleaded the counsel. At this, the court extended the security cover of the petitioner till next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-raghuraj-cases/articleshow/77027462.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||City sees 5 deaths as Vid Covid-19 toll rises to 238||Nagpur: Nagpur on Friday recorded five deaths of Covid-19 patients, highest day tally for any district in Vidarbha so far. Patients also died in Amravati, Yavatmal and Washim taking total toll in Vidarbha to 238. Three of the eight deceased are below 50 years of age, two of them are from Nagpur. Youngest deceased was a 33-year-old man from Kamptee. Doctors told TOI the person was not having severe comorbidities but had developed severe bilateral pneumonia. Another young patient from Nagpur was a 48-year-old man from Vinoba Bhave Nagar. In Amravati, a 55-year-old man from Bichchu Tekdi area died during treatment. Five other deceased were 60-plus in age. A woman from Nagpur died at 71, a man at 60 – both in a private hospital. A 71-year-old man from Golibar chowk in Nagpur died at IGGMCH. A 70-year-old man from Pusad died at Yavatmal while another 70-year-old from Sirpur Jain in Washim died the same day. The man who died in Washim was first deceased of Vidarbha who died after being tested positive in rapid antigen test. With 238 deaths, Vidarbha’s case fatality rate is now 2.80%, slightly higher than national average of 2.66% but lower than Maharashtra’s 3.91%. Overall, 294 new cases were reported from the region on Friday. Highest 125 came from Nagpur followed by Amravati (58), Buldhana (27), Washim (24), Akola (21), Yavatmal (14), Chandrapur (10), Wardha (9), and two each from Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli. Total cases in Vidarbha reached 8,489. Total 177 patients recovered in the day. Highest 79 from Nagpur, followed by 27 from Akola, Yavatmal (21), Washim (15), Buldhana (13), Chandrapur (10), Wardha (4), Bhandara (4), and Gadchiroli (2). With 5,506 people recovered, recovery rate of Vidarbha is 65%. YAVATMAL: Yavatmal recorded its 18th Covid-19 death on Friday. A 70-year-old from Jyoti Nagar in Pusad, a tehsil in Yavatmal, died during treatment at Yavatmal GMCH. He was under treatment since July 13. Total 14 new Covid-19 patients were detected while 21 patients recovered and were discharged. Now, total cases in Yavatmal are 519, including 357 recoveries, 18 deaths and 144 under treatment. WASHIM: A man from Shirpur Jain (Malegaon tehsil) who HAD tested positive though rapid antigen test died in Washim. This is 8th Covid-19 death of district. He was already having severe comorbidities and was also suffering renal failure. He was tested during the rapid antigen testing campaign underway in district. As his health deteriorated, he was admitted to Washim hospital at 11 am on July 16. He died during treatment on July 17. Washim added 24 new patients of Covid-19 on Friday taking total number of cases to 333 including 135 discharged and eight deaths. AMRAVATI: death of a 55-year-old man from Bichhu Tekdi locality here and a spike of 58 cases took the district’s Covid toll to 38 and count to 1,147. Of the new cases, 21 came from rural parts, taking rural count to 172. A dozen patients got discharge today taking total to 728. This has left 381 active cases here, including 16 referred to Nagpur.Thirty one of new cases were detected through rapid antigen test. The highest six cases came from Dhamangaon Railway while Shrinathwadi here reported five. Four cases each came from Bhuteshwar Chowk here and Daryapur town. Bartan Bazar and Hamalpura reported three cases each while two each came from police colony in Gopal Nagar , Ghanshyam Nagar in Saturna, Laxmi Nagar, Tilak Nagar in Badnera and village Thugaon in Kholapur. The district again went into a 60-hour curfew from 7pm Friday to 7 am of Monday even as Collector Shailesh Naval announced to convert Walgaon isolation cell and VMV isolation cell here into Covid centres to cope with the growing number of patients. “Both centres have collective bed capacity of 350 and have been.made functional from this evening,” he said adding that a NICU cell had also been opened at Covid hospital to treat infants and kids.CHANDRAPUR: Ten more positive patients were found in Chandrapur taking the total of Covid-19 cases to 228 on Friday. However, 130 patients have recovered and 98 are under treatment. New cases include a woman from Khotwadi and a person from area near BJM Carmel Academy (Tukum) in city, a person from village Nandgaon Pode, an engineer and two women from Urjanagar, a person from Khutala village, a child from Rajura, a youth from Amdi in Warora tehsil and a CRPF jawan from Ranbothli in Bramhapuri tehsil.Meanwhile, strict lockdown for 10 days began in city from Friday. The streets wore deserted look and markets remained closed. Police have also sealed the borders of the city.WARDHA: Four persons were discharged from the hospital in the district on Friday after beating Coronavirus. Also nine new persons were diagnosed with Covid-19. Among the patients discharged on Friday are the president of Arvi municipal council as well as patients from Pipri (Meghe), Sindhi (Meghe) and Anji. They have been kept in isolation for two days.New cases include two men and seven women. The infected patients were in close contact with yesterday’s Covid positive patients. 56-year-old mother, 65-year-old father of Keshav city patient who had tested positive on Thursday. Three women of Hind Nagar patient’s home aged 46, 45 and 25, their two neighbours women 45-year-old and 13-year-old. Seventeen-year-old son and 15-year-old daughter of Kakada village patient while two were from Washim district.BULDHANA: Out of 296 suspects tested on Friday, total 27 tested positive in Buldhana. This took total Covid-19 cases in district to 696. With 20 deaths and 310 recovered till date, there are 366 patients under treatment in Buldhana. More than 250 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Friday. AKOLA: Akola received reports of 423 persons on Friday. Of these, 21 tested positive. Rapid antigen tests are being conducted in rural areas of the district now. Total Covid-19 cases in Akola are 2,026. These include 99 deaths and 1,667 patients who recovered and were discharged. Akola’s recovery rate is more than 82%. Strict lockdown has been imposed here for five days from Friday. GONDIA: Two new corona positive cases reported in Gondia district on Friday. One is a resident of Civil Lines of Gondia who has returned from Bengaluru and other hails from Tirora tehsil. Two patients were discharged after recovery. Reports of 46 samples are awaited. Gondia now has 37 patients under treatment. BHANDARA: Two patients tested positive in Bhandara on Friday taking total Covid-19 cases to 187. With four discharged, 99 have recovered till date. Including two deaths reported earlier this month, Bhandara has 88 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Two positive cases reported here on Friday. They are one jawan each from SRPF and CRPF. Also, two patients recovered and were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-sees-5-deaths-as-vid-covid-19-toll-rises-to-238/articleshow/77026108.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 18, 2020||Indore||BJP targets Digvijaya Singh as Guna row intensifies||INDORE/BHOPAL: The political slugfest over a Dalit couple’s suicide bid in Guna following alleged police excess intensified on Friday, with BJP pointing fingers at Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh, who retorted that BJP should get the incident investigated by state party chief VD Sharma. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan criticized Congress for creating an “unnecessary row”. “The Guna incident is condemnable. We took quick action in the case, but Congress is creating unnecessary commotion over it,” Chouhan said in Ujjain. “I want to ask Kamal Nath why the Congress-led government did not take any action when a Scheduled Caste person was set on fire in his home in Sagar in January. Why was Congress silent on a mob lynching in Dhar?” the CM said. BJP state president VD Sharma wrote to the CM, demanding an investigation into the “links between Gabbu Pardhi and Digvijaya Singh”. Pardhi, a historysheeter, is accused of encroaching the government land where the suicide controversy erupted during an eviction bid. “The state government has ordered a probe into the Guna incident, but the role of Digvijaya Singh in the entire case needs to be probed too. Under whose patronage did Gabbu Pardhi muster courage to occupy government land?” said Sharma. “The eviction process started in 2019, but was stalled under political pressure. It is understood who might have forced the officials during the Congress regime. This face should be exposed,” added Sharma. The Congress veteran was quick to hit back. “I welcome BJP leader VD Sharma’s statement that an inquiry be made into my relations with Gabbu Pardhi. I request Shivraj-ji that the investigation be conducted by Sharma. It may also be inquired into why eviction wasn’t undertaken during 15 years of BJP rule,” said Digvijaya. “Pardhi captured and encroached government land during Shivraj regime. Why was the Shivraj government so liberal with him then? Why was no action taken to extern him?” he asked. Alleging that VD Sharma is seeking to take “political mileage”, Digvijaya said the investigation should be proper and cover all angles. “The five villages of Pardhis come under the constituency of which MLA and which MP? Gabbu’s brother’s wife Sulochana has been chairperson of Bamori janpadh panchayat and admitted to being close to former BJP MLA Mamta Meena and her IPS husband,” the Congress veteran alleged. A close kin of Gabbu Pardhi, Mohar Pardhi, is a criminal with a bounty of Rs 25,000 and resides in Haddi Mill area of Guna, said Digvijaya. “Mohar has close relations with a Scindia follower who is a minister now. He has access to the minister’s residence. So you know how far the influence of the Pardhis go,” he alleged. Home minister Narottam Mishra waded into the battle, saying: “Digvijaya must disclose whether he had links (with Gabbu Pardhi) instead of questioning the state BJP president’s questions.” On Congress sending a committee to investigate the Guna incident, Mishra said, “Even in Corona crisis, Congress continues to do the same kind of corrupt politics. These are their toxic trees that we are cutting today,” said the home minister. The state government has also ordered an inquiry into the incident and suspended six police personnel after shifting the district collector, SP and IG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/bjp-targets-diggy-as-guna-row-intensifies/articleshow/77026884.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Woman kills kids and self; landlord booked||SIVAGANGA: A 34-year-old woman committed suicide on Thursday night after murdering her 13-year-old daughter and 10- year- old son by feeding them poison-laced food. Police have booked her landlord for abetment of suicide. The deceased have been identified as B Kaleeswari, her daughter Mangayarthilagam and son Abishek from Kurunji Nagar in Sivaganga town. Kaleeswari’s husband Balamurugan works abroad. The incident came to light when neighbours noticed no movement in the house in the morning and alerted the local police. Before hanging herself, Kaleeswari wrote on the wall of the house that her landlord, P Karthikeyan, was the reason for her suicide. Police said the woman wanted to vacate the house. She might have taken the extreme step as Karthikeyan did not return the lease amount of Rs 3.5 lakh to her on time. “Preliminary inquiry suggests that the stipulated period of the lease agreement had ended, but the house owners did not return the money. As a result, the family could not shift. It is hard to believe that this alone has driven the woman to take the extreme step,” a police officer privy to inquiry said. Police have booked Karthikeyan, his wife and daughter under IPC - 306 (abetment to suicide) and sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act). Further inquiries were under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-kills-kids-self-landlord-booked/articleshow/77027487.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Lucknow||Maternal mortality rate improves marginally in UP, still miles to go||LUCKNOW: The number of women dying during childbirth in the state has recorded a decline. According to data released by registrar-general of India, UP’s maternal mortality ratio declined to 197 points per one lakh live births in 2016-18 from 216 in 2015-17. This translates into saving over 990 lives every year. As per available data, 11,880 maternal deaths were reported in 2015-17 in the state which came down to 10,890 in 2016-18. This means that nearly 2,000 additional women survived in this duration. Despite the improvement, UP’s MMR is the second highest in the country. Assam leads on the count. However, in absolute numbers, UP remains the biggest contributor of maternal deaths in the country. Of approximately 30,000 maternal deaths in India, one-third deaths take place in UP. Experts attribute the shift to factors like increased awareness amongst communities on importance of home deliveries, incentives through JSY andPMMSY, improved referral system, increased emphasis on quality of care in labour rooms and better ambulance network. “This is good news in times of crisis,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare,Amit Mohan Prasad while sharing the information on Thursday. He added that improvement in maternal health comes back with multiple dividends. A maternal death is defined as loss of a woman’s life during pregnancy or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management, but not from accidental or incidental causes. The RGI’s report clearly reflects that while UP’s performance cannot be undermined, competitors have done better. Take the example of Rajasthan which recorded a decline of 22 points -- an improvement of over 11.8% against UP’s improvement of 8.8%. Maternal mortality is a crucial development indicator. Measured in terms of the number of women dying during childbirth per one lakh live births, MMR reflects on any country’s human development index. While the MMR in developed countries like the United States of America and the United Kingdom is below 15, it is as high as 781 in the sub-Saharan country of South Sudan. Experts expressed happiness over the lives saved, but emphasized that efforts need to be accelerated further. “Uttar Pradesh’s decline in MMR in terms of numbers (19 points) is the second highest in the country. This reflects the emphasis placed in recent years on encouraging institutional deliveries, improving referral systems and quality of care in facilities. However, we are still amongst the states on the higher end of the spectrum in terms of MMR. The state is on the right path and efforts need to be accelerated further. We need to make sure that gains made are sustained even during and afterCovid,” said Dr Kanupriya Singhal, specialist health, Unicef, UP. The bulletin also revealed that MMR had increased in several states such as Chhatisgarh, Punjab, Uttrakhand and West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maternal-mortality-rate-improves-marginally-in-state-still-miles-to-go/articleshow/77027474.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||End export bar on alcohol byproducts: Distilleries||Chandigarh: To ensure adequate supply of raw material for production of sanitizer, the Haryana government’s excise and taxation department is to yet lift restrictions on supply of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), rectified sprit (RS) and denatured spirit. With the bar on exporting the three byproducts affecting business of all 15 distilleries in the state, a delegation of Association of Distillation Industry in Haryana called on the office of deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and other senior officers of the excise and taxation department on Wednesday to seek a rollback of the decision, earlier taken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The association said their units had contributed Rs 900 crore in excise duty and other fee to the state exchequer per annum on the account of export or import of these byproducts. They said the delay in allowing exports or inter-state business of these products had led to loss of production and posed a threat to employment of around 2,000 skilled professionals. The meeting came along with a Twitter post by the association which aired the grievance and had tagged both CM CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Dushyant.The association also attached a two-page letter which explained how the industry had been suffering and howdelay in allowing exports would worsen the situation. “Due to closure under Covid-19 lockdown, distilleries have already sustained huge losses, but the department under you is not giving any heed to request for export of ENA and RS. For five months, export permissions were not granted citing the requirement of ENA for production of hand sanitizers, but industry has fulfilled and there is no such pending order,’’ the communication read. The communication also stated people associated with the industry were feeling humiliated. “We don’t see any reason for the government to continue with such bars, especially at a time when markets have opened up. Also, this poses a threat to the livelihood of 2,000 families. After meeting, we are hopeful of the ban being lifted,’’ sources associated with association said. Excise and taxation officers confirmed the meeting, but said it wasa policy decsion which had to be taken by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/end-export-bar-on-alcohol-byproducts-distilleries/articleshow/77026886.cms||Manvir Saini
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||350 lab rats starve to death in PU during lockdown||Aarti.KapurChandigarh: In the absence of an attendant during lockdown, a total of 350 rats starved to death in the department of Biophysics, Panjab University, which is located on the South campus. When scholars and the attendant returned to the department laboratory, they found the dead animals and informed authorities. The animals died despite the fact that attendants got special permission and pass to feed animals in the lab on the recommendation of the university advisory. The animal house caters to the needs of some south campus departments. When contacted, department of biophysics chairperson Sarvnarinder Kaur denied any negligence and claimed that the animals were properly cared for during the lockdown. She conceded to the fact that the attendant could not come to the lab initially after imposition of lockdown in March 2020. However, the animal house attendant was given a pass by the chairperson after taking permission.She said the department purchased animal feed and the house attendant ensured continuous supply of food and water, besides maintaining cleanliness. Sources said the company hired by the university has a receipt stating that the department handed over 30 kg of dead animals to them. Clarifying this, the chairperson stated that a person is deputed to collect dead animals for proper disposition in an incinerator. She said he could not come during the lockdown too because of which animals which died in phases were dumped together.While the chairperson claimed that the number of dead animals is inflated and they don’t belong to the department of biophysics alone, she did not specify the number from her department. The deep freezer contains all the dead animals belonging to different departments, she added.Sources in campus said the animal attendant of the biophysics department lives in Dera Bassi due to which an employee from Sector 14 was deployed by the department. It is the duty of the scholar or attendant to feed the animal as per prescribed rules. But due to lockdown, scholars could not visit the campus and responsibility lay with the attendant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/350-lab-rats-starve-to-death-in-pu-during-lockdown/articleshow/77026887.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 18, 2020||Madurai||Covid deaths under-reported in Madurai, 205 dead, not 129: MP||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has alleged that Covid-19 deaths in the district are being under-reported and that the government has to be more transparent on the issue. In a statement on Friday, he said records from crematoriums or burial grounds between March 25 and July 15 showed that 205 people who tested positive for the disease had been cremated or buried there, but the government record only had 129 on till July 15. Elaborating to TOI, Venkatesan said he had personally obtained records which stated that people who had tested positive for Covid-19 were cremated or buried in Madurai since March 25, when the first death of a 54-year-old man was reported. Till July 15, the government’s media bulletin had reported 129 deaths. According to reports available with him, 167 people had been cremated in the Thathaneri crematorium in the corporation limits and 46 of them were from other districts. It was specified in their reports that they had tested positive for the disease. Similarly, 57 Covid-positive people had been cremated at the Keeraithurai electric crematorium in the same period and 13 of them were from other districts. Another 39 people who had tested positive for the disease had been buried in the burial ground for the Muslim community, the Maiyavadi, during the period. They included eight people from other districts. Organisations like Popular Front of India, which are burying and cremating Covid-19 victims, had informed that they had also cremated two non—Muslims at another place. Venkatesan said he had not been able to obtain full details of those from the Christian community who had died and were buried in their cemeteries, but had received information of seven such deaths. Hence, if the 67 people from other districts who had died in Madurai and were buried or cremated, were excluded, Madurai still had 205 Covid-19 deaths. “The ICMR has said that suspicious deaths could also be recorded as Covid-19 deaths, but this was not being done in Madurai. If those deaths are also taken into consideration the numbers would definitely cross 300”, he added. Reacting to the MP’s claims, district collector Dr T G Vinay told TOI the deaths mentioned by the MP will include SARI-exacerbation of chronic ashthma, COPD and chronic heart failure deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-deaths-under-reported-in-madurai-205-dead-not-129-mp/articleshow/77027490.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP functionary accuses colleague, his kin of carving out illegal colony||Hisar: Haryana BJP functionary Rajesh Thakral on Friday accused party colleague and Hansi MLA Vinod Bhayana and his kin of carving out a plot on land surrounding the historic Maim ka Bagh, a cemetery and two and a half acres of government property. He showed media persons papers in which the Hisar district town planner (DTP) had written to the Hansi superintendent of police to register an FIR against the MLA’s wife, his brother and several others allegedly carved out an illegal colony and a market. Thakral alleged that no FIR has been registered in the matter so far. Thakral alleged, “The Hisar DTP had written to the Hansi tehsildar for not registering the plots in the illegal colony. The people of Hansi are being cheated by sale of plots in illegal colonies.” However, Bhayana refuted the allegations, saying, “Thakral is not a man of my status so I do not take him seriously. I am not bothered about what he says.” Hisar DTP G P Khasa said it was a case of several colonies at one place, including the one carved by the MLA’s brother and wife and Om Prakash Panghal, who had contested from Hansi as Congress candidate in the 2019 assembly polls. “Many letters have been written to the Hansi police to register an FIR against them, but till now we have not been sent a copy of the FIR,” he said. Hansi SP Lokendra Singh claimed the matter was not in his knowledge. “I will look into the allegations and take action as per law,” he said. In the case of illegal colonies in Hansi, the Enforcement Directorate has sent many notices to some people, seeking information regarding the land. TOI has a copy of the notice sent to the secretary of Hisar Indian Co-operative House Building Society on June 10, in which the assistant director (ED) Swaraj Pal Singh Nagill has sought the information of the land, the land sold, the ITR of the society and the ITR of its members. Details have also been sought of the bank account of the society, about the transactions made about the land purchased from the Skinner family (related to the land of the Maim ka Bagh), and copies of the Association of Articles, Association of Memorandum of the Society since 2007 to till date. Bhayana had also figured in the cash-for-change-of-land-use scam during the second term of Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda as the chief minister. He joined BJP on December 14, 2018 and had contested the 2019 assembly elections from Hansi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-functionary-accuses-colleague-his-kin-of-carving-out-illegal-colony/articleshow/77026896.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Pyare Mian ignored I-T notices, did not file returns, says cops||BHOPAL: Pyare Mian, accused of rape and exploitation of minors, remained cool and confident during his interrogation on Day 1, on Friday. Police produced Pyare in court and gota remand of five days. A confident Pyare made it amply clear that he was well versed with the police procedures. Police have found details and documents of 46 properties owned by Pyare Mian and his family members. Most of them are located in Bhopal, Indore, Sehore. Some of them were found to be ‘Benami’ properties. It was also revealed that he has not filed income tax return for the past few years and ignored all notices for the same and police have written to income tax department for further action. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota, who is leading the special investigation team (SIT) formed to investigate Pyare Mian’s cases, said that during his five-hour long interrogation Pyare Mian admitted that he went to party at his flat in Vishnu Hitech City on Saturday night but denied raping the minor girls.  Thota said that Pyare revealed that he likes to be in Kashmir and visited the state every year. . Kashmir was not new for him so he fled to Kashmir. He also said that he frequently visited foreign countries including Switzerland, Thailand, Dubai, UK and others. Referring to his income, SP said that Pyare told police that he earned a lot of money in lottery business when he had sole legal rights for the state in the past. Thota said that Pyare is a tough nut to crack because he only admits things for which police have documentary evidence. Police have booked one more accomplice of Pyare Mian — Khurshid Alam, a government schoolteacher, in the Shahpura case. He helped Pyare Mian by providing him Rs20,000 cash and a taxi to flee away from Ashta from where he fled to Mumbai and further to Delhi and Srinagar. SP said that Khurshid’s wife filed a complaint with MP Nagar police that Pyare Mian helped Khurshid by getting him registered as a journalist despite he being a teacher at a government school. She alleged that she found a fake ID of Satpura Bhawan in possession of Khurshid which stated him to be a sub-engineer posted in national highway in PWD. He used the card to enter Satpura Bhawan. She said that she got a photo copy of the ID from him a few days ago. MP Nagar police have registered a case on charges of fraud against Khurshid. Pyare Mian’s illegal properties including a marriage hall at Aishbagh and illegal parking at his house in BDA Colony Koh-e-Fiza were razed on Friday by joint team of police, district administration and BMC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-admits-travelling-to-jk-foreign-countries/articleshow/77026142.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Funds: Chandigarh municipal corporation puts stale ideas on plate||CHANDIGARH: A special committee of the Chandigarh municipal corporation, formed to suggest ways to generate additional revenue, on Friday failed to come up with any new idea that can be implemented to pull the civic body out of financial morass. The ideas suggested by the committee members have failed the test of time over the years, sources said. At a meeting during the day, city mayor Raj Bala Malik-constituted special committee discussed the 4th Delhi Finance Commission recommendations, and taking over the Registering and Licence Authority (RLA), stamp duty, bus queue shelters etc from the UT administration, so as to ensure some additional sources of income. The panel suggested greater focus on raising more advertisement revenue by allowing use of public toilets for the purpose, working on one-time settlement of pending water bill arrears, collecting higher fees from the eateries of the city for allowing them to use the space outside their shops and revisiting the property records of villages to explore possibilities of extra revenue, among others. As for considering the recommendations of both 3rd and 4th Delhi Finance Commissions, they have been there for several years, but no action has been taken so far. Similarly, advertisement on public toilets is an idea discussed every now and then for the last five years. Similarly, the issue of transfer of departments from the UT administration to the civic body, which is part of the recommendations of the Delhi Finance Commission, has not been paid heed to by the UT despite repeated requests for over five years now. Even the proposal to update the data on village properties has been made for several years, though without much positive outcome. “If we really want to increase our revenue resources to sustain financially, we will have to take concrete steps with strong political will, but nothing of that sort was seen happening at the meeting. Almost all the issues discussed were ones that have been discussed since long with no concrete results,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-panel-harps-on-stale-ideas-to-generate-revenue/articleshow/77026892.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Medical students roped in||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government has taken the ‘all hands on deck’ approach by deploying students of medical, dental, and paramedical courses in the war on Covid. Gujarat has crossed the 45,000-mark in terms of Covid cases and the state is facing an acute shortage of frontline medical teams. The government’s decision is expected to create an additional frontline task force of about 1 lakh students in their first, second, third, and final years of undergraduate studies. The Gujarat government’s department of health on Friday issued a notification to announce the decision. The students roped in include those in MBBS, BDS, and BSc nursing courses. They will have to undergo a training programme before joining the mission. The decision, however, is not likely to go down well with some students, especially in varsities such as Gujarat University where the final-year MBBS exams are scheduled next month. Students of physiotherapy, homeopathy, ayurveda and other medical and paramedical courses will also be a part of this endeavor, the government notification said. In the case of final-year MBBS and BDS students, the pre-deployment training period will last for five days. It will cover the areas of clinical management of Covid-19 and infection prevention and control. After undergoing training, the students will work under a nodal officer at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. The notification said that students of other courses will be trained in line with their study areas. The areas will include sample collection, packing and transportation; nursing; critical care; field surveillance and supervision; giving care to those in home isolation; and providing psycho-social care. As with MBBS and BDS students, other students will receive training tailor-made for this special deployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-students-roped-in/articleshow/77026179.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||A first, drone used for aerial seeding in forest||Yamunanagar: In a first, to tackle the problem of inaccessibility in some remote areas of the Shivalik hills, the Haryan forest department has started use of drones to spread seed of various medicinal and fruit-bearing trees. The intiative is as part of the department’s tree plantation drive during the monsoon season in Jhanda village of Sadhaura block in Yamunanagar district on Friday. Haryana forest minister Kanwar Pal and state principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) Amarinder Kaur visited the area where they planted some trees and also monitored aerial seeding in the vacant forest area using a drone. They also inaugurated a Covid Vatika in the gallery of Shiv Temple in Jhanda village. In another event, the minister and PCCF also initiated a tree plantation drive of about 13,500 plants in about 12.5 hectares forest land of Sadhaura city forest on Tibri village road, said Yamunanagar district forest officer (DFO) Suraj Bhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/a-first-drone-used-for-aerial-seeding-in-forest/articleshow/77026894.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Rohtak: Minor girl set on fire by rape accused, dies||CHANDIGARH: A minor girl, set on fire while she was sleeping by the men she had accused of her gang rape, succumbed to burns at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, on Thursday night. Police have now added murder charge against the two accused booked in a case registered at Bhiwani Sadar police station. In his statement to police, the girl’s father said the two accused entered their house on Wednesday night and poured diesel on her before setting her on fire. The girl was taken to PGIMS, Rohtak, where she succumbed hours later. “We got the intimation about the incident from Rohtak late in Thursday evening and a case was registered. One accused has been arrested in the Pocso and rape case. Since the accused are same in both the cases, there will be follow up action,” said inspector Shri Bhagwan Yadav, the SHO Sadar police station. Police have arrested a 22-year-old man, who is related to the girl, and are looking for his uncle, who is his accomplice in crime. Both had been allegedly abusing the girl for almost a year. When the girl’s father came to know of it, he got a case of rape registered against them both on July 13. However, soon after, the accused’s father allegedly committed suicide and a case of abetment to suicide was registered against the girl and her father on the complaint of younger brother of the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/minor-girl-set-on-fire-by-rape-accused-dies/articleshow/77026890.cms||Manvir Saini
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||‘30% of over 6 lakh complaints on CM Window against police dept’||Jind: Over 6.30 lakh complaints were received on the CM Window in the last five years in Haryana, out of which nearly 30% were against the police department, suggests a reply in response to an application filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. RTI activist Mehar Chand Ravish, a resident of Janakpuri Colony in Kaithal, said since the launch of CM Window on December 25, 2014 till March 2020, a total of 6,30,656 complaints were received against various departments. Of the total complaints, 1,86,210 were received against the police department, which is 29.52% of all the complaints, followed by 81,515 against the development and panchayats department. As per the data procured, 3,387 complaints were received in 2014 and after that, one lakh or more complaints were registered in subsequent years. In 2015, the number of complaints was 1.11 lakh, followed by 97,484 in 2016. In 2017, it was 1.33 lakh, which escalated to 1.34 lakh in 2018 — highest in the last five years. The count of complaints dropped to 1.24 lakh in 2019, while it stood at 26,015 in 2020 till March 31. As per the data, all complaints were resolved in 2014 within a week receiving the same, but thereafter, as the numbers increased, the resolution process slowed down. Ravish said, “I had approached the CM Window this year against the municipal committee over some issue, but my complaint was disposed of without my consent and officials didn’t resolve my problem. Thereafter, I sought information about all the complaints against all departments of the state’s, wherein the officials had claimed to have resolved the grievances. It is an eyewash. Many complaints have been shown as resolved without the consent of the complainant. Initially, every department took the CM Window seriously, but now they don’t.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/30-of-over-6-lakh-complaints-on-cm-window-against-police-dept/articleshow/77026898.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Bhopal||Pyare Mian remanded to police custody for 5 days in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A day after local newspaper owner Pyare Mian, accused of rape and sexually exploiting minor girls, was brought to Bhopal after being arrested in Srinagar, police produced him before the court on Friday afternoon. He was later remanded to police custody for five days. Prosecution officer advocate Manoj Tripathi said that Pyare Mian was produced before the court of special judge Minshi Singh Chandrawat. The investigation officer sought 14 days remand citing that police have to take him to various places for spot verification and collecting evidence in the case. Pyare Mian’s advocate objected stating that the accused is 68-year-old and a cancer patient. He has many other ailments therefore court should not give him on police remand. Advocate Tripathi said that the court heard the arguments and rejected the arguments of counsel of the accused. The court said that the crime committed is serious in nature and sent Pyare Mian on police remand till July 22. Five other accused in the case including Pyare Mian’s accomplices Sweety, driver Anas, Ubesh Ahmed, a survivor’s maternal grandmother and a woman Gulshan have already been produced before the court from where they were sent on judicial remand. Pyare is accused of exploiting minor girls especially from the financially weaker section under the garb of helping them out. He used to organise parties at huis flast in Bhopal and also took the girls to foreign countries including Dubai, Thailand, Singapore. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-mian-remanded-to-police-custody-for-5-days/articleshow/77026151.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra govt announces renewable energy export policy||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government announced the Andhra Pradesh Renewable Energy Export Policy, 2020 on Friday. The policy will apply to solar, wind and wind-solar hybrid projects. Under this policy, the land in the state will be effectively used for renewable energy projects. “The state has ideal conditions for setting up renewable energy projects for the export of energy to other states,” energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant has stated in the government order that lays down the policy. A number of government schemes such as mega renewable energy power parks will provide incentive for such renewable energy projects. Taking into consideration the huge untapped potential of the state and the availability of land, the state government has decided to encourage, develop and promote renewable energy projects run by investors for the purpose of exporting energy outside the state, the GO stated. In view of the untapped potential and land availability in the state, the government has decided to encourage, develop and promote renewable energy projects for the purpose of export to other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-announces-renewable-energy-export-policy/articleshow/77026150.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kochi||‘35% cases reported in state in past two weeks caused by local spread’||Kochi: Though the state government has increased the number of tests by more than two-fold in the past fortnight ending July 14, test positivity rate has dipped to 2.2% from 2.4% in the fortnight ending June 30. Still, experts point out that the situation has worsened as the number of cases detected through sentinel surveillance has increased significantly. In the past two weeks, 2,03,473 swabs samples were tested in the state and around 4,488 persons tested positive for coronavirus. At the same time, 81,900 tests were conducted during a fortnight preceding July 1 and 1,951 people tested positive for the disease. This shows that the test positivity rate has declined to 45:1 (2.2%) from 42:1 (2.4%). As many as 1,600 people who tested positive from July 1-14 contracted the infection through local transmission, accounting for 35% of the total number of cases. “The situation is turning worse. A sizable number of those who tested positive this month were detected in sentinel surveillance. It is alarming that sentinel tests threw up such a large number of positive cases. Vigil among the public has dipped after the first phases of lockdown. We will have to start aggressive campaigns to spread awareness among the public about the disease. Other measures to prevent the spread should also be taken,” said Dr K P Aravindan, a health expert. “The antigen tests have come handy for us to detect the spread of the disease at an early stage and take measures to check further spread,” Aravindan added. According to experts, conducting tests on a large scale is crucial as it will give more information regarding clusters which are in formation. “Using dot maps of the areas, where more cases are reported, authorities can prepare mitigation plans and avoid formation of more clusters. What is seen as a relief to the state is the low number of critically ill cases, which is around 30 and low death rate which is now at around 0.38%,” said Dr S S Santhosh Kumar, deputy superintendent, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. “If the government releases the exact number of critically ill patients, it will help analyse the situation in a better way. Then, we will be able to calculate the time required for doubling of patients requiring intensive care. If time required for the doubling is around three months, we will have to act fast and take immediate steps to cater to the increased patient load. If it is six months, we will get some more time to set up more facilities,” Santhosh Kumar said. According to officials with the health department, the spike in the number of cases in Kasaragod during April-May was driven by large-scale evacuation from abroad. “Though all those quarantined will be staying home, there are chances of them spreading the disease to their family members. The government should take measures to slow down the evacuation from abroad for some time. If there is a certain interval, it will help cure the patients who are already admitted to various hospitals,” an official with health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/35-cases-reported-in-state-in-past-two-weeks-caused-by-local-spread/articleshow/77025036.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Highest single-day tally: 949 new Covid-19 cases in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: With 949 new Covid-19 cases reported in in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, Gujarat recorded its highest single-day number of new cases, taking its total number of cases to 46,516 cases, according to the state health department. Some 17 more patients succumbed to the infection, including five each from Ahmedabad and Surat, two each from Rajkot and Bhavnagar and one each from Gandhinagar, Patan and Vadodara. With this, the death toll in the state hit 2,108. Ahmedabad and Surat continued to report the highest number of cases in the state. The fresh cases included 234 from Surat, 184 from Ahmedabad, 77 from Vadodara, 44 from Bhavnagar, 58 from Rajkot and 32 from Gandhinagar. The number of total cases is the highest in Ahmedabad (city and rural) at 23,964 cases. Surat’s tally is also rising rapidly and stood at 9,685 cases, next only to Ahmedabad. Some 770 people were discharged from various hospitals in Gujarat taking the total number of patients who have recovered in the state to 32,944. These 770 included 351 from Surat, 165 from Ahmedabad and 87 from Vadodara. In all, 5.12 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted across the state, till Friday. The state has 11,464 active cases of which 71 are on ventilator support whereas 11,363 are stable. Some 3.74 lakh people have been quarantined in Gujarat, with 3.72 lakh in home quarantine and 2,203 persons in institutional quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/highest-single-day-tally-949-new-cases/articleshow/77026200.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi walled city revamp: Parking project delayed by three years||NEW DELHI: While the pedestrianisation of Chandni Chowk might get completed this year, there would be a much longer wait for the commercial complex-cum-parking project in Old Delhi because of the series of construction bans to curb pollution and the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown. The project at Gandhi Maidan is aimed at developing parking space for 2,100 vehicles and 81 tourist buses over three floors of the basement with separate areas for retail shops and a food court. The nine-storey structure is being developed by a private builder and it is expected to have a floor area of 1.5 lakh square feet. A senior official overseeing the infrastructure project said that the deadline of the project had been extended to April 2024. “Customers will be able to access all specialties of the Walled City, like clothing, jewellery, spices, dried fruits, saris, essential oils and traditional Indian sweets and food items, under the same roof with easy access to parking and the metro station. This will help decongest Old Delhi and also provide an option to traders who want to move to a modern building with all amenities,” the official added. Though construction was started in June 2019, the project faced multiple hurdles with very little work being carried out in the first year. “Construction was stopped by Supreme Court on November 4, 2019 due to air pollution control measures and the ban was lifted in February 2020. Some digging work for the basement was finished, but construction was halted again in March 2020 because of the lockdown. Now, there is a shortage of labour,” the official said. Giving details about the project, the official said, “Apart from the parking areas in the basement, there will be space for a large number of retail shops on the ground and first floors, while the second floor will have one of the largest food courts of the city featuring all Shahjahanabad specialities.” The chaotic traffic jams and lack of parking space are a major deterrent for many who want to visit Old Delhi. “The multilevel parking-cum-commercial project is spread over 4.5 acres and it will be fashioned as a chowk. Initially, the project was estimated to get operational by 2021,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/walled-city-revamp-parking-project-delayed-by-three-yrs/articleshow/77027552.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh govt plans major overhaul of Rayalaseema’s irrigation infra||AMARAVATI: The state government will spend around Rs 40,000 crore to upgrade irrigation infrastructure in the perennially drought-hit Rayalaseema region. The process for mobilisation of funds to take up the projects has already begun with the setting up of AP Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Projects Corporation Ltd, which was approved by the cabinet earlier this week. “We have fast-tracked the process by setting up a special purpose vehicle to mobilise loans for the projects, which will change the fortunes of Rayalaseema region forever. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy wants the projects to be completed at the earliest,” irrigation special chief secretary Adityanath Das said. Besides local bankers, the government is also aiming to raise funds from international agencies. As per the detailed project report, the scheme has been divided into five parts — core projects, arm I, arm II, arm III, and other works. The lift irrigation scheme on Srisailam project and upgrading of canal system from Pothireddypadu head regulator to Banakacharla, which is projected to draw 80,000 cusecs per day, has been listed among the core projects. Rayalaseema region comprises Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa and Chittoor districts and covers nearly 41% of the state’s geographical area. The cultivable area is about 36%, while irrigated area is only 20%. The region is drought-prone, with an average rainfall of 644mm compared to the state average of 852mm. Anantapur receives the second lowest rainfall in the country after Thar desert in Rajasthan. Local populace is highly dependent on ground water for drinking, domestic, industrial and irrigation needs, which has led to ground water level depleting to below 1,100 ft in Anantapur and Chittoor districts. Industries find it difficult to operate in the region due to low availability of water. Most of the labour class, therefore, migrate to other places in search of livelihood. Agricultural labour, small and marginal farmers too leave the area due to lack of agricultural activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-plans-major-overhaul-of-rayalaseemas-irrigation-infra/articleshow/77031130.cms||Samdani MN
July 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt plans major overhaul of Rayalaseema’s irrigation infra||AMARAVATI: The state government will spend around Rs 40,000 crore to upgrade irrigation infrastructure in the perennially drought-hit Rayalaseema region. The process for mobilisation of funds to take up the projects has already begun with the setting up of AP Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Projects Corporation Ltd, which was approved by the cabinet earlier this week. “We have fast-tracked the process by setting up a special purpose vehicle to mobilise loans for the projects, which will change the fortunes of Rayalaseema region forever. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy wants the projects to be completed at the earliest,” irrigation special chief secretary Adityanath Das said. Besides local bankers, the government is also aiming to raise funds from international agencies. As per the detailed project report, the scheme has been divided into five parts — core projects, arm I, arm II, arm III, and other works. The lift irrigation scheme on Srisailam project and upgrading of canal system from Pothireddypadu head regulator to Banakacharla, which is projected to draw 80,000 cusecs per day, has been listed among the core projects. Rayalaseema region comprises Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa and Chittoor districts and covers nearly 41% of the state’s geographical area. The cultivable area is about 36%, while irrigated area is only 20%. The region is drought-prone, with an average rainfall of 644mm compared to the state average of 852mm. Anantapur receives the second lowest rainfall in the country after Thar desert in Rajasthan. Local populace is highly dependent on ground water for drinking, domestic, industrial and irrigation needs, which has led to ground water level depleting to below 1,100 ft in Anantapur and Chittoor districts. Industries find it difficult to operate in the region due to low availability of water. Most of the labour class, therefore, migrate to other places in search of livelihood. Agricultural labour, small and marginal farmers too leave the area due to lack of agricultural activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-plans-major-overhaul-of-rayalaseemas-irrigation-infra/articleshow/77026194.cms||Samdani MN
July 18, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh govt plans major overhaul of Rayalaseema’s irrigation infra||AMARAVATI: The state government will spend around Rs 40,000 crore to upgrade irrigation infrastructure in the perennially drought-hit Rayalaseema region. The process for mobilisation of funds to take up the projects has already begun with the setting up of AP Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Projects Corporation Ltd, which was approved by the cabinet earlier this week. “We have fast-tracked the process by setting up a special purpose vehicle to mobilise loans for the projects, which will change the fortunes of Rayalaseema region forever. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy wants the projects to be completed at the earliest,” irrigation special chief secretary Adityanath Das said. Besides local bankers, the government is also aiming to raise funds from international agencies. As per the detailed project report, the scheme has been divided into five parts — core projects, arm I, arm II, arm III, and other works. The lift irrigation scheme on Srisailam project and upgrading of canal system from Pothireddypadu head regulator to Banakacharla, which is projected to draw 80,000 cusecs per day, has been listed among the core projects. Rayalaseema region comprises Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa and Chittoor districts and covers nearly 41% of the state’s geographical area. The cultivable area is about 36%, while irrigated area is only 20%. The region is drought-prone, with an average rainfall of 644mm compared to the state average of 852mm. Anantapur receives the second lowest rainfall in the country after Thar desert in Rajasthan. Local populace is highly dependent on ground water for drinking, domestic, industrial and irrigation needs, which has led to ground water level depleting to below 1,100 ft in Anantapur and Chittoor districts. Industries find it difficult to operate in the region due to low availability of water. Most of the labour class, therefore, migrate to other places in search of livelihood. Agricultural labour, small and marginal farmers too leave the area due to lack of agricultural activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-plans-major-overhaul-of-rayalaseemas-irrigation-infra/articleshow/77031131.cms||Samdani MN
July 18, 2020||Kochi||Book stores join online bandwagon in Kochi||KOCHI: Book stores in the city, too, have joined the online bandwagon. After the number of customers steadily declined due to pandemic-related lockdown, book stores have started depending on technology to attract customers. Books stores in the city now call their customers personally and give them attractive offers and discounts. They also post messages on social media with names of books available for sale. Stores also offer doorstep delivery of books either through delivery boys or courier service. “The pandemic has affected the sales severely. We used to have 80 to 100 billings a day during pre-lockdown days but it has now reduced drastically and some days it’s just one or two. It was difficult to meet the expenses and we thought of delivering books at the doorstep of customers after taking orders online. Most of our existing customers are now buying books and we are getting new customers from other states too,” said Abdul Latheef, owner of Blossom House of New and Used Books. If the destination is within 10km from the shop, books will be directly delivered by the staff. Otherwise, it will be sent through India Post without any delivery charges. Storekeepers say books related to health, virus, self-help, motivation, etc., have high demand now. Also, Ivory Throne by Manu S Pillai that evolves around the erstwhile Travancore royal family, too, has demand after the Supreme Court verdict on Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple. DC Books has tied up with food delivery platforms Zomato and Swiggy to deliver books. “Customers can make their orders through these apps just like they order food. We also offer courier services,” said Madhusoodanan, manager, DC Books, Convent Junction. “I had stopped visiting book stores due to the pandemic outbreak. Now I can get the book I want right at my doorstep at a reduced price,” said Krishnapriya S, a techie based at Infopark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/book-stores-join-online-bandwagon/articleshow/77025050.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: IKEA decides to down shutters again||HYDERABAD: A little over a month after it reopened its doors, Swedish retail giant IKEA is shutting down its Hyderabad store again as Covid-19 cases surge. IKEA India CEO & CSO Peter Betzel put out a letter to customers on the company website and on social media on Friday stating that the store would be downing shutters temporarily from July 18 (Saturday) as the safety and well-being of customers and co-workers remains the highest priority. IKEA also sent out emails to customers. “As you know, after a period of lockdown, we opened our operations in Hyderabad, starting with online in May and then our store in June, with all the hygiene and safety precautions. In the light of the current Covid-19 situation and to strengthen the safety and well-being of our customers and co-workers, we want to take all our experiences and learnings during the last weeks to further build a safer and an even better shopping experience in our store,” he said. “In order to do this in a responsible way we will temporarily close IKEA Hyderabad store for our customers from Saturday 18th of July. We are aiming to re-open soon...,” Betzel said, pointing out that the online store and free Click & Collect service for shoppers would continue to function. IKEA had first closed the store on March 20 over safety concerns and reopened on June 8 after the lockdown restrictions eased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ikea-decides-to-down-shutters-again/articleshow/77026907.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Leaders slam desecration, CM promises prompt action||Coimbatore: The desecration of Periyar’s statue has kicked up a state-wide furore with almost all political leaders condemning the incident. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami warned of legal action against those behind the act. “Orders have been issued to police to initiate legal action against the offenders,” he told reporters in Erode. DMK leader Stalin’s reaction was rather muted. In a tweet, he showered praises on Periyar stating that the Dravidian stalwart had seen similar insults during his lifetime but continued to fight for everyone, even those who belittled him. DMK leader Dhayanidhi Maran also tweeted condemning the incident. MDMK leader Vaiko said that incidents of defilement or vandalization of Periyar statues were increasing in Tamil Nadu under the AIADMK rule. “The perpetrators should be brought before court of law and punished,” he said in a statement. CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan said that right wing organisations are continuously indulging in such acts unable to counter alternative views. “This kind of violence is an extension of a controversial speech by BJP leader H Raja,” he said in a statement. AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran called for stringent action against the perpetrators, who spread social unrest by denigrating late leaders. Meanwhile, PMK leader S Ramadoss demanded action against those behind YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam that posted a video denigrating Lord Muruga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leaders-slam-desecration-cm-promises-prompt-action/articleshow/77026917.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mysuru||Rivers in Malnad in spate as rain pounds region||CHIKKAMAGALURU/ SHIVAMOGGA: Due to rain lashing the Malnad region, the rivers originating in the Western Ghats are in full flow. The catchment areas of the Tunga, Bhadra, Hemavathi and Nethravathi rivers in Chikkamagaluru received the maximum rain. It also rained in Koppa, Nrpura, Sringeri and Mudigere taluks. Hebbale, a bridge connecting between Kalasa and the temple town Horanadu, across the Bhadra river, has almost been submerged due to rain. Water needs to rise by about 2ft for the bridge to get submerged. The bridge had got submerged at least 30 times last year. Kuduremukh, Kalasa, Kottigehara and Charmadi Ghat roads got damaged due to the rain. Power supply was disrupted in the area after electric poles fell to the ground. Shivamogga also received copious rain on Friday afternoon. It rained continuously in Hosanagara, Thirthahalli, and Sagar taluks on Friday. It rained heavily in Sharavathi valley, Maani, Chakra, Savehaklu, Mastikatte and Yadur villages in Hosanagara. The inflow of water raised the water levels in the Varahi and Sharavathi dams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rivers-in-malnad-in-spate-as-rain-pounds-region/articleshow/77026487.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Vijayawada||SVIMS lab to conduct quality check of Covid testing in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: In an attempt to make all government-approved Covid-19 testing labs in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana accountable, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked all the labs to cross-check their results. The virology lab at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), Tirupati, has been designated to do the quality check of Covid-19 results of the government labs of both states. The testing happens for the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) samples. “The test review exercise will happen once every fifteen days. Five negative test results and five positive test results are needed from each lab for quality check,” Dr B Vengamma, director of SVIMS said. The labs will randomly choose these samples. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has so far approved more than 100 government labs in both states. The SVIMS will process samples again and mail the results to the health departments of both states. The health department will compare results from the individual labs and the institute for disparities. “If the results are different, the labs will be critically reviewed and surprise inspections will be conducted to ensure there was no compromise with testing and results,” said a senior official. However, the private labs in Telangana have to send their samples to Gandhi Hospital for quality check. However, private labs have expressed concern about the review move, highlighting that the government itself has, on several occasions, accepted that the virus was tricky and test results were not consistent. According to additional professor Dr Vijay Kumar (NIMS) , clinical pharmacology wing, there is also an international quality checking programme with designated private agencies. “In this method any lab can enroll themselves with such agencies. They will have to send samples for testing and results will be compared with their internal results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/svims-lab-to-conduct-quality-check-of-covid-testing-in-t-ap/articleshow/77029323.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||SVIMS lab to conduct quality check of Covid testing in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: In an attempt to make all government-approved Covid-19 testing labs in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana accountable, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked all the labs to cross-check their results. The virology lab at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), Tirupati, has been designated to do the quality check of Covid-19 results of the government labs of both states. The testing happens for the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) samples. “The test review exercise will happen once every fifteen days. Five negative test results and five positive test results are needed from each lab for quality check,” Dr B Vengamma, director of SVIMS said. The labs will randomly choose these samples. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has so far approved more than 100 government labs in both states. The SVIMS will process samples again and mail the results to the health departments of both states. The health department will compare results from the individual labs and the institute for disparities. “If the results are different, the labs will be critically reviewed and surprise inspections will be conducted to ensure there was no compromise with testing and results,” said a senior official. However, the private labs in Telangana have to send their samples to Gandhi Hospital for quality check. However, private labs have expressed concern about the review move, highlighting that the government itself has, on several occasions, accepted that the virus was tricky and test results were not consistent. According to additional professor Dr Vijay Kumar (NIMS) , clinical pharmacology wing, there is also an international quality checking programme with designated private agencies. “In this method any lab can enroll themselves with such agencies. They will have to send samples for testing and results will be compared with their internal results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/svims-lab-to-conduct-quality-check-of-covid-testing-in-t-ap/articleshow/77026924.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||SVIMS lab to conduct quality check of Covid testing in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: In an attempt to make all government-approved Covid-19 testing labs in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana accountable, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked all the labs to cross-check their results. The virology lab at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), Tirupati, has been designated to do the quality check of Covid-19 results of the government labs of both states. The testing happens for the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) samples. “The test review exercise will happen once every fifteen days. Five negative test results and five positive test results are needed from each lab for quality check,” Dr B Vengamma, director of SVIMS said. The labs will randomly choose these samples. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has so far approved more than 100 government labs in both states. The SVIMS will process samples again and mail the results to the health departments of both states. The health department will compare results from the individual labs and the institute for disparities. “If the results are different, the labs will be critically reviewed and surprise inspections will be conducted to ensure there was no compromise with testing and results,” said a senior official. However, the private labs in Telangana have to send their samples to Gandhi Hospital for quality check. However, private labs have expressed concern about the review move, highlighting that the government itself has, on several occasions, accepted that the virus was tricky and test results were not consistent. According to additional professor Dr Vijay Kumar (NIMS) , clinical pharmacology wing, there is also an international quality checking programme with designated private agencies. “In this method any lab can enroll themselves with such agencies. They will have to send samples for testing and results will be compared with their internal results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/svims-lab-to-conduct-quality-check-of-covid-testing-in-t-ap/articleshow/77029321.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 18, 2020||Amaravati||SVIMS lab to conduct quality check of Covid testing in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: In an attempt to make all government-approved Covid-19 testing labs in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana accountable, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked all the labs to cross-check their results. The virology lab at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), Tirupati, has been designated to do the quality check of Covid-19 results of the government labs of both states. The testing happens for the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) samples. “The test review exercise will happen once every fifteen days. Five negative test results and five positive test results are needed from each lab for quality check,” Dr B Vengamma, director of SVIMS said. The labs will randomly choose these samples. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has so far approved more than 100 government labs in both states. The SVIMS will process samples again and mail the results to the health departments of both states. The health department will compare results from the individual labs and the institute for disparities. “If the results are different, the labs will be critically reviewed and surprise inspections will be conducted to ensure there was no compromise with testing and results,” said a senior official. However, the private labs in Telangana have to send their samples to Gandhi Hospital for quality check. However, private labs have expressed concern about the review move, highlighting that the government itself has, on several occasions, accepted that the virus was tricky and test results were not consistent. According to additional professor Dr Vijay Kumar (NIMS) , clinical pharmacology wing, there is also an international quality checking programme with designated private agencies. “In this method any lab can enroll themselves with such agencies. They will have to send samples for testing and results will be compared with their internal results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/svims-lab-to-conduct-quality-check-of-covid-testing-in-t-ap/articleshow/77029322.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Krishna Police destroy liquor worth Rs 75 lakh||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district police destroyed Rs 75 lakh worth of liquor at Machilipatnam town on Friday. A whopping 14,238 liquor bottles were destroyed using a road roller. Krishna district SP Ravindranth Babu authorised the operation. Additionally, 217 litres of ID arrack seized in raids during the lockdown were also destroyed. #WATCH Andhra Pradesh: Police destroys liquor bottles worth Rs 72 lakh using a road roller at Police Parade Ground… https://t.co/A3uX3lgw9j— ANI (@ANI) 1594993524000Speaking to the media, the SP said that the administration has decided to destroy the liquor to ensure that none of it gets stolen or misused. Moreover, these bottles were taking up a lot of space in the police station. Police said that the operation was undertaken in accordance with the gazette notification issued by the special enforcement bureau (SEB) as well as the district SP. Krishna SP Ravindranath Babu told TOI that the liquor that was destroyed on Friday is from 10 police station limits. More liquor would be destroyed by next week once the proposals are cleared. “All of what was destroyed was non-duty paid liquor. Previously, seized liquor would be handed over to the deputy commissioner of excise police who would then destroy it. Now, the district SP is authorised to dispose of the liquor,” said Ravindranth Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-police-destroy-liquor-worth-rs-75-lakh/articleshow/77026218.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 18, 2020||Hubballi||Bride, groom & 30 guests at wedding test positive for Covid-19||Haveri: A newly wed couple, and 30 people who attended their wedding in Ranebennur, which was held without taking permission from the authorities on June 29, have tested positive for Covid-19. Tragedy struck the groom’s house as his father, 55, (P-25830) and mother, 45, (P-36881) died within a few days after the wedding ceremony. Both had tested positive for Covid-19. Now, the bride and the groom and 30 people who attended the wedding, have tested positive for the virus. Their test result came on Friday. Over 80 people have been identified as the primary contacts of the deceased persons including Ranebennur MLA Arunkumar MG. According to sources, the wedding was held at Mouneshwar temple in Maruti Nagar area in Ranebennur on June 29, without getting permission from the authorities concerned. More than 100 people attended the wedding. After the ceremony, the groom’s father fell ill and received treatment at a local hospital. However, his condition deteriorated and he was admitted at SS Hospital in Davanagere where he died on July 7. Later, the groom’s mother also died on July 11. Her sample tested positive for Covid-19 on July 14. Of the 30 persons infected with the virus, four are children below 11 years, and 10 are senior citizens including a 90-year-old man. Besides, two staff nurses also contracted the infection from the groom’s father when he was undergoing treatment. When contacted additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar said 36 people who attended wedding, and the bride and groom, were sent on institutional quarantine in Antaravalli village. “Now, we have received 32 results and all are infected. We are waiting for six more sample results. We have requested people who attended the wedding to go for Covid test,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bride-groom-30-guests-at-wedding-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77025483.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Workers of cordite factory stage demo||Udhagamandalam: The Cordite Factory Labour Union, National Employees Union and Defence Factory Labour Union staged a demonstration in front of the Cordite Factory in Aruvankadu in the Nilgiris on Friday after a manager allegedly asked employees not to talk in Tamil. According to the executive members of the unions, general manager Sanjay V asked them not to talk in Tamil when they approached him to have a dialogue on Covid-19 awareness. They also sought the intervention of the chief minister in the matter. “It is highly condemnable when an officer of the factory prohibits executive members of labour unions from having a dialogue in Tamil. The officer should understand that the factory is located in Tamil Nadu,” INTUC district president J B Subramaniam said. The factory employs 1,700 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/workers-of-cordite-factory-stage-demo/articleshow/77026922.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hubballi||Eight more succumb to novel coronavirus in Dharwad||Dharwad: Dharwad district recorded eight fatalities due to Covid-19 in last 24 hours. Between Thursday evening an Friday evening, 157 fresh cases were reported in the district. The total number of positive cases stands at 1731. On Friday, 69 persons who were being treated the infection were discharged from the hospital. So far 593 persons have been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/eight-more-succumb-to-novel-coronavirus-in-dharwad/articleshow/77025210.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMA seeks more Covid testing, labs in districts||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) has requested Gujarat high court to direct the state government to ramp up Covid-19 testing and establish at least one Covid testing laboratory in each district. AMA has alleged that Gujarat is not testing enough people, compared to other states like Delhi and Maharashtra. It should be testing at least 90,000 persons a day, the association said. It also highlighted that Gujarat has got 19 districts where there is no laboratory for Covid-19 testing. In yet another application, the AMA has sought HC direction to the government to immediately grant approval to those laboratories which have Covid-19 testing facility and which have already got approvals from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). It has also said that public should also know how many laboratories have capacity, approval, but are not undertaking Covid testing. While the state government cites ICMR guidelines to justify its restricted testings, AMC cited directives issued by the Union health and family welfare department as well as ICMR in which they insisted on ramping up Covid testing and on establishing more testing facilities. It said, “Inconsistencies in implementing national strategy of testing, tracing and isolation will inevitably lead to uncontrolled spread and increase of death and undermine efforts undertaken to contain the pandemic.” AMA had also sought deletion of the condition that only an MD physician can prescribe a Covid test, but this restriction was removed by the state government and it provided for all physicians to prescribe the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ama-seeks-more-covid-testing-labs-in-districts/articleshow/77026219.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Man beats son to death over land dispute||Coimbatore: Police arrested a 69-year-old man on Friday for murdering his 28-year-old son over a land dispute at Dhali near Udumalpet in Tirupur district. The deceased was identified as P Senthilnathan of Palvandikkara Thottam at K Vallakundapuram near Dhali. Senthilnathan was a farmer, a police officer said. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that he was a drunkard and had visited his father C Palanisamy’s house at Poovakkai Thottam at K Vallakundapuram on Thursday evening in an inebriated condition. He quarrelled with his father over 75 cents of agriculture land and asked him to transfer the property to his name. Palanisamy, in a fit of rage, attacked his son using a wooden log. Senthilnathan suffered injuries on his head and died on the spot,” the officer said. Palanisamy was booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-beats-son-to-death-over-land-dispute/articleshow/77026920.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka stops Shramik Specials, claims no demand from workers||BENGALURU: The government has quietly discontinued Shramik Special trains saying there’s less demand for the service among migrant workers. South Western Railway has not operated any Shramik Special since July 7. SWR records show it ran 264 trains between May 3 and July 7, ferrying over 3.8 lakh passengers. SWR said it hasn’t received any request from the state government to operate additional Shramik Special trains. This means migrant workers stranded in the city during this lockdown (July 14-July 22) will have to rely on normal trains to go back home. The sudden lockdown announcement has come as a shock to many workers, including those who’ve returned to the city. A majority of the migrant workers in the city are from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha and Rajasthan. However, SWR is now operating direct trains only to Bihar and West Bengal. A senior government official maintained there’s no demand for Shramik Special trains from Bengaluru and hence, they’ve decided to discontinue them. “In fact, many workers who already left Bengaluru want to return to the city since there are no jobs in their native places. The economy is slowly reviving in Bengaluru so they have enough employment opportunities here. There are no plans to extend the week-long lockdown for now,” said the official. He said they will operate Shramik trains only if there’s demand. “Most states are not running any Shramik trains because of few takers,” he added. Ashok Kumar Verma, Bengaluru divisional railway manager, said: “We have not received any fresh request from the state government to operate Shramik trains. Most migrant workers have left the city and other passengers are travelling in regular trains, particularly to West Bengal and Bihar.” SWR officials said they are operating nine regular trains from Bengaluru, including to places like Danapur, Howrah, Mumbai and New Delhi. “Migrant workers headed to places like Bihar and West Bengal can travel in these trains. In fact, trains from Bihar and West Bengal are also running full as many have returned to the city. But now many may want to go back due to increasing cases and the lockdown,” said a senior SWR official. SWR is not operating trains to Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and northeastern states. Aditi Chanchani, a volunteer with Bangalore With Migrants, said: “It’s not true that demand among migrants has reduced because we still get several calls from workers seeking information on Shramik trains. But BBMP has already closed the mustering centre on Palace Grounds and the government is not operating any Shramik trains. There are no regular trains to Guwahati. Desperate to reach their hometowns, many are borrowing money for flights. But travel agents say their flights are cancelled, asking them to postpone their journeys.” She said workers are struggling because of lack of food and shelter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/citing-falling-demand-ktaka-govt-discontinues-shramik-trains/articleshow/77026495.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
July 18, 2020||Hubballi||Prohibitory order imposed in Gadag district||HUBBALLI: While Dharwad district has already imposed complete lockdown till July 24, neighbouring Gadag has enforced prohibitory orders from 5am on July 17 to July 27. Gadag deputy commissioner M Sundaresh Babu stated in a press release that shops and other commercial establishments will be open between 5am to 2pm. “People should follow the norms strictly as per the SOP to contain the spread of the virus. All public gatherings like weekly fairs, jatras, public meetings, religious and social functions have been banned. Last rites of the dead will be allowed as per government protocol. Only government and private employees, coming under essential services, can commute carrying their identity card,” he added. He has also clarified that some sectors like agriculture and agriculture allied activities, MNREGA works, banks, posts, BSNL, hospitals, veterinary hospitals, food processing units and all type of factories, petrol bunks are exempted from the prohibitory orders. “There is no restriction on movement of persons and goods between districts or states. If someone is found wandering unnecessarily, they will be prosecuted,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/prohibitory-order-imposed-in-gadag-district/articleshow/77025578.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Married woman, 22-year-old neighbour die in suicide pact||Coimbatore: A 26-year-old married woman and a 22-year-old man immolated themselves near Vilankurichi in the city on Friday allegedly after their family members and neighbours suspected their character. The two died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where they were admitted with 90% burns. Saravanampatti police inspector (law & order) V Selvaraj identified the victims as Sivasankari, wife of Jagadeesh, of Vilankurichi and her neighbour Rajesh, son of Ramakrishnan. They were living in separate apartments in the same building. On Friday, the officer said, the two went out on a two-wheeler and stopped at a deserted house at Annamalai Nagar. “They doused themselves with petrol and set themselves on fire. Hearing them cry in distress, people in the vicinity rushed to the spot and rushed them to CMCH in an ambulance.” Before she died, Sivasankari told police that she had taken the extreme step on her own and nobody had instigated her. She had a three-year-old child. Rajesh, in his dying declaration, told police that they were close friends and took the extreme step as their family members and neighbours doubted their relationship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/married-woman-22-year-old-neighbour-die-in-suicide-pact/articleshow/77026925.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No vegetable trading at Jamalpur||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Agricultural Produce Market Committee has decided to operate again from Jetalpur APMC till July 31. The committee had earlier decided to resume yard operation in Jamalpur from July 15. But it has now asked Jamalpur traders to continue functioning from Jetalpur till July 31. Sources in the APMC said that it had at first been decided that the Jamalpur APMC yard will start functioning from the last week of June, but at the last minute police permission was denied. This had led traders to threaten a strike. Later in July, traders were shifted to Jetalpur from where they were to trade till July 15. However, a recent communication from the APMC has stated that no trade will take place at Jamalpur till July 31. A trader said the government should take a decision that till Covid cases continue in numbers in the city, trading be stopped at Jamalpur and an alternative arrangement made for trading in grains. The traders said that the contract with local Jetalpur traders has been worked out till July 31, and if the officials decided to extend it further, vegetable vendors will again be left with no alternative but to stop trading. If there was clarity in the situation, the traders could have entered into a longer contract with Jetalpur traders, but this was not happening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-vegetable-trading-at-jamalpur/articleshow/77026230.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC: RWAs can’t close gates without following norms||NEW DELHI: Ever since the lockdown to keep the Covid-19 pandemic under control, there have been numerous cases of friction between residents and local RWAs over arbitrary closure of colony gates. On Friday, Delhi high court intervened in one such tussle and made it clear that colony gates can’t be closed randomly without adhering to guidelines. Justice Najmi Waziri was hearing a plea by a senior doctor who complained that in his GK-1 area, the local RWA had shut five gates from where he and neighbours could access the main roads or markets. The plea by professor Upendra Kaul, filed through advocate B L Wali, informed the court that the RWA of the colony has locked 5 out of the 6 entrances in an illegal, arbitrary and unlawful manner, severely hindering movement and access of the local residents. “The only way the petitioner and the other residents of Greater Kailash could move out to Nandi Vithi Road, which runs parallel to the N Block, Greater Kailash-1 is through the five gates, numbered as gates 2 to 6. All these gates have been closed since 25 March, 2020,” the petition said. It added that even though the lockdown in response to Covid-19 was over on June 1, all these 5 gates still remain locked while being unmanned. During the hearing, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) standing counsel Gaurang Kanth informed Justice Waziri that the RWA has to abide by the policy and guidelines for installation of gates issued by the corporations and comply with the specific norms that deal with such conflicts. The court then noted that the corporation policy, also cited by the petitioner, made it clear that while gates can be closed in the night from 11 pm till early hours of the morning, the entry and exit facility shall be made available to the residents and these points will be manned by security appointed by RWA at their cost. In response, the RWA assured the court that it will open one of the gates nearest to the doctor’s residence, from 6.30am to 8.30 pm. The court then disposed of the plea after binding the RWA to its statement. It also directed the local SHO to monitor the process for 3 days to ensure the directions are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-rwas-cant-close-gates-without-following-norms/articleshow/77027573.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||State honours NGO for restoring waterbodies||Coimbatore: City-based non-governmental organization Kovai Kulangal Pathukappu Amaippu, which restored several waterbodies in the district, has been honoured with the state government’s Environmental Protection and Management Award-2018 (Dr Gurusamy Mudaliyar Viruthu). The award certificate and a cheque of Rs 15,000 were couriered by the environment department to the organization a few days ago, said NGO organiser R Manikandan. “Inspired by the public participation in revoking the ban on jallikattu, we formed the NGO with just 10 volunteers in February 2017 to clean Perur periyakulam lake. We now have 1,000 volunteers, who are cleaning waterbodies like Vellalore lake, Sengulam, Perur Periyakulam, several channels and anicuts.” Till the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, the NGO had organized 163 drives on Sundays to clean waterbodies or plant saplings, Manikandan.said. “Ffor the last four months, we have been conducting webinars to promote environmental awareness.” Water had reached Vellalore lake in 2018 after a gap of 15 years after the NGO volunteers cleaned Rajavaikal channel. “We also planted 5000 saplings near the lake to create a Miyawaki forest. The lake and surrounding areas are now rich in biodiversity,” the official said. Perur-based S Hariganesh, 27, a volunteer, said that he decided to pitch in when the NGO cleaned Periyakulam. “I was inspired by the way the team worked and am now a regular volunteer. Since 2017, I have participated in all the weekly activities. People from all walks of life irrespective of age participate in the activities, which are great stress busters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-honours-ngo-for-restoring-waterbodies/articleshow/77026928.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Collector donates blood to pregnant lady||HYDERABAD: L Sharman, the new collector of Nagarkurnool who took charge on Friday, began his tenure by donating blood for a pregnant woman at the District Government Hospital. On Friday, Sharman visited inspected the isolation ward and the ICU for Covid-19 cases at the Government hospital at Nagarkurnool. There are nine patients undergoing treatment and he saw the facilities provided for them. At another block, he handed over the KCR kit to a woman, who had delivered a baby at the hospital on Thursday. While the collector was there, another pregnant woman was being readied for surgery and the collector learnt that she needed ‘O negative’ blood. As there was no stock of ‘O negative’ blood in the blood bank in the hospital, the collector volunteered to donate blood. He immediately got his BP checked and blood tests done and donated blood. He also urged people to come forward to donate blood to those in need. District Medical and Health officer D Sudhakar Lal, hospital superintendent D Prabhu, Red Cross district secretary Ramesh Reddy and other doctors accompanied the collector as he inspected the hospital premises. Before he was posted to the district, Sharman was additional secretary in the Municipal administration and urban development department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/collector-donates-blood-to-pregnant-lady/articleshow/77026232.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 18, 2020||Goa||Lockdown: Goa goes off the streets on Day-1, only essential activities function||PANAJI: Goa came to a near standstill on Friday, roads turned empty and streets bore an eerie silence as citizens adhered to the government’s call for a three day lockdown to try and slowdown the spread of the novel coronavirus. From Pernem to Pollem, the state bore a deserted look with only those employed with essential services venturing out. Unlike the first unprepared lockdown that the state was thrust into, this time around essential food items, chemists and hospitals remained open. Authorities particularly Goa Police and the respective collectorate officials ensured that the lockdown was enforced with the heavy showers aiding their efforts to keep citizens indoors. “We deployed our staff since last night to curtail non-essential movement. We had identified certain important points in the first lockdown and we have deployed officers round-the-clock at these locations,” North Goa superintendent of police Utkrisht Prasoon said. With buses remaining off the roads, those who had to travel had to arrange their own transport to get to their workplace. The Goa government announced a three-day-long lockdown after the number of Covid-19 cases shot up with triple digit jumps daily for a week. Goa has recorded 3,304 cases so far, with 1,337 active cases and the death toll at 21. After the lessons of the first lockdown, residents stocked up on provisions on Wednesday and Thursday and only stepped out in the morning to purchase bread, milk and other perishable items. “The lockdown is to break the chain of the coronavirus and it is good for the people,” Mormugao Municipal Council chairperson Nanadeep Raut said. “If this lockdown had come earlier, the situation that Vasco is in would not have risen.” Mormugao taluka has reported the highest number of cases and deaths ever since the outbreak at Mangor Hill. Industrial activity remained unaffected as the government exempted the sector from the lockdown. However, transportation of iron ore in Sanquelim and Bicholim drew the ire of locals. The lockdown in the hinterland was a bit more relaxed. Despite the state government assuring residents that grocery stores and stores selling provisions would be allowed to remain open, police officials were seen shutting down grocery stores, vegetables and chicken vendors and supermarkets within an hour of opening. Police officials said that South Goa collector Ajit Roy had ordered all grocery stores to remain shut as people tend to gather at these locations. Supermarkets, which also have excise permits, were not allowed to keep their stores open despite barricading the liquor section. “Supermarkets have convinced their employees to take the risk and come out to give a service so this action does not seem appreciative. Many of the supermarkets have procured milk, fish, poultry which cannot be sold after three days,” said a manager of a South Goa based supermarket. The municipal and village markets wore a deserted look as all the shops downed their shutters in response to the government’s call. Public transport services went off the roads except for taxis which were permitted to ply. “It’s just the policemen who are seen manning the barricades erected in different locations of the taluka. The residents appear to have realised the need for the lockdown,” said a resident of Panaji. The weekly Friday Mapusa market, which usually draws a crowd, did not take place giving the complex a desolate look. The same was witnessed at the Panaji municipal market, the Vasco fish market and the Margao markets, which were bereft of the usual haggling between vendors and customers. A strong police presence was seen around the markets and key areas to deter people from gathering about. “Thanks the people of Goa for their cooperation in ensuring a lockdown. They have shown extraordinary restraint by staying at home and staying safe,” DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena said. Goa government has also imposed janata curfew in the state between 8pm to 6am every night till August 10. The streets may have been silent but social media was buzzing about the rise in infections, the lapses in the strategy adopted by the government, neighbourhood efforts to deal with domestic waste and even rumours of a cabinet reshuffle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-goes-off-the-streets-on-day-1-only-essential-activities-function/articleshow/77027574.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paan shop owners in state decide to sell only takeaways||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Pan Masala Shop Owners’ Association on Friday wrote to CM Vijay Rupani, informing of their decision that they will only sell paan, cigarettes and other products on a takeaway basis. The representation comes a few days after AMC sealed numerous paan shops in Ahmedabad and imposed hefty penalties over violation of social distancing norms, spitting in public and not wearing masks.“We have taken the decision to ensure that no customer consumes paan or cigarette while standing at the shop so that social distancing and cleanliness is maintained, and people do not gather outside paan shops,” said Sanjay Joshi, president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paan-shop-owners-in-state-decide-to-sell-only-takeaways/articleshow/77026248.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolkata||KMC likely to waive 100% interest on property tax dues||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) is likely to waive the entire interest on outstanding property tax from August. The discount offer will be valid for a limited period, probably six months. So far, the civic body offered defaulters a 50% waiver on the interest on property tax that was yet to be paid. But now, in a frantic attempt to compensate for the loss of revenue from property tax during the prolonged lockdown period, the KMC authorities have decided to offer a total interest waiver to encourage defaulters to pay up. According to a KMC assessment department official, the civic authorities have drafted such a proposal and sent it to the state government for approval. The announcement on behalf of the board of administrators that now runs the KMC administration may soon be made once the green signal reaches the civic body headquarters. The total property tax, which is due, is Rs 3,500 crore. According to statistics, among 5 lakh-odd tax-payers assessed, more than 400 major defaulters owed KMC Rs 1,500 crore. The civic body would offer the 100% waiver of interest for a limited period, said an official. “The scheme might be on offer for six months at the most. After that, the waiver will be back on 50% of the interest amount, as is applicable now,” he added. According to a civic revenue department official, the effort to mop up revenue to clear dues to contractors and run essential services without glitches necessitated the introduction of the 100% waiver scheme. “We need at least Rs 500 crore to clear dues to contractors and keep essential services going unhindered. The total waiver of interest on property tax dues may encourage defaulters to avail of the rare opportunity and pay their outstanding amounts. That way, we may mop up additional revenue from a section of defaulters, apart from receiving taxes from property owners who pay regularly,” a KMC assessment-collection department official told TOI. In a similar drive, the KMC brass in 2012 announced a property tax waiver scheme to fund city’s infrastructure projects. At that time, the civic body had collected Rs 250 crore from the scheme, which allowed a 50% waiver on interest. While some were hopeful of earning a portion of outstanding amounts, others felt the scheme might adversely affect the civic body’s drive against habitual defaulters as an assessment showed a majority of big defaulters waited for such scope to dodge interests on principal sum. The officials reasoned that frequent concessions to major defaulters could demoralize regular tax-payers. “We could collect huge revenue after issuing distress warrant notices that warn defaulters of action, like attaching properties, if they fail to pay up. Now the new proposal will not only encourage habitual defaulters to stop making payments, but we will also lose money worth hundreds of crores as interest will be waived,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-likely-to-waive-100-interest-on-property-tax-dues/articleshow/77026932.cms||Saikat Ray
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||With owners fighting Covid, animal rights activists foster pets||HYDERABAD: Wrapped in a mask, gloves and a face shield, animal rights activist Panneeru Teja and his team entered a gated community in Bachupally to rescue a dog earlier this week. The 15-year-old Pomeranian was frightened and alone when the team reached the residence. The dog’s owner, an elderly woman, had been hospitalized with Covid-19. When the neighbours informed her relatives, the latter approached Teja’s team to foster the dog. “When pet parents test positive and are hospitalized or need to isolate themselves, it becomes difficult for them to take care of their pet. Keeping that in mind, we have decided to offer services that will help the pet owners as well as their pets to be safe during these trying times,” said Teja. Following all necessary protocols, the team has been rescuing animals from across the city. “Although there is no proof that pets can contract or spread Covid-19, we take all precautions during and after the rescue of the animal. We make sure that even the leash of the animal is sanitized,” said Netra Borah, a volunteer at Scoobies pet services. So far, the team has received three calls from Covid-19 affected families. “We are also getting calls from people who are contacting us in advance to have a back-up plan in case they get infected with the virus. With the constant surge in positive cases, I think it is always good to have a back-up plan since we never know when one will be infected. It is also important to make a list of your pet’s health records and keep stock of the medicines if there are any,” said Teja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-owners-fighting-covid-animal-rights-activists-foster-pets/articleshow/77026239.cms||Moulika.KV
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||TV9 former CEO gets anticipatory bail in ED case||HYDERABAD: Justice G Sri Devi of the Telangana High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to V Ravi Prakash, the former CEO of TV9, in a case filed by ED against him. The current management of TV9 filed criminal cases against Ravi Prakash charging him with misappropriating crores of company funds and cheating both the company and the staff. HC had granted bail to him in those FIRs. He now approached HC apprehending arrest in the case filed by ED. His counsel T Pradyumna Kumar Reddy urged the court to grant anticipatory bail in instant case as there were no allegations against him in the past that he violated any of the bail conditions. ED counsel Thakur Rupa Singh said that they merely filed a case recently and that no investigation had commenced so far. Judge directed him to surrender before trial court and furnish two bail bonds of Rs 1 lakh each. He was also asked to appear before ED’s investigating authority from 10 am to 5 pm every Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tv9-former-ceo-gets-anticipatory-bail-in-ed-case/articleshow/77026250.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Part of historian’s house in Cuncolim collapses in rain||QUEPEM: A portion of the dilapidated house of noted historian late George Mark Moraes at Bencleamvaddo, Cuncolim, collapsed due to incessant rain early Friday morning. Moraes, a prolific writer and a professor in English literature at Mumbai’s St Xavier’s College, had died in 1994. He is well-known for his book ‘Kadamba Kula’. Mario Moraes, a councillor of Cuncolim municipal council (CMC) and president of Cuncolim Citizens Forum told TOI that the Bencleamvaddo locals with aid from the civic body had constructed a library in the name of the historian, a few metres away from his house. In 2016, the civic body had adopted a resolution for acquisition of his house along with the adjoining property to set up a children’s park in his memory. CMC’s chief officer had also written to the survey department, requesting for a survey plan and property description, following which the boundaries of his property were demarcated for land acquisition. Moraes said that till date council had not started the land acquisition process due to lack of funds. “The dilapidated house has been lying unattended for two years. Nobody can sell the house, as Moraes was the only legal heir of the property,” the councilor said. Local ward councillor and former chairperson Polita Mascarenhas said, “If heavy rain continues, then the remaining structure will collapse on the road and it may pose threat to the passers-by.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/part-of-historians-house-in-cuncolim-collapses-in-rain/articleshow/77027858.cms||Johnny M
July 18, 2020||Kolhapur||1/3rd of Covid-19 patients from urban areas of Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Almost one-third of the Covid-19 patients in Kolhapur district are currently from urban pockets. The scenario is vastly different from last month, when most of the cases were reported from rural parts of Kolhapur district. Official figures show that out of 1,484 positive patients in the district, 419 are from urban areas of eight municipal councils and a municipal corporation. The rapid pace of detection of new cases has made the administration anxious. On June 30, urban pockets had 86 positive patients, which jumped to 419 in just 16 days. The officials attribute the rise in number of patients to the apathy among citizens towards following physical distancing norms and wearing masks. Kolhapur city had only 27 patients on June 16, but it had 189 positive cases on Thursday. Similarly, Ichalkaranji is all set to have 200 cases, when it had only seven patients on June 16. Kurundwad and Shirol are also gradually recording Covid-19 patients. The number of patients in other eight urban pockets, including Jaysingpur, Gadhinglaj, Peth Wadgaon, Kagal, Hupari and Shirol, are still in single digits. Kagal and Shirol had only one positive patient each. Kolhapur city has currently 35 sealed areas, while Ichalkaranji has 44. There is a growing demand from citizens to reduce the expanse of the containment zones or sealed areas as it causes inconvenience to residents. In Kolhapur, several areas in the heart of the city, are sealed, forcing the police to divert the traffic. Amid the urban spread of the virus, the rural areas continue to record new patients. Rural parts of Kolhapur now have 679 patients as against only 38 on June 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1/3rd-of-covid-19-patients-from-urban-areas-of-kolhapur/articleshow/77025129.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Woman, sacked from Patanjali, attempts suicide||Haridwar: A 32-year-old woman attempted suicide by jumping into the Upper Ganga canal on Friday. However, she was rescued by police divers. According to police, she worked at a Patanjali's food processing plant in Haridwar and was allegedly sacked recently. She wrote a suicide note before jumping into the Ganga. Police officials said they are investigating the matter. Laxmi Prasad, sub-inspector of Jawalapur police station, told TOI, “Meenakshi, a resident of Laksar, jumped into the Ganga from Singh Dwar Bridge on Friday morning. She was rescued by police divers and was shifted to a private hospital. Her condition is told to be stable now. She worked at a Patanjali unit and was sacked by the plant head. However, why she was sacked from the company is still a matter of investigation. She also wrote a suicide note before trying to kill self and we are awaiting a complaint in the matter from the victim’s side after which we will take action accordingly.” Meanwhile, two other suicide cases were reported in Haridwar on Friday. The body of a 16-year-old girl, who was missing for the past three days, was fished out from Ganga river in Bhadrabad region. SHO Bhadrabad Govind Kumar told TOI, “The girl Rupali killed herself by jumping into the Ganga three days ago as she was upset with the restrictions imposed by her family members. Reportedly, she was not being allowed to go out for work. Her body has been sent to district hospital for autopsy and further investigation is going on.” In yet another such case, a 35-year-old man Arvind Nautiyal also hanged himself at his home. He was an alcohol addict and was under depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-sacked-from-patanjali-attempts-suicide/articleshow/77025138.cms||MS Nawaz
July 18, 2020||Bareilly||Dudhwa authorities fine Gujarat tourist bus Rs 4.5 lakh after it runs over chital in forest||BAREILLY/PILIBHIT: Forest department in UP has finally begun to penalise those who harm an animal either deliberately or due to negligence by enforcing the almost forgotten provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The authorities at Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) on Thursday imposed a penalty of Rs 4.5 lakh on a tourist bus for mowing down a chital -- spotted deer -- on a road that passes through the forest. Officials claimed that the driver was speeding.In Pilibhit, the forest and wildlife division booked and fined six villagers Rs 10,000 each for trapping a monkey near Mala forest range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and smearing its face and body with black sticky motor oil. According to Dudhwa officials, the bus from Gujarat was heading to Gaurifanta on the Indo-Nepal border in Lakhimpur Kheri district, when it ran over a chital in the buffer range of DTR on Wednesday. Since the bus was carrying Nepalese nationals, the forest department allowed the bus to drop the passengers but kept its documents. Upon returning from Gaurifanta, the bus was seized by Manoj Sonkar, deputy director of DTR. The driver was also detained. The bus was registered in the name of a Surat-based transporter, who agreed to pay the penalty for the accident. The bus was released on Thursday. Sanjay Pathak, field director of DTR, told TOI, “The incident happened a few kilometres outside the core area of the reserve. The chital falls under schedule 3 of the Wildlife Protection Act, which is why a cash penalty was imposed on the bus owner. If the accident had taken place in the core area, the driver would have been sent to jail for sure. Several signboards are placed in the region requesting people to drive slow but a few people exceed the speed limit and risk the lives of wild animals.” In a separate incident in Pilibhit, a case was registered against six villagers of Methi Saidullaganj village by forest and wildlife division for allegedly being cruel to a monkey that was "terrorising" people, damaging household goods and ripping their clothes put out for drying. They had trapped the animal and poured motor oil over it, smudging its face and body. The incident took place on July 13, but the matter came to the fore after a video of the act went viral on Thursday. Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer, termed the act as a crime against the monkey, that is listed in schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act. He said all the six accused were rounded up and booked under relevant sections of the Act. They were released on personal bonds only after each paid Rs 10,000 as penalty. Meanwhile, forest department staff located the monkey, managed to capture it and cleaned it up before setting it free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dudhwa-authorities-fine-guj-tourist-bus-rs-4-5l-after-it-runs-over-chital-in-forest/articleshow/77025142.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||City saves 70 million litres water||Coimbatore: The French firm incharge of implementing 24x7 water supply project has helped the city save about 70 million litres water by fixing more than 8,200 pipeline leakages ever since it took up the responsibility of maintaining water distribution system in 60 wards of the city corporation limits in January 2019. A source privy to the development said, “Workers were scared and hesitant to work because of the pandemic. Suez India Pvt Ltd had to reassure them to get back to work. It has fixed more than 1,000 pipeline leakages in the past four months alone, despite the lockdown.” A couple of days ago, it had carried out five major pipeline repair works on Sathy main road, Dr Nanjappa road, Government Arts college road, near Omni bus stand and near textool bridge, where it replaced butterfly valve of the main feeder pipeline. Referring to the replacement of butterfly valve, the source said, “It was clogged with floating balls and it was not operated for more than a decade. As the pipeline is more than 50 years old, finding a replacement for the damaged part in the market itself is difficult. By replacing the valve, the water supply to Puliyakulam and surrounding areas have been improved.” Meanwhile, the spike in Covid-19 cases has hindered leakage detection work as some areas have been cordoned off as containment zones. The city corporation has been making alternative arrangements to ensure uninterrupted water supply to those areas. “There were instances when areas were sealed immediately after workers fixing leakages there,” the source said indirectly hinting at the risk they were facing. Pointing out that they have been adhering to all precautionary measures, including thermal screening of workers, the source said none of the workers were tested positive for the virus so far. The source said the major complaints that they had been receiving were related to water contamination, pipeline leakages and low water pressure during supply. “Identifying the source of contamination is challenging at times. Because, illegal water connections are taken just by drilling a hole in the pipeline. It may also happen due to improper closure of old connections. The issues would be completely sorted out with the replacement of pipelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-saves-70-million-litres-water/articleshow/77026947.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Private college sealed for violating Covid-19 norms||Coimbatore: Revenue officials from Pollachi town sealed a private arts and science college on Palakkad Road on the outskirts of city for violating social distancing norms on Thursday. After the state government announced the Class 12 results, hundreds of students along with their parents had approached private colleges for admission. Throwing guidelines that the state government has imposed to control the spread of Covid-19 infection to wind, the college management has allowed the parents and students inside its premises without ensuring physical distancing between them and commenced the admission process, said a revenue official. Based on complaints, Pollachi sub-collector R Vaithinathan had ordered to seal the college premises for violating the norms and revenue officials had sealed it.A senior official from the district administration said that all the guidelines that are being followed in the district like ensuring physical distancing between people and wearing face masks, would, also, be applicable to the colleges and action would be taken upon violating the norms. Meanwhile, the directorate of collegiate education has sent a circular to the offices of the regional joint director of collegiate education, on Friday, asking them to direct all the government-aided and self-financing arts and science colleges located in their limits to accept applications for student admissions only through online.A Ponnusamy, president of Principals Association of Bharatiyar University said, “It is going to be difficult for the students from the rural areas to submit online applications especially while paying the application fees. Since the Class 12 results are announced, college managements have been receiving numerous calls seeking assistance to submit the applications.” Pointing out that they would close the admission process within a week from the date of announcement of results, he said that the admission process is slow this year and they have witnessed only 25 to 30% of what they witnessed last year. “Most of the parents visit the college in person to know about the facilities available in a particular college. But this year, as it was not allowed, parents are hesitant,” he added. Authorities from multiple colleges including Ramakrishna arts and science college and Avinashilingam institute for home science and higher education for women said that they are accepting applications only through online and not encouraging the parents to visit the college premises. “A few parents who visited the college, were informed about the online application and asked to go back,” one of the authorities added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/private-college-sealed-for-violating-covid-19-norms/articleshow/77026942.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||As doctors opt for powered respirators, prices shoot up||HYDERABAD: With doctors falling prey to Covid-19, demand for powered air purifying respirators that cost Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2 lakh each has gone up multifold. Doctors in private hospitals are buying imported respirators, and dealers in Hyderabad are quoting high prices. Powered air purifying system is a battery-powered personal respirator that filters the surrounding air by removing hazardous particles and contaminates. Dr P Harikrishna, a gastroenterologist from Vijayawada, told TOI, “Initially doctors didn’t opt for powered respirators as they are costly. But with deteriorating situation, doctors being vulnerable and deaths being reported, there is a big demand for them. As most of them are imported according to coronavirus situation in other countries, there are no further imports. Existing stocks are being sold at a high price. Most private doctors who deal with Covid patients are opting for powered respirators, but stocks are low. Even for AP, we have to buy from dealers in Hyderabad.” The powered respirator will have a blower, hose for hoods, soft hood, filter, battery and a charger. The respirators will have filters, including HEPA filters that stop coronavirus form aerosols or droplets. When TOI obtained quotations to check the market situation from city-based dealers, most of them quoted Rs 1.2 lakh to Rs 1.8 lakh and said most high-end models are out of stock. The air purifying system is combined with a protective hood which offers protection for the wearer’s respiratory system, eyes, face and neck. The hood has tight-fitting seals on or around the face. Coronavirus particles are of a small size (60nm to 140nm) and will be stopped by the filters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-doctors-opt-for-powered-respirators-prices-shoot-up/articleshow/77026950.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cops to hand out free masks||AHMEDABAD: Amid their crackdown against mask-rule violators, Ahmedabad Police have been handing out masks to those caught without them. On Friday, about 25,000 masks were allotted to deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3, Makrand Chauhan. The masks will be given to those who are fined in his jurisdiction. The initiative is meant to create awareness about the importance of masks in fighting the Covid pandemic. The AMC, the traffic department, and the city police have launched a drive to penalize those who don’t wear face coverings while venturing out. Till now, police and the traffic department have collected fines amounting to Rs 1.98 crore. “We have some masks in stock which we have been distributing to those who are fined,” said police commissioner Ashish Bhatia. “We will soon procure more masks from NGOs and institutions and will continue with both the awareness programme and the collection of fines.” Bhatia said that police hand out a mask free while collecting a fine of Rs 200 from violators. The AMC levies a fine of Rs 500 for not wearing a mask. Bhatia said the police drive is meant to stress that the mask rule has been imposed for the well-being of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-to-hand-out-free-masks/articleshow/77026263.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
July 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Seven-day lockdown in Kolhapur from Monday||KOLHAPUR: Entire Kolhapur district will go under lockdown from Sunday midnight for for seven days, till July 26, in view of the rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, district guardian minister Satej Patil said on Friday. More than 200 new cases, highest in three months, were reported from the district in the last 24 hours, prompting political leaders and officials to hold a meeting and decide on enforcing a lockdown to arrest the spread of the disease. Officials said that more than 50 patients tested positive in Kolhapur city alone. “Details on the restrictions during the lockdown period will be announced on Saturday,” said officials, adding that only milk and health related activities will be allowed. Satej Patil, who was reluctant on imposing lockdown due to its economic impact, convened a meeting of all-party leaders and elected representatives Friday morning. It was followed by another meeting of officials, when the formal decision was taken. Majority of leaders and representatives of various organisations pushed for a lockdown in Kolhapur district on the lines other districts like Satara and Solapur. Sources said that Patil was under pressure to decide on the lockdown as Friday recorded the highest number of patients. Patil said that all the leaders insisted on lockdown as the number of patients was increasing despite steps being taken by the administration. He appealed to people to cooperate with the authorities during the lockdown period. According to official information, 203 people tested positive for Covid-19 till Friday evening. This is the first time the district crossed the 200-mark in a single day. Officials fear that the number of patients will increase as more reports are yet to come. Officials said that around 600 patients have tested positive in the district in the past few days and that there are more than 900 active patients. Meanwhile, Ichalkaranji recorded 87 new cases till Friday evening while a woman succumbed to the contagion. The total count in the powerloom city has gone up to 285 patients, 205 of whome are being treated currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/7-day-lockdown-in-kolhapur-from-monday/articleshow/77025139.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Delhi man tests positive in Calangute||CALANGUTE: Calangute saw one more Covid-19 case on Friday after a man from Delhi who had been staying at Gauravaddo tested positive. Medical officer at Candolim primary health centre (PHC) Dr Roshan Nazareth said the man had come from Delhi around 45 days ago and was staying in his own apartment at Gauravaddo. When he developed fever-like symptoms recently he visited a private doctor who referred him to the Candolim primary health centre where his swab sample was taken on July 13. The report came positive on Friday. “He had minimal contact with others and was staying in his own apartment. As he had come in contact with the doctor we have taken the doctor’s swab sample for testing today,” Nazareth said. Meanwhile, the staff of the Calangute police station where a driver tested positive on Wednesday heaved a sigh of relief after all others tested negative. Nazareth said that the two men from Calangute and Candolim, who had tested positive, have been cured and were discharged on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delhi-man-tests-positive-in-calangute/articleshow/77027872.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
July 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports 88 fresh cases, 4 deaths||AURANGABAD: The district reported 88 fresh Covid-19 patients on Friday, including 42 from the Aurangabad municipal corporation limit, taking the total number of cases to 9,832. Aurangabad district recorded four deaths due to the infection on Friday, taking the death toll to 377. As many as 5,636 patients have been treated and discharged so far. There are 3,819 active cases. The deceased include a 45-year-old woman from Hanumannagar, a 60-year-old woman from Sansarnagar, a 61-year-old man from Cantonment area and a 54-year-old man from Adityanagar Garkheda of the city. The officials said that about six people tested positive for Covid-19 at the city’s entry point on Friday. Meanwhile, the city unit of the Congress on Friday organised an antigen rapid test camp in Jaisinghpura area. City unit president Hisham Osmani said following a request, the civic body had sent a team of doctors and municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey visited the camp appreciating the efforts of Congress. Osmani said about 34 residents volunteered to get themselves tested and three of them tested positive. The sources said that those who tested positive are included in the list of 88 patients who were reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports-88-fresh-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/77025152.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||5-year-old girl swept away by river current, missing||Haridwar: A five-year-old girl Meenakshi was swept away by strong current of the river at Swami Naryan bank falling under Muni-ki-Reti police station jurisdiction on Friday. SHO Muni-ki-Reti police station RK Saklani told TOI, “The girl was playing with her friends when she fell into the river. Police divers are trying to trace her but she is still missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-year-old-girl-swept-away-by-river-current-missing/articleshow/77025148.cms||MS Nawaz
July 18, 2020||Goa||Colva police forcibly close down even grocery stores||COLVA: On the first day of the three-day lockdown imposed by the state government, Colva police took it upon themselves to ensure total lockdown of shops irrespective of the goods they were selling. Grocery stores, provision stores, standalone single window shops, even vegetable vendors were made to shut shop and stop their business within an hour of opening their establishments. However, movement of vehicles was allowed. The villages of Colva, Benaulim, Varca, Orlim, Carmona and Cavelossim come under the jurisdiction of Colva police station. As per the order of the district magistrate, grocery, essential commodities and vegetable stores and shops opened in the morning. However, within an hour Colva police personnel came and forced the shopkeepers to down their shutters. Stating that every morning he buys fresh milk packets which have a shelf life of only two days, a provision store owner from Colva said that if the police do not get clear guidelines and allow him to keep his store open tomorrow, the milk will get spoilt. Another single window shop owner in Benaulim said that as usual he opened his shop at 7am but police forced him to close down. “I told the police that I sell essential commodities such rice, floor, oil, cereals, etc, but the police would not budge,” he added.  Colva PI Melson Colaco said that a lockdown means total closure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colva-police-forcibly-close-down-even-grocery-stores/articleshow/77027590.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||GB Pant varsity bestowed with Sardar Patel Outstanding ICAR Institution Award||Rudrapur: GB Pant University of Agriculture & Technology (GBPUAT) in Udham Singh Nagar has been awarded with Sardar Patel Outstanding ICAR Institution Award 2019 at the 92nd Foundation Day & Award ceremony of Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), New-Delhi. Pantnagar University, the first agricultural University of the country has received this award in the University category for its remarkable contribution in teaching, research, and extension. The event, held online, witnessed the presence of Narendra Singh Tomar, Union minister of agriculture and farmers’ welfare. An award money of Rs 10 lakh, a citation, a certificate, and a plaque were presented to Dr Tej Partap, vice-chancellor (V-C) of GBPUAT, in the online ceremony. Union minister congratulated all the award recipients and expressed his desire that all the institutions should take the award as a responsibility and should contribute towards agricultural development through innovative and need-based researches to uplift and empower the farmers of their respective regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gb-pant-varsity-bestowed-with-sardar-patel-outstanding-icar-institution-award/articleshow/77025156.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Three succumb to virus in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris reported three more Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to nine. A 68-year-old woman from Muttinadu village, linked to T.Oranalli wedding function, a 50-year-old woman from Coonoor and an 88-year old man from Kadanadu village died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). Kadanadu man’s son had tested positive after attending the wedding at T.Oranalli. Of the nine Covid-19 deaths, six are linked to the T.Oranalli wedding cluster. However, the government has reported only one death in the district in its bulletin till date. The district recorded 52 new cases, including 24 women and a one-year-old child, on Friday. With this, the tally in the Nilgiris reached 371. While 116 patients recovered and were discharged so far, 254 patients are being treated at the Ooty government headquarters hospital, Coonoor government Lawley hospital, ESI hospital in Coimbatore and CMCH. Of the 52 cases, 29 are linked to T.Oranalli wedding function while eight cases are secondary contacts of the PRO of the private needle manufacturing unit. Seven cases are primary contacts of earlier positive cases, while six people are reported infected with the virus with travel history. A man, 26, from Coonoor who exhibited symptoms of fever, tested positive. The number of containment zones in the hill district has gone up to 116. Meantime, the district police have warned people in the containment zones not to come out of the zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-succumb-to-virus-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77026952.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi sex racket: How minor rape survivor’s testimony nailed Sonu Punjaban||NEW DELHI: A minor rape survivor’s testimony has ensured that Geeta Arora alias Sonu Punjaban, the alleged kingpin of one of the biggest sex rackets in the national capital region, gets convicted of immoral trafficking. It has also nailed a man, Sandeep Bedwal, for her abduction and rape. The survivor’s testimony, additional sessions judge Pritam Singh said, proved that Bedwal had abducted the girl and sold her to someone, Punjaban forced her into prostitution and made money out it. The complaint was filed on February 9, 2014 on the girl’s complaint in Najafgarh police station. The girl said that when she was in school in 2006, Bedwal had told her that he “loved her” and wanted to marry her. He later took her to the house of a woman named Seema and raped her. Seema then forced her into prostitution before selling her off to Manisha, who eventually sold her to Punjaban. The survivor, who was 17 years old in 2014, said she was administered drugs by Punjaban before being forced to sleep with other men. Punjaban sold the girl to another man. Eventually she was sold multiple times and one of the men even married her. She ran away from his house and registered the complaint. Punjaban submitted before the court that she had learnt in court that the survivor was a pawn used to frame her. She claimed she might be a “known figure” in public for different reasons but the prosecution and police officers had always tried to exploit her whenever she didn’t oblige them. She was in judicial custody in another case when the present case was registered and it was not investigated fairly, she alleged. Bedwal, through his counsel Vinay Kumar Sharma, tried to cite contradictions in the testimony. The year of the alleged abduction was 2006 in the police complaint but the girl changed it to 2009 before the court, he claimed. The court noted 2009 as the year of abduction. He also alleged that the girl had a habit of filing false cases and contended she didn’t name anyone during her medico-legal examination, and the same was supported by a witness. Bedwal, the counsel said, wasn’t named in the 2009 missing person FIR. The court found “substance” in Sharma’s contention but said the present case couldn’t be junked. “Can it be said that if a kidnapped child is not recovered by police, then she can be subjected to criminal offences and the offenders would be allowed to take the defence that as the police failed to trace the kidnapped child, they were free to commit crime against her? The answer is a big no,” the court observed. The court held that the testimony had proved that Punjaban “procured or received and purchased the victim” to use her for prostitution and applied force on her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minor-rape-survivors-testimony-nails-punjaban/articleshow/77027589.cms||Aamir Khan
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Manish Khanduri made National Executive Committee member of Congress social media dept||Dehradun: Congress leader Manish Khanduri has been made the National Executive Committee member of the social media department of the Congress party. An official communication in this regard was released by Congress general secretary KC Venugopal on Friday. Manish Khanduri is the son of state’s former BJP chief minister BC Khanduri. He had joined Congress before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Later, he was made the party candidate from Pauri Lok Sabha seat but he lost to Tirath Singh Rawat of the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/manish-khanduri-made-national-executive-committee-member-of-congress-social-media-dept/articleshow/77025174.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Clear air on Aarogya Setu app: Karnataka high court tells BMRCL||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court directed Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) to submit a statement on whether the Aarogya Setu app will be made mandatory for Namma Metro passengers when services resume. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka gave this direction on Friday after a petitioner, in an interlocutory application, complained that despite assurances by the Centre that the app is only optional, the managing director of BMRCL has recently issued a statement saying passengers have to display the app before entering the station, when services resume. Notices have also been placed at the entrance of Metro stations stating the app is mandatory, he said. The petitioner contends the app discriminates against persons who do not have a smartphone and also affects the right to privacy of citizens. On June 12, the Centre had told the court Aarogya Setu is not mandatory for air and train travel. In a related development, the court has also sought clarification from the Centre with regards to making the app compulsory for its employees. This was after the court was told that department of personnel and training and ministry of health had made the application mandatory for their employees and there is a likelihood of other departments/ ministries following suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/clear-air-on-aarogya-setu-app-kataka-high-court-tells-bmrcl/articleshow/77026322.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 4,000 cases, 160 deaths in Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Different parts of Marathwada, apart from Aurangabad, continue to witness an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases despite curbs in many places. Excluding Aurangabad, the total number of Covid-19 cases in seven other districts have reached to 4,079 by Thursday. Of the total number of cases, 160 have succumbed to the infection and 2,224 patients have recovered. These districts have 1,695 active cases, as per the data available with the state public health department. Among the seven districts, Jalna has recorded the highest number of cases with 1,146 Covid patients and 50 deaths. The district, which is the home town of state health minister Rajesh Tope, has 465 active cases and 631 patients have recovered. With 894 Covid-19 cases, Latur district has reported 45 Covid deaths. It has 462 active cases and 387 patients have recovered. Nanded district has 710 Covid cases and 28 casualties. As many as 374 patients have recovered in the district. With 434 Covid-19 patients, Osmanabad district has recorded 21 casualties with 275 recoveries. Hingoli district lost the tag of zero casualties, after two patients succumbed to Covid-19 by Thursday. The district has 369 cases including 292 recoveries and 75 active cases. Parbhani and Beed districts have reported 259 and 267 cases, respectively. While both the districts have seven Covid deaths each, Parbhani has 120 active cases and Beed has 127. Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar, said, “Increased testing, effective contact tracing and social awareness are the keys to keep the pandemic in control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-4000-cases-160-deaths-in-marathwada/articleshow/77025172.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Woman, her 4 children crushed under house wall brought down by troop of monkeys||BAREILLY: In a freak incident, a 45-year-old woman and her four children died on the spot after the wall of a neighbouring house collapsed on them – apparently after it was violently shaken by a troop of monkeys in the Wazib Khel locality of Shahjahanpur early on Friday. The woman and her six children were sleeping in the courtyard of their house as their ceiling fan was not working at the time of incident. After getting the information about the incident, Shahjahanpur senior superintendent of police S Anand and district magistrate Indra Vikram Singh visited the spot and met the survivors. Video: In a freak incident, a 45-year-old woman and her four children died on the spot after the wall of a neighbou… https://t.co/8Ptw7EEVFU— TOI Bareilly (@TOIBareilly) 1595047594000“It was a tragic incident and five members of the family died immediately after the wall collapsed on them. We have ensured the best possible treatment for the survivor. Uttar Pradesh CM has also shared his condolences and announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh for the aggrieved family,” the DM told TOI. Police said that a guava tree in their courtyard often attracted troops of monkeys who would jump from the dilapidated wall onto the tree. On Friday morning, the wall could not take the weight of so many monkeys and collapsed on the family sleeping underneath. The deceased were identified as Shabnam (45), Ruby (20), Shoeb (9), Shahbaz (7) and Chandni (3) while Sahil (11) sustained head injuries and 5-year-old Altaf survived unscathed. The family is now survived by three brothers and their grandfather, who is 70. Shabnam had been living with her father after the death of her husband two years ago. Her eldest son is employed in a private company in Delhi and she used to do household work in the neighbourhood to earn a living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-her-4-children-crushed-under-house-wall-brought-down-by-troop-of-monkeys/articleshow/77025178.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Companies innovate, change core capabilities to fight Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: Whether work from home is a boon or bane is indeed debatable. But over ongoing video calls, the background sound of cooker whistles or chattering kids is often a woe faced by most people working out of home. An Ahmedabad-based company, Dev IT however, has launched an installable cubicle, akin to a telephone booth, which can be installed at home and one can work from there in an office-like environment. “Our team has developed a workspace cubicle which can be installed at home. It is very convenient for startups who want an office-like environment at home. At present we are offering it on rental basis in four cities – Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Mumbai and Indore. The response we have received is quite good. The initiative has been taken as part of DevX, our co-working space,” said Jaimin Shah, managing director, DevIT Limited. In the times of pandemic, companies in Gujarat are innovating or shunning their core capabilities to aid the fight against Covid-19. Another company based in Ahmedabad which is originally into manufacturing raincoats has now begun making Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and coveralls. “When the lockdown was announced, our 150 workers were rendered without work and with no demand then, there was no point producing raincoats. Since the procedure for making raincoats is quite similar to that of making PPE kits, we initially began contract manufacturing for another company and meanwhile, we applied for government license,” said P G Trivedi, founder, NiceG, a manufacturer of raincoats based out of Chhatral. Trivedi’s company has supplied some 35,000 PPE kits to the government so far. “As soon as we received government nod for manufacturing, we began making PPEs and coveralls and currently have a production capacity of 3,000 coveralls. We hope the government gives permission to export the products,” he added. Arpan Shah, owner of a garment manufacturing factory, also began manufacturing masks since the lockdown. “Currently, we are producing masks, because the demand for garments is slow,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cos-innovate-change-core-capabilities-to-fight-covid/articleshow/77026282.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Bharat Sena member arrested for Periyar statue desecration||Coimbatore: Hours after desecration of Periyar EV Ramasamy’s statue in the city kicked up a state-wide furore, Bharat Sena leaders handed over one of their members to police for smearing the life-size statue of the rationalist leader at Sundarapuram with saffron paint in the early hours of Friday.The accused, 21-year-old M Arun Krishnan from Podanur, told police that the act was provoked by the derogatory video on devotional song Kanda Sashti Kavacham that was posted on the YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam, which was run by Periyarist-Dravidian activists.Bharat Sena district general secretary Rudra Muthu told TOI that they had no role in the incident. “We came to know about it only when Arun called us. So, we handed him over to the Podanur police.”Arun is the south district organizer of the Bharat Sena. He is a private firm staffer.An official source said police personnel were deployed to guard six statues of Periyar and three statues of B R Ambedkar in the city following the arrest of Surenderan alias Nathigan in Chennai on Thursday for uploading the derogatory video on the Hindu devotional song that was composed by Devaraya Swamigal. “Arun desecrated the statue when the two cops, who were deployed there, went to attend nature’s call.”Following the incident, tension gripped the area with Periyarists demanding immediate arrest of culprit(s). Members of Dravidar Kazhagam and Thantahi Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam also staged a protest, demanding police to take immediate action. Deputy commissioner of police (law & order) G Stalin subsequently visited the spot and pacified them. More than 700 police personnel have been deployed in the city to prevent any untoward incidents. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan, meanwhile, said they were interrogating Arun. “We have arrested him.”The Kuniyamuthur (law & order) police have registered a case against Arun under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot – if rioting be committed – if not committed), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., ) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code.There are 10 Periyar statues in Erode district and eight in Tirupur district. Police have been deployed to guard them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bharat-sena-member-arrested-for-periyar-statue-desecration/articleshow/77026960.cms||A Subburaj
July 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Powerlooms in Ichalkaranji weave hospital linen, masks||Kolhapur: The coronavirus spread in Ichalkaranji town of Kolhapur district has not deterred the powerloom owners in this textile hub. When the other textile centres in Maharashtra – Solapur, Bhiwandi and Malegaon— were grappling with coronavirus couple of months back, the units in Ichalkaranji continued to weave.Now, the virus is spreading fast in this small town on the banks of the Panchganga river. The town, which has already experienced a total lockdown earlier this month, had 544 Covid-19 cases on Friday.Ichalkaranji is known for its production of grey or unprocessed cloth, which is sent to Surat and Bhiwandi for further processing. Usually, about 1.25 crore metre of the cloth with a market value of Rs 50-55 crore is produced in the town. With no new orders and absence of migrant workers, the textile hub is keeping its chin up by producing hospital linen and masks.Saad Momin, who has 350 powerlooms in Ichalkaranji, said only 30% of the industry is functional at present, mostly with the orders of fabric used to make masks and hospital linen.He added that the orders they used to get from the Middle East and Gulf countries have come to nil due to the lockdown. “Even today, we are getting few orders from Mumbai and Ahmedabad. The thing is that we will produce the fabric and keep it ready, but there is no assurance of the delivery time and payment,” he said.The powerloom owners faced hurdles after the migrant workers left in May due to coronavirus fear. Khalifa Mahto, who hails from Gujarat and is in Ichalkaranji from last ten years, said a majority of the workers left in May and those who stayed are now scared after the recent spike in coronavirus cases.To overcome the labour shortfall, the powerloom association decided to train locals. Satish Koshti, president of the association at Ichalkaranji, said their members, nearly 13,000 small and big powerloom factories, decided to train local youths for a month. “The local youth can this way be semi-skilled and we can at least complete the orders already placed. Sons of soil will be given the first priority,” he said.While the industry looks forward to further relaxations from next month, owners like Momin feel it will take them more than a year to come on track again. “We have provided the workers with stay and food facility. Corona is for the time being. Though we are not in profit making these days, we are making sure to pay the workers on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/powerlooms-in-ichalkaranji-weave-hospital-linen-masks/articleshow/77156205.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||WFH, e-classes push up demand for laptops||Ahmedabad: With more people working from home (WFH), and school and college education going online, there has been a sharp rise in the demand for laptops and desktop computers. After two months for electronics retailers having resumed business, the demand continues to be high, so much so that laptops and computers are rapidly going off shelves, leaving retailers’ stocks dried up. Industry estimates suggest that laptops, desktops and web cameras have seen at least 30% spike in demand over the past couple of months, against the pre-Covid period. “Just ahead of the lockdown, several corporates in Gujarat were in the process of implementing work from home and as a consequence, we received bulk orders for laptops, which we were able to fulfil comfortably. We did not expect the same order volumes to continue after the lockdown. Till date, there is 30% increase in demand for laptops as well as desktops,” said Rupin Barot, an Ahmedabad-based distributor of computing devices and accessories. “Of late, the demand has gone up from parents as well who are looking for desktops and laptops for their children, whose school education has moved online,” Barot further added. While the demand is buoyant, supply is a major concern, primarily because laptops and computers are largely imported from other countries and industry players suggest that in the wake of the pandemic, adequate stock is not being supplied. “Last week, we received 30 units of laptops and they went off shelves within two days because of pre-booked orders and buoyant demand. We are compelled to deny customers as limited models are available in stock,” said the manager of a single-brand laptop dealership in the city. Explaining the supply shortage, Bhavesh Waria, president, Ahmedabad Electronics Dealers’ Association (AEDA), said, “The demand for laptops and computers has grown world-over and not just in India and companies are taking time to ramp up production. As soon as unlock began, pipeline stocks that had piled up at ports arrived in the market and went off shelves. However, with a rise in demand from individuals as well as bulk orders from corporates continued and as a result, the supply is short.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wfh-e-classes-push-up-demand-for-laptops/articleshow/77026297.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Devastated by floods last year, villagers not taking chances this time around||KOLHAPUR: While Kolhapur district is already grappling with the outbreak of Covid-19, the rise in the level of Panchaganga river has pressed the panic button in Prayag Chikhli—a village in the district located in the confluence of five rivers that was battered by floods last year. Memories of last year’s floods are still afresh in the minds of the villagers. Local Kishore Chougale said, “Last year’s floods have developed a fear in our minds. There were hardly three to four houses in the village which had not submereged in water. Hence, we are keeping a watch on the river water level this year.” Lahu Chougale, another villager, said, “Once the water level reaches 40ft, we will shift to Sontali village where we have already built a makeshift shelter for our cattle. Last year, we lost our cattle during the floods. Now, we can’t afford any more losses.” The villagers now feel migrating will be an every year affair and hence have made prior arrangements. Nikhil Patil, whose house collapsed during the floods last year, said, “We have built a room on our land in Sontali village where we will shift during the monsoon. We will reside at Prayag Chikhli during the remaining months as our farmlands are here”. District disaster management officer, Kolhapur, Prasad Sankpal said, “Last year, the villagers didn’t respond to the evacuation call and hence got stuck in the floods. This year, the villagers have agreed to evacuate if the water level touches the warning level . Prior arranegments have been made to temporarily rehabilitate them in Sontali village or Kolhapur city”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/devastated-by-floods-last-year-villagers-not-taking-chances-this-time-around/articleshow/77025189.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||More pharmacos get nod to produce Remdesivir||HYDERABAD: The price of Covid-19 drug Remdesivir is expected to get cheaper soon with some more companies getting permission to manufacture the drug. The anti-viral drug has been in great demand ever since the coronavirus cases started rising. Presently, only two firms are manufacturing the drug, the price of which has hit the roof with some of the patients forced to cough up 3-4 times over and above the MRP. While Hyderabad-based Hetero Drugs is manufacturing the vial under the brand name ‘Covifor’, Cipla is also supplying the drug for Covid-19 patients, but is mostly meeting the requirements of Maharashtra. “Of the total 1,05,000 vials manufactured, only 24,000 were sold in Telangana and the balance vials are meeting the requirements of other states,” Drug Control Administration (DCA) director general Preeti Meena told TOI. Mylan has got permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) to manufacture and market Remdesivir. Sources said launching is likely to happen next week. “While the firm has plants outside Telangana, raw material (API) of Remdesivir is being manufactured in Telangana,” DCA joint director Y Naveen Kumar told TOI. Another city-based company Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has got permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) to conduct tests. “Once the tests are over, the company is expected to launch the drug for treating coronavirus infection soon,’ official sources said. The government is waiting for more companies to manufacture Remdesivir to meet the state’s requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-pharmacos-get-nod-to-produceremdesivir/articleshow/77026964.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand’s Covid-19 tally crosses 4,000 mark, 120 new cases found||Dehradun: The Covid-19 cases crossed 4,000 mark in Uttarakhand with 120 fresh infections reported in the state on Friday. The total number of cases in Uttarakhand have now shot up to 4,102. Among the positive cases, six were those who had arrived to Dehradun for the Air Force Selection Board interview. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that Udham Singh Nagar once again reported the maximum of 46 Covid-19 cases, followed by Dehradun (38), Haridwar (21), Nainital (7), Pauri (6), and one each in Almora and Champwat. “As many as 46 new cases were reported in US Nagar on Friday. Among these, 23 cases are contacts of earlier positive cases, one is a healthcare worker, 10 are returnees, and the travel history of nine other cases was not available till Friday evening,” added Tripathi. Among the new cases reported in Dehradun, six are candidates for AFSB and others are contacts of earlier positive cases, according to the health department. Also, 14 Army personnel tested positive on Friday. “A day after a shopkeeper was found Covid-19 infected in Paltan Bazar, another shopkeeper from Macchi Bazar tested positive. The administration has ordered sanitisation of the area,” said a health department official. Meanwhile, the sample of the 55-year-old woman who died in Udham Singh Nagar on July 13 tested Covid-19 positive on the day, taking the toll of the virus to 51, added Tripathi. With a spike in cases in the last one week, the recovery rate in Uttarakhand has dropped by around 7%. The state had a recovery rate of 80.23% on July 10 which declined to 73.65% on July 17. Uttarakhand was awaiting 8,585 reports till Friday evening with 3,617 new samples collected across the state on July 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-covid-19-tally-crosses-4000-mark-120-new-cases-found/articleshow/77025184.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 18, 2020||Mangaluru||DK records single day spike of 311 +ve cases||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada (DK) district saw a record single day spike of 311 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, on a day that the district also recorded eight fatalities due to the virus, taking the total number of deaths to 71. While DK recorded 311 positive cases, neighbouring Udupi saw 84 people testing positive. It may be recalled that DK and Udupi had reported a combined record spurt of 347 Covid-19 cases for a single day on Thursday. As on Friday, the total number of cases in DK and Udupi stood at 3,074 and 1,979 respectively. While Dakshina Kannada has 1,725 active cases, 429 patients are undergoing treatment in Udupi. The eight fatalities reported in DK include a woman and seven men, all with co-morbidities, and between the ages of 53 and 72. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that while the district has been witnessing an increase in the number of positive cases, 50% of the patients are asymptomatic. “As per the government order, asymptomatic patients are allowed to remain in home quarantine. We have been monitoring those who are in home quarantine through the command control centre functioning in the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC), and interacting with them through video conference. Similarly, doctors have been counselling them and public grievance cells have been opened in urban local bodies to redress Covid-19 related issues,” she said, adding that the expert committee will be submitting reports on cause of death in all the 71 deaths reported in the district. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said that the district needs more doctors and staff nurses, since the number of cases are increasing. Similarly, he said that the district requires more lab technicians. Interested doctors, nurses and technicians may contact the health department to serve in the district. He also requested donors to provide ventilators and high pressure oxygen systems to the district. The Udupi district administration has made monitoring those in home quarantine very strict, to prevent the spread of the disease. Those who are in home quarantine should upload selfies on the Home Quarantine Watch app regularly. Meanwhile, those who violate the norms will be identified through the quarantine geo fencing breach technology, the DC said, adding that 11 cases have already been booked against violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-records-single-day-spike-of-311-ve-cases/articleshow/77025192.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Steady downpour takes surplus to 31%||PANAJI: With spells of steady and intermittent rainfall during the last few days ensuring a surplus of 31%, the seasonal total has crossed 1,931.2mm (76.03 inches) even before the season can reach the half-way mark. The India meteorological department (IMD) recorded a 24-hour state average rainfall of 51.5mm on Friday morning. This took the quantum of rainfall in July to 684.4mm, about 63% of the month’s quota in just over a fortnight. “After the onset of monsoon, rainfall activity has been steady over Goa. It was only weak during the last seven days in June,” IMD-Goa scientist, Rahul M said. This year, cyclone Nisarga induced early rain and torrential spells in June — a 24-hour spell of 137.2mm on June 17 being the highest in a decade — leaving behind a 23% surplus. A total of 1,069.8mm is considered normal during the peak month of July, whereas 899.6mm is average quota for June in the four-month season. “In July, back-to-back systems have developed mostly over the Arabian Sea, which kept cumulative monsoon rainfall above normal value,” the scientist said. During the next two days, rainfall is likely to be moderate, but heavy showers are very likely at isolated places. “After 48 hours, we are expecting some weakening of monsoon activity, as per the latest observation,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/steady-downpour-takes-surplus-to-31/articleshow/77027879.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Police crack down on violators||AURANGABAD: Continuing with strict action against lockdown violators, city police on Thursday have registered several cases against people including vegetable vendors who were moving around the city selling their goods without permission. Satara police took action against three vegetable vendors who were found selling vegetables in violation of the lockdown norms in areas including Satara village, Jalannagar and Silk mills colony. City chowk police have booked four people under three different cases from Shahbazaar and City Chowk area. They arrested two people including a woman for selling vegetables in the Chelipura area. A carpenter was among two booked by the Osmanpura police for violation of lockdown in Shreyanagar while Begumpura police registered four cases against a vegetable vendor in Asafia Colony, a two-wheeler rider in Gokababa Tekdi area and another man in Bhimnagar Townhall area. The Begumpura police nabbed three people who were travelling on a two-wheeler without wearing masks.Police nabbed four people who were loitering around Mukudnwadi Railway station without masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-crack-down-on-violators/articleshow/77025196.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist records 5 Covid deaths, highest in a day||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 toll in the district went up by five to 17 on Friday, even as it recorded 141 new cases, taking its tally to 1,785. It was the highest single day toll that the district recorded so far. Selvapuram continued to dominate the list with 30 people testing positive for the virus. While a jewellery shop accounted for one more case, 12 people were tested positive for the virus from Muthusamy Colony, five from Sami Iyer Street, eight from Govindasamy layout, two from North Housing unit and one person each from Indira Nagar and Vadal Veethi. The cluster continued to spread to surrounding areas with one person from KC Thottam Chetti Street, two people from Priya Nagar in Telungupalayam and another one from Telungu Street testing positive for the virus. RS Puram also continued to see more Covid-19 cases with two people from a yarn shop on Venkataswamy Road and one each from Cowley Brown Road, Gandhi Park and Sukrawarpet testing positive for the virus. Two cases were reported from Vadavalli and nine from Ilahi Nagar as well. The city’s western and southern parts accounted for almost 70% of the cases on Friday. Officials said the high number of cases could be attributed to contact tracing initiatives and fever camps. In rural areas, three people from Muthalipalayam in Annur, two from Mettupalayam and one person from Periyanaickenpalayam tested positive for the virus. Of the five deceased, three succumbed to the virus within 24 hours of hospitalization. They comprise a 56-year-old man from Chetti Veedhi, a 50-year-old woman from Kondampatty in Kinathukidavu and another 60-year-old woman from Vinayakar Koil Street in Thudiyalur. The 56-year-old man was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday morning, with severe bronchopneumonia and low oxygen saturation. He died in the hospital the same day. The 50-year-old woman was admitted to CMCH with diabetes and pneumonia on Wednesday and died at 10am on Thursday before she could be shifted to the ESI Hospital. Similarly, the 60-year-old woman also got admitted to CMCH on Wednesday and died on Thursday. The remaining two comprise a 70-year-old man, who was a kidney disease patient and died two days after hospitalization at the ESI Hospital, and a 59-year-old man, who died a week after hospitalization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-records-5-covid-deaths-highest-in-a-day/articleshow/77026965.cms||---
July 18, 2020||India||0.35% of Covid patients on ventilators, says govt||NEW DELHI: Only 0.35% of Covid-19 patients are on ventilators, less than 1.9% cases in ICUs and 2.8% cases on oxygen beds, while the actual case load in the country is over 3.4 lakh, the health ministry said on Friday. Almost 80% of asymptomatic and mild cases have been advised home isolation under medical supervision, officials said. Officials said effective clinical management strategies have shown to yield positive results and maintain limited number of serious cases as well as mortality. Recovered cases stood at 6.35 lakh. “The strategy of home isolation for mild and asymptomatic patients has ensured to keep the hospitals unburdened, where the focus has been on treatment of severe cases and reduction of fatality,” an official said. The ministry said medical infrastructure to ensure quality treatment is being continuously augmented across the country, with India now having 1,383 ‘Dedicated Covid Hospitals’, 3,107 ‘Dedicated Covid Healthcare Centres’, and 10,382 ‘Covid Care Centres’. “Together, they have a capacity of 46,673 ICU beds. About 21,848 ventilators are deployed in the hospitals in all states. We are receiving no reports of shortage of N95 masks and PPE kits with the Centre having supplied 235.6 lakh N95 masks and 124.3 lakh PPE kits to States/UTs/Central institutions so far,” the ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/0-35-of-covid-patients-on-ventilators-says-govt/articleshow/77028449.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Volunteers pitch in for last rites of Covid-19 victims||Coimbatore: Most families dread one of their own dying of Covid-19 as they don’t get a chance to say a goodbye and perform traditional last rites, which they believe ensures smooth passage of the soul. To assist such families, a group of volunteers from Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam have come forward, assisted by the corporation, to perform last rites for bodies of Covid-19 victims, and bury them as per their religious customs. The outfit has a 49 member team to perform burials, and has buried five bodies in the district so far. Though TMMK has been performing funerals and burials in the district free of cost since 1995, Covid-19 had put forth a unique challenge. “Since contamination risks are so high, we have to limit the number of volunteers who can attend the burial, be prepared to self-isolate after the burial, sport personal protective equipment... after receiving the corporation’s permission,” said member Ashique Ahmed.TMMK members were already conducting burial services in other districts across the state successfully without getting infected. Members of the outfit in the district took a leaf out of their book, led by their district president Ahmed Kabir.For Muslims and Christians, the team allots seven people, who sport PPE kits sourced from Tirupur, hire an earth mover to dig a 12 ft deep trench, wait for corporation officials to apply bleaching powder inside the trench and in the vicinity and then remove the body from the ambulance, conduct last rites as per their religious customes, lower the body into the trench and close it up. Given the risks involved, the outfit charges Rs 15,000 per burial including renting an earthmover and buying PPE kits. “After every burial, the seven-member team isolates themselves for five days and gets themselves tested for the virus. We rotate the 49 volunteers this way,” said Mujibur Rehman, TMMK district secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/volunteers-pitch-in-for-last-rites-of-covid-19-victims/articleshow/77026967.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Major entry points to Satara sealed||KOLHAPUR: With complete lockdown in place in Satara district from Friday, all the major entry points have been closed and police have deployed additional force on all the roads leading to tourist destinations. National and state highways along with internal roads were deserted on the first day of the lockdown. Police have started taking stringent actions like seizing of vehicles if people are found violating the order. Police have put up barricades on all the major roads in the district. Only motorists with authorised e-pass are allowed to use national highway 4. Vehicles were allowed only after a thorough scrutiny of the passengers and the documents. Meanwhile, the district records 70 new Covid-19 patients and two deaths since Thursday night, taking the total number of cases to 1,179 and the death toll rising to 74. There are 890 active cases. The deceased, including a person from Patan and the other from Satara, had other health conditions. As per the official communication, of the 70 patients, 56 fall under the high-risk category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/major-entry-points-to-satara-sealed/articleshow/77025209.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Gurgaon||To reduce crime, Gurugram puts cops on centralised surveillance||GURUGRAM: To keep a check on crime, Gurugram police on Friday installed nakkas at 61 places and will by guarded by around 2,500 policemen in shifts. Apart from this, 79 PCRs and 123 riders (policemen on bike) will be on guard. All the PCRs and bikes will be equipped with GPS, public address system and they will be connected with a centralised control room. Geofencing, which was till now used for monitoring Covid patients, will now be used for setting the digital boundary of PCRs and riders. The aim is to reduce the response time after receiving a call at the police control room and thus reducing the crime rate in Gurugram. Gurugram is divided into four police districts – Gurugram, (east), Gurugram (west), Gurugram (South) and Manesar and each one is headed by a DCP. Earlier, PCRs and riders were assigned duties by respective DCPs but now posting has been done through a centralised system. Police commissioner KK Rao said after conducting the crime mapping of Gurugram, they prepared a centralised posting of PCRs and riders in different parts of Gurugram. “We studied the nature of crimes in different parts of Gurugram and identified the areas with maximum incidents and possible escape routes for criminals. On this basis, PCRs and riders will be stationed at strategic locations,” said Rao, adding that on the basis of crime mapping entire Gurugram has been placed under two layers of security – outer and inner. While the outer layer is to guard the border areas, the inner layer will be inside the city. Meanwhile, to keep them free from stress, policemen posted on PCRs and riders will work on three shifts of 8 hours each and they will get a weekly off. “All the PCRs and riders will be under geofencing and the control room will get notification as and when the vehicle goes out of its notified area,” said Rao, adding that arrangements have been made to ensure that additional force reach the crime spot at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/to-reduce-crime-ggn-puts-cops-on-centralised-surveillance/articleshow/77027597.cms||Bagish Jha
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||With 2 days left till Shivratri, Haridwar has received no requests for Ganga jal||Haridwar: With only two days left till Mahashivratri, an occasion on which kanwariyas offer Ganga water on Shiva idols, the Haridwar district administration hasn’t received any requests for Ganga jal from neighbouring states so far. Uttarakhand cancelled kanwar yatra this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Haridwar district administration clarified kanwariyas would have to undergo 14 days of paid quarantine if they tried to sneak into the holy city but arrangements would be made to send Ganga water to kanwariyas through post offices. Haridwar additional district magistrate (ADM) Haridwar KK Mishra told TOI, “We haven’t received any demands for Ganga jal from other states so far. We had requested devotees not to come to Haridwar to collect Ganga Jal this year and promised to send it to them instead.” The kanwar yatra, an annual pilgrimage which sees Shiva devotees travel to Haridwar in huge numbers, was to begin on July 6 this year. Shravan Shivratiri falls on July 19, which marks the end of the yatra. According to sources, members of the Youth Congress have sent around 5,000 plastic containers filled with Ganga water to devotees in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Some social organizations requested the district administration’s permission to send Ganga jal to kanwariyas in different parts of the country, but were denied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-2-days-left-till-shivratri-haridwar-has-received-no-requests-for-ganga-jal/articleshow/77025215.cms||MS Nawaz
July 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Crowds swarm at fishing harbour, forgetful of virus||VISAKHAPATNAM: As locals continue to jostle at liquor outlets and fishing harbours amid the pandemic, the absence of social distancing at crowded places has raised fears about the rapid transmission of the virus. Fishing harbours, particularly, are vulnerable spots with fisherfolk and consumers equally susceptible to contracting the disease. On Sundays, a few thousand visit the fishing harbour in Visakhapatnam and little attention is paid to social distancing among consumers or sellers. In the absence of safety measures, the virus may spread and infect several persons at such crowded locations Further, fishermen travelling in close proximity for days in small boats are unable to practise social distancing. When they return with their catch, they face the risk of contracting the virus at markets and auction centres. If infected and asymptomatic, they pose the risk of unknowingly passing on the disease to those they come into contact with. While the fisheries department has implemented various measures such as deploying police personnel for crowd management, the lack of physical distance among individuals at marketplaces remains a concern. Additionally, wet markets may become the breeding grounds of various other diseases. General secretary of the National Fisherfolk Forum, Arjili Dasu, said the government should test for Covid-19 all fishermen who venture out to sea and sell their catch, similar to testing done for migrant fishermen from Gujarat, Karnataka and Goa. “Precautionary measures at the fishing harbours and markets should be further improved to contain the spread of the disease,” Dasu said. Joint director of the fisheries department K Phani Prakash said tests have been conducted on nearly 120 fishermen. “The fisheries department has conducted tests on 22 people,” said Prakash, while the remaining were tested by the health department. Meanwhile, an activist from Kakinada, Dusarlapudi Ramana Raju, has demanded the government close liquor outlets in the state to combat the rapid spread of the disease, “otherwise containment would become difficult,” said Ramana Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/crowds-swarm-at-fishing-harbour-forgetful-of-virus/articleshow/77025202.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Vidyapith exams between August 6 and September 17||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Vidyapith on Friday announced the schedule for its college exams, to be held in five phases manner. Theory exams will start on August 6 and will continue till September 17. The varsity offers many programmes from undergraduate to PhD under eight faculties. The exams will be held according to the revised guidelines of the University Grants Commission recently, it said. The varsity will conduct exams for courses including computer science and applications, rural management, science and other courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vidyapith-exams-between-aug-6-and-sept-17/articleshow/77026357.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||Collector’s meet on schools ends abruptly as only select parents invited||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakare will hold a second web meet on Saturday with schools and parents after Friday’s webinar ended in on a ‘sour note’ due to education department not publicly informing the most important stakeholders - the parents. A participant said, “The issue came up about a school on Kamptee Road. But there was no parent from that school present. Education officer Chintaman Vanjari seemed to have invited only a handful of parents.” Even the few parents who got the education department’s invite complained not enough advance notice was given to them about the meet. Those present in the web meet said a heated exchange took place after Thakare felt he was being accused of not informing parents’ side well in advance, though it was the education department that should have ideally disseminated the information. The collector however denied the ‘argument’ part to TOI. “No (there was no argument). He pointed out the change in timing was communicated at the eleventh hour. So I thought of postponing it,” Thakare told TOI. The web meeting was a result of Unaided Schools Welfare Association Nagpur (USWAN) approaching Thakare after education officer Vanjari threated them with a FIR for holding classes up to Std II, among other things. Schools had always maintained that the June 15 circular, on which Vanjari had issued the FIR threat, was simply an advisory and not legally enforceable. People who attended the web meet on Friday confirmed that Vanjari did not try to defend his earlier stand. Another participant in the meeting told TOI Thakare had offered to mediate between schools and parents. “The collector said that schools and parents should keep the window of communication open at all times. He also said that no third party should get involved in this,” the participant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collectors-meet-on-schools-ends-abruptly-as-only-select-parents-invited/articleshow/77026383.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 18, 2020||Erode||Erode: Illegal electric fence claims tusker’s life||ERODE: A 35-year-old tusker was electrocuted near Andhiyur here on Friday after it came in contact with live wires of an illegal electric fence around a farmland. The forest department has launched a manhunt for the land owner - S Madesh, 50, of Osimalai near Burgoor – who is on the run. A forest official said the farmland was located adjacent to the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in the Burgoor forest range. “Villagers found the animal’s carcass in Pavella check dam pit, a few meters away from the electric fence, and informed us.” Preliminary investigation revealed that Madesh had erected the electric fence illegally around his farmland to protect the crop from wild animal raid. “When the tusker attempted to damage the fence with its trunk around 4am on Friday to raid maize and other crops, it touched the live wires and was thrown off. It died on the spot,” the officer said. The carcass was buried in the forest area after autopsy. “We have registered a case against Madesh, who is still at large. A search is on for him,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/illegal-electric-fence-claims-tuskers-life/articleshow/77026972.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarkashi mulling to introduce Garhwali prayer in schools||Uttarkashi: In a unique initiative to promote local language and culture, renowned folk artists and district coordinator of Navachari Samagra Shiksha Om Badhani has composed a school prayer in Garhwali language. The prayer (five minutes and 56 seconds long), which has been prepared in memory of late cultural activist Surendra Puri, is meant to enhance social and ideological development of students. Now, the local education department is planning to introduce this prayer in the curriculum of all the government and private schools of the district. Om Badhani, who wrote and composed the prayer, said, “Late cultural activist Surendra Puri devoted his life for the promotion of Garhwali language and culture. Today, the language is losing its identity in the modern world. He had also planned to prepare a Garhwali prayer for school curriculum but passed away before he could do that. Thus, I decided to compose a prayer in his memory.” Jitendra Saxena, district education officer, said, “This is a good initiative to spread awareness regarding the local language among young generations. The department is planning to introduce the Garhwali prayer in all the government schools of Uttarkashi district in the upcoming session so that students can recite it at least once in a week along with prayers in other languages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarkashi-mulling-to-introduce-garhwali-prayer-in-schools/articleshow/77025223.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Govt doctors want Osmania General Hospital pulled down||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Government Doctors’ Association (TGDA) has asked the state government to dismantle the Osmania General Hospital building and construct a new building. They said they would support the initiative of the government to demolish the OGH building. “When CM K Chandrasekhar Rao had proposed he would build a new hospital, some took objections on grounds that OGH is a heritage building and that it should not be pulled down,” Dr Pravin Pallam, TGDA president, said. TGDA said OGH gets patients from five neighbouring states and it was important that they were provided the best medicare in a new building. Representatives of TGDA met health minister Eatala Rajender and thanked him for the CM’s promise to implement UGC payscales for those working in government medical colleges. They also lauded government’s decision to provide special incentive and increase the salaries of health staff in Covid-designated hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-doctorswant-ogh-pulled-down/articleshow/77026977.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: 70,000 tribals in Srikakulam’s hills untouched by Covid-19||VISAKHAPATNAM: The nearly 70,000 people living in the 600 hills in Srikakulam district are yet to be affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Even as the district has reported nearly 1,800 cases so far, not a single case has been found in these hills, according to officials of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA). Speaking to TOI, ITDA project officer Ch Sridhar said that while the tribal people lack in education and awareness compared to the urban population, they have been able to steer clear of Covid-19 so far. “One of the reasons for this is the remoteness of the area. Further, these people don’t travel much. Their efforts at maintaining social distance and wearing masks when they come to the plains are laudable,” Sridhar said. The ITDA project officer further said: “I have personally visited some of the hill areas. There I found them wearing towels as masks. No one suggested them to do it but they picked it up themselves. They have been wearing towels around their faces for years and not because it served as protective gear.” Meanwhile, the district administration is stepping up measures to check the spread of Covid-19, Sridhar said. He added that the administration is using the media and government employees from across departments to spread awareness. Door-to-door fever surveys are being conducted by the health department. The number of tests is being increased so as to ensure early detection, tracing, isolation and treatment. At the moment, Srikakulam district has a testing capacity of 1,800 RT-PCR tests and 1,250 Truenat tests per day. The capacity will be increased to 5,000 tests RT-PCR tests per day within the next four days as the state government has allotted three more RT-PCR machines to the district, Sridhar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/70000-tribals-in-srikakulams-hills-untouched-by-pandemic/articleshow/77025222.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 18, 2020||Hubballi||Newly wed couple, 30 wedding attendees test +ve||Haveri: A newly wed couple, and 30 people who attended their wedding in Ranebennur, which was held without taking permission from the authorities on June 29, have tested positive for Covid-19. Tragedy struck the groom’s house as his father, 45, (P-25830) and mother, 42, (P-36881) died within a few days after the wedding ceremony. Both had tested positive for Covid-19. Now, the bride and the groom and 30 people who attended the wedding, have tested positive for the virus. Their test result came on Friday. Over 80 people have been identified as the primary contacts of the deceased persons including Ranebennur MLA Arunkumar MG. According to sources, the wedding was held at Mouneshwar temple in Maruti Nagar area in Ranebennur on June 29, without getting permission from the authorities concerned. More than 100 people attended the wedding. After the ceremony, the groom’s father fell ill and received treatment at a local hospital. However, his condition deteriorated and he was admitted at SS Hospital in Davanagere where he died on July 7. Later, the groom’s mother also died on July 11. Her sample tested positive for Covid-19 on July 14. Of the 30 persons infected with the virus, four are children below 11 years, and 10 are senior citizens including a 90-year-old man. Besides, two staff nurses also contracted the infection from the groom’s father when he was undergoing treatment. When contacted additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar said 36 people who attended wedding, and the bride and groom, were sent on institutional quarantine in Antaravalli village. “Now, we have received 32 results and all are infected. We are waiting for six more sample results. We have requested people who attended the wedding to go for Covid test,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/newly-wed-couple-30-wedding-attendees-test-ve/articleshow/77025228.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
July 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Man breaks into Belthangady hospital, whisks Covid-19 positive wife and baby away||MANGALURU: In a bizarre incident, a man broke into the maternity ward of a hospital in Belthangady late on Thursday and took away his wife and newborn child after learning that she had tested positive for Covid-19. Police immediately traced the family and admitted the woman and child in a hospital in Mangaluru. Police said the woman, who hails from Navoor, was admitted to Belthangady Government Hospital on July 12 for delivery. Her swab samples were collected during admission. She delivered a healthy baby on Wednesday (July 15) and a day later, results on her sample showed she was infected. As per protocol, hospital officials had made preparations to shift her and the child to a Covid hospital in Mangaluru on Friday. However, on Thursday night, her husband arrived at the hospital in a car, broke open the lock on the main door and barged inside. Though hospital staff tried to stop him, he fended them off, bundled his wife and child into the car and drove away. Jurisdictional police were immediately informed and they traced the couple within hours and asked the woman to return to hospital. Sources said she – and the child – was admitted to Lady Goschen Hospital in Mangaluru, while the man has been asked to stay in home quarantine. With the woman testing positive, three other pregnant women at the hospital in Belthangady have been shifted to other hospitals and the area has been sanitised. “We don’t have security guards here so we double up as security staff too,” said a doctor at the Belthangady hospital. “Police also are at risk due to such incidents.” No complaint was registered with police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-breaks-into-govt-hospital-whisks-away-ve-wife-newborn/articleshow/77026385.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: MCG zeroes in on landfill site at Nuh||GURUGRAM: MCG has submitted its reply to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) about its plan to clear legacy waste from Bandhwari treatment plant. The civic body has also submitted that an alternative site was initially identified in Basai and then Farrukh Nagar. However, after objections were raised, the plan to dump fresh waste at these sites was dropped. Now, the civic body has identified another site in Nuh. “We were told that the next hearing is scheduled for September 30. We had to tell NGT about our plan. We have so far installed seven trommels at Bandhwari. This is for legacy waste. For fresh waste, we have submitted that we had identified a site in Basai and another in Farrukh Nagar, which could not be finalised due to the objections raised by residents. Now, we have identified a site in Nuh,” said Mahabir Prasad, additional commissioner-3, MCG. NGT had issued directions to MCG in November 2019 to clear 25 lakh tonne of legacy waste from Bandhwari in six months. It had earlier observed that there was a need to prepare an action plan to clear the legacy waste from the landfill in the shortest possible period. Following this, the corporation officials visited the site and started looking for an alternative. The civic body had instructed Ecogreen, the corporation’s concessionaire for waste management, to install trommel machines for processing fresh and legacy waste at Bandhwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-zeroes-in-on-landfill-site-at-nuh/articleshow/77027601.cms||Vishakha Chaman
July 18, 2020||Meerut||UP Police serve notice on CEO of Chinese mobile co after ‘security breach’||MEERUT: The CEO of a Chinese mobile manufacturing company’ Indian unit has been handed a notice by UP Police, demanding an explanation why the same International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) was active on several phones. The IMEI is a unique ID assigned to each phone. TOI had on June 5 reported that over 13,500 phones with the same IMEI were found active across the country in under 30 minutes. On July 3, the investigating officer in the case had sought a response from the mobile company, one among several manufacturers of the compromised phones and also the manufacturer of the SI’s phone. “The officer was not satisfied with the answers he got from the company. A notice has now been served on the CEO of the mobile company to clarify certain points,” Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni said. The breach had surfaced after a Meerut sub-inspector (SI) discovered that his phone’s IMEI had “changed” after he had turned it over for repairs. Later, it was found that the IMEI was the same as that of at least 13,556 other devices. An FIR was then lodged under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC and sections of the IT Act on June 1. The company had been questioned at the time by the cyber cell, but had not made much headway then either. The IMEI allows mobile service providers to identify devices on a network — it is what is tracked when a phone is lost or stolen. Cloning IMEI means a phone can become virtually untraceable, lost in the volumes of same IDs. And if SIM information is also stolen, data interception becomes easy. Since 2017, IMEI tampering has been a punishable offence with three years’ jail term. In the SI’s case, TOI had reported, 30 minutes of cellular network data from the service provider had exposed the massive IMEI cloning operation. “The number of devices with cloned IMEIs could be much higher had the time frame (for which the network operator provided data) been longer and data from all service providers were put together,” a cyber cell officer had said at the time. In 2009, the department of telecommunications had held telecom operators responsible for cutting off service to any phone with a “fake” IMEI. The problem, however, lies in identifying which IMEI is fake and which is genuine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-serve-notice-on-ceo-of-chinese-mobile-co-after-security-breach/articleshow/77014717.cms||Piyush Rai
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||None from IIT-Gandhinagar abetted suicide: Cops||AHMEDABAD: In their investigation into the suicide of Piue Ghosh, 32, a doctoral student of Indian Institute of Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) hailing from West Bengal, Gandhinagar police have concluded that none from the institute had abetted her suicide. Ghosh had hanged herself to death on July 4 at her hostel room in the institute leaving a message on the room’s wall, “I quit.” Police said she was in home-quarantine in her room after return from West Bengal, and she had only four days left to complete the isolation period, when she took the extreme step. An investigator said police have taken statements from at least 20 persons from the institute including the faculty member named in an online petition demanding justice in Ghosh’s death. Police have concluded the deceased was not under any academic pressure. They will now probe further to find whether there was any personal issue behind Ghosh’s suicide. “As students took the issue to social media and also moved an online petition, we recorded statements of students and a faculty member to find a clue whether there was academic pressure. There was no hint of such being the issue,” said a Gandhinagar police official. Ghosh was a PhD scholar at the electrical engineering department of the institute and she was doing her thesis on development of a bio-chemical sensing platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/none-from-iit-gn-abetted-suicide-cops/articleshow/77026387.cms||Ashish Chauhan
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: For 9 years, he trekked through forests to deliver letters||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Hard work ‘pays’ in the long run, a retired postmaster from the Nilgiris has learnt. The postman, D Sivan, came into limelight after a TN-cadre IAS officer, Supriya Sahu, posted about his daily travails of delivering mail in the uneven terrain of the Nilgiris on social media. Inspired by Sivan’s story, Rajeev Chandrasekar, Rajya Sabha MP, wrote to the postman appreciating his service and donated Rs 1 lakh as a token of goodwill. Rajeev, in his letter to Sivan, said, ‘I am sure that your dedication and commitment will no doubt inspire many generations of public service”. A resident of Vannarapettai in Coonoor, Sivan, now 65, joined the postal department in 1985 as a stamp vendor in Coonoor, and was later transferred to Hillgrove post office as Gramin Dak Sevak Mail Deliverer (GDSMD) in 2011. As GDSMD till his retirement, the proud postman walked tirelessly around 15 km daily through hilly terrain along the Nilgiri Mountain Track through Karumbalam, Vadugar Thottam, Singara, Kilsingara and Marapalam delivering mail and money orders for tribal community and estate workers. “There is no other way except the forest route to reach those places. I delivered not only letters and money orders, but also rendered service as a collector for their bank accounts. After depositing the money at the post office, their passbooks duly entered would be delivered to them the following day,” said Sivan. There were incidents when Sivan was chased by wild elephants, Indian gaurs, snakes and sloth bears. “After years of experience, I was well versed with locations where animals congregate. I avoided those stretches,” he said. Sivan also used to deliver mail bags to the Lower Singara post office and collect mailbags from there to Hillgrove. “Sometime, people would ask me to deliver their letters or money order at locations convenient for them when they were not available at their homes. I would not mind obliging them,” said the good Samaritan. Asked about Rajeev Chandrasekar’s letter and money, Sivan said, “Yes I received a message from him. I provided my bank account number to him. I am yet to check my account.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-for-9-years-he-trekked-through-forests-to-deliver-letters/articleshow/77026981.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Two-day-old girl found near trash can in Dehradun outskirts||DEHRADUN: A newborn girl, who doctors believe is not more than two days old, was found lying near Daakpatthar police post on Friday morning. The baby was spotted by a group of morning walkers, who heard faint cries of the infant. Eyewitnesses said two stray dogs stood guard as the baby lay near a garbage bin. Authorities have shifted the baby to a community healthcare centre in Vikas Nagar and the state child rights panel has ordered a probe in the matter. “The baby appears to be around two days old. There were some minor scratches on her body. We have administered first aid and she is stable now,” said Dr SK Sharma, a doctor at CHC Vikas Nagar. Chairperson of State Commission for Protection of Child Rights Usha Negi directed for the baby to be shifted to the neonatal care centre in Dehradun. “We got to know about the baby via social media posts, where photos of the infant appeared with her face covered in dust and mud. I have ordered an inquiry into the matter and will also request people to alert police if they happen to know anything about the girl’s parents,” Negi said. Inspector of Vikas Nagar police station Rajeev Rauthan said that a general entry in the police diary has been made, but no FIR lodged so far. “We are tracking footage from CCTV cameras mounted at nearby shops and inquiring about the baby from local residents,” Rauthan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-day-old-girl-found-near-trash-can-in-doon-outskirts/articleshow/77025257.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani clears decks for higher pay||AHMEDABAD: In what might bring respite to more than 65,000 schoolteachers of the state, chief minister Vijay Rupani has decided to reverse the government’s decision to not approve higher pay scales for teachers. Giving an affirmative response to the representations made by Gujarat State Primary Teachers Association (GSPTA) and Gujarat Education Federation (GEF) on the issue of higher pay scale, the CM has put into abeyance the government’s earlier June 25, 2019 decision, according to an official statement. Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said the government has decided to revisit the decision and put it on hold indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-clears-decks-for-higher-pay/articleshow/77026420.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh to ramp up Covid care with more ventilators||GUNTUR: The state government has decided to increase the number of ventilators in all government hospitals. The existing ventilators strength in teaching hospitals which are acting as district-level Covid-19 care centres will shortly be doubled. The government has purchased ventilators from Bangalore-based Bharat Biotech and directed Andhra Pradesh Medical and Health Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMHIDC) to install the facilities without any delay. Ventilators with oxygen supply system will be set up in the next few days. The Covid-19 death toll has been going up in the state for the past few days prompting the state government to initiate speedy measures. Around 378 ventilators are in operation in five state-level Covid-19 hospitals in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kurnool, Nellore and Chittoor. The government has decided to add another 128 ventilators to the existing strength and ready at least another 500 ventilators. However, only around 314 ventilators are available in district-level hospitals, which are inadequate to handle the number of cases. The government has decided to add another 1,400 ventilators to the present capacity. Meanwhile, about 50 ventilators reached Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur on Friday. GGH Superintendent Dr Kancharla Sudhakar said that additional ventilators would take the total capacity to 90 in the Covid Care Centre. He said that another 40 ICU beds would also be made available. “We can accommodate at least 80 patients in ICU and provide oxygen to critical patients. There is no need to worry about the facilities in the government hospitals as the government is taking every possible measure to save the lives of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Sudhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-to-ramp-up-covid-care-with-more-ventilators/articleshow/77029116.cms||Samdani MN
July 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh to ramp up Covid care with more ventilators||GUNTUR: The state government has decided to increase the number of ventilators in all government hospitals. The existing ventilators strength in teaching hospitals which are acting as district-level Covid-19 care centres will shortly be doubled. The government has purchased ventilators from Bangalore-based Bharat Biotech and directed Andhra Pradesh Medical and Health Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMHIDC) to install the facilities without any delay. Ventilators with oxygen supply system will be set up in the next few days. The Covid-19 death toll has been going up in the state for the past few days prompting the state government to initiate speedy measures. Around 378 ventilators are in operation in five state-level Covid-19 hospitals in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kurnool, Nellore and Chittoor. The government has decided to add another 128 ventilators to the existing strength and ready at least another 500 ventilators. However, only around 314 ventilators are available in district-level hospitals, which are inadequate to handle the number of cases. The government has decided to add another 1,400 ventilators to the present capacity. Meanwhile, about 50 ventilators reached Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur on Friday. GGH Superintendent Dr Kancharla Sudhakar said that additional ventilators would take the total capacity to 90 in the Covid Care Centre. He said that another 40 ICU beds would also be made available. “We can accommodate at least 80 patients in ICU and provide oxygen to critical patients. There is no need to worry about the facilities in the government hospitals as the government is taking every possible measure to save the lives of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Sudhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-to-ramp-up-covid-care-with-more-ventilators/articleshow/77025240.cms||Samdani MN
July 18, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, standing panel to meet via videoconference||Nagpur: First time in the history of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke has decided to hold the panel’s meeting through videoconferencing on July 20. Early this month, deputy municipal commissioner and in-charge NMC secretary Ranjana Lade had issued a notification stating that general body or any other subject committee meeting should be convened only if necessary. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, instead of holding meetings that require physical attendance, the same should be conducted through videoconferencing, said the notification. Accordingly, the concerned authorities have asked the 16 standing committee members and all heads of departments to download the required application on their mobiles. For the meeting, the civic administration has submitted only one proposal of continuing the service of technical consultant and retired NMC deputy engineer of Chandrakant Gabhane to supervise the technical bids of roads funded by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-standing-panel-to-meet-via-videoconference/articleshow/77026402.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Pourakarmika’s untimely death sparks outpouring of grief||BENGALURU: Residents welfare associations across Bengaluru joined BBMP pourakarmikas, standing in solidarity with them on Friday as they mourned the loss of a colleague. Hundreds of pourakarmikas held condolence meetings for Shilpa Prasad, 28, a resident of Chinnappa Garden, who succumbed to the virus on Thursday. Seven hospitals refused her admission and the eighth that took her in, did not have a ventilator available. At the start of the outbreak, All Indian Central Council of Trade Unions, with which BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha is working, had approached the Karnataka high court, which ordered the government to provide every pourakarmika with safety equipment. But BBMP officials have paid no heed, despite the union sending several reminder, one as lately as July 10. Pourakarmikas say Shilpa was a victim of BBMP’s apathy. Nagaveni Lingaraju, a pourakarmika working in Hemmigepura, said her family is worried for her, but she is helpless and needs to work. Residents across the city empathised with the sanitation workers and expressed anger at the lack of support by Palike brass. Koramangala I Block residents held a candle light vigil to mourn Shilpa’s death. Padmashree Balaram, president of Kormangala 1st Block RWA said, “I sent just one message and all my neighbours turned up with candles. We are concerned about the wellbeing of our pourakarmikas,” Padamashree said. NS Ravi, president, Bharathinagar Resident Welfare Association, said: “Pourakarmikas keep our city clean, even in the time of the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pourakarmikas-untimely-death-sparks-outpouring-of-grief/articleshow/77026431.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh to ramp up Covid care with more ventilators||GUNTUR: The state government has decided to increase the number of ventilators in all government hospitals. The existing ventilators strength in teaching hospitals which are acting as district-level Covid-19 care centres will shortly be doubled. The government has purchased ventilators from Bangalore-based Bharat Biotech and directed Andhra Pradesh Medical and Health Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMHIDC) to install the facilities without any delay. Ventilators with oxygen supply system will be set up in the next few days. The Covid-19 death toll has been going up in the state for the past few days prompting the state government to initiate speedy measures. Around 378 ventilators are in operation in five state-level Covid-19 hospitals in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kurnool, Nellore and Chittoor. The government has decided to add another 128 ventilators to the existing strength and ready at least another 500 ventilators. However, only around 314 ventilators are available in district-level hospitals, which are inadequate to handle the number of cases. The government has decided to add another 1,400 ventilators to the present capacity. Meanwhile, about 50 ventilators reached Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur on Friday. GGH Superintendent Dr Kancharla Sudhakar said that additional ventilators would take the total capacity to 90 in the Covid Care Centre. He said that another 40 ICU beds would also be made available. “We can accommodate at least 80 patients in ICU and provide oxygen to critical patients. There is no need to worry about the facilities in the government hospitals as the government is taking every possible measure to save the lives of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Sudhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-to-ramp-up-covid-care-with-more-ventilators/articleshow/77029115.cms||Samdani MN
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Sloth bear dies in infighting in Nilgiris forest||Udhagamandalam: A male sloth bear, aged around seven years, was found dead in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Friday. The carcass of the animal was spotted by the forest staff who were on patrol at Theppakadu beat in the Karkudi range of forests in MTR. According to Shenbagapriya, deputy director, MTR core zone, external injuries were found on the animal’s carcass. “Preliminary postmortem report suggested that the animal might have died of injuries it sustained during infighting. The claws of the animal were found injured. It might have died a day ago.” Samples of vital parts of the animal have been collected for lab tests. After autopsy, the carcass was burnt inside the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sloth-bear-dies-in-infighting-in-nilgiris-forest/articleshow/77026995.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG installs 15 solar lights in city||Gurgaon: The Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) has installed 15 solar high-mast streetlights across the city. The civic body has spent a total of Rs 40 lakh on the installation of these lights. Two lights each have been installed in New Colony, Sadar Bazar and Sector 31, while DDR Chowk, Basai, Mor Chowk, Kadipur, Patudi Chowk, Jharsa road, Old railway road, New railway road and Kadipur cremation ground have one such light each. “Solar lights will help us save electricity and continue to light up these areas even when there is a power cut,” said Raman Yadav, MCG executive engineer (electrical).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-installs-15-solar-lights-in-city/articleshow/77027604.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Soon, banks, media houses, other private companies will have to test staff for antibodies||CHENNAI: It will soon become mandatory for all private sector entities in the city including banks, IT companies, factories and media houses to test their employees for Covid-19 using antibody test kits to find if they have been infected and cured. The decision, taken by Greater Chennai Corporation, comes after it tested more than 1,000 frontline workers in Ripon Building, the corporation headquarters, using these kits. “We found that at least 15% of them had developed antibodies after they recovered from the viral infection. About 5% of them tested positive. Results for the test using antibody kits are not just quick and cost effective. We can also identify who is immune to the disease,” corporation commissioner G Prakash said. As of now the state government uses RT-PCR tests to diagnose Covid-19 cases. “The ICMR protocol says antibody tests can be used to identify the prevalence of the infection but not diagnosis. RT-PCR remains the standard test for diagnosis of Covid-19,” he said. The agency, he said, will test all its 45,000 employees using this test and private companies should purchase these test kits from the empanelled list of companies from the ICMR web portal and conduct the tests. “It will also give us a fair idea about community spread,” he said. The Rotary Club of Madras, the oldest such institution in the state, is gearing up to test a protocol as a pilot project to ensure industries have healthy workers and seamless workflow. The project, approved by the state industries department, will first test employees of Saint-Gobain, Boyce and Cookson India before it hands over the protocol for enlarged use across the state. During the pilot phase, the team will draw nasal and blood samples from the employees. “The protocol identifies secure workers who are immune to the infection – those who have been infected and have developed antibodies. It will also identify safe workers who never developed the infection and therefore cannot spread it,” said Dr Gauthamadas, a psychiatrist who has been working on the protocol with several other medical experts. The “safe” workers and their families will be monitored with a transparent IT-enabled system for compliance management. The pilot project will be undertaken for 60 days from July 27. “We have to protect people and ensure lives and livelihood as well as resurrect the economy. While industries have started functioning under pressure financially, we thought of delivering a system to ensure a safe working environment,” said Kapil Chitale, a leading architect and president of Rotary Club of Madras. “This programme focuses on constant monitoring and contact tracing to ensure a trouble free work environment at industrial units,” Chitale said. The industry has welcomed the decision. B Santhanam, chairman and managing director of Saint-Gobain India, said the company had undertaken enough measures on its own including introducing four shift teams and zoning of the company’s plants to prevent a worker (in case gets affected) from one zone contaminating those in other zones. “The pilot project will cover both our employees as well as our outsourced employees through UDS and logistics providers. They will undertake this project in our unit in Sriperumbudur as well as in our export unit at Perundhurai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/soon-banks-media-houses-other-pvt-cos-will-have-to-test-staff-for-antibodies/articleshow/77026391.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mysuru||Four succumb to infection in Mysuru||Mysuru: Four Mysureans succumbed to the Covid-19 infection on Friday, within a day of hospitalization, taking the death tally to 57. As many as 93 individuals including a girl (4) and a boy (7) have been hospitalized. Many are contacts of primary contacts and had influenza like illness (ILI)-symptoms. Mysuru as on Friday has 805 active cases — some of them are quarantined in homes and few in private hospitals. Of the seven who died, six are men and one a woman (52). They had respiratory illness and were being treated in hospital. An 80-year-man died after spending eight days in hospital. In neighbouring Chamarajanagar district 10 fresh cases were reported with the . total touching 222. Majority of the cases cases are from rural areas and those have returned from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/four-succumb-to-infection-in-mysuru/articleshow/77025306.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Pune||PCMC gears up to bolster hospital capacity in Pune||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Anticipating a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation is planning to rope in more private hospitals to bolster its ICU and regular bed capacity. As per the divisional commissioner’s dashboard, hospital-wise data show that there are 245 ICU beds available in government and private hospitals in PCMC limits, of which 86 are occupied. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar told TOI that they expected the number of positive cases to cross the 20,000-mark by the end of the month and would increase the number of beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-gears-up-to-bolster-hosp-capacity/articleshow/77027026.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctors & activists question Covid-19 dashboard efficacy||PUNE: Five deaths in quick succession for want of ICU beds with ventilators have left doctors, health activists and citizens demanding better accountability from hospitals and civic authorities to ensure that Covid-19 patients and their families do not have to frantically search for emergency treatment facilities.  Civic activist Vivek Velankar said, “The dashboard developed for live update of hospital beds will be of no use if it is updated once or twice a day. Its monitoring is essential. The authorities should be held responsible for patients’ deaths.” Times ViewThe death of yet another patient for the want of a vacant ICU bed with ventilator support at Sassoon hospital underlines the urgent need for a radical overhaul of the critical care system in Pune. It’s high time that the government officers tasked with monitoring the ICU bed management were held accountable for such serious lapses. The elected representatives need to act right now to ensure a flawless critical care system. Every life counts.Health activist Abhijit More said, “There is a gap between the dashboard and the situation on the ground. Either hospitals are not following the official guidelines or the administration does not have control over these hospitals. One cannot rule out black marketing of beds as well.”  Dynana Devi Childline director Anuradha Sahasrabudhe said, “What is the point of having a dashboard if people have to run around looking for beds? What happened to the 10,000-bed facility that was supposed to come up at Balewadi or the train compartments equipped with ICU-like facilities?” The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has added a new tab to apprise citizens of the bed availability across different private hospitals in the township. It gives details of capacity, the numbers occupied and the number of ICU and isolation beds that are vacant in each hospital. (With inputs from Satyanarayan Iyer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-activists-question-covid-19-dashboard-efficacy/articleshow/77027009.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||After fresh Covid-19 cases, sanitisation drive carried out at Paltan Bazaar||DEHRADUN: Teams from Doon Municipal Corporation carried out a sanitisation drive at Paltan Bazaar, the main market near Clock Tower, after the district administration ordered closure of the market on Friday, following identification of Covid-19 patients in the market area. The authorities have also banned the entry of four-wheelers and three-wheelers in the market to reduce the crowd in the market. The Doon district administration has issued advisory to people asking them to not visit the market without purpose to reduce the crowd at public places. The sanitization drive will continue to take place on Saturday and Sunday in various parts of the city including the market places. Meanwhile, the Doon district administration has also changed the days for public grievances redressal to Monday, Thursday and Friday between 11 am and 1pm. The appointments fixed for Saturday have also been rescheduled for July 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-fresh-covid-19-cases-sanitisation-drive-carried-out-at-paltan-bazaar/articleshow/77025288.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Gurgaon||At Manesar resort housing rebel Congress MLAs, Haryana cops stop Rajasthan counterparts||GURUGRAM: A team of the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police, which visited a resort in Manesar on Friday to take the statements of dissident Congress MLAs, took more than an hour just to gain entry into the premises as Haryana police claimed they had not been informed about the visit in advance. The rebel MLAs, supporting Rajasthan’s former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, have been camping at the ITC Grand Bharat resort for the past one week. On Thursday, an audio clip had surfaced in which they were purportedly heard talking to BJP leaders about horse-trading of legislators to topple the Gehlot government in Rajasthan. According to sources, the SOG team was in Haryana to collect the MLAs’ voice samples. The four-member Rajasthan team, headed by IPS Vikas Sharma, reached the resort around 6.23pm. When it tried to enter, it was stopped by a security guard posted there. Within a few minutes, an officer of Haryana police reached the gate and requested the Rajasthan cops to stay out of the premises. Soon thereafter, about 50 Haryana cops reached the spot and formed a human chain to prevent the SOG team from entering the resort. The media was kept at a distance. After nearly one hour of intense discussions and multiple phone calls, the SOG team was allowed entry around 7.30pm. It emerged from the venue around 8.15pm and left. Earlier in the day, Rajasthan Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi submitted two complaints to the SOG, on the basis of which two FIRs were registered under IPC sections 124A (sedition) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) against unknown persons. Three people were named in the complaint -- MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma, Union minister Gajender Singh Shekhawat and one Sanjay Jain, who is said to be close to the BJP. The Congress has suspended Sharma and another rebel MLA, Vishvendra Pratap Singh, whose voices are allegedly on the tapes. “The MLAs at the resort are under the protection of the BJP government of Haryana. New audio has surfaced and needs to be investigated. For this, police will have to record the statements of the MLAs,” a Congress leader said, not wishing to be named. Haryana BJP spokesperson Raman Mallik said the Rajasthan police team was stopped because it came without informing local police. “Haryana police, under chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and home minister Anil Vij, follows due process of law and works without any political pressure. On the other hand, Rajasthan police, under chief minister and home minister Ashok Gehlot, is acting like rogue police,” said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/at-manesar-resort-housing-rebel-cong-mlas-haryana-cops-stop-raj-counterparts/articleshow/77027606.cms||Bagish Jha
July 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Vizianagaram heeds lockdown call to a tee||VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of Vizianagaram town and other parts of the district largely cooperated with the lockdown norms on Friday, the first day of the lockdown. The Vizianagaram district administration has imposed a lockdown from July 16 to July 21 is a bid to stem the spread of Covid-19. On the first day, most residents stayed indoors, shops remained closed and there were no incidents of crowding in markets or other places. Despite a hit in business, traders of Vizianagaram town have also supported the lockdown. Most shops in the district were open only between 6am and 11am, as mandated under the lockdown guidelines. Speaking to TOI, Vizianagaram SP (superintendent of police), B Raja Kumari said that the administration has seen tremendous support from traders and residents. She said that very few vehicles were seen on the road and most containment zones have been barricaded, thereby prohibiting movement. “The police kept a strict vigil at all major junctions and roads of the town as well as in residential areas,” SP Raja Kumari said. She further said that teams of policemen made announcements of the first day of the lockdown urging people to wear face masks and maintain social distancing while visiting markets or shops to buy essentials. Police officials said they will register cases against motorists found roaming the streets. “We will allow vehicles to move only for emergency purposes and won’t allow double or triple riding on two-wheelers,” said a police official. The police have fined 350 people for not wearing masks over the last two days. Vizianagaram district collector M Hari Jawaharlal said that the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the district has forced the administration to re-impose a lockdown. The lockdown will be in effect again from August 1-10. The district has reported 1,079 Covid-19 cases so far and 13 people have succumbed to the virus. Traders in Paravathipuram are keeping their shops open from 6am to 9am while in Saluru and Bobbili, shops are open from 7am to 12 noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-heeds-lockdown-call-to-a-tee/articleshow/77025308.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Nurse says boy, then gives girl||AHMEDABAD: The Sola police station on Friday registered a unique application of complaint in which a couple alleged negligence by the staff of Sola Civil Hospital. A nurse had informed the couple that the woman had delivered a baby boy. But just half an hour later, the couple was told that it was a slip of the tongue and that the child was actually a girl. Suspecting foul play, the couple insisted on DNA testing. J V Rathod, the inspector of the Sola police station, confirmed that an application of complaint has been received. “It was a caesarean operation early on Thursday. The family suspects that the baby was switched,” he said. “We are yet to record the statement of the hospital authorities.” Dr Pina Soni, the medical superintendent of the hospital, could not be contacted for comment. But the hospital sources said that the woman had been placed in the Covid isolation ward and there had been no other childbirth over the past couple of days. Thus, there was no question of the child being swapped, they said. “It’s a human error on the part of the nurse. We understand the couple’s emotions and will support the investigation,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nurse-says-boy-then-gives-girl/articleshow/77026443.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker stuck in sludge dies near Gudalur||Udhagamandalam: A young tusker was found dead near Gudalur in the Nilgiris on Friday. The elephant was stuck in sludge on a land falling under Section 17 of Gudalur Janmam Act at Manal Vayal. According to Sumesh Soman, district forest officer, Gudalur division, all its four legs and tusks were buried in the sludge. “When elephants fall down with their chest on the earth, they won’t be able to breath properly. The elephant might have died last night.” It was local residents who spotted the tusker’s carcass first and alerted forest officials. “It seemed to be a young tusker. Only after postmortem, we could ascertain its age. The autopsy would be conducted on Saturday,” the officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tusker-stuck-in-sludge-dies-near-gudalur/articleshow/77027011.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Police nabs man who duped banks of Rs 32 lakh||DEHRADUN: A 36-year-old man was held by Dehradun police on Friday for allegedly duping several bank branches on the pretext of obtaining car loans. The man duped the banks of Rs 32 lakh (cumulative amount) by submitting forged documents to get car loan amount. The police headquarters received a complaint against accused Pradeep Saklani in 2019. The complaint stated that he forged documents to get a loan from the State Bank of India (SBI) branch at GMS Road. Later, during the investigation, it was found out that there was a separate fraud case ongoing against Saklani in Nehru Colony police station. This case was lodged in 2017. Reportedly, Saklani made a fake quotation of the firm along with KYC form, submitted it in the banks, and got six loans sanctioned to the tune of around Rs 32 lakh. He even submitted fake vehicle registration papers in the banks. During investigation, the names of Pradeep Saklani and Kripal Singh emerged in the scam. While Kripal was arrested in February this year, Pradeep was still at large. “After the matter came into my notice, I, on July 7, 2020, directed Dehradun SSP to announce a reward on his arrest and initiate proceedings to attach his properties,” said Ashok Kumar, Director General (law and order). Meanwhile, police headquarters has directed the Dehradun police to take action against Saklani and Singh under the Gangster Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-nabs-man-who-duped-banks-of-rs-32-lakh/articleshow/77025319.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Day after Fort building crash, death toll rises to 10; of 17 rescued, 2 critical||MUMBAI: Four more bodies were pulled out from the debris of the collapsed Bhanushali building on Mint Road in Fort on Friday, taking the death toll to 10. Among the 17 rescued, two are critical. On Thursday, around 4pm, a portion of the nearly century-old ground-plus-five storey Mhada cessed building came crashing down, trapping most residents. Over 100 firemen and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel were involved in the nightlong search-and-rescue operation which continued most of Friday as well. Times ViewThe state government and Mhada will have to come up with a comprehensive policy to avoid such disasters which occur every monsoon. It has been established that merely examining structural stability and pasting demolition notices is not enough if these procedures are ultimately going to result in deaths nevertheless. Something is fundamentally wrong with the state's approach towards residents of dilapidated buildings, and we can only hope the problem is not indifference.Mhada has set up an inquiry into the incident. The deputy chief engineer of A ward is expected to submit a report within 15 days, said Mhada PRO. While five bodies and three people were pulled out on Thursday, four bodies were found on Friday—the last body was found at noon. Of the three rescued on Thursday, Shailesh Kandu (20) died in hospital the next day. Among the 10 deceased were three members of a family-—Padmalal Gupta (50), Jyotsna Gupta (70), Kusum Gupta (45). The other deceased included Manishaben Fareya (65), Kalpesh Fareya (22), Lalit Chaurasiya (35) and Rinku Chaurasiya (25). Two women’s bodies have not been identified yet. Those critical in hospital are Bhalchandra Kambhu (48) and Neha Gupta (45). Mumbai city guardian minister has announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 each to the injured. Shaikh said the residents who have been rendered homeless will be provided alternative accommodation till the building is redeveloped. Earlier this year, Mhada, the landlord and tenants had decided to repair the building, which houses 40 commercial and residential units. Mhada had even given NOC, but the plan was put on hold due to the coronavirus lockdown. On Wednesday, when heavy rain lashed the city, the worried tenants called the landlord and asked him to expedite repairs. On Thursday, around 4pm, the building started shaking, and even as 25-30 residents, including children, rushed out to safety, a portion of the structure collapsed. Officials said before firemen reached the spot, locals managed to rescue two residents. Firefighters and NDRF personnel rescued 13 residents stuck on the upper floors out of the portion that was still standing. Police are recording the statements of the tenants and the landlord. Mhada, with help from the BMC, has vacated the structure. Mhada will study the structure’s stability to decide if it needs to be razed or can be repaired. Rajesh Jain, who owns a shop in Bhanushali building, said: “Redevelopment is the only solution to avoid such incidents. We keep repairing these century-old buildings, but how long will it last? Builders are not keen to redevelop cessed buildings as they don’t get permission to construct additional floors (to recover their profit) due to the heritage structures in the vicinity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-day-after-fort-building-crash-death-toll-rises-to-10-of-17-rescued-2-critical/articleshow/77028446.cms||Clara Lewis
July 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra minister calls to ramp up Covid testing||VISAKHAPATNAM: State tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao on Friday suggested that officials in Visakhapatnam district increase the number of Covid-19 tests to 4,000 a day, up from the current 3,000. Over one lakh tests have been carried out in the district since March. The minister urged exercising caution while holding the last rites of Covid-19 deceaseds. The government, the minister said, is spending Rs 4 crore per day for Covid tests. District collector V Vinay Chand said quarantine centres have been prepared at the mandal level and fever clinics will be set up in containment zones. A second line of hospitals has been readied in the wake of increasing cases. Sanjivani mobile buses will be stationed at Paderu, Narsipatnam, Anakapalli, Payakaraopet and ENT hospitals to carry out tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/minister-calls-to-ramp-up-testing/articleshow/77025335.cms||Siva G
July 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra minister calls to ramp up Covid testing||VISAKHAPATNAM: State tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao on Friday suggested that officials in Visakhapatnam district increase the number of Covid-19 tests to 4,000 a day, up from the current 3,000. Over one lakh tests have been carried out in the district since March. The minister urged exercising caution while holding the last rites of Covid-19 deceaseds. The government, the minister said, is spending Rs 4 crore per day for Covid tests. District collector V Vinay Chand said quarantine centres have been prepared at the mandal level and fever clinics will be set up in containment zones. A second line of hospitals has been readied in the wake of increasing cases. Sanjivani mobile buses will be stationed at Paderu, Narsipatnam, Anakapalli, Payakaraopet and ENT hospitals to carry out tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/minister-calls-to-ramp-up-testing/articleshow/77031502.cms||Siva G
July 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Discom orders probe into ‘easy’ grant of connections to builders||GURUGRAM: A probe has been ordered by the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) into alleged corruption in granting electricity correction to builders and commercial establishments as well as “arbitrary” transfer of some discom employees. The investigation comes in the wake of junior engineers claiming that the executive engineer of Sohna division has been subverting government rules like bank guarantee, minimum required power infrastructure by builders, and declaration of total build-up area in granting of power connection to private builder societies in sectors 58 to 115. According to Haryana State Electricity Board Diploma Engineers’ Association, as many as 10 employees who didn’t comply with the directions to overlook glaring lapses while granting power connection to private builder societies have been transferred on flimsy grounds at the behest of the senior official of Sohna division. “For the past three years, we have been noticing how rules have been subverted, glaring lapses have been overlooked, and documents have been forged to help builders and private entities get power connection without even meeting government’s minimum criteria. In many cases, inadequate bank guarantee was accepted, or the builders were allowed to show half of the build-up area to get connections,” said Amit Moudgil, general secretary of the Association. Sources within the department said that one of the major reasons behind the chasm between the power demand and required infrastructure to support it is “easy” grant of connections to builders and commercial establishments against “kickbacks”. As a result, despite being in power surplus, residents in the city are forced to grapple with prolonged power outages and frequent voltage fluctuations. TOI has learnt that a three-member committee constituted to carry out the probe has given a week’s time to the employees to submit all the relevant evidence to support their allegations. “After their submission, we’ll evaluate their allegations. It will take a few weeks to reach any conclusion. But, the process has begun,” Chand Ram Sharma, a member of the investigating committee, said. When contacted, the executive engineer denied all the allegations. “I have already submitted my explanation and I’m open to investigation. Neither any government rule was subverted in granting power connection, nor any transfer/termination was done arbitrarily. This is just a conspiracy to get me transferred,” he said. TOI had earlier reported a CAG report tabled in the state assembly in December 2019 revealed glaring irregularities in how the department functions, pinning the losses to the state exchequer at Rs 4,000 crore in just one financial year, 2017-18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/probe-into-easy-grant-of-power-connections-to-builders/articleshow/77027607.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ unions to go ahead with protest on tractors against ordinances||Chandigarh: Despite an appeal by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to defer the protest against Centre’s farm ordinances in view of Covid-19, farmers’ unions have decided to go ahead with the plan on July 20 and park hundreds of tractors on highways. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajowal) president Balbir Singh Rajowal said it would be a symbolic three-hour protest and no inconvenience would be caused to commuters. “The chief minister had himself asked us during a meeting on the issue to get together to oppose the ordinances, but now he is asking us to drop the plan. We will also be protesting against the hike in diesel prices and amendments to electricity act,” he said. Tractors of Punjab and Haryana will be on the roads from 10am to 1pm, said Rajewal. “We have given instructions to our members to practise social distancing with only one person on a tractor. They will also wear marks. However, even states with the highest number of coronavirus cases have not issued any prohibitory orders. Governments are taking all sorts of decisions under the garb of Covid, but we are being stopped from even a peaceful protest,” he said. Some other farmers’ unions too will be participating in the protest. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said it had been decided not to defer protests, but precautions would be taken to ensure there was no spread of Covid. On Wednesday, Amarinder had appealed to farmers’ unions to postpone their protests against anti-farmer ordinances of the Centre in view of restrictions. Reacting to reports that several farmers’ unions had decided to go ahead with protests despite curbs on gatherings, Amarinder urged them not to take a confrontationist approach, given that Section 144 of CrPC was in place and all gatherings were barred in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-unions-to-go-ahead-with-protest-on-tractors-against-ordinances/articleshow/77027046.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Pune||Transport bodies hint at 20% increase in freight charges||PUNE: The transportation and freight charges are expected to shoot up by 20% in the next few days with the diesel prices hitting a record high in the state, including the city. Transport associations in the state on Friday stated that the cost of ferrying goods started increasing after the diesel price started going north. Bal Malkit Singh, the chairman of the core committee and former president of All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), told TOI, “Already, freight transport charges have gone up by 15-20%. Another hike of around 20% is expected in the coming days. Add to this the local lockdowns being imposed in various cities, which are further impacting the supply chain logistics.” Singh said the diesel price had been rising from June and had now touched an all-time high of almost Rs80 per litre in some cities in Maharashtra. Pramod Bhavsar, active president, Association of Transporters, Pune, said, “The increase in freight charges is likely to hamper the smooth movement of trucks. Also, several trucks are coming back empty from many places after unloading goods these days because of lockdown there. If a truck comes from Mumbai to Pune to unload items, it has to go back empty from here now. So, the truckers charge contractors a higher price for the trip. The high diesel price and lockdowns are double whammy for the supply chain.” Bhavsar also said there was a severe shortage of drivers for transporters because many of them were from the containment zones, while trucks from other parts of the country and Maharashtra were not ready to come to Pune. “Unless trucks come to Pune with consignments, how do consignments go out from Pune? In such a situation, we have seen a massive rise in diesel price, which will further impact the prices of the end-product,” said Bhavsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-bodies-hint-at-20-increase-in-freight-charges/articleshow/77026439.cms||Neha Madaan
July 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Warje-Karvenagar corona hotspot may shed tag soon||PUNE: The Gosavi Vasti area under the Warje-Karvenagar ward has succeeded in arresting Covid-19 spread, recording less than five cases in the last seven days. The locality had earlier recorded 190 Covid-19 cases, following which the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had initiated rigorous contact tracing and swab collection. In the last three weeks, swabs of over 900 people showing symptoms akin to Covid-19 were collected. Besides, health check-up of over 5,000 residents from the vicinity was also conducted.A ward official said, “There were around 100 positive cases in the area at the beginning of July. Since the entire locality has high population density, we initiated check-ups and surveys to identify senior citizens and co-morbid people. The contact tracing was increased and over 5,000 masks and immunity boosting capsules were distributed in the area. People were told to maintain hygiene and repeated cleanliness drives were conducted. The entire area was sealed and will continue to remain under restrictions for a few more days.”He said besides Gosavi Vasti, the cases from other vulnerable areas like Khilarwadi and Rajput slum pocket have also reduced. The Khilarwadi area has about 90 positive cases but per day detection of new cases has come down. The Rajput slum pocket has not recorded any new case recently. Santosh Warule, ward officer at Warje-Karvenagar, said, “A swab collection centre has been set up at SNDT on Karve Road and rapid antigen tests have been started in some areas. We are going ahead with swab tests in areas like Khilarwadi, while rapid antigen tests are used in Shramik Vasti, Home colony and Vadar Vasti where about 100 cases were detected recently.” The total caseload in Warje-Karvenagar ward stood at 1,665 on July 16, of which 793 are active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/warje-karvenagar-corona-hotspot-may-shed-tag-soon/articleshow/77027055.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 18, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra minister calls to ramp up Covid testing||VISAKHAPATNAM: State tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao on Friday suggested that officials in Visakhapatnam district increase the number of Covid-19 tests to 4,000 a day, up from the current 3,000. Over one lakh tests have been carried out in the district since March. The minister urged exercising caution while holding the last rites of Covid-19 deceaseds. The government, the minister said, is spending Rs 4 crore per day for Covid tests. District collector V Vinay Chand said quarantine centres have been prepared at the mandal level and fever clinics will be set up in containment zones. A second line of hospitals has been readied in the wake of increasing cases. Sanjivani mobile buses will be stationed at Paderu, Narsipatnam, Anakapalli, Payakaraopet and ENT hospitals to carry out tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/minister-calls-to-ramp-up-testing/articleshow/77031501.cms||Siva G
July 18, 2020||Pune||Fergusson’s hostel to serve as isolation unit, more on cards||PUNE: The civic health authorities on Friday started the work for converting Fergusson College’s boys hostel into a 300-bed isolation facility to increase its quarantine capacity for accommodating the rising number of Covid-19 patients. The decision to convert spacious hostels into quarantine facility was taken earlier this week. As per the civic administration’s plan, 300 patients will be kept at the hostel, three wings of which will be used for positive patients. The civic administration will keep one wing reserved for the doctors and staff. “Many basic requirements are already complete. Some beds and other things will have to be procured for the centres. The PMC will complete these preparations within a week’s time. The facility will be available by next week,” a senior PMC official said. He said the PMC was also trying to seek help from NGOs and Ganesh Mandals for building infrastructure at the centre. Representatives of mandals have already seen the place and principally approved to provide help. Earlier, Rajendra Muthe, head of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s land and estate department, had said, “These hostels will work as Covid Care Centres (CCC) and would be used for isolating positive cases. These centres would not have swab collection or testing facilities,” On an average, 800 to 900 people are testing positive every day in the PMC areas. Given the surge in the numbers, more beds are needed to meet the accommodation needs of the patients. The civic body is also considering a proposal that allows hotels near hospitals to house people who are asymptomatic, if the hospitals are willing to provide the medical support to these patients in hotel rooms. Officials said the patients will have to pay the room charges at these hotels, which have also been allowed to provide medical facilities along with doctors. The PMC has decided to convert existing beds in the Covid Care Centres into oxygen beds. Each of six centres will have 100 such beds. Some beds in hostels will too will be converted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fergussons-hostel-to-serve-as-isolation-unit-more-on-cards/articleshow/77027037.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Anna Nagar has most Covid-19 cases detected in fever camps||CHENNAI: One in every five Covid-19 cases identified through fever camps in the city is from Anna Nagar zone, official data released by Greater Chennai Corporation shows. Anna Nagar (zone 8) has the maximum number of Covid-19 patients identified by screening people at fever camps since May 8. In fact, the number of such cases detected at Anna Nagar is double that of cases found in hotspot zones in North Chennai such as Tondiarpet and Royapuram. From May 8 to July 15, 12,894 Covid-19 cases were detected from fever camps in the city. Of them, 2497 were from Anna Nagar, while 1,386 were from Tondiarpet and 1,270 from Royapuram. Data shows 45.5% of people who showed Influenza like Illness (ILI) symptoms in Anna Nagar zone tested positive for Covid-19, which is the highest of the city’s 15 zones. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) decision makers seem to be well aware of the trend since Anna Nagar had the second highest number of fever camps (1,938), after Royapuram (1,982). A ground level civic body official told TOI that this trend was due to the large number of central government employees living in Anna Nagar, who continue to go to work. “Many are testing positive,” he said. Among others testing positive are workers employed in Ambattur and nearby industrial estate. “They live in localities that fall under Anna Nagar zone, get infected at work,” the official said. Camps in Anna Nagar see an average of 50 visitors, lower than ones in neighbouring Ambattur (63) and Teynampet (67). A senior IAS official said Anna Nagar was one of the focus points in the central region. “It is good that we are able to catch many cases. Our contact tracing is also good,” he said. A member of the special officer team posted to the zone told TOI that they were testing even extended contacts, vegetable vendors among others to isolate them early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-nagar-has-most-covid-cases-detected-in-fever-camps/articleshow/77026417.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Test results not needed to hand over bodies of suspected Covid-19 cases||BENGALURU: Drawing flak over procedural delays with regard to releasing bodies of Covid positive and Covid suspect persons, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Friday revised death-related protocols. According to new guidelines, bodies of Covid suspects who die in hospitals or at their homes should be immediately released to their families for cremation or burial without waiting for swab test results. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar issued this directive to all heath officers and cluster heads of private hospitals. This folows a spike in number of Covid deaths in the city and complaints regarding delay in releasing of bodies. As on Friday, the Covid toll in Bengaluru was 582. Prior to the revision, hospitals forced families of suspected Covid patients to wait for almost two days for test results before handing over bodies. There was more confusion if a person with Covid symptoms died at home as crematorium of burial ground personnel insisted on a medical certificate from family members of the deceased before proceeding with the last rites. According to the revised protocol, if a Covid positive person dies, the hospital treating him or her will issue the cause of death certificate mentioning the positive status and existing comorbidities. If a suspected Covid patient dies in hospital, it will issue a provisional death certificate and collect the throat swab. Bodies should be given to relatives with instruction to transfer to burial ground or crematorium immediately without waiting for test results. If a person dies at home, photographs of the deceased should be taken by the BBMP medical officer to confirm that there are no injuries. Family members will, subsequently, be treated as primary contacts if test results come positive and will be subjected to quarantine. The protocol mandates all hospitals to mintain a register of Covid-related deaths occuring at hospital or home. The details should include name, age, testing number, contact numbers and an Aadhaar copy along with date and time of death. These will be used for death audits later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/test-results-not-needed-to-hand-over-bodies-of-suspected-cases/articleshow/77026462.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Landslides block Gangotri and Yamunotri highways for hours||UTTARKASHI: Nearly half-a-dozen roads, including the Yamunotri and Gangotri National Highways, remained blocked for several hours due to landslides triggered by heavy rainfall in Uttarkashi district late on Thursday night. According to TOI sources, the Yamunotri highway was blocked after heavy landslides at Ojari-Dabarkot, Paligad, and Kuthnor areas. Similarly, landslides at Thirang region blocked traffic movement at Gangotri highway. Traffic movements at several other stretches, including Dharasu Jogat, Jaspur, Bhukki Kujjan, and Sarnol motor road, also got disrupted due to landslides. However, all the roads were restored for traffic movement by Friday evening. Meanwhile, a truck of the Border Road Organization (BRO) fell into a deep gorge after being hit due to landslide near Hawa Band region of Nelang Valley on Friday morning. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer of Uttarkashi, said, “An unidentified person, who was driving the vehicle, has gone missing. Forces of BRO and SDRF have started operations to search and rescue the missing driver.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslides-block-gangotri-and-yamunotri-highways-for-hours/articleshow/77025339.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Rushing to file cases under UAPA, Punjab Police fail to make charges stick in court||PATITLA/JALANDHAR: Even as Punjab Police has registered multiple cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in recent days, it has a bad track record of proving the serious charges in court. While opposition leaders attack the Congress government, claiming misuse of the law, the data shows that police under different regimes could not support their theories leading to around 50% of all the cases registered in Punjab under the stringent law falling flat in courts. Of the 94 UAPA cases registered in Punjab till date, 47 were filed during the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP government between 2009 and 2016, of which courts acquitted the accused in as many as 41 cases. The remaining 47 were registered under the Captain Amarinder Singh government from 2017 till now. Of these accused were let off by courts in six cases, while remaining cases are still pending in court. First case under UAPA was registered under alleged Naxalite activists Jai Parkash Dubey of Jharkhand, along with two Punjabi men Harbans Singh and Manvir Singh, at Phillaur in Jalandhar on January 5, 2009. All three accused were later discharged. Lawyer Jaspal Singh Manjhpur was also among the first in Punjab to be booked under the UAPA on August 27, 2009. He remained in jail for around a 1.5 years and was later acquitted. “Use of UAPA in Punjab started after amendments added stringent provisions in 2008. Later, mainly Sikh activists were booked,” said Manjhpur, who has compiled data on such cases. He claimed the police were using a standard template to register FIRs, in which only the names were changed. “In the most recent cases no crime has been executed. FIRs only mention intent of committing the crime,” he added. According to Manjhpur, total 370 persons have been booked under UAPA in 94 cases, while some faced multiple cases. Another lawyer Brijendra Sodhi said these cases are generally based on tip offs, who is mentioned as ‘mukhbir khaas’ in the FIRs. These unknown persons were never identified in court, he added. AAP rebel and former leader of the opposition in Punjab assembly, Sukhpal Khaira, who has been visiting houses of some of those booked under the law recently, has accused the state government of “using a draconian law to spread fear among people”. “There is big dichotomy in what the Congress says in rest of the country and what it does in Punjab. Former Union ministers and advocates P Chidambram and Kapil Sibal strongly opposed the latest amendments in 2019, but in Punjab the law is being blatantly misused,” he alleged. Call and message sent on DGP Dinkar Gupta’s mobile to ask about the reason of low conviction rate in UAPA cases went unanswered. Bureau of investigation director ADGP Arpit Shukla said, “I have joined recently and since these are special cases, I can only comment after checking records.” Shukla was transferred to the present post on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rushing-to-file-cases-under-uapa-police-fail-to-make-charges-stick-in-court/articleshow/77031829.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Rushing to file cases under UAPA, Punjab Police fail to make charges stick in court||PATITLA/JALANDHAR: Even as Punjab Police has registered multiple cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in recent days, it has a bad track record of proving the serious charges in court. While opposition leaders attack the Congress government, claiming misuse of the law, the data shows that police under different regimes could not support their theories leading to around 50% of all the cases registered in Punjab under the stringent law falling flat in courts. Of the 94 UAPA cases registered in Punjab till date, 47 were filed during the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP government between 2009 and 2016, of which courts acquitted the accused in as many as 41 cases. The remaining 47 were registered under the Captain Amarinder Singh government from 2017 till now. Of these accused were let off by courts in six cases, while remaining cases are still pending in court. First case under UAPA was registered under alleged Naxalite activists Jai Parkash Dubey of Jharkhand, along with two Punjabi men Harbans Singh and Manvir Singh, at Phillaur in Jalandhar on January 5, 2009. All three accused were later discharged. Lawyer Jaspal Singh Manjhpur was also among the first in Punjab to be booked under the UAPA on August 27, 2009. He remained in jail for around a 1.5 years and was later acquitted. “Use of UAPA in Punjab started after amendments added stringent provisions in 2008. Later, mainly Sikh activists were booked,” said Manjhpur, who has compiled data on such cases. He claimed the police were using a standard template to register FIRs, in which only the names were changed. “In the most recent cases no crime has been executed. FIRs only mention intent of committing the crime,” he added. According to Manjhpur, total 370 persons have been booked under UAPA in 94 cases, while some faced multiple cases. Another lawyer Brijendra Sodhi said these cases are generally based on tip offs, who is mentioned as ‘mukhbir khaas’ in the FIRs. These unknown persons were never identified in court, he added. AAP rebel and former leader of the opposition in Punjab assembly, Sukhpal Khaira, who has been visiting houses of some of those booked under the law recently, has accused the state government of “using a draconian law to spread fear among people”. “There is big dichotomy in what the Congress says in rest of the country and what it does in Punjab. Former Union ministers and advocates P Chidambram and Kapil Sibal strongly opposed the latest amendments in 2019, but in Punjab the law is being blatantly misused,” he alleged. Call and message sent on DGP Dinkar Gupta’s mobile to ask about the reason of low conviction rate in UAPA cases went unanswered. Bureau of investigation director ADGP Arpit Shukla said, “I have joined recently and since these are special cases, I can only comment after checking records.” Shukla was transferred to the present post on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rushing-to-file-cases-under-uapa-police-fail-to-make-charges-stick-in-court/articleshow/77027064.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP, Cong leaders assemble, cops book unidentified persons||Jalandhar: Even as prominent BJP and Congress leaders were present when they sparred here amid prohibitory orders late on Thursday evening over the storage and distribution of ration meant for the poor, the police chose to register a case against “unidentified persons”. BJP leaders stopped a vehicle carrying packets of ration, which had been sent by the Union government to the state for distribution among the poor during the lockdown, alleging that the Congress leaders are misappropriating it. Later, officials from the food and civil supplies department also reached the spot and said they are taking help of elected representatives to ensure that it reaches the needy. Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia reached the site after local leaders stopped the vehicle. Later Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri also reached there with other Congress workers. Dozens of people had gathered there in violation of the prohibitory orders. Even on July 7, the police had booked unidentified persons when Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders held protests at different places in the city against hike in petrol and diesel prices, though prominent leaders had participated in the protests. BOX SAD alleges ‘misappropriation’ of ration SAD has demanded immediate action against Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri for “misappropriating” ration sent by the central government. Party MLA Pawan Teenu, its Jalandhar unit president Kulwant Singh Manan and Baljit Singh Neelamahal have submitted a memorandum to the Jalandhar deputy commissioner demanding action against Congressmen and sought exemplary punishment for all officials who had allowed them to “misappropriate” food grains and pulses received from the Centre for distribution to the poor and needy. Teenu said no criteria has been fixed for the distribution of the central ration to 1.44 crore, people which is more than half the population of the state. He said the food and civil supplies department as well as the district administration simply allowed the Congressmen to hijack the scheme and take over the food stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-cong-leaders-assemble-cops-book-unidentified-persons/articleshow/77027062.cms||IP Singh
July 18, 2020||Hyderabad||In a first, Telangana plans midday meal for Intermediate and degree students||HYDERABAD: Perhaps in a first in the country, Telangana will be serving midday meals to its degree and Intermediate students from this new academic year, which is likely to begin in September, after months of uncertainty over the pandemic. So far, the midday meal (MDM) scheme had been available only for high school students in the state. A decision to this effect was taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday, presumably which senior officials said was to arrest the dropout rate of students from government colleges. Though there is no authentic data on the dropout rate, officials estimated that dropout and students lacking sufficient attendance combined could be around 40%. Sources said the Telangana government had been mulling over the proposal for the last couple of years and constituted a sub-committee to look into the issue. The committee favoured introducing MDM in government colleges along with schools. According to senior officials, the scheme will benefit nearly three lakh students studying in junior and degree colleges across the state. While 1.75 lakh students are studying in 404 government junior colleges, another 1.16 lakhs are students in 125 degree colleges. “Students from the BPL category join the government colleges and stay in hostels and rented rooms, far away from colleges. We have seen students leaving the college after attending morning session (10 am to 1 pm) and not turning up for the afternoon classes,” K Surender Reddy, general secretary of Telangana Government Colleges Gazetted Teachers’ Association told TOI. At a review meeting, the CM raised concern over the students heading home during lunchtime and not returning for the afternoon session. This, in turn, was increasing the dropout rate in government colleges, he surmised. Telangana Government Junior Colleges Principals’ Association president K Sri Rama Rao said,“About 20% of them enrol as students and do not attend the classes as they work as part-time workers in catering, hotel industry and other fields to support their families. Some do not have inclination to attend afternoon classes. Friday’s decision will help such students, especially girls, who constitute about 60% of dropouts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-first-t-plans-midday-meal-for-inter-and-degree-students/articleshow/77027081.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 18, 2020||Pune||Pune cantonment board to start e-services from August 1||PUNE: From August 1, Pune cantonment residents would be able to pay taxes and renew their trade licences online. The Director General Defence Estates (DGDE) has selected Pune, among five of the 62 cantonments in the country, for an e-governance project titled’E Chavani’, which would get underway from August 1. The other cantonments are in Delhi, Lucknow, Agra and Secunderabad. The idea is to reduce human interface. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “Our in-house trial is on to test the system’s efficacy and address possible issues.” Each employee would have a unique login ID and password. They would be able to log in to the system and view each application submitted by citizens. Currently, cantonment citizens have to visit the board offices to renew their trade licences, pay taxes, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-start-e-services-from-aug-1/articleshow/77026451.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Dehradun||Bhim Army stir for thrashing two foreign students||ROORKEE: Around 100 Bhim Army members led by its state president Mahak Singh held an agitation in Bhagwanpur near Roorkee on Friday demanding the immediate arrest of the chairman of a private engineering college where college staff and its securitymen had allegedly thrashed two African students for complaining of poor hostel meals on Wednesday. Police, who arrested eight people, including director and registrar of the college on Thursday, tried to disperse the members and deployed additional force. "It was the institute's chairman who had given a free hand to their staff to mistreat some students for their monetary and other vested interests," alleged Singh. Two African students - Mohamed Ibrahim Kalidulah, 27, and Benjamin Djartey, 22 - were thrashed by college staff after they had complained of poor quality meals served at their hostel canteen. The two students are still undergoing treatment in Bhagwanpur. "Thrashing two foreign students is a condemnable act. We have sent eight people to jail and will arrest others after going through the evidence," said Ashok Kumar, director general, Uttarakhand's law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bhim-army-stir-for-thrashing-two-foreign-students/articleshow/77025363.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 18, 2020||Bareilly||After Maharashtra, Iranian movie faces protests in UP, cleric writes to PM against its release||BAREILLY: Days before its worldwide launch on streaming sites, a 2015 Iranian movie on the life of Prophet Mohammad has riled several clerics who are now demanding a ban on its release in the country. After protests in Maharashtra-- which prompted state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh to write to the Centre demanding a halt on its release-- clerics in UP are up in arms now. It is not for the first time that the movie, ‘Muhammad: the messenger of God’, has attracted ire of the clerics. In 2017, when it was released in Iran theatres, a fatwa was issued in Maharashtra against Majidi and AR Rahman, who composed the music for it. Nominated for the Academy Awards for his film 'Children of Heaven', Majidi is also known for his classics like 'Colour of Paradise', 'Baran' and 'The Song of Sparrows'. But his most ambitious project and Iranian cinema’s biggest budget movie has pitted him against clerics worldwide, who are against depiction of any Islamic figure in any form, although the Prophet’s face is not depicted in the movie and he is only seen from the behind in a few shots. In UP, several Sunni clerics have demanded a halt on its release on digital platforms on July 21. Prominent Sunni Barelvi cleric Maulana Tauqeer Raza Khan, who is also national president of Ittehad-e-Millat Council (IMC), has sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union ministry of electronics and information technology seeking a ban on the film as well on its trailer on YouTube. Khan said, “The movie hurts our religious sentiments and Muslims in the entire country are opposed to it. It could affect peace.” An IMC delegation also gave a memorandum to Bareilly’s district magistrate Nitish Kumar on Friday. Maulana Shahbudin Razvi, national general secretary of All India Tanzeem Ulama-e-Islam, said, “We will not let the movie run in the country. If need arises, we will take the legal route to stop its release.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-maharashtra-iranian-movie-faces-protests-in-up-cleric-writes-to-pm-against-its-release/articleshow/77025367.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 18, 2020||Bareilly||Seven robbers caught after encounter in Bareilly, three including, constable, injured||BAREILLY: A combined team of Bareilly police and the crime branch arrested seven members of a robbery gang in Fatehganj area and claimed to have busted its operations in the district. The robbers were arrested on Thursday night during an encounter, in which a police constable and two thieves sustained bullet injuries. All three of them are admitted at the district hospital. According to the police, on July 4, the gang striked the house of a businessman and decamped with cash and valuables worth Rs 10 lakh. Police have managed to recover Rs 46,000 cash and other articles worth Rs 7 lakh from them. The accused were identified as Shabbir Pathan, Rupesh Pandey, Pushpraj alias Gabbar, Maqsood Ahmad, Azeem Ahmad, Suraj Dikshit and Gautam Shukla. All the accused are history-sheeters and have multiple cases of robbery and Arms Act registered against them. “This gang had robbed a family at gunpoint on July four and we had deployed a crime branch team along with local police to resolve this case. On Thursday, police received a tip-off that two suspects, who were identified through the CCTV footage of the robbery, were sighted in Fatehganj West. Immediately, police teams conducted raids and nabbed both of them. During questioning, suspects accepted to have committed the act with the help of five other people. After gathering information about the other members of the gang, police conducted a raid and managed to arrest five other accused as well. Police have also recovered the SUV used by the robbers along with the stolen jewellery which they had buried in the courtyard of a house,” SSP Bareilly Shailesh Pandey said. “The crime branch team was camping in the area after the theft was reported while additional SP (rural) Sansaar Singh was giving directions to the police team which helped in resolving the case,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-robbers-caught-after-encounter-in-bareilly-three-including-constable-injured/articleshow/77025360.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 18, 2020||Pune||MoU with DY Patil college pending||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation is yet to renew a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with DY Patil Medical College in Sant Tukaramnagar for the treatment of non-Covid-19 cases. The hospital, for its part, said it will not deny treatment or admission to any patient coming from the PCMC-run Yashvantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital. Per the MoU that expired in June, all non-Covid-19 coming to YCMH were to be directed to DY Patil, as the 750-bed hospital was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility. About 250 of the 2,000 beds at DY Patil hospital were reserved for these patients. DY Patil hospital said the financial nitty-gritties of the new MoU were being worked out. “PCMC wants us to take Covid-19 patients too, so we must work out things like availability of PPE kits and other equipment,” said Somnath Patil, secretary, D Y Patil Vidyapeeth Society. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said “signing of the MoU is in the final stage”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mou-with-dy-patil-college-pending/articleshow/77027071.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 18, 2020||Amritsar||Rushing to file cases under UAPA, Punjab Police fail to make charges stick in court||PATITLA/JALANDHAR: Even as Punjab Police has registered multiple cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in recent days, it has a bad track record of proving the serious charges in court. While opposition leaders attack the Congress government, claiming misuse of the law, the data shows that police under different regimes could not support their theories leading to around 50% of all the cases registered in Punjab under the stringent law falling flat in courts. Of the 94 UAPA cases registered in Punjab till date, 47 were filed during the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP government between 2009 and 2016, of which courts acquitted the accused in as many as 41 cases. The remaining 47 were registered under the Captain Amarinder Singh government from 2017 till now. Of these accused were let off by courts in six cases, while remaining cases are still pending in court. First case under UAPA was registered under alleged Naxalite activists Jai Parkash Dubey of Jharkhand, along with two Punjabi men Harbans Singh and Manvir Singh, at Phillaur in Jalandhar on January 5, 2009. All three accused were later discharged. Lawyer Jaspal Singh Manjhpur was also among the first in Punjab to be booked under the UAPA on August 27, 2009. He remained in jail for around a 1.5 years and was later acquitted. “Use of UAPA in Punjab started after amendments added stringent provisions in 2008. Later, mainly Sikh activists were booked,” said Manjhpur, who has compiled data on such cases. He claimed the police were using a standard template to register FIRs, in which only the names were changed. “In the most recent cases no crime has been executed. FIRs only mention intent of committing the crime,” he added. According to Manjhpur, total 370 persons have been booked under UAPA in 94 cases, while some faced multiple cases. Another lawyer Brijendra Sodhi said these cases are generally based on tip offs, who is mentioned as ‘mukhbir khaas’ in the FIRs. These unknown persons were never identified in court, he added. AAP rebel and former leader of the opposition in Punjab assembly, Sukhpal Khaira, who has been visiting houses of some of those booked under the law recently, has accused the state government of “using a draconian law to spread fear among people”. “There is big dichotomy in what the Congress says in rest of the country and what it does in Punjab. Former Union ministers and advocates P Chidambram and Kapil Sibal strongly opposed the latest amendments in 2019, but in Punjab the law is being blatantly misused,” he alleged. Call and message sent on DGP Dinkar Gupta’s mobile to ask about the reason of low conviction rate in UAPA cases went unanswered. Bureau of investigation director ADGP Arpit Shukla said, “I have joined recently and since these are special cases, I can only comment after checking records.” Shukla was transferred to the present post on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/rushing-to-file-cases-under-uapa-police-fail-to-make-charges-stick-in-court/articleshow/77031831.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mysuru||Covid patient with co-morbidities succumbs in Hassan||Hassan : A 50-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 in Hassan on Friday, taking the total fatalities in the district to 25. In all, 21 fresh cases were reported on Friday, taking the total count to 792. There are 238 active cases in the district, of whom 13 patients are in the ICU. A 50-year-old man who was undergoing dialysis regularly due to chronic kidney disease was admitted on July 6 to the Covid hospital, after he developed fever. He tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. After ten days, he was put on ventilator. He died around 8am on Friday, said district surgeon Krishnamurty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-patient-with-co-morbidities-succumbs-in-hassan/articleshow/77025366.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Multani case: Now, plea for shifting case against former inspectors||Mohali: Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of a man who went missing after being taken into Chandigarh Police’s custody in 1991, has sought that the case against co-accused police officers Jagir Singh and Anokh Singh be shifted out of the court of additional sessions judge Monika Goyal. The state has also filed an application seeking cancellation of anticipatory bail of both co-accused. The case will be heard in the court of district and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai on July 21. Appearing for state, special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula, supported by public prosecutor Sanjiv Batra, filed the application for cancellation of bail and complainant counsel Pardeep Virk filed the application for transfer of case. Punjab former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini is also an accused in the disappearance case of Balwant Singh Multani, who was accused of attempting assassinate Saini before he went missing. Narula informed the court that earlier too, the case hearing against Saini was shifted from the Goyal’s court to that of Garg, after which the latter’s court on July 10 dismissed the interim bail granted to Saini, attained in anticipation of adding section 302 of the IPC to previous FIR, terming it as being pre-mature, Narula sought cancellation of bails on similar terms. Narula, in the previous hearing, had argued that ADJ Goyal’s court has ignored facts and gravity of the offence while discussing the merits of the case and the interim bail had been granted in a blanket manner. An FIR was registered afresh against former DGP Saini at Mataur police station, accusing him and 11 other UT police cops, including then inspectors Jagir Singh and Anokh Singh, of abduction of Balwant. On a complaint by Palwinder, the FIR was registered under sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of IPC at Mataur police station on May 6, after which the DGP moved court for bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/multani-case-now-plea-for-shifting-case-against-former-inspectors/articleshow/77027077.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man’s body found in canal||Ahmedabad: A 28-year-old man’s body was found in the Kharicut canal on Friday evening near Avkaar Hall. Isanpur police have registered a case of accidental death. The deceased has been identified as Dinesh Bharwad. His neighbours in CTM said that he had been missing since Thursday evening. “His relatives said he had divorced his wife about five years ago. He had an 8-year-old daughter from the marriage,” said a local social worker, Jayesh Mundhva. “He had been depressed, his relatives say.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mans-body-found-in-canal/articleshow/77026464.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu sees 79 more Covid deaths, highest in a day||CHENNAI: Minutes after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami compared mortality rate in TN with other states, the state reported the highest number of deaths in one day. The state logged 79 fatalities, and the death toll reached 2,315. A majority of the deaths reported in the last 24 hours were in the hotspot Chennai and its adjoining areas. While Chennai reported 36 deaths, 14 died in its neighbouring districts. In the southern region, where cases have been steadily increasing, there were 11 deaths, including four each in Madurai and Ramanathapuram. The western region recorded five deaths. One patient who died had no comorbidities, another, a 75 year-old-man, was declared brought dead to a private medical college hospital in Kancheepuram. A 42-year-old woman from Madurai admitted in a private hospital on July 11 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing died on Wednesday. These deaths took the case fatality rate to 1.4%. The state added 4,538 fresh cases on Friday. While Chennai continued to remain the most affected region with 1,243 cases, its adjoining districts, Chengalpet (125) Kancheepuram (110) and Tiruvallur (220) logged 455 cases. Among other northern districts, Vellore reported 183 cases and Villupuram registered 113. Cases in the south continued to mount as the 10 districts together recorded 1,484 fresh cases pushing their tally to 26,341. Madurai (263) continued to be the district adding the most number of cases, followed by Virudhunagar (196), Tuticorin (189), Theni (175), Dindigul (163), Kanyakumari (151) and Tirunelveli (119). Kanyakumari (2,041) became the seventh district in the region to cross 2,000 total cases. There were 13,168 active cases in the region. While districts in the west reported 388 cases, the central region had 340 cases. Coimbatore (141) and Thanjavur (117) topped the west and central regions. At the end of the day, 3,391 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours, leaving 47,782 active cases across .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-sees-79-more-covid-deaths-highest-in-a-day/articleshow/77026441.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Gurgaon||DTCP removes squatters from green belt in 2-day drive||GURUGRAM: The enforcement team of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has cleared a green belt of encroachment on Golf Course Road (Extension). It has also removed squatters from Vatika Chowk. District town planner RS Batth said during the two-day drive, held on Thursday and Friday, around 5km of green belt had been freed from encroachers, who had set up automobile repair shops, junk yards, eateries, nurseries and structures illegally along the road. He said GMDA will soon take possession of the green belt and fence the area in order to prevent encroachment in future. “We wll also keep a vigil to ensure that encroachers don’t return,” Batth added. Many condominiums and residential projects are located along the road, which is part of the Southern Peripheral Road. Residents of these projects have been demanding action against the encroachment for some time now. Vipin Kumar, a resident, said encroachment and roadside vendors had increased in the area in the last six months. “We’ve informed MCG and HSVP several times, but no action was taken. Not only this, some streetlights are not functional and these encroachments pose a security risk to residents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dtcp-removes-squatters-from-green-belt-in-2-day-drive/articleshow/77027608.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Meerut||Video of elderly man fishing out fruits from drain in Hapur goes viral||MEERUT: A video of an elderly fruit seller and his son taking out fruits from a sewer in UP’s Hapur district while accusing police of overturning their cart was shared widely on social media on Friday, inviting widespread criticism from netizens. In a second video, shared later in the day by police, the cart owners are heard taking back their statement. Hapur police had also dismissed the allegations. “The cart toppled after the owner heard a police siren during an anti-encroachment drive and tried to hurriedly make his way through a narrow stretch,” Sarvesh Mishra, additional superintendent of police (Hapur) said. The incident happened on Thursday evening when an anti-encroachment drive began in a Covid-19 hotspot in Kotwali city area in the district where Rohtas Singh was selling fruits along with his son Ashok Kumar. “A van from Kotwali arrived and police began lathi-charge and toppled our cart. We have suffered losses of up to Rs 6,000,” Kumar had told the media. But later, in another video, this time released by police, Kumar is heard taking back the allegations and admitting that the cart toppled because he was “in a rush”. A local NGO has provided financial aid of Rs 2,500 to the family to compensate for their loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/video-of-fruit-seller-fishing-out-fruits-from-drain-goes-viral-accuses-cops-of-toppling-cart-but-takes-back-statement/articleshow/77025347.cms||Piyush Rai
July 18, 2020||Jamshedpur||Golgappa vendor tests Covid +ve, foodies panic in Adityapur||JAMSHEDPUR: The district officials in Seraikela-Kharsawan and East Singhbhum have launched a massive contact tracing mission after a phuchka seller, with no travel history, tested positive for Covid-19 in Adityapur area on Thursday. Dr Jujhar Manjhi, who is heading the contact tracing team, said the 35-year-old phuchka seller has been admitted to Tata Main Hospital. Meanwhile, in the wake of street vendors violating lockdown norms and opening their shops in and around Steel City, the district authorities in East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan have launched a crackdown on the violators. Several police teams in PCR vans are maintaining a strict vigil on the vendors and strict orders have been passed to ensure that only take-away is being allowed from the food carts and stalls. However, dosa seller CD Rajan said, “My business has been badly hit as most of customers are refusing to order takeaways. If this continues, I will be forced to close my shop.” Peri, a samosa and chat-seller in Sonari, had to down shutters since the administration has barred customers from crowding near his stall. Meanwhile, the new East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar, met the district officials soon after he took charge and has instructed them to plug all loopholes which may lead to the spread of the virus. As on Friday morning, East Singhbhum had 408 active cases and reported six deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/golgappa-vendor-tests-ve-foodies-panic-in-adityapur/articleshow/77026791.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||Fill online form before entering Jharkhand: Govt||RANCHI: Everybody entering Jharkhand — by rail, road and air — will have to provide their personal details to the state government before embarking on their journeys so that they can be monitored for possible Covid-19 infection. On Friday evening, the state department of home, jail and disaster management issued fresh standard operating procedures to the deputy commissioners and police personnel for compliance. “Those found guilty will be booked under relevant sections (51-60) of the Disaster Management Act of 2005,” the order read. . The order, undersigned by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, said in-bound travellers will have to fill in their personal details on www.Jharkhandtravel.nic.in preferably before they depart for Jharkhand or within a day of theior arrival. At present, a little over 3,000 people are reaching Jharkhand each day by road through the 32 inter-state checkpoints, sources in the state transport department said. The travellers will have to be in a mandatory home quarantine for 14 days irrespective of their mode of travel. Respective district administrations have been authorised to transport a traveller into institutional quarantine if conditions at the person’s house is not suitable for home isolation. The order exempts drivers and helpers of commercial vehicles, cargo movers, airline, railway personnel and those crossing the state’s borders in inter-state movement from sharing their details. It mandates the railways and airliners to share the passenger details of their in-bound carriers. Meanwhile, the state department of health and medical education issued new protocols for contact tracing, isolation and creation of containment zones. As per the new directives, 80% of all the primary contacts of a positive patient will have to be identified within 72 hours. High risk contacts (those who live in the same household, touched body fluids of the positive patient, had physical contact without PPE and co-passengers in close proximity) will have to be institutionally quarantined if symptomatic. Underscoring the need for discouraging home quarantine, the directive mandates home quarantine only if a household can manage a round-the-clock caregiver. Isolation at home will be allowed if the household has a reasonably ventilated room and provisions to stay away from the elderly, pregnant women, children and persons with comorbidities. Availability of communication facilities for the patient, digital thermometers and oximeter and basic medicines are also prerequisites for home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fill-online-form-before-entering-jharkhand-govt/articleshow/77026834.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||Infection scare strikes at Jharkhand’s largest testing lab||RANCHI: Sample collection and testing for Covid-19 got suspended at the state’s largest lab in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Friday after one of the lab technicians with the institute’s microbiology department tested positive late on Thursday night. Talking to TOI, the head of the microbiology department at Rims, Dr Manoj Kumar, said: “One of our staff members has tested positive. We will, however, carry out a confirmatory test on Friday. As a precautionary measure, we have collected samples of more than four dozen staff working in the microbiology department.” Earlier in the day, the microbiology department had refused to acknowledge that one of its members tested positive. But instructions were sent out to stop collection of Covid-19 samples at the state-run hospital. The lab authorities had also conveyed to the health department to not send samples to Rims on Friday on account of the alleged infection among its staff. “Around 400 samples collected in Chatra and Ramgarh were put on hold after Rims authorities expressed their inability to run the tests,” said an IDSP official. Meanwhile, only 15 samples were collected from people visiting Rims in the first hour on Friday. “Fifty-one samples were collected from people associated with the microbiology department — including professors, tutors, junior doctors, trainees, lab technicians and other support staff,” said a Rims employee who gave his sample for tests. Notably, the microbiology lab of Rims was shut for three days in May, after one of the lab technicians tested positive for Covid-19. The lab was then closed on the instructions of the ICMR to conduct sanitization work. The lab technician whose samples tested positive on Thursday was put in home isolation. “He had tested his own samples. After he found his viral load to be dominant, he decided to stay at home and didn’t turn up for work on Friday morning,” said one of technicians at the Rims lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/infection-scare-strikes-at-jharkhands-largest-testing-lab/articleshow/77026820.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM gets threat mail, case registered with cyber cell||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren’s security has been tightened after he received a threat mail. The authorities have also registered a case with the Cyber police station in this connection and started investigation. Police, however, divulged little information regarding the case saying it was under investigation. DGP M V Rao said, “We would give information when we arrive at a definite conclusion.” Jharkhand police spokesperson Suman Gupta said that a team from the Cyber police station is investigating the case. Sources said that police are trying to locate the sender through the IP address of the mail. The email states, “Sudhar jao nahi to jaan se maar denge (Mend your ways or I will kill you)”. The sender has also threatened close associates and relatives of Soren. The mail was sent on July 8, while the FIR in this connection was registered on July 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-gets-threat-mail-case-registered-with-cyber-cell/articleshow/77027683.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 18, 2020||Jamshedpur||‘Suicide cases in Steel City, Adityapur highest during lockdown’||JAMSHEDPUR: Jamshedpur and its ancillary town Adityapur have witnessed 123 suicides in the past six-and-half months with May, June and July seeing an abrupt jump in the number of cases during the lockdown and unlock phases, according to statistics provided by Jeevan, a city-based suicide prevention centre. Out of the total deaths reported so far, an overwhelming number of suicides have been committed by those who lost their jobs, faced financial problems and had marital disputes. “The daily wage labourers and the street vendors are suffering the most because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. With no job and no money, they are under immense financial strain which is leading to depression and ultimately, suicide” Jeevan director Mahavir Ram said. Sharing figures of suicide cases in the past six-and-half-months, the director said out of the 123 deaths so far, 63 were reported in the past 75 days (between May 1 and July 15) while the rest took place between January and April. As many as 25 people, under the age of 45, have killed themselves owing to restrictions borne out of Covid-19, the director added. “Those below the age of 45 usually keep themselves engaged by playing a sport, being part of social gatherings, going out for a movie, etc. But with the current restrictions in place because of the lockdown, such people suffered a lot which ultimately led to depression,” Ram said. He further said of the 54 people (above the age of 45), who killed themselves in May, June and July (till 15), 35 were males while the rest were females. During the lockdown, Jeevan is running a counselling centre for the depressed and it tries to help them and prevent taking any extreme step. Initially, the counselling centre received three calls a day but now, the number has gone up to 20. “Since our centre had to shut down because of the lockdown, we are counselling those in need over the phone. However, we have a limited number of volunteers and sometimes it gets difficult to cater to all 20 callers in a day,” Ram said. “The number of suicides is expected to rise in the immediate future as economic activities are unlikely to pick up pace any time soon and the restrictions are far from being lifted,” Ram added. Dr Deepak Kumar Giri, the head of psychiatry at MGM Medical College and Hospital, said given the current situation, anxiety and stress are inevitable. “Currently, we are living in a situation that is not normal and the extreme reactions that we are witnessing should not surprise us. We recommend meditation and yoga for those fighting anxiety and stress,” Dr Giri said. Priyanka Singh, a city-based yoga expert, said asanas such as suryanamaskar, vrikshasana, chakra anusandhan kriya, tratak kriya, tadasana, merudandasana and pawan muktasana are effective in relieving stress and in fighting anxiety, along with boosting the body’s immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/suicide-cases-in-steel-city-adityapur-highest-during-lockdown/articleshow/77027703.cms||B Sridhar
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||Four deaths, Jharkhand Covid load crosses 5,000-mark||RANCHI: The number of coronavirus cases in Jharkhand crossed the 5,000-mark as the state recorded 313 new Covid cases in 24 hours (including 22 late on Thursday night). The state also recorded four Covid deaths – one each in East Singhbhum, Godda, Ramgarh and Hazaribag -- taking the virus toll to 46. In East Singhbhum, the deceased is a 58-year-old man who was admitted at Tata Main Hospital. In Godda, a 52-year old man who had returned from Bhagalpur passed away during treatment. In Hazaribag, a 50-year-old man who had tested positive on July 15 died at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital. On Friday, Chatra (57 cases), Latehar (42), Sahebganj (22) and West Singhbhum (16) recorded their biggest one-day spikes. Ranchi recorded 60 cases, Bokaro 15, Garhwa 23 and Giridih 10 and 14 other districts recorded new cases in single digits. In Ranchi and Bokaro eight of the new cases are doctors. “Five doctors tested positive in Ranchi; of which four are from Rims and one from sadar Hospital. Three doctors have tested positive from Bokaro,” an IDSP official said. Jharkhand’s caseload has now touched 5,096, of which 2,577 have recovered (including 64 on Friday) and 2,473 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-deaths-jharkhand-covid-load-crosses-5k-mark/articleshow/77026237.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||No work for 2 months, migrants head back to cities||RANCHI: Several migrants workers who were brought back home from other states by buses, special trains and even government-sponsored chartered flights are now returning to cities as they have been unable to find jobs in Jharkhand even two months after their. While some are leaving for cities across India on their own arrangements, some of them have even received flight tickets by their former employers. Sanjay Choudhary, who was working with a Mumbai-based construction company before the nationwide lockdown, recently boarded an AirAsia flight to return to the metropolis even though it continues to be a Covid-19 hotspot. He said, “It seems that we will die whether we stay here or go back to work. If I stay home, my family will starve to death and there is a possibility of me getting infected in Mumbai. I chose to return to work as sitting idle at home is more stressful.” Similarly, Sunil Paswan, a construction worker from Koderma, received an air ticket from his employer. Talking to TOI at Birsa Munda airport in Ranchi before boarding his flight, he said he did not have enough money to eat at home. “We got rice from a PDS shop, but we cannot continue to count on this handouts forever,” he said. While the state government has strict norms for entering Jharkhand, there is hardly any mechanism to track who is leaving. James Herenj, state convener of NREGA Watch (a labourer rights group), said the provisions made by the state government are not enough. “Around 1.25 lakh new job cards have been made to provide work to these migrants, but things have not moved at the ground level. Moreover, the labourers who earned Rs 500-600 per day ion cities will gett just Rs 194 for a day’s hard work if they continue to stay here and work under government schemes,” he said. Herenj said the fear of Covid is not deterring people from leaving as they do not see a future in the state. “Two months is a long time for daily wagers. With no option to earn a livelihood, they have decided to return to where they came from,” he said. State rural development department secretary Aradhana Patnaik said migrants keen to join agriculture, animal husbandry and other subsidiary sectors for self-employment are being linked with the National Rural Livelihoods Mission for immediate relief. “The department launched Mission Saksham app to collect information about the skills, interests and other details of migrant labourers. So far, a database of about 4.56 lakh migrant labourers has been prepared and 37.2% of them are interested in farming and are keen to start agriculture-based livelihood. About 14% have expressed their desire to engage themselves in animal husbandry,” she said. In the early days of the outbreak, the maximum number of Covid cases detected in the state were linked to migrant workers. On May 31, of the 2,290 patients, 2,001 were migrants. As the influx slowed, so did the numbers. By Thursday, when the number of cases in the state have doubled to 4,800, the share of migrant population remains pegged at 2,245. Critics said that the entire exercise of bringing back migrants workers and giving them hope for livelihood at home has failed as they are being “forced to return to cities after jeopardizing containment measures in the state”. “What is the point forcing the labourers to travel in and travel out repeatedly when no state is prepared to provide them with the means for livelihood?” Herenj asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-work-for-2-mnths-migrants-head-back-to-cities/articleshow/77027700.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||Girls outshine boys in JAC Class XII exams||RANCHI: Girls have outshone boys in all the three streams — science, commerce and arts — in the intermediate examination, results of which were declared by education minister Jagarnath Mahto at the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) conference room here on Friday evening. The pass percentage for girl students of science stream was 61.73, compared to 57.72% among boys. In commerce, 71.16% boys cleared the examination compared to 84% girls. A total of 84.2% girl students passed in arts examination, compared to 79.97% of boys. This year, the overall pass percentage was lowest in the science stream. Only 58. 99% students pursuing science secured pass marks. Whereas, 77.37% students passed in commerce and 82.53% in arts. Overall, 17% students secured first division. Last year, the pass percentage in science, commerce and arts were 57, 70.44 and 79.97, respectively. District-wise analysis showed that Lohardaga had the highest pass percentage at 95, followed by Ranchi with 83.77% and Koderma with 81.87%. Sahibganj fared the worst with a pass percentage of 43.13 in the commerce stream. Hazaribag came up with best performance in science, while Simdega students excelled in arts. While releasing the results, Mahto expressed his satisfaction over the improvement in results of intermediate students in recent years, and asked the teachers to compete with one another when it comes to improving the performance of students. He said, “The outstanding students can set their targets for future. The government will be with them in case of any financial problems.” Replying to a question, Mahto said that it is a challenge to improve education in government-run schools, which number around 35,000. He, however, added that more efforts were needed to bring them at par with the best private educational institutes. JAC chairman Arvind Singh said that scrutiny of answer scripts were to start from March 20 but it was postponed owing to the lockdown. The process started from May 28 after getting permission from the disaster management department. He said, “The evaluation was completed by June 25.” Singh stated that JAC decided to publish the results of all three steams on a single day unlike in the previous years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/girls-outshine-boys-in-jac-class-xii-exams/articleshow/77027633.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||Hazaribag Covid patient’s third flee attempt foiled||RANCHI: A 26-year-old prisoner, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH), yet again attempted to escape on Thursday night. The man jumped from the ambulance when he was being transferred to Rims and fled, only to be arrested hours later from a densely populated locality in the town. Hazaribag SP Karthik S said the man’s health deteriorated after he stopped taking his meals in the last couple of days. “He became aggressive each time a nurse or a hospital staff approached him. So, a decision was taken to transfer him to Rims in Ranchi,” the SP said. A little into the journey, the man overpowered the police constable and hospital staff accompanying him in the ambulance, broke the vehicle’s window panes and leapt outside. The man was arrested hours later from the roof of a government school in Chitia Muhalla and brought back to HMCH. The man was arrested in a theft case on July 4. He first managed to give the police a slip while being taken to the lock-up of Hazaribag sadar police station. The man later tested positive for Covid-19 and was moved to HMCH, from where he escaped on July 9. He was arrested a day later. As many as 28 cops, who came in contact with him, have tested positive for Covid-19. “Once he is discharged from HMCH, we will take drastic action against him,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribag-covid-patients-3rd-flee-attempt-foiled/articleshow/77026809.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Ranchi||Nilamber Pitamber University plans offline exams||DALTONGANJ: Following the directives given by UGC, Nilamber Pitamber University (NPU) has planned to conduct offline examinations keeping in mind the poor internet connectivity in those parts where many of its affiliated colleges are located. Out of the 30 pending examinations, NPU plans to hold offline papers by maintaining social distancing and other health protocols. NPU vice-chancellor Ram Lakhan Singh said, “Our university is gearing up for conducting the exams so that students who have been selected for placements in various companies get their degrees.” Singh added, “As per its revised guidelines issued on July 6, the UGC directed the universities to conduct online or offline examinations. We have decided to go for the latter.” Online examinations will not be feasible for NPU’s affiliated colleges in Garhwa, Palamu and Latehar districts where cellular and internet connectivity is poor, Singh said. There would be strict adherence to safety protocols like adequate sanitisation of examination halls, availability of sanitisers, masks, thermal scanning of examinees and invigilators and maintaining social distancing norms among the examinees and a better bundling of written answer booklets, the VC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/npu-plans-offline-exams/articleshow/77027627.cms||---
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Monsoons and building crashes: Nearly 4,000 incidents in 7 yrs claimed 299 lives in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Monsoons and building crashes seem to have become synonymous. Every year, following days of heavy rains, the city witnesses building crashes or wall collapses which results in loss of lives and injuries to people. This year has been no different with Bhanushali building at Fort crashing on Thursday evening, killing 10 persons. In a tragic coincidence, exactly a year earlier, the Kesarbai building in Dongri had collapsed, killing 13 persons and injuring over 10 others. BMC data shows in the seven years between 2013 and 2019, Mumbai reported 3,981 building crashes, house collapses and wall crashes which killed 299 persons. Many of these were residential buildings with some in a dilapidated condition too. A senior civic official said several of these crashes included minor incidents as well. The data on the crashes over seven years was sought in a Right to Information (RTI) query filed by Shakeel Ahmed Shaikh from the NGO Adhikar Foundation. Housing rights activist Chandrashekar Prabhu said under the garb of redevelopment, homes are taken away from the poor who eventually do not end up returning to these redeveloped homes. “Agreeing to redevelopment means a person has to leave his original place of habitation and is placed somewhere else. The residents do not know if they will come back again. Often, the developer’s intent is also not to accommodate the original tenants after the redevelopment is completed. Hence, original residents prefer to die in their own homes rather than move out,” he said. Inadequate housing is a major issue in Mumbai, said Milind Mhaske, director, Praja Foundation, urging authorities to refocus and rethink on resolving it. “Instead of focusing on ambitious projects like the coastal road which will cost thousands of crores, and will benefit a comparatively smaller section of society, authorities need to work on providing adequate housing for all which has only been a lip service by all governments till now,” said Mhaske. He said while the housing-forall plan may have a longer gestation period, projects like these would ultimately benefit the common man. Former Byculla MLA and lawyer, Waris Pathan, said it was a case of skewed priorities. “The corruption and negligence by authorities are to blame for the man-made disasters in Mumbai. If adequate cognizance is not taken urgently, such crashes will only become more frequent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nearly-4000-crashes-in-7-years-claimed-299-lives-in-mumbai/articleshow/77028451.cms||Richa Pinto
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 71% of season’s rainfall as intense July makes up for slow June||MUMBAI: The city may have received only around 80% of the average June rainfall last month, but the first fortnight of this month brought over 1,100 mm of rainfall and took the rainy season’s total to 1,609.4mm, or 71% of the normal average precipitation for the entire monsoon. The normal average rainfall for the IMD Santacruz observatory is stated to be 2,260.4mm, which is based on a calculation done with the rainfall figures from the 1981-2010 period. At the IMD Colaba observatory, the normal average rainfall for the four monsoon months of June, July, August and September is stated to be 1,394.6 mm, So far, the Colaba observatory has reported 1,394.6mm of rainfall, or 67.5% of the normal average precipitation there. On Friday, the intensity of rain reduced and the weatherman said that the weekend would bring only light to moderate rainfall in the city and Thane. “For now clouds are observed to have dispersed from the west coast as seen from radar and satellite observations. However, steady light rain at a few places in the city would continue,” K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said. The average rain reported throughout Friday by the IMD Colaba and Santacruz observatory was 22.8mm and 35.8mm respectively. Precipitation in the lake catchment areas, from where the city receives its water, remained as it was, with no significant rain activity reported there. In the 24 hours ending 6 am on Friday, Bhatsa, the biggest of the supplier lakes and which meets 50% of the needs of the city, recorded only 4 mm. Tansa received 2 mm and Modak Sagar, nothing. The smaller lakes, Tulsi and Vihar in the city limits, reported 161 mm and 138 mm, respectively. The smaller lakes supply only 1%-2% of the water required by the city. The water stock in all seven lakes was 38,100 crore litres, or 26.33% of the required level. Last year the quantum on the same date was double almost and stood at 71,900 crore litres, or 49.73% of the required stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gets-71-of-seasons-rainfall-as-intense-july-makes-up-for-slow-june/articleshow/77028458.cms||Richa Pinto
July 18, 2020||India||Covid-19: Human trials of desi vaccine begin in Haryana||ROHTAK: Haryana on Friday began human trials of a home-grown vaccine for Covid-19 on three volunteers, who were administered their first dose at the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, reports Sat Singh. O P Kalra, vice-chancellor of the University of Health Sciences, of which PGIMS is a part, said that the trial of covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, has started in 12 health institutes, including PGIMS-Rohtak and AIIMS, Delhi. The volunteers, aged between 30 and 55 years, have showed no adverse effects during the three-hour observation period, Kalra added. He added that the second dose will be administered after two weeks. Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij tweeted: “Human trial with Corona vaccine (covaxin) of Bharat Biotech started at PGI Rohtak today. Three subjects were enrolled today. All have tolerated the vaccine very well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-human-trials-of-desi-vaccine-begin-in-haryana/articleshow/77028484.cms||Sat Singh
July 18, 2020||Bengaluru||44% critical care Covid beds in Bengaluru occupied||BENGALURU: Every second Covid-19 patient occupying bed allotted by the government in Bengaluru hospitals — across government, private and medical colleges — has a condition that’s moderately severe or critical, underscoring the dire need for the government to ramp up critical-care units. As of 6am Friday, 2,803 patients occupied beds reserved for Covid. At least 49%, or 1,363, of them were admitted in ICU, ICU with ventilator or HDU (high-dependency units) or critical-care units. While nearly 70% of the 8,724 overall Covid beds in Bengaluru are still vacant, more than 44% of the 3,093 HDU, ICU and ICU-ventilator beds are occupied. These beds are spread across 303 hospitals and 13 medical colleges, and officials said this number is dynamic and updated daily. Govt has told hosps to increase oxygen beds, says officialApart from the 8,724 beds identified for government allotment, there are another 17,409 with private hospitals. The government is identifying how many of them must be for critical care. Dr Prashanth NS, assistant director, Institute of Public Health, said: “If someone is in an HDU or an ICU, then it is definitely an indication that their condition is moderately severe or critical. The need to enhance such facilities must be the focus.” Since deaths in Bengaluru are increasing, experts argue need for such beds will be more in the coming days. Besides, officials said 2,000 people with Covid-19 are in private hospital beds, and most of them are in special care. Tushar Girinath, head, task force to streamline bed availability and allotment in Bengaluru, said a ground-level verification process — with 16 health department teams — is under way and the details of how many of patients are in ICUs or other critical-care units will be known in the next couple of days. The officer conceded the number of special-care beds must increase and the government has discussed the same at the top level. “The government has asked our hospitals and colleges to increase oxygenflow beds. A similar exercise will follow for private hospitals and colleges,” he added. Blood thinners for critical patientsDr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 taskforce, said timely access to treatment for patients whose condition is critical becomes crucial in saving their lives. “The virus is not just an infection that could result in inflammation in the lungs and pneumonia. It is also resulting in clots in the lung arteries and impacting the heart too. Keeping this in mind, we have started administering blood thinners to critical patients,” Manjunath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/44-critical-care-covid-beds-in-bengaluru-occupied/articleshow/77028491.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Plasma trial faltering as fear a factor with donors||MUMBAI: The state’s muchtouted Project Platina, designed to trial convalescent plasma therapy as well as treat severe Covid-19 patients, has been hindered by a lack of donors. The chief minister had on June 30 launched the project and appealed to recovered patients to donate plasma, but the response has been lacklustre. The state has over 1.6 lakh recovered Covid-19 patients, of whom at least 20% could fulfil the criteria to become donors. In the Platina trial designed by the medical education department, 21 medical institutes will study the efficacy of convalescent plasma to treat critical patients. Besides the trial, the state is also trying to make the blood component available for emergency use in serious patients as its off-label use was allowed by the health ministry on June 13. The lack of donors, though, has meant that few in need are getting the plasma for off-label use. The trial too needs many more donors. Dr Mohammed Faisal, state coordinator for Project Platina, said that they have managed to collect only 150 bags of plasma from a database of 7,000 recovered patients. “All institutes are making efforts to reach more patients, but the enthusiasm to donate is lacking,” he said. “There are concerns around travel and lost wages. Fear is also deterring people. We are working around those,” he said. “While the trial is still going through last-minute paper work and has time to collect more plasma, we would be comfortable when each centre has at least 100 units each.” The teams calling potential donors have found that loss of wages was the primary reason for reluctance among donors in rural areas, whereas urban patients, surprisingly, seemed to be deterred by myths and unfounded fears. Many showed reluctance to visit a public hospital to donate, while several others said they didn't want to come twice to donate. Dr Faisal said those donating for the trial will get travel and food expenses and wages for the day. “We are also trying to streamline tests so that they don't have to visit the hospital twice to donate,” he said. In Mumbai, Nair, Sion, KEM and Bal Thackeray Trauma hospital are the trial sites. Nair, which recently completed the first plasma trial with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said they were gearing up for Platina. TIMES VIEW: The importance of recovered patients donating blood can be best conveyed through public service messaging. And to get the message across to potential donors, the administration needs to tap social influencers. There is still a miasma of ignorance and misconception around Covid-19, which can be dispelled through targeted communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-plasma-trial-faltering-as-fear-a-factor-with-donors/articleshow/77028478.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 18, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports more than 8,000 cases for second day in a row||MUMBAI: Inching closer to the three lakh cases mark, Maharashtra on Friday added 8,308 Covid-19 cases, the second-highest addition in a day so far, taking its total cases to 2,92,589. Even as Mumbai marched towards the one lakh case tally, 1,214 new patients tested positive on Friday; the city now has 99,164 cases in all. For the second day in a row, the state added over 8,000 cases. The highest addition of 8,641 cases was recorded on July 16. The state reported 258 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 11,452. The active cases in the state increased to 1,20,480. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which is close to the 2 lakh cases mark, added 3,884 cases on Friday (2,670 excluding Mumbai) and 77 deaths. The BMC update said that 62 new coronavirus deaths had occurred in the city, taking the overall toll to 5,585. Of the 62 who died on Friday, 55 victims had comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. While 43 of the victims were men, 19 were women. Only two of the victims were under 40 years of age, 25 were between 40 and 60 years of age, while 35 were over 60 years old. BMC officials said that the overall growth of Covid cases in Mumbai from July 11 to 16 was 1.34%. “It can be said that Mumbai is out of the woods as far as Covid is concerned,” said infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastava, who is also a member of the Maharashtra task force for Covid-19. Dharavi area, which was one of the worst hotspots in the country in April, on Friday reported only 10 new patients. The total number of patients reported so far from the dense slum pocket are 2,438, of which 2,087 have been discharged. The doubling rate in some Mumbai wards such as H East (Santacruz East) had gone up to 155 days; the higher the doubling rate of cases, the slower is the spread of the virus. Only the R Central (Borivli) administrative ward had a doubling rate of 26 days, while the rest of the wards in the city now have a doubling rate of over 30 days. Dr Shrivastava said bed availability has improved in Mumbai. “Most times, it isn’t difficult to get a regular bed as Covid bed, though getting an ICU bed is not always easy,” he added. However, a senior doctor from a BMC hospital said a huge number of Covid patients in institutional Covid facilities hail from the MMR. “Cases are growing in Bhiwandi, Thane and Kalyan and many of those patients are admitted in Mumbai’s Covid facilities,” he said. The recovery rate of the state dropped slightly as the state only discharged 2,217 patients on Friday as against the average of 5,000-5,500 for the last few days. The total discharges in the state till date are 1,60,357.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-reports-more-than-8000-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row/articleshow/77028496.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 18, 2020||Bengaluru||No plans to extend lockdown in Bengaluru: BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa on Friday ruled out extending the lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts, saying it was not a solution in controlling the spread of Covid-19, while indicating full-scale resumption of economic activities from July 22. The clarification — second in the past five days — came amid reports that Bengaluru mayor M Goutham Kumar and BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar were in favour of an extension of the curbs since the cases are rising at an alarming rate. Yediyurappa made the statement during a two-hour meeting with eight zonal Covid incharge ministers of Bengaluru and three members of Parliament from the city. Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts are under lockdown from 8pm of July 14 to 5am of July 22. The Congress and JD(S) have demanded a 15-day shutdown, citing experts to break the virus chain. At the meeting, the CM was informed that the lockdown was having a negative impact on IT, BT and manufacturing industries. Identify hotels, marriage halls in each ward: CMA legislator who attended the meeting said the curbs have threatened the survival of the industries. The CM reportedly said the government wouldn’t speak of lockdown or its extension. The CM reportedly instructed the chief secretary to “quickly break the deadlock” over securing 5,000 of the 11,000 oxygen-based beds available in Bengaluru’s private hospitals. “If private hospitals refuse to admit patients, then take stringent action against them. Nodal officers and volunteers will be deputed to private hospitals to ensure smooth coordination and provide information about admissions and bed availability,” he said in his statement. Yediyurappa said marriage halls and hotels must be identified in each ward to quarantine people who can’t afford home quarantine due to lack of amenities or space. Revenue minister R Ashoka said all economic activities will resume on July 22 and added that a lockdown can only postpone things and afforded the government some breathing time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-plans-to-extend-lockdown-in-bengaluru-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/77028499.cms||---
July 18, 2020||India||Pilot camp gets a breather till Tuesday as HC defers hearing||JAIPUR: In a breather to former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 Congress MLAs, speaker CP Joshi on Friday assured the Rajasthan high court that he would not act on the show-cause notices issued to them under the anti-defection law till Tuesday evening. The deadline given to the legislators to respond on the speaker’s notices, however, ended at 1 pm on Friday. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta deferred hearing in the matter until Monday morning when senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the speaker, would resume his arguments to counter the Pilot camp’s plea that the notices were against the Constitution and issued in haste. It was argued that the speaker enjoyed autonomous powers. The petition challenging the show-cause notices was premature and the judiciary should not interfere till an order on the notices was passed. The 19 legislators who have challenged the leadership of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot approached the court contesting that the speaker cannot serve them defection notices for failing to attend Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings, as acts done outside the House were not violation of the anti-defection law. Disagreeing with ‘dictatorial functioning’ of the CM was freedom of expression and not defection, the court was told. Senior counsel Harish Salve, appearing for the Pilot camp, said party whips were not applicable for meetings held at homes and hotels but to proceedings within the House when the Assembly is in session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pilot-camp-gets-a-breather-till-tuesday-as-hc-defers-hearing/articleshow/77028502.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
