July 19, 2020||Business||Chinese companies have made inroads into the power sector since 2016||NEW DELHI: The government move to keep Chinese companies out of power transmission and distribution (T&D) projects couldn’t have come any sooner. Industry data shows Chinese companies have been making steady inroads into the strategic sector, winning contracts for installing intelligent control systems in parts of the national grid and at least 46 city networks between August 2016 and March this year. Chengdu-based Dongfang Electric Corporation, one of China’s ‘backbone enterprise groups’ directly administered by Beijing, alone bagged SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) contracts for 23 cities across five states and a Union Territory. ZTT, Shenzen SDG Information Company and Tongguan Group together won 23 contracts from discoms and state-run PowerGrid, which operates the national transmission network, for installing real-time data acquisition system — also known as ‘reliable communication through optical ground wire’. Read AlsoChinese companies in India under government lens over ‘links’ with PLAA number of Chinese companies that are present in India, as well as some foreign companies with investments from across the border, are under the scanner for alleged links with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) as the Centre presses ahead with its plan to prune China’s involvement in the economy.T&D networks form the backbone of any power system. SCADA and real-time communications systems are the nerve centres that make networks ‘smart’. That’s why sanctity of these systems are important for grid security. “In connected systems, intelligent equipment talk to each other and exchange data and information, making the system more efficient but at the same time increasing the vulnerability if exposed to suspect individuals, companies and nations which may use such access to their advantage,” Indian Electrical Equipment Manufacturers’ Association director-general Sunil Misra told TOI. The power ministry had on July 3 banned equipment imports from China without permission. It also mandated imported T&D equipment be tested at designated laboratories for embedded malware or spyware — a common perception about Chinese gear. The move, even though part of economic retaliation against China’s border transgressions in Ladakh, marked an acknowledgement of possible vulnerabilities with Chinese equipment. IEEMA had written to the national security adviser and the ministry in 2017 to point out India’s transmission system becoming vulnerable to hacking due to expanding Chinese footprint. Later that year, the state power ministers conference decided to conduct a countrywide cyber security audit of T&D systems. These warnings followed protests over Chinese companies bagging a slew of big-ticket contracts for power station hardware as India rushed to ramp up generation capacity. Watch How Chinese firms made inroads into India's power sector||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinese-cos-made-inroads-into-indias-td-networks-since-2016/articleshow/77043830.cms||Sanjay Dutta
July 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: BJP leader Makhan Singh Lobana held for immigration fraud||AMBALA: Police arrested Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Makhan Singh Lobana in connection with a case of immigration fraud registered at Naggal police station late on Friday night. Makhan was produced in Ambala court on Saturday and was remanded in four-day police custody. After Haryana Police formed a Special Investigation Committee (SIT) to investigate instances of immigration fraud, four cases were registered against Makhan in different police stations. The cases started coming to light after deportation of Indian residents by the United States (US) for entering the country illegally in June. Sources said Baldev Raj of Metla village in Ambala district lodged a complaint against the accused, Makhan and his brother Surinder Singh of Ambala City at Naggal police station on July 15. He alleged that in April 2016, they duped him of Rs 20 lakh on the pretext of helping his son and nephew settle in the United States. Baldev alleged, "They promised to send my son Rajeev Kumar and nephew Kanwaljit Singh to the US and took Rs 20 lakh but we later came to know that they have sent them through an illegal route. When our children were stuck abroad, they even forced us to pay more and harassed our family." A case was registered against Makhan and Surinder on this complaint under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 24 (offences and penalties) of the Emigration Act at Naggal on July 15. Ambala DSP Munish Sehgal, designated officer under state-level SIT investigating immigration and human trafficking cases said, "Makhan and his brother are accused of committing Rs 20 lakh fraud with a family of Metla village. We arrested him on Friday night and on Saturday, the court granted his four-day police remand. There are a total of four cases of immigration fraud registered against the accused, Makhan in Ambala district and investigations are being done in all." Makhan was earlier a leader of Indian National Lok Dal but joined the BJP in hopes of getting a ticket from Pehowa assembly before the 2019 state assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/bjp-leader-held-for-immigration-fraud/articleshow/77044066.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Probe reveals mismatch in rice stocks in 57 Karnal mills||CHANDIGARH: The probe into the alleged rice scam has found the mismatch or short stocks in 57 rice mills of Karnal. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) of Karnal, Ashok Bansal has forwarded his findings to the food and supplies department of Haryana. The office of district food and supplies controller (DFSC) of Karnal has already got a police case registered against couple of chronic defaulter rice mills on this account. The incident dates back to earlier this month when local authorities of Karnal had noticed the shortcomings. The millers had allegedly not returned the milled and polished rice to state government after recieving the raw paddy stocks from the grain market, which was procured by various agencies of Haryanna government. It is alleged that the mills had disposed the stocks in open market and had allegedly procured the substandard stocks from other states at cheaper rates. The probe led by ADC Karnal was ordered and seven teams were constituted who conducted stock taking and verified records related to stocks of paddy and rice from the rice mills. According to information, 12 rice mills was found to be short stocked and records of 45 rice mills had been found to be mismatched. The inspection of the mills ended this week "We have forwarded our reports to the government of Haryana for further action. The report includes the current status of stocks in the mill and outstanding against mills in government records,'' said ADC Ashok Bansal. The alleged scam had raised the eyebrows of many and the opposition parties, including the Congress, had sought CBI probe into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/probe-reveals-mismatch-in-rice-stocks-in-57-karnal-mills/articleshow/77044111.cms||Manvir Saini
July 19, 2020||World||Russia, China attempting to meddle in US polls: Biden||DETROIT: Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has said that he is now receiving intelligence briefings, and has been told Russia continues to try to meddle in November’s US presidential election. China also was conducting activities “designed for us to lose confidence in the outcome” of the election, Biden said on Friday. “We know from before, and I guarantee you that I know now, because now I get briefings again. The Russians are still engaged in trying to delegitimise our electoral process.” He warned that if Russia continued to interfere there would be “a real price to pay” if he wins the poll It is normal for presidential nominees of major parties to have intel briefings, though it is not clear when Biden started to get his.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/russia-china-attempting-to-meddle-in-us-polls-biden/articleshow/77044451.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Ram temple foundation may be laid on August 5||AYODHYA: The ball was set rolling for the much-awaited construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya when the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust on Saturday decided to send a formal invite to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation of the temple. Sources said the Trust has proposed August 5 to PMO as the possible date for the ground-breaking ceremony (bhoomi poojan) and was hopeful of Modi making it. In fact, one of the members of the Trust, Kameshwar Chaupal, asserted that the PM has given his consent. At the meeting of the Trust which decided to scale up the size of the Ram Mandir, there was consensus on two auspicious dates for ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ based on planetary configurations — August 3 or August 5. The crucial meeting of the Trust was also attended by PM’s former principal secretary and chairman of temple construction committee, Nripendra Misra. “The Prime Minister’s Office will take the final call about the date,” said general secretary of the Trust, Champat Rai, while talking to reporters at Faizabad Circuit House. This was the first high-level meeting convened by the Trust in Ayodhya after the apex court ruled in favour of the temple at Ramjanmabhoomi. Read AlsoRam Temple will have five domes now, says Gujarati architectAhmedabad-based Chandrakant Sompura, the architect of the proposed Ram Temple said that he was glad that he was carrying the family legacy.Confirming the decision to invite Modi, Rai said it would launch a nationwide outreach to mobilise 10 crore families after the monsoon to crowd-fund the project, which symbolises the ‘core of Hindu faith’. Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, spokesman of Ram Mandir Trust President Nritya Gopal Das, said PM Modi’s presence at the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ would expedite the project and give a message to scores of Hindus across the country. He said it will take 3 to three and half years to complete the temple after the map is finalised. The Trust also agreed to make amendments to the design, laid down by Vishwa Hindu Parishad that spearheaded the temple movement for decades. Rai said there is a proposal to raise the height of the temple from 128 feet to 161 feet and increase the number of conical domes from three to five. Also, there is a proposal to extend the temple circumference from 70 acres to 108 acres. Chaupal said the decision to raise the height of the Ram Mandir was taken after consultations with all members. The discussions to alter the design have been on since the Supreme Court verdict, even though VHP underlined the need to adhere to the earlier model, depicted on various occasions like the Kumbh at Prayagraj. The Trust seems keen on early launch of construction of the temple. Misra has been camping in Ayodhya for the past four days, meeting other Trust members, besides visiting the Ramjanambhoomi site, which is currently being levelled by heavy earth-movers. Of the 15 Trust members, 12 attended the meeting, while three members — senior advocate K Parasaran, who successfully argued in the Supreme Court for allocation of the disputed Ayodhya site to Hindus, Vasudevanand Saraswati and Swami Vishwa Prasanjeet — joined through video-conferencing. Watch Ram Janmabhoomi Trust offers PM Narendra Modi two dates for temple ‘bhoomi pujan’ in August||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ram-temple-foundation-may-be-laid-on-august-5/articleshow/77044674.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 19, 2020||Business||Chinese companies in India under government lens over ‘links’ with PLA||NEW DELHI: It’s being called PLA scan. A number of Chinese companies that are present in India, as well as some foreign companies with investments from across the border, are under the scanner for alleged links with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) as the Centre presses ahead with its plan to prune China’s involvement in the economy, reports Sidhartha. While the new rules on beneficial ownership for FDI approvals is expected to help track investors better, fresh investment into these companies, including start-ups with Chinese funds, will be scrutinised in detail to ensure that they do not pose any security threat, sources told TOI. Separately, the finance ministry and Sebi are finalising the threshold for imposing checks on FII flows from across the border, while seeking to ensure that the rules do not impact market sentiment. “The data are being looked at and the two agencies will decide the threshold and the system of reporting and monitoring,” a government source told TOI. Read AlsoPullback only option before you, India firmly tells ChinaThe last round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders saw the Indian side resolutely and firmly convey that Chinese troops need to vacate intrusions in the Pangong area and elsewhere and nothing short of restoration of pre-May 5 status quo will do.Chinese companies have come under the radar after the Modi government, in retaliation against PLA’s attack on Indian troops on the night of June 15 at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, decided to junk the policy cauterising bilateral economic and trade ties with Beijing’s recalcitrant stand on the LAC. The aggressive posture was unveiled dramatically with the government banning 59 Chinese Apps — something which marked a blow to China’s ambition to see its companies grow into global tech giants to rival American players. It has also deepened the doubts about Huawei and ZTE’s participation in 5G business. Already a number of countries — ranging from the US, UK and Australia — have imposed curbs on the operation of Huawei, the Chinese telecom vendor, whose founder was allegedly involved with the PLA’s engineering corp. The company has maintained that there are no links with the Chinese Army. Read AlsoChinese companies have made inroads into the power sector since 2016Data shows Chinese companies have been making steady inroads in power transmission and distribution (T&amp;D) projects, winning contracts for installing intelligent control systems in the national grid and at least 46 city networks between Aug 2016-2020. On July 3, the power ministry banned equipmentBut the government’s analysis has extended beyond Huawei, with investors in start-ups also under scrutiny for their alleged role in the Chinese government’s military-civil fusion policy. Sources said some of the Chinese mining, steel and even auto companies have had links with the PLA in the past, although they may be “unhooked” now as part of a reorganisation exercise. Similarly, the government has come across instances where overseas entities, some of which are from Europe, have investments in an Indian company, but the foreign player is controlled by a Chinese company. “The new rules will help keep tabs on the beneficial owners and also maintain a database,” said a government source. The department for promotion of industry and internal trade is finalising the guidelines, including the threshold for “significant beneficial ownership, which under the Companies Act is pegged at 10%. Watch Chinese firms operating in India under government lens over 'links' with PLA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinese-companies-in-india-under-government-lens-over-links-with-pla/articleshow/77044771.cms||Sidhartha
July 19, 2020||India||Sachin Pilot asks people to extend support to flood-hit Assam, Bihar||NEW DELHI: Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot has appealed to the people of the country to extend support to those affected by floods in Assam and Bihar. Pilot's appeal comes amid the raging political firestorm in Rajasthan where he has declared an open rebellion against the Ashok Gehlot government. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the state Congress chief earlier this week. "My thoughts and prayers with all those families affected by the Assam & Bihar floods. Over 68 lives lost & 3.6 million people affected in Assam alone," Pilot tweeted on Saturday. My thoughts & prayers with all those families affected by the Assam & Bihar floods. Over 68 lives lost & 3.6 millio… https://t.co/DLCSU6LTkk— Sachin Pilot (@SachinPilot) 1595096748000"I appeal to all Indians, to come together, join in the efforts to help support those affected in these extreme flood situations," he had said. Floods have hit over 27 lakh people in 26 of the 33 districts of Assam and destroyed houses, crops, roads and bridges at several places The tweet by Pilot was his first in four days. His last tweets were on July 14, the day he was sacked from both the posts. Soon after his removal as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and PCC chief, Pilot on Tuesday had said "truth can be rattled, not defeated". Later that evening, Pilot had tweeted, "My heartfelt thanks and gratitude to all those who have come out in my support today". My heartfelt thanks and gratitude to all those who have come out in my support today. राम राम सा !— Sachin Pilot (@SachinPilot) 1594734487000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sachin-pilot-asks-people-to-extend-support-to-flood-hit-assam-bihar/articleshow/77044825.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Gehlot meets governor with MLAs’ list, floor test likely next week||JAIPUR: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot met governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday evening to submit a list of MLAs supporting him, raising the possibility of a brief assembly session next week for the government to seek a trust vote against the backdrop of the revolt by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators. The meeting at Raj Bhavan lasted 45 minutes, during which Gehlot is understood to have proposed convening an assembly session by Wednesday. Congress insiders wouldn’t give numbers, but said the CM was confident of winning the trial of strength. “The assembly session will pave the way for stern action against Pilot and his band of rebel MLAs,” a senior party office-bearer said. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal confirmed to TOI that Gehlot submitted a list of MLAs to the governor and that the figure was well above the majority mark of 101 in the 200-member assembly. Congress has 107 MLAs, 19 of whom constitute the rival Pilot camp. Read AlsoAshok Gehlot may have to expand ministryThe Congress leadership, which backed Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the power tussle, now wants him to take urgent correctives to restore stability in the state unit. With the disqualification process triggered by Sachin Pilot’s revolt in court and the possibility of a protracted battleOn whether Gehlot himself requested an assembly session to prove his government’s majority, Dhariwal said, “The CM meeting the governor does not mean it is for an assembly session.” The minister, however, didn’t contest the buzz that a floor test is just a few days away. “If the government clears the trust vote now, the law does not permit another one for six months,” he said. Sources said the Gehlot government was more than eager to get a floor test out of the way because proving its majority would help it counter the Pilot camp’s plea in the Rajasthan high court that a party whip is not binding on MLAs when the House isn’t in session. Speaker CP Joshi had issued defection notices to Pilot and 18 of his supporters on the basis of a complaint that they had defied a party whip and skipped consecutive CLP meetings. Read AlsoSachin Pilot stifling SOG probe with BJP support in Haryana: Govind Singh DotasraJAIPUR: Newly appointed Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday attacked his predecessor Sachin Pilot for allegedly colluding with the BJP government in Haryana to stifle the SOG probe in the horse trading of MLAs. The Congress state president said, “BJP central leadership,If an assembly session is called in the next few days, Pilot and the MLAs supporting him would have to return to Jaipur or face disqualification under the anti-defection law for defying a fresh party whip, sources said. New PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said the party was sure to get support from at least a couple of the MLAs being “held” in a resort in Haryana’s Manesar. Ailing social justice minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal has been in hospital since May 13 and is, therefore, unlikely to participate in a floor test should the governor ask for one. Congress will then be left with 87 MLAs on Gehlot's side. Meanwhile, the Gehlot government got a fillip when the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has two MLAs, returned to its fold. The Gujarat-based party had been previously supporting the state government, but chose to stay neutral when the political crisis triggered by Pilot’s revolt intensified last week. Besides the two BTP MLAs, Congress has the support of one RLD legislator in Subhash Garg, who is the minister of state for health. The two CPM MLAs in the House had been supporting the government prior to the crisis. “Our party has not taken any stand so far on supporting the Congress government if there is a floor test, but we will not support BJP and those helping it,” CPM state secretary Amra Ram told TOI on Saturday. The support of independent legislators would be crucial for the government to survive. Of the 13 independent MLAs who were with the Congress prior to the crisis, three were in Manesar until they were whisked away to an undisclosed location when an SOG team reached there on Friday evening. Congress has been claiming the support of the remaining 10 independent MLAs who are currently corralled with its MLAs in a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur. Watch Rajasthan crisis: Gehlot meets governor with MLAs’ list, floor test likely next week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gehlot-meets-governor-with-mlas-list-floor-test-likely-next-week/articleshow/77044832.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 19, 2020||India||Rs 1 lakh fine mooted for repeated sale of item over MRP||NEW DELHI: Selling packaged items at more than the maximum retail price (MRP) would attract Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000 fine for the first offence and up to Rs 1 lakh for a repeat offence, the consumer affairs ministry has proposed while seeking to replace jail terms with stiff monetary penalties. The measures are part of the overhauling of the Legal Metrology Act and the ministry has proposed fines of up to Rs 10 lakh for repeat offences under different sections and also in some cases made provisions for cancellation of licences. The provision of fine for selling packaged items over MRP would be applicable for commodities such as packaged water and food products and all other consumer durable and non-durable items. The provisions of the Act are applicable only for packaged commodities. Currently, fine of up to Rs 5,000 can be imposed for over-pricing under the Packaged Commodities Rules. Proposing to decriminalise the offences, the ministry’s draft document published for public consultation says, “For repetition of the same or similar offence committed earlier, a fine may be sufficient, since the violation may not necessarily involve mala fide or criminal intent and may not adversely affect public interest at large. Thus a review of the penalties needs to be done.” The current law has provision for imprisonment of up to six months and fine for second or subsequent offences like use of non-standard weight, measure or numeration. The ministry has proposed this can be replaced with the penalty of up to Rs 10 lakh and initiating the process of cancellation of licence issued by the state or central government, if the compounding is not done after the appeal stage. Similar provisions have been proposed for manufacture or sale of non-standard weights or measures. Currently, the second or subsequent offence attracts jail term of up to three years or fine or both. The ministry has also proposed to amend a section, which empowers courts to publish names, place of business and other details of companies convicted for any offence. The current law says the company may nominate any director as the person responsible for the conduct of the business. The ministry has proposed that the company may nominate at managerial level rather than at director level since “board of directors may not be involved in day-to-day functioning of the company/ factory and also may not be available at the time of occurrence of an offence”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1-lakh-fine-mooted-for-repeated-sale-of-item-over-mrp/articleshow/77044885.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 19, 2020||India||Maharashtra farmers’ field-to-city business bears 3 crore fruit in last 4 months||MUMBAI: A casual phone chat and a farmer’s quick thinking has turned fortunes for several farmers in Maharashtra. In the last four months, it has generated business worth Rs 2.75 crore for farmers. Soon after the nationwide lockdown was announced in March, Manish More from Otur village in Pune district feared that his vegetable crop standing in his field would go unsold. Even as More, who is part of a WhatsApp group of farmers in other districts, was discussing ways to deliver their produce to cities, a relative called up from Mumbai. “He told me of a scarcity of vegetables in the city,” recalls More, a post-graduate in agriculture. “I agreed to send vegetables from our fields. My relative checked with friends and neighbours in his building. And, we sent out our first order of 60 boxes on April 9.” A group of 11 farmers pooled in their produce to execute the first few orders that came in by word-of-mouth publicity. One thing led to another, word spread to other farmers and over the last three months, this group of farmers has registered as a farmer producer company, which has completed more than 80,000 deliveries and generate business to the tune of Rs 2.75 crore. With more farmers hopping onto the bandwagon, more varieties of vegetables and fruits were added to the list of commodities on sale. As the net widened, the group expanded to 480 farmers across WhatsApp groups and they have developed a brand titled ‘KisanKonnect’. The GenNext from farmers’ homes chipped in with their expertise. Their children studying in cities had returned to the villages and with their help, the farmers started using social media. Today, the group of youngsters has helped the farmers set up a website where orders are placed, and subsequently executed. Until then, the farmers who sold their produce at local markets or through middlemen suddenly learnt how market frontiers had blurred, pushing their produce beyond geographical boundaries. “These three months have been a learning process,” admits Srikant Dhokchawle, a farmer from Rahata in Ahmednagar. “We’ve taken our knowledge beyond farming.” They had to dabble with marketing, Facebook, WhatsApp. The rustic gunny bag used to pack farm produce was passé. A packaging house was hired where farm produce was packed systematically. “This was to ensure that veggies don’t get crushed or spoilt while being transported,” said Dhokchawle, adding that the local agriculture officials helped them in their efforts. And there is a bit of customer service being thrown in. The group has now launched an initiative by which they make video calls to customers to tell them how to choose different vegetables and fruits. “We do get a lot of feedback,” says More. Among this was to whittle down the use of plastic in packaging. “We’re working on this. After all, we want this initiative to be sustainable.” The farm company provides employment to nearly 80 locals, including village women. “They’ve been trained going by the feedback we have got from our customers,” says More. A call centre in the taluka that had shut down soon after the lockdown was also cranked up. A few boys who worked there were made to handle calls they were getting. For deliveries, trucks and vans were hired from villagers directly and initially to allay fears, the driver who would deliver the produce would be togged out in protection kits. For now, the farm-to-home business is smooth and looking up, says Dhokchawle. “We want to keep expanding it. It helps support several farmer families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-farmers-field-to-city-business-bears-3-crore-fruit-in-last-4-months/articleshow/77044920.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 19, 2020||India||Woman in 80s told to pay up for undisclosed Rs 196 crore in Swiss account||MUMBAI: Taxmen are elated over a recent order of the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT)’s Mumbai bench, which has confirmed the addition of an undisclosed income of Rs 196 crore — the peak deposit in a Swiss bank account — in the hands of an elderly taxpayer who was its “beneficial” owner. Now, tax plus penalties will be payable on this unaccounted income. Renu Tharani, whose case was heard by ITAT, is in her eighties. She was the sole discretionary-beneficiary of a Swiss bank account, held by the Tharani family trust, in HSBC Geneva. It was opened in July 2004 in the name of GWU Investments, an entity based in Cayman Islands. This company, in its capacity as the settlor, had transferred funds to the family trust. According to a few I-T officials TOI spoke to, typically, beneficiaries of overseas trusts deny foreign bank accounts. Two, taxpayers change their tax status to that of a ‘non-resident’, as NRIs do not pay tax in India on overseas income. In this case, the I-T officer submitted to ITAT that unaccounted money is deposited in Swiss bank accounts through a complex web of overseas trusts, entities and use of nominee directors. The I-T department’s investigation wing had got a “base note” that Tharani was a beneficial owner of a Swiss bank account that had been opened in July 2004, and as this was not disclosed in her accounts or I-T return for the financial year 2005-06, the matter was re-opened. A notice for re-opening was served on October 31, 2014. ITAT concurred with this course of action. By way of an affidavit, Tharani submitted she did not have any bank account with HSBC Geneva and was not a shareholder or a director in GWU Investments. She also claimed to be a non-resident and contested the alleged income, if any, cannot be taxed in her hands. The ITAT bench, comprising Pramod Kumar, vice-president, and Amarjit Singh, judicial member, in its detailed 55-page order, made several pertinent observations. In her I-T return for 2005-06, Tharani had declared a meagre income of Rs 1.7 lakh. She had provided a Bengaluru address and shown her status as that of a tax resident in India. The bench observed the residential status, as shown in the I-T return, was definitely not “non-resident”. The taxpayer, though, had now submitted this was the first year of her “non-residential” status. Even if one goes by this submission, it is unrealistic to assume in a short period of a year, nearly Rs 200 crore at her disposal in the Swiss Bank account, reflects income earned outside India. Based on her previous income declaration, it would have taken her more than 11,500 years to earn the amount stashed in the Swiss bank account. “The taxpayer is not a public personality like Mother Teresa, that some person with complete anonymity will settle a trust to give her $ 4 million and in any case, Cayman Islands (where GWU Investments was set up) is not known for philanthropists operating from there. If Cayman Islands is known for anything relevant, it is known for an atmosphere conducive to hiding unaccounted wealth and money laundering and that does not advance the case of the taxpayer,” noted ITAT. The ITAT further noted the taxpayer did not sign the consent waiver form, which would have enabled the I-T department to seek relevant information from the overseas bank. Thus, she cannot decline the correctness of the details obtained by the I-T officer. Watch Elderly woman in 80s told to pay up for undisclosed Rs 196 crore in Swiss account||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/woman-in-80s-told-to-pay-up-for-undisclosed-rs-196-crore-in-swiss-account/articleshow/77044951.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Split on Char Dham project, SC panel submits 2 reports||NEW DELHI: There is a vertical divide in the Supreme Court appointed committee on Char Dham highway project over some issues including the road width, which has led the panel to submit two different reports to the environment, forest and climate change ministry (MoEF&CC). While the “Main Report” signed by its chairman, environmentalist Ravi Chopra and other four members has favoured “intermediate carriageway of 5.5 meter” citing a road ministry circular of March 23, 2018, another report submitted by 16 main and five co-opted members of the panel has recommended road width of “double lane with paved shoulder”, which works out to 10 meter. The final decision will impact at least 152 km of the 826-km project. The two reports were submitted to the MoEF&CC this week. Sources said in such a situation, the issue would end up in the SC again. The majority members’ “Final Report” has flagged how the majority view was ignored by the chairman despite SC direction. But Chopra in his report has said, “The majority seems to believe that what it decides is final, even if it violates the law, the Supreme Court and causes irreversible and permanent damage to the Himalayas.” While clearing the way for the road project in August 2019, the apex court had constituted a fresh high-powered committee (HPC) to address environmental concerns under Chopra. The road transport ministry is yet to sanction work for 13 stretches and HPC recommendation is mandatory to give go ahead in the case of eight stretches. In their “Final Report” the 21 members have said the panel’s chairman modified the manuscripts of a few chapters ignoring that these were discussed and approved in earlier meetings and he had also redrafted a few chapters “in a manner to undermine/suppress the majority view.” Terming Chopra’s attitude as “rigid and undemocratic”, the report said the members discussed the matter on July 8 and 9 to finalise the report. It said, “So much so, the chairman tried to leave the issue pertaining to road width for decision of the Supreme Court whereas the same was finally decided by majority voting. By such an act the chairman tried to drag the whole matter once again to the Supreme Court by defeating the very purpose of constituting the HPC by the SC,” the report said. But Chopra in his “Main Report” has referred to a road ministry’s circular of 2018, which had recommended adopting ‘intermediate carriageway of 5.5 meter” for hilly terrains. He has said this was discovered by some members after the critical discussion on ‘road width’. He said, had the circular been available earlier there would have been no voting. Chopra, in his report, said he sought members’ opinion in view of 2018 circular, but 13 of them still supported double lane with paved shoulder, notwithstanding the evidence. Stating that the division of the HPC as unfortunate for the Himalayas, Chopra said the allegation of undermining the majority vote was unfortunate. “If the majority chooses to tread a path which contradicts the court’s directions and TORs and even ignores MoRTH’s own 2018 circular, I believe that the most judicious way is to leave it to the wisdom of the Supreme Court. That is what I have done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/split-on-char-dham-project-sc-panel-submits-2-reports/articleshow/77044969.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 19, 2020||India||Pullback only option before you, India firmly tells China||NEW DELHI: The last round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders saw the Indian side resolutely and firmly convey that Chinese troops need to vacate intrusions in the Pangong area and elsewhere and nothing short of restoration of pre-May 5 status quo will do. The long discussions on Tuesday were held, as were previous exchanges, in a cordial manner but the Indian messaging was insistent and underlined that a Chinese pullback is simply non-negotiable. The tonality of the conversation would not leave any doubt on this score, said a source. While official statements point to the complicated and time-consuming verification process for disengagement, Indian commanders put across their bottom line unambiguously in the course of the talks with the Chinese brass. The position on Depsang, which China claims to be within its side of the LAC, is similar. The Indian view is that the Chinese must sit down and discuss where the LAC lies and avoid provocative acts. “It cannot be that neither the line is discussed nor is there an end to intrusions,” said the source. Indian forces buttressed the discussions with a significant exercise demonstrating “application of integrated combined force in high altitude terrain” in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday. The intent was to demonstrate that Indian capacities in the region now pack a punch. The unsaid signal to China is evident: That India will not shirk from use of force — and is in fact very well prepared in this respect — as it seeks restoration of status quo ante. The readiness to use military muscle comes even as India pursues a negotiated easing of tensions along the LAC. The Indian position, said an official, has found support internationally. The operational and intelligence cooperation from friendly nations has considerable value and points to China’s current isolation, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pullback-only-option-before-you-india-firmly-tells-china/articleshow/77044978.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
July 19, 2020||India||Domestic help’s daughter tops Jharkhand Boards||JAMSHEDPUR: The daughter of a tailor and a domestic helper has topped the arts stream of the Jharkhand Academic Council Class XII (intermediate) board exams, the results of which were announced on Friday evening. A student of Jamshedpur Women’s College (JWC), Nandita secured 419 out of 500 marks. “I was expecting a good result but I never imagined I would be the state topper,” she told TOI. Rajesh Haripal and Rashmi had wanted their 16-year-old daughter, the eldest of their three children, to discontinue studies after her matriculation as they could not afford to pay her school fees. But they gave in to Nandita’s desire to pursue higher education when she started taking private tuitions for kindergarten and primary students to pay for her school expenses. Studying hard, and without private tuitions, Nandita scored 90 in Hindi, 88 in geography, 85 in history, 82 in English and 74 in political science. “I paid my fees with the money I made from these tuition classes. I have no other interest but studies and I will continue my education no matter what,” Nandita, who studied at DBMS Kadma High School till Class X, said, adding that she aims to become an IAS officer after completing her graduation in mass communication. JWC principal Shukla Mahanty visited Nandita’s home on Saturday and rewarded her with some money, a silver coin and a wristwatch. Mahanty said, “Her resolve to not let the hardships at home come in the way of her studies is incredible. The entire college is proud of her.” Nandita added that the college has promised not to charge anything, not even hostel fees, from her for her graduation in mass communication. Nandita added, “I am fortunate that my parents gave me the freedom to pursue higher studies and grateful to my college for supporting me,” Nandita added. East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar, himself a state topper in 2004, called her on Friday night and congratulated her, urging her to continue with her education and work hard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/domestic-helps-daughter-tops-jharkhand-boards/articleshow/77044985.cms||B Sridhar
July 19, 2020||World||EU leaders extend summit as they haggle over budget, virus||BRUSSELS: European Union leaders on Saturday extended their summit by an extra day, convinced they were finally closing in on a deal for an unprecedented 1.85 trillion euro ($2.1 trillion) EU budget and coronavirus recovery fund, an EU official said. Heading into a balmy summer night, a deal was still far off, but several key nations said negotiations were at least heading in the right direction despite tensions that were running high after months of battling the pandemic. Two full days and one night of discussions by the bloc's 27 leaders oscillated between raw irritation over how the huge sums should be spent and what strings should be attached to a glimmer of hope that somehow a deal could materialize — if not this weekend, then at least within a few weeks. “Things are moving in the right direction," said Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. “It it is of course, as you would expect, a tough struggle, a tough negotiation, but we're moving in the right direction, and that is the most important thing.” An EU official, who asked to remain anonymous because the talks were ongoing, said summit host EU official Charles Michel was “tying up some ends now" during a dinner with EU leaders before breaking for the night and reconvening with a new proposal early Sunday. “We are pushing through. Michel is working carefully and doesn't want to let it slip away now," the official said. The summit was supposed to end Saturday but more negotiations lay ahead for leaders as they dealt with their toughest crisis in years, one that has burdened the bloc with its worst recession ever. The pandemic has sent the EU into a tailspin, with 27-nation bloc's economy estimated to contract 8.3% this year, according to the latest predictions. Around 135,000 of its citizens have died from COVID-19. Michel held talks with Geman Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Emmanuel Macron and the main leaders involved in the dispute in an open air space atop the Europa summit center before joining other EU leaders for dinner. The EU executive has proposed a 750-billion euro fund, partly based on common borrowing, to be sent as loans and grants to the most needy countries. That comes on top of the seven-year 1-trillion-euro EU budget that leaders were fighting over even before COVID-19 slammed their continent. Despite the urgency and seriousness of the crisis, there were deep rifts between some richer nations in the north, led by the Netherlands, which want strict controls on spending, and struggling southern nations like Spain and Italy, which have been especially hit hard by the pandemic and are looking for as much help as they can get. Michel's latest proposals reduce the proportion of grants in the rescue package and raise the proportion of loans that will need to be paid back, in an apparent enticement for a group of “frugal” nations led by the Netherlands, said an EU diplomat, who requested anonymity because the talks were still ongoing. But the issue of how to track the rescue money remains the key sticking point, the diplomat said. Michel has proposed a measure that would stop short of allowing any country a veto on how governments spend the money. Another diplomat described Michel's new proposals as just the first step in what could be a long journey to agreement. The diplomat also spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss the closed-door negotiations. Kurz said major issues still under discussion include the rule of law in EU nations and certainty on how the funds will be used. Kurz and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte are among the leaders of four “frugal” nations, also including Sweden and Denmark, that want conditions such as economic reforms attached to EU handouts to help countries recover from the economically devastating hit of the coronavirus pandemic and checks on how the money is being spent. (AP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/eu-leaders-extend-summit-as-they-haggle-over-budget-virus/articleshow/77044993.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||BJP questions Congress over phone-tapping, seeks CBI probe||NEW DELHI: BJP on Saturday demanded a CBI probe into alleged phone-tapping in Rajasthan calling it a “saga of illegalities and concocted lies” and asked if the Gehlot government resorted to “unconstitutional” methods to tap phones of politicians. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra hit back at Congress a day after it cited some audio clips to accuse some saffron party members, including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, of conspiring to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the state. Patra said senior Congress functionaries, including CM Gehlot, have been claiming that these audio clips are authentic “even though the FIR registered by police does not say so”. “We want to ask the Congress high command and Ashok Gehlot. Was phone-tapping done? Assuming that you’ve taped phones, were the SOPs, mandated by the home ministry, followed? Is it that the Congress government was in the crisis due to internal rift and resorted to illegal norms to save itself?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-questions-congress-over-phone-tapping-seeks-cbi-probe/articleshow/77045003.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Ashok Gehlot may have to expand ministry||NEW DELHI: The Congress leadership, which backed Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the power tussle, now wants him to take urgent correctives to restore stability in the state unit. With the disqualification process triggered by Sachin Pilot’s revolt in court and the possibility of a protracted battle looming, insiders believe that while the state government may have staved off the initial challenge, it will be vulnerable in the coming months in view of thin numbers following the recent defections. The Congress leadership expects three initiatives from Gehlot to revive the spirit in the Congress camp. Sources said Gehlot will soon have to undertake a ministerial expansion to accommodate aspirations within as well as to give the government the look of a performing machine. Simultaneously, the CM will have to fill up the vacancies in state corporations and boards which are traditionally used to reward party legislators and key members who are left out of the ministry. A senior party office-bearer pointed to an interesting aside on why appointments to the boards and corporations have not been made for over a year after the Lok Sabha election. Given the split between Gehlot and Pilot, and the leadership pushing to give adequate importance to then state unit chief, it was agreed that appointments will be made with the joint signatures of Gehlot and Pilot. Now that Pilot has bolted, Gehlot is expected to accommodate aspirations without delay. Though a majority has sided with Gehlot, there are complaints from MLAs that the government is dominated by bureaucracy and elected representatives are not given due importance in their own con-stituencies, which is weakening their position among the electorate. Detailed views of MLAs were sought recently by Congress trouble-shooters and a report has been submitted to the central leadership. As a result, MLAs are likely to get a greater say in deciding the officials to be posted in their districts. The three steps are viewed as correctives which will help in restoring a sense of calm in the legislature group. While Congress had a decent gap in the legislature over archrival BJP, the Pilot-led defections, irrespective of the fate of disqualification of rebels, will make the government vulnerable to mischief by foes and brinkmanship from dissidents within. However, sources said the steps may have to wait for a few days as uncertainty will remain till a clarity emerges on the disqualification petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ashok-gehlot-may-have-to-expand-ministry/articleshow/77045007.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Rajasthan ACB books 3 Cong MLAs in audio tape case||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Saturday filed FIRs against Congress MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh, following a complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi regarding audio clips with conversations on alleged move to topple the state government, even as Special Operations Group (SOG) personnel continued to camp at Delhi to take statements of those allegedly heard in the clips. According to officials, the team had gone to Delhi to serve summons to the MLAs named in one of the two FIRs lodged on the complaint by Joshi. On Friday, Joshi had filed a complaint with the ACB, following which the FIR was registered. “Joshi also handed over the audio clips to us,” said DG, ACB, Alok Tripathi. Joshi’s complaint, however, does not mention the name of the Union minister whose voice too has been allegedly heard. ACB officials said the audio recordings will be sent to the forensic science laboratory to ascertain if they are authentic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-acb-books-3-cong-mlas-in-audio-tape-case/articleshow/77045010.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Mayawati slams Gehlot, seeks Prez rule in Rajasthan||LUCKNOW: BSP chief Mayawati, who lost all six of her MLAs in Rajasthan to Congress last year, on Saturday demanded President’s rule in the state. The former UP CM, who used to support the Congress government in Rajasthan and the erstwhile one in MP from outside, said Gehlot “stabbed BSP in the back” for the second time in 2019 by luring away her MLAs just like he had done in 2008. “Now, by getting their phones tapped, he has again violated the law and the Constitution,” she said. Urging governor Kalraj Mishra to take cognisance of the “internal squabbling and instability” of the Congress government, Mayawati said he should “recommend President’s rule so that democracy does not suffer any more.” BJP jumped into the fray, accusing speaker C P Joshi of not acting on its petition challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs with Congress under the anti-defection law. BJP MLA Madan Dilawar, emailed the Speaker on Friday, reminding him of his petition filed in March. “The Speaker has violated all constitutional powers vested on him by being selective in his approach. He has not even served notices on them (the defecting MLAs), which makes him a fit case for removal from the post of Speaker,” Dilawar said. For Mayawati, the current political crisis in Rajasthan is ostensibly an opportunity to settle old scores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mayawati-slams-gehlot-seeks-prez-rule-in-rajasthan/articleshow/77045033.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 19, 2020||India||Vasundhara Raje breaks her silence on Rajasthan crisis||JAIPUR: BJP member and former Rajasthan chief minister, Vasundhara Raje on Saturday alleged that some people are trying to create confusion on the political developments in Rajasthan and also insisted that she stands with her party and its ideology. Raje’s remarks come on the backdrop of the series of tweets made by Hanuman Beniwal, convenor of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party and Nagaur MP, on July 16 accusing her of “influencing” MLAs in Sachin Pilot’s camp to help CM Ashok Gehlot save his government. RLP is BJP’s ally in Rajasthan. Responding to the allegations made by her old foe, Raje on Saturday tweeted: “Some people constantly are trying to create confusion related to the political crises in the state. From the past three decades, I am a dedicated party worker and serving people. I stand with the party and its ideology.” The former Rajasthan chief minister, who had maintained a conspicuous silence till now on the political developments in the state, took to Twitter and said that it is unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan are paying for the discord within Congress. Congress is trying to shift the blame on BJP and the BJP leadership, she said. The interest of the people must be paramount for the government, Raje said while asking Congress to think about the public. “There is no point in trying to drag BJP and BJP members’ names through the mud. It is the interest of our people that must remain paramount!” she said in a statement posted on Twitter. Raje also went on to list the many problems that the people of Rajasthan are currently facing. “At a time when Covid-19 has claimed more than 500 lives and positive cases are close to 28,000, locust attacking the farmers, crime against women is an all-time high, problem of electricity across the state… think of the people,” she posted on twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vasundhara-raje-breaks-her-silence-on-rajasthan-crisis/articleshow/77045024.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Patna||LJP chief thanks PM for sending team, says situation ‘exploding’||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Saturday thanked PM Narendra Modi for sending a Union health ministry team to Bihar for monitoring the Covid-19 scenario. Political observers, however, said the Paswan junior also made a veiled attempt to undermine the steps being taken by the Nitish Kumar government in tackling Covid-19 pandemic as he mentioned that the situation in Bihar was “exploding”. “The way corona has spread its tentacles in Bihar and the way the situation is exploding in the state, it is definitely becoming a cause of concern for people in Bihar. In the light of such a situation, the Centre has decided to send a team to Bihar to bring the situation under control,” Chirag said in a statement on Saturday. The Jamui MP had criticized the Nitish government earlier this week as well on the issue of collapse of an approach road to Sattarghat bridge over Gandak river, connecting Gopalganj and West Champaran. “Any work done by utilizing people’s money should have been done maintaining highest quality. This kind of incident raises a question in people’s mind about zero corruption,” Chirag had tweeted on Thursday. Political observers claimed that Chirag’s statements is somewhat similar to that of the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who had flayed the Nitish government on the issue of Sattarghat bridge and also on the issue of central team visiting the state to monitor the Covid situation as well. “Central team is coming in the light of frightening and serious situation with regard to spread of Covid-19 in Bihar. I would like to thank these officers who have decided to come to Bihar and take the command, acknowledging the inefficacy and failure of state government. I would request steps to initiate as per correct assessment of ground scenario, getting special assistance from the central government, including oxygen concentrator and testing kits in large numbers,” Tejashwi said in a statement issued on Saturday. JD(U), on the other hand, denied the claims of Chirag as well as Tejashwi that the situation was “alarming” or “exploding” in Bihar. “Covid cases have risen in nine big states in the recent days and Bihar is taking all possible steps for containing the situation. CM Nitish has issued instructions over the past few days to increase testing facilities and enhance other medical measures. Nonetheless, coordination between central and state governments is a welcome step,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. BJP also defended the Nitish government. “There is no doubt that Nitish ji is leading by example in tackling Covid-19 pandemic. The central government is providing every possible help and also sending the central team to Bihar, which is a welcome step. Covid-19 can be tackled in India with the collective effort of the Union and state governments. Opposition must stop crying foul,” BJP’ spokesperson Nikhil Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-chief-thanks-pm-for-sending-team-says-situation-exploding/articleshow/77043156.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 19, 2020||Patna||Four IAS & 6 BAS officers to tackle pandemic in city||PATNA: The state government on Saturday deputed four newly recruited IAS officers and six Bihar Administrative Service (BAS) officers in Patna collectorate to help the district administration in tackling the Covid-19 spread. Besides, two BAS officers each were also deputed at Gaya and Bhagalpur collectorates for the same reason, according to a general administration department’s order. The IAS officers on probation are Naveen Kumar posted in Rohtas, Sumit Kumar in Nalanda, Vikram Virkar in Samastipur and Deepak Kumar Mishra in Supaul. They have been deputed at Patna collectorate till further orders. The BAS officers deputed at Patna collectorate are Vivek Kumar presently posted at Muzaffarpur, Rishav in Supaul, Vijay Kumar in Khagaria, Shashi Bhushan in Sitamarhi, Balendu Narayan Pandey in Madhubani and Ravi Prakash Gautam in Jamui. Prashant Ramania posted in Nawada and Atul Anand in Katihar have been deputed at Gaya collectorate while Amulya Ratna posted in Begusarai and Ajay Kumar in Banka will help the Bhagalpur administration. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the officers would be deployed at PMCH and NMCH for coordinating, managing, assisting and monitoring the situation with the respective hospital superintendents. “The aim is that superintendents must remain focused on core medical issues. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar had suggested the deputation of senior officers for monitoring important institutions involved in tackling Covid-19 pandemic. The need of these officers was felt during discussion in a recent high-level meeting,” he said. Ravi said more officers would be deployed in the civil surgeon office and for monitoring the isolation and testing centres. “We have already deployed BAS officers at AIIMS-Patna for coordination,” he said. The DM said all these efforts were being made so that common people don’t face hassles due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-ias-6-bas-officers-to-tackle-pandemic-in-city/articleshow/77042662.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 19, 2020||Surat||Daman may allow single-day travellers from Gujarat||Surat: Bachhus from Gujarat desperate to rush to the watering hole Daman can say cheers!The administration of the union territory (UT) may allow single-day tourist permits for people wanting to come and spend a ‘spirited’ day in Daman. Following a strong representation from the lockdown-battered hotels and restaurant owners, the administration has started preparing guidelines to issue e-passes for morning-to-evening visitors.Daman, which had successfully staved off the Covid-19 spread during lockdown, has seen a spurt in cases after the relaxations were announced on June 1. There are nearly 314 cases in the UT, majority of those infected being migrant workers and employees living in adjoining Vapi and Valsad towns but working in the industrial units. At present, only those visiting Daman for official purposes or in case of extreme emergency are issued e-passes to enter for a day, while there is a ban on the entry of the leisure travellers to contain Covid-19 spread. However, the Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA), had represented the administration to issue e-passes for the one-day visitors in the territory to save their businesses from sinking. Restaurants and hotels are operating on less than 40% staff as many have moved out after the unlock-1, DHRA said.“Though cases are on the rise, we don’t want the hospitality sector to suffer more losses. We are working on the stringent guidelines to allow single-day visitors. The violation of rules will attract a huge penalty too,” a senior administration officer told TOI.Harish Thangal, secretary, DHRA told TOI: “Daman’s hotel and restaurant business has suffered huge losses since March due to the lockdown and there is a ban on the entry of tourists from other states. We have urged the administration to issue e-passes for the single-day visit to boost the business of the wine shops and restaurants” Recently, DHRA had unanimously decided that all the hotels in Daman will give one-night free stay on booking for one or more nights, room tariff discounts ranging from 15-20%, facilitating customers with the inexpensive liquor and beer and discounts on the restaurant bills.Gopal Tandel, a hotel owner said, “Hoteliers are getting about 70-80 bookings in the week days, while the numbers have increased to 250-300 after discounts launched by the association. If single-day travellers are allowed, we can expect good business.” 12 cases in DiuRajkot: Diu, another favourite tourist spot, is, however, not allowing tourists from the red zones. On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 cases were registered in the UT that borders districts of Saurashtra. In all, 21 have recovered and discharged.Diu collector Saloni Rai said, "We are not permitting tourists from the red zone but people only from adjoining districts. A tourist who wants to visit Diu needs to get e-permission. Moreover, the tourist spots are also closed, so there are very few people coming."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-may-allow-single-day-travellers-from-gujarat/articleshow/77043740.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Surat||Rs 72 crore relief to 19 lakh DGVCL customers in power bills||Surat: At a time when their all-round disgruntlement from hefty power bills, the Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Limited (DGVCL) has claimed to have provided relief to the tune of about Rs 72 crore in electricity bills to its 19 lakh residential users in south Gujarat. General manager of DGVCL, NA Dave said, “As announced by the state government, we have provided financial relief in the electricity bills due to the lockdown and pandemic. In the electricity bills for May and June issued in July, about 9 lakh residential users have been provided with Rs 36 crore worth of relief and about 10 lakh customers more will get another Rs 36 crore worth of relief in their next billing period for their bills paid for April and May.”Dave further said that the state directive stated that if the monthly electricity usage is 200 units or less, customers are liable for one-time relief of 100 units and non-payment of fixed charges. “All the bills have been issued as per the average counting of the units of electricity used for six months prior to the lockdown was imposed in March,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-72-crore-relief-to-19-lakh-dgvcl-customers-in-power-bills/articleshow/77043780.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hubballi||PU college lecturers’ recruitment remains a mirage||Dharwad: Will the government really conduct counselling and issue appointment orders to the candidates selected for the post of lecturers in government PU colleges in the state? This question is being asked by 1,203 candidates, who have been selected for the post after clearing the recruitment test held by the Karnataka Examination Authority in 2018. Though minister for primary and secondary education Suresh Kumar has on Thursday announced that the counselling for posting of newly selected lecturers will be held soon and appointment orders will be issued, many candidates are not ready to take his words for granted. Earlier also the dates have been announced only to be postponed, said a candidate. The notification for filling up of 1203 posts of lecturers was issued in 2015 and the test was held three years later in 2018. It took another year for evaluation of answer sheets and announcement of the list of selected candidates. The verification marks card, caste certificate, income certificate and other documents was also completed and it was informed that the counselling will be held after March 23, this year that is after the completion of II PU examination. When the examination for the last paper (English) was postponed indefinitely due to lockdown Minister Suresh Kumar had assured that the counselling will be held after June 18. Following pressure from MLCs, July 8 was fixed for counselling. The PUE department even announced the date on July 6 on its website only to withdraw it quickly. Meanwhile, the government announced a ban on all appointments and said there will be no appointments in 2020-2021. This came as a shock to the candidates who were on the verge of crossing the age limit for appointment. Hoping to get the appointment order many had left their private jobs. Now the minister has now said that the finance department has given green signal for counselling and appointment. “There is another hitch. Several senior lecturers who are seeking transfer to different places where the posts are vacant, want the process of transfer to be completed before holding the counselling for fresh candidates. This may further delay the counselling” said a candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pu-college-lecturers-recruitment-remains-a-mirage/articleshow/77043973.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 19, 2020||Surat||Three diamond units ordered to shut down, nine penalised||Surat: Three diamond units in Varachha ordered to shut down by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) for the violation of the standard operating procedure (SPO) guidelines, while nine units were penalised for not following social distancing and compulsory face masks norm on Saturday.Official sources said that the diamond factories in Varachha including Shreeji Gems, RK Industry and Gemini Exports were shut after the civic officials found more than one diamond worker being made to sit on the emery wheel used for cutting and polishing of diamonds. Nine other diamond factories including six units in Varachha and three units in Katargam were penalised and fine to the tune of Rs 40,000 was collected from them for violation of government norms.Sources said that about 32 diamond units in Varachha and Katargam and more than 10 textile markets on Ring Road were surveyed by the SMC officials on Saturday. Meanwhile, the city recorded 203 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total number of cases in the city to 8,310 on Saturday. About seven Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions succumbed to the infection on Saturday. While five patients died at the New Civil Hospital (NCH), one each died at the SMIMER and Girish Group of hospitals. A senior officer said, “Out of the seven deaths, three deceased are from the Katargam zone and two are from Rander zone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-diamond-units-ordered-to-shut-down-nine-penalised/articleshow/77043820.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Dang’s international athletes take new terrain to hone skills||SURAT: While the country grapples with the ravaging pandemic, two Dang athletes have not let the novel coronavirus cloud their dream — the Olympic diadem — and their quest to bring home a medal one day. While the restrictions owing to the spread of infection impacted their required training infrastructure, it could scarcely dent their zeal. Shorn of modular fitness tracks and other stadium paraphernalia, Sarita Gayakwad, 26, and Murli Gavit, 23, both international athletes representing India from the tribal district, have chosen to hone their skills through the natural habitat. Before the global lockdown, the duo was practising abroad for their Olympic medal target. Sarita was lucky to reach home in Karadi Amba village in Ahwa before the lockdown was imposed, but Murli, who is also popularly known as Dang Express, could return from Kenya only after lockdown was lifted in June through the Vande Bharat Mission flight. Large parts of Dang on the Sahyadri mountain range are covered with forests while the virgin land still escapes the spoiling effect of urbanization and industrialization. Talking to TOI, Sarita said, “I am at home for more than three months now and missing the high-level training. But I have been running and exercising on our hills and forest tracks to maintain good fitness levels.” Even the online lessons are hampered in the remote Karadi Amba village owing to poor internet connectivity, the sprinter added. Sarita was in Poland when the coronavirus outbreak started and she had returned to India before the global lockdown took effect. After spending a few days in Patiala, she came back to her native. “Weight training is not possible without gymnasium and guidance, even though I do fitness exercises and running...,” said the athlete, who toils hard in their farm to replenish the lost workouts. Her family is cultivating rice, black gram (urad) and ragi (nagli) crops this season. “I hope to return to proper training infrastructure in Nadiad or Patiala in August,” she added. Murli was training in Kenya, now climbs two kilometres on the Payermal hill near his village Kumar Bandh, multiple times in a day. “There is a tableland on top and I run multiple rounds there each of around 2km. I practice running on the hills and the roads to stay fit,” said the athlete who got stuck in the global lockdown in the foreign land. Sarita, who has won at least 11 international medals and 40 national, is preparing for 400X4 relay running. Murli who won 3 international and 15 national medals, is practising for 5,000 and 10,000 metre running.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dangs-intl-athletes-take-new-terrain-to-hone-skills/articleshow/77044143.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Update details of every patient, West Bengal govt tells hospitals||KOLKATA: The state health department has asked all Covid facilities in Bengal to update patient treatment details in a centralised portal for effective monitoring. The Protocol Monitoring Team (PMT), which has been visiting Covid facilities randomly, has noticed “certain lacunae in practice that needs urgent rectification”. The team has been regularly nudging the Covid facilities to adhere to the laid down treatment and discharge protocols. Experts visiting Covid facilities have noticed that hospitals were not adhering to the revised discharge protocols issued on May 22. In the new SOP, attending doctors can discharge mild, pre-symptomatic and moderate patients if they have no fever for three days and have stable blood-oxygen level. Doctor are required to advice week-long home quarantine with no requirement for a Covid-negative test. For moderate cases, doctors need to see whether patients are without fever for three days and can maintain oxygen saturation without support. Doctors are required to conduct an RT-PCR test after clinical recovery only in severe cases. Sources said some hospitals were not discharging patients with even moderate symptoms, clogging up beds that severe patients require. To enable centralised monitoring, the health department has asked the hospitals treating Covid patients to complete all entries for new patients that are admitted, including all symptoms and co-morbidities, at the time of admission. Stress has also been laid on a once-a-day update on the Early Warning Score of every patient, a diagnostic tool to determine the degree of illness that can indicate whether the patient's condition is improving or worsening. Laboratory investigation data and all details related to discharge or deaths should also be updated, the order states. On Saturday, in a fresh advisory, the state made it mandatory for hospitals to record the oxygen precipitation device being used, rate of oxygen flow and target oxygen saturation of the patient. The ventilation strategy for each patient will also have to be clearly displayed and adhered to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/update-details-of-every-patient-govt-tells-hospitals/articleshow/77043581.cms||Saibal Sen
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Six suicides reported in Ahmedabad in 2 days||AHMEDABAD: Six cases of suicide have occurred in the city in two days: on Thursday and Friday. The victims are two women and four men. Chandrakant Jogadia, 27, of Dholka Road in Sarkhej hanged himself on Friday. Sarkhej police are trying to determine the reason. Smit Shah, 28, of Paldi hanged himself on Thursday. The reason is yet to be ascertained. Naresh Solanki, 33, of Odhav — who had been staying in Gomtipur for about 20 days — hanged himself on Friday. Clues are being gathered. Kajal Surani, 32, of Bapunagar killed herself on Friday. Bapunagar police are probing the case. She had also hanged herself. Nayna Desai, 43, of Jashodanagar hanged herself on Friday. Dinesh Bharwad, 30, of CTM committed suicide by jumping into Kharicut canal on Friday. Police officials said he had divorced his wife about five years ago and was depressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-suicides-reported-in-city-in-2-days/articleshow/77043792.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||12 cases in Diu||Rajkot: Diu, another favourite tourist spot, is, however, not allowing tourists from the red zones. On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 cases were registered in the UT that borders districts of Saurashtra. In all, 21 have recovered and discharged. Diu collector Saloni Rai said, "We are not permitting tourists from the red zone but people only from adjoining districts. A tourist who wants to visit Diu needs to get e-permission. Moreover, the tourist spots are also closed, so there are very few people coming."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/12-cases-in-diu/articleshow/77043767.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Many districts start rapid antigen tests for Covid-19||PATNA: Several districts have started rapid antigen test and initiated steps to increase the number of Covid-19 tests after chief minister Nitish Kumar asked them on Friday to do so. The CM has asked the officials to increase the testing capacity to 20,000 per day. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the 25 centres identified in the district have started rapid antigen test on Saturday. “It is strictly for symptomatic people as rapid antigen test gives immediate results and the required treatment can be started if someone is found infected with the virus. No one with symptoms needs to come with any prescription. Doctors and health workers have been deployed at all the centres for screening and testing purpose,” Ravi said and added: “Asymptomatic people can go for RT-PCR test.” “For any query, one can call on district helpline number 0612-2249964,” Ravi said. Apart from the 25 centres, five mobile teams have been formed to visit containment zones and collect samples of elderly and people with disabilities, the DM said. He said the target is to test 700 samples through RT-PCR method. A week earlier, 300 samples were tested through rapid antigen and 200 through TrueNat. “These are apart from tests being conducted by PMCH, NMCH and AIIMS-Patna. Also, at least 5,000 people in Patna have got themselves tested at private laboratories,” Ravi said. The Gaya district administration has also started rapid antigen testing facility at its two sub-divisional hospitals and one district hospital from Friday. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said rapid antigen facility was started at its two sub-divisional hospital and one district hospital from Friday and at five more places from Saturday. Earlier, they were testing 350 samples per day, but now they will be testing 700 samples per day. East Champaran DM Shirsat Kapil Ashok said the target is to test 435 samples per day. “We will start rapid antigen test from Sunday at Raxaul, Dhaka and Areraj sub-divisional hospitals. In a week’s time, it will be started at three more sub-divisional hospitals,” he said. Jehanabad DM Navin Kumar said rapid antigen test was being done at all the PHCs from Thursday. “On Friday, 125 samples were tested through rapid antigen method and 85 through TrueNat machine, apart from 30 samples for RT-PCR test,” he said. Some PHCs in Patna with rapid antigen test facility: UPHC, Jai Prabha Hospital, Kankarbagh, UPHC Secretariat premises, UPHC, East Lohanipur, UPHC Rukanpura, UPHC Postal Park, Guru Gobind Singh Hospital, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital, Rajvanshi Nagar and Gardanibagh Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-districts-start-rapid-antigen-tests-for-covid-19/articleshow/77042625.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Home ministry writes to West Bengal on steady case spike||KOLKATA: A Union health ministry letter expressing concern over the rising Covid cases has prompted the state government to argue on Saturday that the situation was not alarming since a mere 662, or 4.5%, of the affected were serious and the death rate was ‘very close’ to the national average. Addressing the media at Nabanna, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said 87% of the Covid positives in Bengal were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, which proved that the state was capable of dealing with the pandemic and had acted faster than its spread. “Look at both the macro and micro pictures instead of just the numbers. As on today, out of 14,709 active cases in Bengal, only 662 patients are in serious category while 1,250 are moderate. That means only 1,912 patients need to be in hospital. The rest — 12,796 — are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Is it a big number? There is no need to panic for the numbers are rising in a normal progression. If you look at some of the other states, you will realize that there’s nothing alarming in Bengal,” said Sinha. The health ministry letter issued on Friday said Bengal had been reporting 1600 cases daily and 93% of the total active cases in the state were reported in the last four days. “Kolkata, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas as well as emerging hotspots in Jhargram, Purulia, East Midnapore, Hooghly and Nadia need immediate attention,” said the letter. It also mentioned that the overall testing in the state “remains very low vis-à-vis national average”. Sinha, however, claimed that the testing rate in Bengal met the WHO-recommended standard. “We have reached 144 per million and the target is 275 in a month. We shall raise the number of tests to 25,000 daily from 13,000 now,” added Sinha. The letter also mentioned a few areas of concern and listed action points to be followed at the state level. While suggesting a hospital-wise fatality analysis, the communication also recommended rapid audit of hospitals and facilities. Hoping that the number of cases will come down drastically in the next few weeks owing to the measures taken, the chief secretary said, “The death rate in the state is not alarming. When the national average is 2.5%, it is 2.7% in Bengal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/home-ministry-writes-to-state-on-steady-case-spike/articleshow/77043557.cms||Saibal Gupta
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata municipal corporation told to preserve bodies properly, rope in more hearses||KOLKATA: Alapan Bandyopadhyay, state home secretary and the Covid nodal officer for Kolkata, on Saturday asked Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) officials to ensure that bodies of Covid victims are preserved properly at a KMC-run mortuary before sending them to the corona-designate crematorium at Dhapa. This measure, according to a KMC health department official, was urgently needed to take the load off hospitals — both government and private — as they hardly have the infrastructure to preserve a large number of bodies. According to a KMC source, when the state home secretary raised the preservation issue, civic officials assured him that bodies of Covid victims could be kept at Peace World, the KMC-run mortuary at Topsia. “We have a facility to accommodate 24 bodies at one go. We have assured the state home secretary that we could arrange for proper preservation of bodies at our mortuary,” said a KMC health official. The state home secretary also wanted to increase the number of hearse so that funeral of Covid victims can take place without delay and the families are spared of the trauma of waiting for the last rites. “I have asked the civic officials to take a holistic view so far as cremation of Covid victims is concerned. Besides stressing on preservation of bodies, I have also asked them to rope in private agencies for providing more such vehicles so that last rites of Covid victims can be performed without delay,” Bandyopadhyay said. Bandyopadhyay on Saturday held a meeting at the KMC headquarters to take stock of the ongoing Covid combat policy in Kolkata and suggested measures that will improve the overall prevention and management of the pandemic. He has asked the civic body to expedite creation of safe houses and institutional quarantine centres besides roping in clubs to increase the number of ambulances for ferrying Covid patients. “We are working overtime to convert a couple of stadia off EM Bypass into safe houses for asymptomatic Covid patients and those with mild symptoms,” said a senior civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-told-to-preserve-bodies-properly-rope-in-more-hearses/articleshow/77043589.cms||Saikat Ray
July 19, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Fan who ran 400km backwards for Amitabh Bachchan, prays for his recovery||VADODARA: He ran backwards for over 400km to pray at Siddhi Vinayak temple in Mumbai for the recovery of Amitabh Bachchan who was critical after a serious injury during the shooting for the film ‘Coolie’ in 1982. Bachchan recovered and the Bollywood icon even met Arvind Pandya when he reached Mumbai. Pandya has a prayer on his lips for Bachchan and would repeated the 38-year-old feat, but for the Covid-19 outbreak. “My body still has the energy and the heart is determined, but the present Covid-19 situation is such that I would prefer to work for others suffering in the city and help them,” said Pandya who is actively involved in relief and other work related to Covid-19. Pandya, who was practising backwards running in 1982, made his first long run from the Siddhi Vinayak temple in Vadodara to the famous one in in Mumbai. “Amitabhiji’s father Harivanshrai Bachchan had come to the temple in Mumbai and taken me to their residence. Amiitabhji met me and we shared an emotional moment together. While I got a special attention in the media and he mentioned me on the social media and TV show, I believe that he got well due to the prayers of many like me,” Pandya said. Pandya added that the superstar’s wife Jaya Bachchan had also tied rakhi to him. “I visited their house later too for getting the rakhi tied and then with my wife after my marriage. My last visit was in 2012,” said Pandya. Pandya said that he does not use a smart phone and was unaware of Amitabh testing positive for Covid-19 till others called him up to inform him. “I pray for him and everyone. I want all of us to come out of this pandemic successfully. I have been training people in building their immunity through yoga and Ayurveda,” said Pandya. After his run to Mumbai, Pandya travelled from Los Angeles to New York to collect funds for the Nargis Dutt Memorial Foundation for helping cancer patients after a meeting with late Bollywood star and MP Sunil Dutt. He set a Guinness record with this run and says that it still stands. Subsequently, he ran twice in the UK and even in India for different causes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fan-who-ran-400km-backwards-for-big-b-prays-for-his-recovery/articleshow/77042889.cms||Sachin Sharma
July 19, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Geologist turns entrepreneur, generates jobs||DAVANAGERE: A globe-trotting geolosit turns a jaggery manufacturer, and enjoys sweet success in the latest profession too. Meet Niranjan Murthy Doggalli, an MSc (geology) from Kuvempu University, who carves a niche in all that he does. The geologist, after having worked at various mining companies in Indonesia, Philippines, Iran, Congo, Zambia and Nigeria for over a decade, returned to Kariganur village, his hometown in Channagiri taluk of Davanagere district. The 39-year-old set up an organic jaggery plant by investing Rs 60 lakh to give rural economy a push by providing jobs to locals. Though he was earning well as a geologist, he came back to his native to start an industry of his choice. Prior to that, he and a team of youth from Kariganur visited Belagavi to gain experience in jaggery-making. “State Canegrowers’ Federation chairman Tejashwi Patel influenced me to take this up,” Niranjan said, adding that he is supported by his family in running the machinised plant. His wife Vimala, an MSc (computers), his parents and 30 labourers have divided among themselves tasks like harvesting, processing, packing, machinery maintenance and marketing. Besides growing organic surgarcane on 16acres, Niranjan keeps encouraging other farmers to grow only organic cane. He also buys their harvest. At a time, two tonnes of cane is crushed in a crucible to get 1,000 litres of juice, using which 200kg of jaggery is produced. The jaggery is made in different types — powder, golis, pellets and bucket type. “As part of value addition, we also make ‘maaldi’, a nutrition-rick snack. Many people are switching to organic products to boost their immunity,” he said, adding: “Our jaggery has good demand in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Chikkamagaluru, Udupi, Shivamogga, Haveri, Hubballi and Davanagere. What’s more, we also give nine-month guarantee (shelf life) to our powder/ granule-type jaggery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-geologist-turns-entrepreneur-generates-jobs/articleshow/77044641.cms||SA Gangaraju
July 19, 2020||Patna||Ashwini Kumar Choubey lauds Bhagalpur institute for technology to detect coronavirus||BHAGALPUR: Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey on Saturday lauded the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT)-Bhagalpur for developing an innovative technology, which it claims can detect Covid-19 infection by reading chest x-ray films or plates. The artificial intelligence (AI)-based software technology developed with the help of a computer can read the scanned chest x-ray film or plate as well as computerized tomography (CT) scan uploaded to the computer in less than one second. Choubey, while praising the IIT-Bhagalpur team headed by institute director Dr Prof Arvind Choubey and fellow assistant professor Sandip Raj for developing the technology, said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and ministry of health are looking into this unique research to test run and validate the new technology, by which precious time and money will be saved in diagnosing Covid-19 infection. The IIIT-Bhagalpur’s director said the sample testing using the technology was done recently in the presence of a team of doctors and experts at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) and it was 100% successful. “The cost of Covid-19 diagnosis through this technology would be less than Rs100 as compared to conventional microbiological swab tests, that vary between Rs3,500 and Rs5,000. It also saves precious time of two-three days to get the test results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-lauds-bhagalpur-institute-for-technology-to-detect-coronavirus/articleshow/77043211.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 19, 2020||Shimla||Don’t issue disability certificates with caveats: Himachal Pradesh high court||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh high court has expressed concern over the practice of medical officers issuing disability certificates with the caveat that they are not valid for court cases or for claiming compensation. The court observed that if this practice is not ended, medical officers would issue certificates with no judicial relevance, thereby encouraging misuse of false and fabricated certificates. The court has directed additional chief secretary (health) to look into the matter and issue necessary directions within four weeks. The move came in the wake of a petition filed in high court by a school lecturer challenging her transfer order. In the petition, she submitted that she was handicapped, for which she had produced a disability certificate issued on June 4, 1994. The court found that the certificate had not been issued by a competent authority like a medical board. “Now, if at all, the petitioner is handicapped to the extent as mentioned in the certificate, we see no reason why she should not have got herself examined from the medical board and having failed to do so, this court is required to draw adverse inference against her,” observed the division bench of Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua. Besides, the court found that the school the petitioner had been transferred to is a drive-in school with ample parking space on the premises. The court found no merit in the petition and dismissed it. However, the court observed that the practice of medical officers regularly issuing disability certificates with the rider that they are not valid for court cases or for claiming compensations is a cause for concern. “We really fail to appreciate, comprehend and understand as to under which provision and authority such kinds of certificates are being issued. After all, there is a presumption of regularity of official act and therefore, we would assume that the concerned medical officers/CMOs must have examined and thereafter satisfied himself before issuing such certificates,” the court said. The court said once a certificate is issued by a medical officer, he cannot be permitted to back out from the contents of the certificate fearing prosecution. It said that the court is bound to see whether the medical officer has the authority to issue such certificates. In case the contents of the same are found to be false in whole or in part, then the medical officer issuing such certificate is liable for penal, departmental or any other action that may be warranted under law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hc-dont-issue-disability-certificates-with-caveats/articleshow/77043839.cms||Anand Bodh
July 19, 2020||Patna||Kankarbagh, Patna City, Barh and Danapur new buffer zones||PATNA: The Patna district administration has created buffer zones in Kankarbagh, Patna City, Barh subdivision and Danapur as the number of Covid-19 cases has increased in these areas. A buffer zone was created in Rajeev Nagar on Friday after several Covid positive cases were reported from adjoining localities. Patna DM Kumar Ravi told this newspaper on Saturday that the officials concerned have been asked to complete the data analysis of four other areas and club the containment zones into one buffer zone. “The number of containment zones in Danapur has been reduced to 53 from 58 as five were included into the buffer zone. One buffer zone each has been created in Transport Nagar and Sultanganj by clubbing four and three containment zones respectively. Around 41 new cases were reported from Kankarbagh where a bigger buffer zone was created by combining eight containment zones, including Ram Lakhan Path and Ashok Nagar localities. Khajekalan is also made a buffer zone as more positive cases were reported,” Ravi said. “Many people living near the containment zones share the same shops and common areas. So, we clubbed these containment zones to create big buffer zones. Stricter measures will be adopted and intensive door-to-door surveillance would be conducted in these areas,” he said. A buffer zone is also demarcated like containment zones to curb the spread of virus by urging everyone to exercise extreme caution while going about their lives. In buffer zones, restrictions will be placed up to 5km from every active cluster. For a cluster, that radius expands to 3km with an additional 2km buffer zone. These buffer zones are monitored by the SDOs. Explaining the difference between containment and buffer zones, the DM said, “A containment zone has a stricter form of the lockdown and no activities are allowed for 14 days. People are not allowed to leave or enter such areas. While a buffer zone is a certain area marked outside the containment zone. In a buffer zone, essential shops like medicine stores, grocery stores, milk booths and fruit and vegetable shops will be allowed to operate during a fixed time period.” Social distancing norms and other safety measures have to be followed by the residents. Besides, movement out of buffer zones are allowed only for essential works and in emergency situation. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said health workers, media personnel and government officials living in the buffer zones can move in and out without restrictions by showing their identification cards. “There is no restriction over the movement of people who need urgent health services,” he said and added: “If no new Covid-19 positive case is registered in a buffer zone in 28 days, the district authorities permits the resumption of regular activities there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kankarbagh-patna-city-barh-and-danapur-new-buffer-zones/articleshow/77043047.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Airlines start thermal checks at boarding point to nab errant flyers||KOLKATA: Several airlines on Saturday began boarding-point thermal checks on passengers to ensure that a person with high body temperature did not slip into the aircraft and put other flyers at risk. The move followed Friday’s incident, in which a passenger fell ill while waiting for the plane after avoiding detection during the mandatory thermal screening at the terminal entrance. The passenger, who began experiencing body ache and breathlessness, later admitted he had taken a paracetamol tablet before reaching the airport to ensue that his temperature dipped. The youth from Nadia later attempted to escape from the airport, but was caught and sent to a government Covid facility in New Town. Prior to the lockdown, Indians returning from abroad had been popping paracetamol tablets before touchdown to avoid being quarantined on arrival. Aware that if a person with fever does board a flight, the flyer could infect others on board, airlines on Saturday decided to conduct a second round of thermal checks prior to boarding. Though all airlines have purchased thermal guns, they have been reluctant to carry out checks as it is time consuming. But after Friday’s incident, airline officials in Kolkata felt it was better to be safe than sorry. “This attitude of flyers taking medicine to suppress fever and other medical conditions is scary. They are not only harming themselves but putting co-passengers and airline and airport staff at risk. Hence, we are now stressing on a second level of pre-boarding thermal check of all passengers before they leave the boarding gate and head towards the aircraft,” said a senior official of a private airline at the Kolkata airport. Some carriers have also decided to conduct random checks on board before the door is closed, minutes before departure. Till Friday, passengers entering the airport had to only undergo the mandatory thermal check at the airport entrance. Though the SOP prepared by the civil aviation ministry prior to resumption of domestic flights in May-end had called for thermal checks at the entrance and prior to boarding, airlines had been skirting the responsibility till now. “In its guidelines, the civil aviation ministry had advised airlines to conduct pre-boarding thermal checks on passengers. If the airlines begin doing it now, it will certainly help ensure safe air travel,” said a senior official of the city airport. In the last few weeks, there have been multiple cases of passengers trying to cheat the thermal gun and bluffing about their conditions while providing health- and travel-related declarations during web check-in, as well as on Aarogya Setu app. Last Tuesday, an asymptomatic Covid patient flew to Kolkata from Delhi by changing a flight from Guwahati, with a Covid “positive” test report in his pocket. Four weeks ago, two asymptomatic engineers from Chennai had come to Kolkata and hired a cab to their hometown in Midnapore. They went straight to a local Covid hospital and sought admission showing Covid-positive certificates they were carrying all the way from Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airlines-start-thermal-checks-at-boarding-point-to-nab-errant-flyers/articleshow/77043594.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 19, 2020||Surat||Dawoodi Bohras set up community isolation centre||SURAT: The Dawoodi Bohra community in Surat has set up a 50-bed Community Covid Isolation Centre (CCIC) at Zampa Bazaar, which was inaugurated by Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani on Saturday. Ten rooms at the Musafirkhana of the community have been converted into the isolation wards for the Covid-19 patients. Addressing the community members on Saturday Pani said, “This is the ninth CCIC for the isolation of the Covid-19 patients. Surat has become a role model in the country where the communities have come forward in the fight against coronavirus. The bed capacity at all the nine CCIC now stands at 800.” Pani added, “If need be, people from other communities could also be kept at the CCICs. The centre will facilitate Covid-19 patients with mild and moderate symptoms who don’t have a facility for home isolation.” A spokesperson of Dawood Bohra community, Murtaza Khambhatwala said, “Under the leadership of his holiness, more beds will be set-up at the CCIC as per the requirement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dawoodi-bohras-set-up-community-isolation-centre/articleshow/77043946.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Surat||Relief for powerloom weavers over anti-dumping duty on nylon yarn||SURAT: In a major relief to the powerloom weaving sector in the city, the textile ministry has opposed the final findings of the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) recommending the imposition of the anti-dumping duty on the nylon multi-filament yarn. In a letter to the deputy secretary of department of revenue, government of India, the textile ministry stated that the nylon multi-filament yarn is a key raw material for the powerloom industry including knitting and weaving and there should not be any anti-dumping duty imposed on the import of yarn from China, Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. Powerloom weavers in Surat, Maharashtra and other states have been opposing the DGTR’s recommendation of imposing anti-dumping duty on the nylon multi-filament yarn. Weavers have stated the quality of nylon yarn manufactured by the domestic yarn spinners was not up to the mark and the weavers are forced to import better quality yarn from other countries to reduce the production loss and to supply quality fabrics in the domestic and international markets. Earlier in February, the textile commissioner’s office had written to the textile ministry stating that against the increase of 19% in the import of nylon multi-filament yarn between 2015 to 2019, the production of yarn in India has increased by almost 24% during the same period. However, there is no injury to the domestic industry and the demand for anti-dumping duty is not justifiable. Member of the textile committee under the ministry of textiles, Bharat Gandhi told TOI, “We welcome the textile ministry’s recommendation to the finance ministry over the anti-dumping duty. There are many qualities of nylon-66 yarn from 10 to 80 deniers which is not manufactured in India and it has to be imported from other countries.” The nylon fabrics are used in the parachute and technical textiles, garments and knitted garments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/relief-for-powerloom-weavers-over-anti-dumping-duty-on-nylon-yarn/articleshow/77043881.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Surat||Masked booby rescued from Magdalla in Surat||SURAT: In a rare rescue, volunteers of an NGO working for environment conservation rescued a masked booby from Tapi river bank near Magdalla area in the city. The bird was in poor health when found a week back. However, it is now recovering at a shelter home and is likely to be released soon. Magdalla is about 10km from the Arabian Sea coastline. “The masked booby is deep sea birds and never come on land. It spends its entire life in deep-sea and even lays eggs on small islands. But it is a mystery even for us as to how this bird reach here,” said Darshan Desai, volunteer of Prayas Team Environment. He said that this was for the first time they had rescued a masked booby. It was also challenging for the NGO volunteers as well When found, it was sitting on the ground. From its behaviour, experts believe that it must have been exhausted due to continuous flying for many hours against the wind. Colour of the bird’s feathers suggested that it was a young bird and not fully matured. “This bird is known for its diving skills. It can dive over 10-feet deep in water to catch fish. It never comes on land but maybe it got dragged on to land with wind current,” Desai said. “The bird is recovering and now it has started moving its wings. Earlier, it was unable to fly despite keeping it in open. Now, it is kept in a cage till its release,” he added. “So far its rescue or presence was not been reported in this side of the country. We are now working on options to release it safely in a manner so that it can reach back to its natural habitat,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/masked-booby-rescued-from-magdalla-in-surat/articleshow/77044075.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ‘Contact your school’ message keeps 81,500 students on edge||MALDA/KOLKATA: More than 81,500 students whose results have not been declared yet have to wait till the end of the month to know their scores. This year, the HS council has asked nearly 10% of students who appeared in the exam to contact the school without clarifying whether they have passed or failed. With the mark sheets reaching schools only on July 31, it is a painful wait for these examinees. Amidst the flurry of 90%+ scorers in the HS, there are also candidates like Neha Halder or Dipankar Basak who are in the dark about how they have performed. The websites, where the results were published, displayed the message “Contact your school”. Both got in touch with school authorities in desperation but the latter cited their inability to help till the mark sheets arrived for distribution on July 31. In previous years, schools distributed the mark sheets of unsuccessful candidates on the same date as publication of the results. These candidates had multiple categories — compartmental, incomplete or unsuccessful. Besides, any report against an examinee from the examination venue for using any unlawful means could lead to the result being ‘withheld’. All of them had to then sit for the exam the following year. But this year, no such categories have been marked yet. Though 90% examinees have passed, the fate of others aren't known. Teachers say the students who have been asked to contact their school have either failed in the exam or got compartmental in one or two subjects. Joydeb Lahiri, headmaster of Dalla High School, said students may have failed in Bengali or English. It is imperative to pass in both the subjects. HS Council, however, has provided a helpline number that will be operative from Monday to clarify questions from the candidates. A senior HS Council official said the process was same every year when the unsuccessful candidates received a message online, asking them to contact their schools. “This year, due to the delay in handing over of the mark sheets and certificates, students may have to wait longer to know their scores. But, to address all anxiety, we have provided a helpline number,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/contact-your-school-message-keeps-81-5k-students-on-edge/articleshow/77043602.cms||Subhro Maitra
July 19, 2020||Patna||East Central Railway to park 300 isolation coaches at 15 stations||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to place around 300 Covid-19 isolation coaches at 15 railway stations falling under its jurisdiction in the state. Two rakes of Covid isolation coaches have already been parked on the platform numbers 6 and 7 at the Patna Junction. Other stations where these coaches are being placed include Sonepur, Narkatiaganj, Jayanagar, Raxaul, Barauni, Muzaffarpur, Saharsa, Siwan, Samastipur, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Chhapra, Katihar and Bhagalpur. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways took a decision in this regard on Thursday after holding consultations with the state government following sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. “As per the decision, 20 such coaches will be placed at each station. The refurbished AC coach will be used for the doctors and nursing staff,” Kumar said, adding at least 16 patients can undergo treatment in each coach comfortably. The CPRO said the isolation coaches are equipped with oxygen cylinder, basic medicines, water and toilet facilities. “It will be the responsibility of the state government to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kit to each patient and take all possible care of them during the isolation period,” the CPRO said. He added, “Railways will ensure proper cleanliness of the isolation coaches. Security, maintenance of the Covid-19 isolation and infrastructure, including electrical and water supply, will also be the responsibility of the railways. Civil surgeon of each district will be the nodal officer to liaison with railway administration for providing better treatment to coronavirus patients.” Besides, the railways has trained healthcare staff in each division of the ECR to take care of the Covid-19 suspects inside the isolation wards. “At least 100 railway doctors in Danapur division are ready to render their services,” the CPRO said. The CPRO added, “The greatest advantage of the ‘hospital on running wheels’ is that it could easily reach any part of the state even in remote places according to the requirement. Railways has converted 269 coaches into isolation wards to quarantine the Covid-19 patients in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-park-300-isolation-coaches-at-15-stations/articleshow/77042828.cms||Kumod Verma
July 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt to pay hotel bills of infected doctors||PATNA: The state government will bear the cost of expenditure incurred by doctors and other health workers, if they opt for hotel isolation after testing positive for Covid-19. A letter in this regard was written by principal health secretary Uday Singh Kumawat on Saturday to all the district magistrates, superintendents of medical colleges and hospitals and civil surgeons. Kumawat also instructed them to admit Covid-19 positive health workers on priority basis at government medical colleges and hospitals as per the severity of symptoms. These facilities are for the doctors and health workers of government health institutes. Kumawat said several health workers were staying in rented accommodation and many of them did not have home isolation facility and were finding it difficult to get themselves quarantined at home. The department has fixed Rs4,000 per room with food for hotels in Patna district, Rs3,000 per room with food for hotels at divisional headquarters and Rs2,500 per room with food for hotels in other district headquarters. This is the maximum limit and DMs can get a room booked at lower rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-pay-hotel-bills-of-infected-doctors/articleshow/77043058.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhopal||Corona claims DSP’s life, record 140 cases take city tally to 4,247||Bhopal: A deputy superintendent of police (DSP), posted in the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), died due to Covid-19 here on Saturday. His death was confirmed in a tweet by DGP Vivek Johri. The officer was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in the private Chirayu medical college in Bhopal. This is the third senior police officer to have died due to Covid-19. The other two officers were in Indore and Ujjain. Regretting the DSP’s death, DGP Vivek Johri said, “We are with his family in this sad hour.” The officer had been serving the police department for nearly 38 years. According to reports, a few days ago, the DSP’s health deteriorated. He was admitted to the hospital two days ahead of his confirmatory Covid-19 test, according to sources. His condition continued to worsen and he died on Saturday morning. He was on course to retire next year. The officer had hypertension and diabetes. He had undergone two angioplasties in the past. When he was brought to the hospital two days ago, his condition was said to be critical. Blood flow to the arteries was also being affected due to prior angioplasty, according to sources. Chief minister Shivraj Singh has also expressed grief over the DSP’s death. Chouhan tweeted, “I pay my respects. Pray to god to give peace to the departed soul and family. Give them the power to bear the sorrow. His family is now the family of Madhya Pradesh.” The DSP became the 130th person to have died due to the infection in Bhopal. Meanwhile, coronavirus infections are spiralling by the day in Bhopal. On Saturday, the MP capital reported its highest daily infection figure when 140 people tested positive, according to health department reports. The total number of infections since the pandemic began in Bhopal has touched 4,247. At Gandhi Medical College (GMC), the spate of infections continued for the sixth day. Nine more medical staff along with five people in the campus canteen tested positive for the infection. In the past week, 22 people who work in the GMC have tested positive. It is the largest Covid-19 treatment centre in the state. Among other cases, four of a family tested positive in Shahid Nagar. Awadhpuri reported six positive patients. Three others were diagnosed with the infection from Govindpura. Besides, five people from the same family in Kotwali have tested positive. Five people linked to the EME centre, Bairagarh, were also confirmed to be corona-positive. All the army jawans are undergoing treatment at the military hospital, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-claims-dsps-life-record-140-cases-take-city-tally-to-4247/articleshow/77043872.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hubballi||Govt & pvt hospitals refusing treatment to non-Covid patients, says former MLA||Dharwad: Former MLA and senior JD(S) member NH Konaraddi on Saturday informed Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil of patients, who had no symptoms of Covid-19, were being turned away by both government and private hospitals. The former MLA, in his letter to the DC, said that patients complaining of problems in their kidneys, heart and other organs, were being denied admission citing shortage or lack of beds at hospitals. Patients are also being asked to undergo a test for Covid-19. “The DC must instruct hospitals in the district to ensure that everyone is provided proper medical treatment,” Konaraddi said. He also took umbrage at the failure of officials in taluks to enforce lockdown stringently, to which he attributed the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, particularly in the rural pockets. “Most of the time, officials are not present in their offices for inquiries. They fob off citizens by telling them they need to go to Dharwad to attend meeting convened by the district administration,” Konaraddi added. ‘No urea in the markets’ Meanwhile, the former MLA also expressed concern over the failure of the authorities concerned in ensuring supply of urea to the markets in villages. “The state government has clarified that there is no shortage of urea. But the traders are refusing to sell only urea and are insisting that the farmers should also buy other fertilizers if they want urea. For those seeking only urea, excess money is being charged” said Konaraddi, urging the DC to ensure that farmers received sufficient urea at the price fixed by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-pvt-hospitals-refusing-treatment-to-non-covid-patients-says-former-mla/articleshow/77043389.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Patna||Minister reviews progress of vaccine trial at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey on Saturday reviewed the progress of human trial of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine – Covaxin – at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna through a telephonic conversation with the institute’s director Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh. “A team of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is monitoring the development of the vaccine, which has been jointly developed by the National Institute of Virology-Pune and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) in collaboration with ICMR. Special focus has been laid on screening and safety of the volunteers who have been shortlisted for trials,” Choubey said. The Union minister added VITROS ECiQ Immunodiagnostic System would be installed at AIIMS-Patna within a week for Covid tests. Choubey said officials of the Union health ministry are in constant touch with the Bihar government for tackling Covid-19 pandemic. “After Bihar government’s request for treatment of Covid-19 at private healthcare centres, several social organisations have come forward for the same. An arrangement like this will not just make Covid-19 treatment more hassle-free, but also lessen the burden on government hospitals,” he added. “There should be at least 20,000 to 25,000 tests per day in Bihar. All necessary medical equipment and other resources will be made available according to the needs of the state,” Choubey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-reviews-progress-of-vaccine-trial-at-aiims-patna/articleshow/77043169.cms||Archi Rani
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Marks glut but no seat hike on Calcutta University radar||KOLKATA: Colleges under Calcutta University do not intend to increase seats in the undergraduate programme this year unless there is an instruction to do so from the state education department. On the contrary, in the 2020-2021 academic session, seats have been slashed in a dozen colleges affiliated to CU due to reasons ranging from lack of demand among students to infrastructural constraints. With a record number of students in the West Bengal Higher Secondary Examination scoring 100 in multiple subjects, many are apprehensive that in several streams, particularly in premium colleges, even students with scores in the mid-90s may not get a chance. There are 160 colleges under the aegis of Calcutta University. After the publication of HS results on Friday, CU is gearing up to release the list of seats that will be up for grabs in the individual colleges this year. In the 90% club, the number has increased four-fold from last year. In 2019, as many as 7,818 students had secured 90% marks while, in 2018, the count was 5,248. In the previous three years, the numbers were 3,302, 3,829 and 2,710 for 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively. This year, the number has shot up to a staggering 30,220. The first-division bracket — above 60% — has 3,22,056 students this year, a whopping 58,907 more than last year. The decision on when to begin the distribution of admission forms for state-aided colleges will be taken on Tuesday. With a large section of students securing very high marks, individual colleges are planning to raise the cut-off bar too. Several college principals indicated they were likely to hold a meeting with the college governing boards in the next week to determine the intake policy in the undergraduate honours programmes for subjects for which exams were not held in the HS. These include physics, chemistry, statistics, education, nutrition, accountancy, economics, geography, costing and taxation. Sources in the school education department pointed to the marking system adopted by the HS Council after sanction from the Syllabus Reforms Committee as a reason behind the skyrocketing of marks. “The students did not appear for tests in three major subjects among six and the best score secured in the appeared paper was repeated as the subject marks of the suspended examinations,” said a source in Bikash Bhavan. He added that this was not a reflection of merit in all subjects. A student intending to study physics honours in a premier Kolkata college will not have appeared for the exam. Yet, according to the HS policy, since the student may have secured 100 marks in English and Bengali while bagging just 60 in mathematics, it will allow him or her to get 100 marks in the suspended papers, like physics, chemistry and statistics. “In this case, though the student wants to study physics, his or her merit is not evaluated. English can’t be a determining factor for his or her abilities in science subjects. The marks secured in mathematics will be left out since the aggregate is always on the best of five subjects. Is this a valid ground for evaluating a student who may later opt to study physics major or chemistry major? Thus, we plan to take another look at the admission cut-offs in the suspended HS papers,” a principal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/marks-glut-but-no-seat-hike-on-cu-radar/articleshow/77043533.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 19, 2020||Surat||Blood donations hit by Covid-19 scare in Surat||SURAT: As Covid-19 cases have surged across Surat city, blood donation activity have been hit hard for the last two weeks. There was a visible scare prevalent among the blood donors who feared visiting blood donation camps. Surat Raktdan Kendra and Research Centre (SRKRC) appealed to the blood donors to come forward and donate their blood to meet the daily blood demands in the city. “As Covid-19 cases rose in the city, blood donations dried up. There have been no major outdoor blood donation camps held in the city due to the fear of the pandemic. On normal days, we used to collect around 40 units of blood daily through various blood donation activities which has now reduced to 10 units per day for the last two weeks. However, there are a total of 40 to 45 units required daily from our bank,” said Nitesh Mehta of SRKCR. “We appeal to people who are healthy and can donate their blood to please donate their blood to save lives,” Mehta added. Sources say that there are a total of 10 blood banks in the city and all of them are facing the same crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/blood-donations-hit-by-covid-19-scare/articleshow/77043983.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan gets 20% less rainfall so far compared to last year||JAIPUR: In the first two spells of southwest monsoon, majority of the places in the state have not witnessed good rainfall. However, the only exception is Churu district which received 45% more rainfall as compared to 2019. So far, the state has received 20% less rainfall till July 15 as compared to last year. Most of the places have seen rainfall less than last year. However, Jaipur meteorological office said that the third spell of the monsoon starting from Tuesday will bring more rainfall. As per the data available with the Jaipur Met office, only two places in the state have witnessed heavy rainfall since the onset of monsoon on June 24. Bhimsagar (Jhalawar) and Bhopalsagar (Chittorgarh) have received rainfall which is above 100mm in the past fortnight. “Only Churu has received 45% excess rainfall compared to 2019. However, districts, including Barmer, Jalore, Sirohi, Pali, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur, Bundi, Dausa, Alwar, Bharatpur, Dholpur and Dungarpur, have received deficit rainfall,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Jaipur has not yet seen a day where a rainfall exceeding 20mm was even received. “For Jaipur the two spells have been bad. Hopefully, Jaipur will get good rainfall in the third and fourth spells,” said an officer. The districts where normal rainfall (+19 percent or minus 19 percent more or less compared to 2019) included Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Kota, Baran, Jhalawar, Udaipur, Rajsamand, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh and Banswara,” the officer added. Also, the state has a whole has received 20% less rainfall compared with 2019. “Till July 15, an average rainfall of 111.23mm was received which is 20% less compared to 147.8 mm received till July 2019,” the officer added. However, Met office predicted that with the revival of southwest monsoon from Tuesday, widespread rainfall activity is likely at many districts. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur in Bharatpur, Alwar, Jhunjhunu, Dausa, Karauli and Dholpur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-gets-20-less-rainfall-so-far-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/77046125.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan gets 20% less rainfall so far compared to last year||JAIPUR: In the first two spells of southwest monsoon, majority of the places in the state have not witnessed good rainfall. However, the only exception is Churu district which received 45% more rainfall as compared to 2019. So far, the state has received 20% less rainfall till July 15 as compared to last year. Most of the places have seen rainfall less than last year. However, Jaipur meteorological office said that the third spell of the monsoon starting from Tuesday will bring more rainfall. As per the data available with the Jaipur Met office, only two places in the state have witnessed heavy rainfall since the onset of monsoon on June 24. Bhimsagar (Jhalawar) and Bhopalsagar (Chittorgarh) have received rainfall which is above 100mm in the past fortnight. “Only Churu has received 45% excess rainfall compared to 2019. However, districts, including Barmer, Jalore, Sirohi, Pali, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur, Bundi, Dausa, Alwar, Bharatpur, Dholpur and Dungarpur, have received deficit rainfall,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Jaipur has not yet seen a day where a rainfall exceeding 20mm was even received. “For Jaipur the two spells have been bad. Hopefully, Jaipur will get good rainfall in the third and fourth spells,” said an officer. The districts where normal rainfall (+19 percent or minus 19 percent more or less compared to 2019) included Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Kota, Baran, Jhalawar, Udaipur, Rajsamand, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh and Banswara,” the officer added. Also, the state has a whole has received 20% less rainfall compared with 2019. “Till July 15, an average rainfall of 111.23mm was received which is 20% less compared to 147.8 mm received till July 2019,” the officer added. However, Met office predicted that with the revival of southwest monsoon from Tuesday, widespread rainfall activity is likely at many districts. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur in Bharatpur, Alwar, Jhunjhunu, Dausa, Karauli and Dholpur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-gets-20-less-rainfall-so-far-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/77046126.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan gets 20% less rainfall so far compared to last year||JAIPUR: In the first two spells of southwest monsoon, majority of the places in the state have not witnessed good rainfall. However, the only exception is Churu district which received 45% more rainfall as compared to 2019. So far, the state has received 20% less rainfall till July 15 as compared to last year. Most of the places have seen rainfall less than last year. However, Jaipur meteorological office said that the third spell of the monsoon starting from Tuesday will bring more rainfall. As per the data available with the Jaipur Met office, only two places in the state have witnessed heavy rainfall since the onset of monsoon on June 24. Bhimsagar (Jhalawar) and Bhopalsagar (Chittorgarh) have received rainfall which is above 100mm in the past fortnight. “Only Churu has received 45% excess rainfall compared to 2019. However, districts, including Barmer, Jalore, Sirohi, Pali, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur, Bundi, Dausa, Alwar, Bharatpur, Dholpur and Dungarpur, have received deficit rainfall,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Jaipur has not yet seen a day where a rainfall exceeding 20mm was even received. “For Jaipur the two spells have been bad. Hopefully, Jaipur will get good rainfall in the third and fourth spells,” said an officer. The districts where normal rainfall (+19 percent or minus 19 percent more or less compared to 2019) included Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Kota, Baran, Jhalawar, Udaipur, Rajsamand, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh and Banswara,” the officer added. Also, the state has a whole has received 20% less rainfall compared with 2019. “Till July 15, an average rainfall of 111.23mm was received which is 20% less compared to 147.8 mm received till July 2019,” the officer added. However, Met office predicted that with the revival of southwest monsoon from Tuesday, widespread rainfall activity is likely at many districts. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur in Bharatpur, Alwar, Jhunjhunu, Dausa, Karauli and Dholpur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-gets-20-less-rainfall-so-far-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/77046127.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Landlord ‘forces’ two Covid-19 positive women bankers to vacate house||PATNA: It was a nightmare for two women employees of Bank of Baroda, who were tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, as their landlord allegedly forced them to vacate the house at Bhairvi Nagar in Sheohar. Father of one of the employees sent an SUV from Patna to bring back the two from Sheohar. The two, both asymptomatic patients, reached the state capital on Saturday. They are currently under home isolation. The two were posted at the main branch of Bank of Baroda in Sheohar. At least four employees of the bank branch, including the two women, have tested positive for coronavirus. Branch manager Bhaskar Jha told TOI over phone that Shailendra Kumar Verma, the landlord, didn’t allow a bank employee to go upstairs to hand over medicines and other items to the two women employees of the bank who were staying together. “Verma and his wife were misbehaving with our two women staff and pressuring them to vacate the house,” Jha alleged. He said the bank would take legal action against Verma as he had entered into an agreement for renting the accommodation to the two staff. He has no right to ask the two to vacate the house without serving any notice,” he said. One of the employees, who is married, said she and her colleague were humiliated and treated inhumanly by their landlord. “We were mentally harassed. Instead of eating healthy food to fight the virus, we were dependent on noodles in the morning and milk at night to survive,” she said. She added, “We work for the welfare of people. We did not blame anyone even after getting infected. It is also the responsibility of the society to support us.” The another employee told TOI that they gave samples on July 13. “The test results came on Thursday night and we immediately informed our landlord about it. Initially, he didn’t say anything. However, he started pressuring us to vacate the house from Friday morning,” she added. Verma, who identified himself as an Ayurvedic practitioner and a medical shop owner, claimed the two bank employees returned home on their own. “I had only requested them to go back home as my family members were feeling unsafe. Their own residence was best place for home isolation,” he said, adding he came to know from the civil surgeon office that the two have decided to return home. Sheohar DM Avaneesh Kumar said such incidents should not have occurred. “The matter will be investigated. We will run an awareness programme to avoid such incidents. If anyone wants special facility, we are ready to isolate them in hotels. Quarantine centres are also active in the district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/landlord-forces-two-covid-ve-women-bankers-to-vacate-house/articleshow/77043073.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 19, 2020||Patna||Regulate expenses on virtual campaigning: Bihar opposition parties||PATNA: The state opposition parties have demanded regulation of expenditure on virtual campaigning for the upcoming assembly polls amid Covid-19 pandemic. In a joint memorandum submitted to the Election Commission of India (ECI) in New Delhi on Friday, the opposition parties sought to know how the commission would monitor the expenditure limits since the campaigning will happen digitally. The opposition parties also raised their concern over use of digital platforms for poll campaigns and lack of a level-playing field for political parties and candidates. “It is Constitutional mandate of the Election Commission to ensure a free and fair election guaranteeing a level-playing field to all contestants and political parties,” they said in the joint representation. The opposition parties, including RJD, Congress and Left, are of the opinion that the concept of digital campaigning is “socially and economically discriminatory” and “violative of a level-playing field in the democratic exercise” as it would exclude a large section of the rural population that has no limited access to digital connectivity. The memorandum, signed by the representatives of nine political parties, including RJD, Congress, CPI, CPI-ML (Liberation), RLSP, VIP, HAM(S) and RLD, was submitted to the chief election commissioner. For routine campaigning, the ECI has set an expense limit of Rs 28 lakh per candidate for the assembly elections. “The political parties, however, didn’t raise the issue of postponing the assembly polls due in October-November,” a source in the ECI office said. Meanwhile, the ECI has asked the political parties to submit their views on the election campaign and public meetings amid Covid-19 pandemic by July 31. The ruling NDA in the state has already started addressing workers as well as supporters through digital platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-regulate-expenses-on-virtual-campaigning/articleshow/77043097.cms||Ramashankar
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Unpredictability of Covid-19 outcome spooks senior citizens; doctors sound alert||KOLKATA: Asymptomatic elderly patients should be monitored consistently if they are kept on home quarantine. A substantial number of such patients has suffered a quick deterioration, even leading to death, warn experts. A mild cough with no fever or breathing distress may well be deceptive and soon lapse into a severe lung failure or organ dysfunction in a matter of a few hours, they said, particularly if the patient has underlying co-morbidities, they have pointed out. A 67-year-old from north Kolkata, who had diabetes but no other ailment, succumbed to Covid at a private hospital on Friday within hours of developing a breathing distress. He had been largely asymptomatic ever since he started running a low temperature two days prior to that. Times ViewThis virus has caused so much trouble also because of its unpredictability. Two persons with similar health parameters (age and pre-existing conditions like diabetes or lung ailments) have responded differently to the infection because of factors that are not so obvious (like the “infection load”). So access to proper medical advice and care is essential. Hospitals are overloaded but must shoulder the added burden.Those above 60 years can suffer a sharp deterioration even if they have apparently mild co-morbidities, according to AMRI Hospital consultant Debashish Saha. “So, senior citizens need to be split into two groups — co-morbid and those without co-morbidities. The former, irrespective of their symptoms, should have their vital parameters screened regularly. For instance, they should have a pulse oximeter at hand to check oxygen saturation level, apart from their blood pressure, blood glucose level and pulse rate. These should be reported to a doctor and consultation sought immediately if a parameter seems abnormal,” explained Saha. Cardiac, kidney, diabetes and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) patients were vulnerable along with those suffering from cancer, he added. Those without co-morbidites were safer but not free from danger, according to RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. “Due to their low immunity, the elderly can’t fight a viral attack as effectively as the young. If the viral load is bigger, they could suffer a sudden deterioration without prior symptoms. And this has been happening very frequently now that many are forced to stay at home as hospital beds are not easily available,” said Biswas. Even without co-morbidities, elderly Covid patients are susceptible to a sudden breathing distress that may strike without warning. “This happens due to the fact that the virus attacks the lungs. The bigger the viral load, the more intense would be the assault on the lungs. It’s even triggering a multi-organ failure. For those with co-morbidities, this is often turning out to be fatal,” said Biswas. On the other hand, there were those in their sixties, seventies and eighties who have emerged unscathed from a Covid attack. A couple of nonagenarians have survived Covid in Kolkata. “In their case, the viral load may have been smaller. “Their immune system could possibly combat the lower volume of viral load. Generally, the immune-response starts weakening from the age of 65, which is why co-morbidities set in and they often turn life-threatening. This is the reason why influenza vaccine is prescribed to the elderly population,” said Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unpredictability-of-covid-19-outcome-spooks-senior-citizens-docs-sound-alert/articleshow/77043545.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets 20% less rainfall so far compared to last year||JAIPUR: In the first two spells of southwest monsoon, majority of the places in the state have not witnessed good rainfall. However, the only exception is Churu district which received 45% more rainfall as compared to 2019. So far, the state has received 20% less rainfall till July 15 as compared to last year. Most of the places have seen rainfall less than last year. However, Jaipur meteorological office said that the third spell of the monsoon starting from Tuesday will bring more rainfall. As per the data available with the Jaipur Met office, only two places in the state have witnessed heavy rainfall since the onset of monsoon on June 24. Bhimsagar (Jhalawar) and Bhopalsagar (Chittorgarh) have received rainfall which is above 100mm in the past fortnight. “Only Churu has received 45% excess rainfall compared to 2019. However, districts, including Barmer, Jalore, Sirohi, Pali, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur, Bundi, Dausa, Alwar, Bharatpur, Dholpur and Dungarpur, have received deficit rainfall,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Jaipur has not yet seen a day where a rainfall exceeding 20mm was even received. “For Jaipur the two spells have been bad. Hopefully, Jaipur will get good rainfall in the third and fourth spells,” said an officer. The districts where normal rainfall (+19 percent or minus 19 percent more or less compared to 2019) included Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Kota, Baran, Jhalawar, Udaipur, Rajsamand, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh and Banswara,” the officer added. Also, the state has a whole has received 20% less rainfall compared with 2019. “Till July 15, an average rainfall of 111.23mm was received which is 20% less compared to 147.8 mm received till July 2019,” the officer added. However, Met office predicted that with the revival of southwest monsoon from Tuesday, widespread rainfall activity is likely at many districts. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur in Bharatpur, Alwar, Jhunjhunu, Dausa, Karauli and Dholpur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-gets-20-less-rainfall-so-far-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/77044898.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Special Operations Group’s team still in Delhi to record voice samples||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group’s (SOG) team continues to camp in Delhi to take statements of persons who were allegedly heard discussing attempts to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the audio clips which went viral. The team had gone to the hotel in Manesar on Friday where the MLAs were lodged but were initially refused entry by Haryana police. SOG officials also applied in court in Jaipur on Saturday to seek permission for taking voice samples of the individuals heard in the recordings. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS told TOI, “The team is currently in Delhi though they were unable to meet the persons whose statements were to be taken. Depending on the situation, we will take a call on Sunday to decide if the team should remain there.” When the SOG team reached Manesar on Friday, they were initially refused entry into the hotel and once allowed they found that the MLAs had been shifted to another hotel. According to officials, the team has gone to Delhi to serve summons to the MLA named in the one of the two FIRs lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi. One of the two FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Sanjay Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. While questions are being raised about the tapping of phones of politicians, officials maintained that they are following the law and the source of the audio clips was yet to be unearthed. “We have followed the law and during the investigation, the officer handling the probe will also work at uncovering the source of the audio clips,” added Rathore. An eight member team has been constituted to investigate this case. The officials also claimed that in case the MLAs are shifted out of Delhi, they will also look the possibility of sending the team to the new location. While it is not mandatory for the summons to be delivered in person, the officials claimed that it was to doubly ensure that the person in question receives it. “The summons can be sent via Whatsapp and email as well but the phone number which we have with us is switched off and is not being used on Whatsapp”, said the official. Meanwhile, Sanjay Jain, who was arrested in the same case on Friday, was produced before the court on Saturday and sent to 4 days of police remand. SOG officials also applied in the court to seek persmission for collecting voice samples of the persons heard in the audio clips, the decision for which is likely to be given on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-still-in-delhi-to-record-voice-samples/articleshow/77044897.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Goat market to open with precautions from Monday||PATNA: In the run-up to Bakrid, sellers at the biggest cattle market in Raja Bazar have chalked out a plan to maintain social distancing and take safety precautions. Traders from different parts of Bihar and other states have been instructed to bring only 40% of sacrificial animals and a limited number of caretakers with them to the market that will open on Monday. Goat market coordinator Md Ziaullah Khan told this newspaper on Saturday, “Since a lot of people are grappling with financial crunch amid the Covid-19 pandemic, we have reduced the number of sacrificial animals. We also want to make sure that everyone follows social distancing norms at the market. Hence, traders from other states will sell goats on Tuesdays, those from different parts of Bihar on Fridays and Saturdays and the locals on the remaining days.” ‘Tota Pari’ from Jaipur, ‘Barbari’ from Etawah, ‘Jamnapari’ from Allahabad and ‘Ajmeri’ from Rajasthan are some of the goat species that will come from other states. However, the outsiders are clueless as to how they will bring the animals to Bihar amid the lockdown. Asked about the other precautions, Ziaullah replied, “All customers and sellers will undergo thermal screening at the entrance of the market that will open from 6am to 10am in the morning and 4pm to 7pm in the evening. Face masks will be given, markings made and barricading done to ensure social distancing. The market will also be disinfected every day.” Besides, only two people from each family will be allowed to enter the market in order to ensure that there is no huge gathering. Meanwhile, a lot of Muslims are not sure if they will be able to perform ‘qurbani’ (sacrifice) as part of the festival. Many believe it will be impossible for them to step out of their houses to purchase goats because of the statewide lockdown. Azimabad Colony resident Amir Khan said, “I have not yet decided what I will do, but I think it will be quite difficult for me to reach the goat market.” On the other hand, Naya Tola resident Md Riyaz has decided to take all necessary precautions. “Since ‘qurbani’ is an integral part of Bakrid, I will wear a mask and gloves and keep a hand sanitizer before leaving for the market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/goat-market-to-open-with-precautions-from-monday/articleshow/77043189.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 19, 2020||Patna||Govt fudging Covid-19 data in state: Tejas||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday accused the state government of fudging data on coronavirus positive cases. “If the testing facility is not increased, there is a strong possibility of the state emerging as a global hotspot for the deadly virus,” Tejashwi tweeted. The RJD leader alleged Covid-19 testing in Bihar was the lowest in the country and the state government was manipulating data to hide facts. “The government should be transparent in providing actual figures. The Covid positive cases registered in a day are being shown as the cases of two days,” he said. Tejashwi said rate at which the cases are increasing was alarming. “If on an average 30,000-35,000 tests are conducted daily, around 4,000-5,000 new cases will be detected,” he claimed. The former deputy CM said official data released by the state government showed that on an average 4,159 tests were conducted in the last four months, which is very low compared to the other states with the same population and similar geographical area. Refuting Tejashwi’s allegations, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “The fact that the state government is making all-out efforts to check the spread of coronavirus is no more a secret. Despite it, Tejashwi is making false and baseless allegations about fudging of data on Covid-19 positive cases.” Prasad said Tejashwi should seek apology from the people of the state for making baseless and frivolous charges. “If he has facts, he should place them. There is transparency in the official data on Covid-19,” the JD(U) leader said. BJP spokesperson Arvind Kumar Singh said, “It’s not Bihar that has become the hotspot for Covid-19. Instead, RJD has become a hotspot for neglected and ineffective opposition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-fudging-covid-19-data-in-state-tejas/articleshow/77042580.cms||Ramashankar
July 19, 2020||Patna||Sainik School Nalanda gets 100% results||PATNA: Cadet Vivek Kumar of Sainik School Nalanda emerged the school topper by scoring 98.2% in Class X exam conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The results were announced on Wednesday. Cadet Shubham Kumar and cadet Ashutosh Kumar secured 98% and cadet Shivam Raj 97.6% in the exam. Altogether 82 cadets appeared at the All India Senior Secondary Examination (AISSE) and all of them passed the exam with 66 cadets scoring 90% and above marks, said the school officials. Nine cadets in mathematics and six in English got the perfect 100. In Class XII (AISSE), 26 out of 68 cadets scored above 90%. Cadet Ayush Prakash scored 95.6%. The school registered pass percentage of 100 in both Class X and XII board exams. Principal Col M I Hussain congratulated the cadets, their parents and the teachers on this outstanding performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sainik-school-nalanda-gets-100-results/articleshow/77043226.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Patna||JD(U)’s constituency-wise virtual meets get underway||PATNA: The JD(U) on Saturday launched its constituency-wise virtual ‘sammelan’ to reach out to the voters ahead of assembly elections in the state. Altogether 16 assembly constituencies in eight districts were covered on the opening day of the sammelan by four different teams of the JD(U). As per a detailed schedule released by the JD(U), the party’s constituency-wise sammelan will continue till August 2 and each of the four teams will cover four constituencies per day. All 243 constituencies are targeted to be covered by February 2. On Saturday, while a five-member team of senior JD(U) functionaries led by the party’s national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh addressed virtual sammelan in Valmiki Nagar, Lauria, Bettiah and Narkatiyaganj constituencies of West Champaran district, another five-member team led by the party’s state president Bashishtha Narain Singh covered Buxar, Dumraon, Rajpur (all in Buxar district) and Ramgarh (Kaimur district) constituencies. Similarly, another six-member team of the party led by state’s energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav covered Bahadurpur, Thakurganj, Kishanganj (all in Kishanganj district) and Amour (Purnia) constituencies. The fourth team led by Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh addressed virtual sammelan in Tarapur and Munger constituencies in Munger district, Lakhisarai and Barbigha constituency in Sheikhpura district. “Each of the 16 virtual sammelans continued for nearly one-and-a-half-hour to two hours. All four teams began their first virtual sammelan around 10am,” JD(U) media cell president Amardeep told TOI over phone. Amardeep said the party has taken all necessary steps to follow social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdus-constituency-wise-virtual-meets-get-underway/articleshow/77043789.cms||Madan Kumar
July 19, 2020||Patna||Crime continues unabated in Saran||CHHAPRA: In spite of lockdown and strict vigil by police, crime continues unabated in Saran district. Valuables worth Rs 20 lakh were looted from the house of a former customs officer at Ramgarha village under the Awatarnagar police station area on Thursday. Five criminals locked the inmates of the house in one room and went on a looting spree. On Friday, criminals looted Rs 60,000 in cash from the employee of a micro finance firm near Rudrapur under the Manjhi police station area in the district. The criminals also stabbed the micro finance firm employee. Saran SP Har Kishor Rai said one person has been arrested in connection with the incident. In another incident, body of a 24-year-old youth was recovered from Bheldi police station area in the district on Thursday. The youth was killed by the criminals and his body was thrown into a water-filled ditch. Meanwhile, police have arrested three criminals in connection with the robbery at the house of a homeopathic doctor under Bhagwan Bazaar police station area on July 8. The criminals were wearing police uniform when they looted cash and ornaments from the house of the homoeopathic doctor, Kalyan Kumar Bose. The SP said two country-made pistols and cartridges were arrested from the possession of the arrested criminals, who have been identified as Ravi Kumar, Pappu Kumar and Sohram Nat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crime-continues-unabated-in-saran/articleshow/77043235.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Give PTIs jobs back or face bypoll boycott, say khaps||Jind: In a rally where Covid-19 protocols were thrown to the wind, representatives of several khap panchayats on Saturday asked the BJP government in Haryana to reinstate 19,000 physical training instructors (PTIs) whose appointments had been qushed on orders of the Supreme Court in April this year or face a boycott during the Baroda assembly seat bypoll. PTI Teacher Association organsied the rally at Jind’s New Grain Market, Rohtak Road, and it was attended by MLAs Balraj Kundu from Maham seat and Sombir Sangwan from Charkhi Dadri, and representatives of Binain, Kandela, Khera, Sangwan, Dhamtan, Pal, Malik, Punia, Dadan and many more khaps. All speakers kept their focus on the bypoll, which is to be held soon The rally was held in violation of all Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SoPs). There was no social distancing norms and a few people were using face masks. The rally lasted for around six hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/give-ptis-jobs-back-or-face-bypoll-boycott-say-khaps/articleshow/77043855.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||District admin comes to the aid of NRK flat owners||Kochi: If flat owners returning from aboard or other states are denied entry to their homes by other residents or apartment owners’ association, they can take up the matter with district administration. A top official with the district administration said: “The flat owners can report instances of resistance and denial of entry with the district administration. Stringent action will be taken against in such cases.” Several instances have come to light where apartment owners’ associations and residents prevent flat owners from entering their homes when they return to the city. People who have spent huge amounts to buy an apartment are forced to look for alternatives like paid quarantine. This has finally led to the intervention of district administration. It is alleged that the associations take a moral high ground and resist owners from bringing friends and associates to the flats. Meanwhile, mayor Soumini Jain has also hit out at the various apartment owners’ associations in the city which deny entry to flat owners returning from other countries or other states. Jain said that flat owners who are returning from other places to their home city have equal rights as the other members of the owners’ association. “Some of the owners’ associations have been demonstrating high-handedness in this matter, which is not acceptable,” she said. Jain said that several instances of apartment owners’ associations’ resistance have come to the notice of Kochi corporation. “People have bought flats in the city with their hard-earned money. The NRKs are returning as they are unable to survive in a foreign country. A civilized society cannot accept the attitude of the apartment owners’ associations. It will be unfair and unjust even if the associations evict a tenant,” she said. The mayor said the associations have no power to directly initiate action against those violating quarantine. If they find such violations, they have to report it to the corporation or other agencies like the health department, police or district administration. “When people inform me about such disputes, I tell them to approach police,” she said. Jain pointed out that at some places the activities of contingent workers, who are engaged in removing waste from the flats where people are undergoing quarantine, are being disrupted. “It is a very selfish act. They have no idea of the harm they are doing to others,” she said. Meanwhile, she said the apartment owners’ associations have the responsibility to ensure that common areas like lobbies and lifts are disinfected at regular intervals. The associations should focus on delivering essential supplies and medicines for those placed under quarantine. “Apart from spending a huge amount to buy the flat, owners who are abroad also pay maintenance expenses. Generally, when there is a tenant they foot the maintenance bills. The flat is our home just like any other independent house,” said a flat owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/district-admin-comes-to-the-aid-of-nrk-flat-owners/articleshow/77043916.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Showers cool down city, more likely today||JAIPUR: After witnessing a sultry afternoon, people in the city witnessed a pleasant change in weather on Saturday evening when many places received mild to moderate rainfall. Though it was not more than 30mm of rainfall, still it brought smiles on the faces of residents. However, on the flip side, the downpour brought traffic to a grinding halt at many places. Rainfall started in Jaipur at 4.45pm. At JLN Marg near Jawahar Circle and Malviya Nagar, commuters had a tough time. Similar scenes were witnessed on Tonk Road and Ajmeri Gate where moderate showers were witnessed. At many low-lying roads passing through Queens Road, Kings Road and Sodala, waterlogging led to traffic chaos. At many places, rainfall lasted for 20 to 30 minutes and guided the mercury to take a dip. Earlier, during the day, a maximum temperature of 39.9°C was recorded. “Though mild to moderate showers were witnessed in Jaipur, the city is yet to receive a good rainfall in this season so far,” said an officer of Jaipur meteorological office. In its forecast, Jaipur meteorological office further said that showers will continue in the city on Sunday also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/showers-cool-down-city-more-likely-today/articleshow/77044899.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘11 Gujarat firms wilfully defaulted’||AHMEDABAD: At least 11 Gujarat-based companies figure in the list of wilful defaulters released by the All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) on Saturday. Each of these firms has defaulted on loans worth Rs 200 crore or more. To mark the 51st Bank Nationalisation Day, which falls on July 19, AIBEA made public the pan-India list of 2,426 borrower accounts that have been categorized as ‘wilful defaulters’. The dues to several banks in India total Rs 1,47,350 crore. Some of the defaulter accounts from Gujarat named in the list include Winsome Diamond and Jewellery (Rs 1,390 crore), Diamond Power Infrastructure Limited (Rs 872 crore), Forever Precious Jewellery and Diamonds (Rs 736 crore), Sterling Biotech Limited (Rs 675 crore), Siddhi Vinayak Logistics (Rs 635 crore) and Jas Infrastructure and Power Limited (Rs 630 crore). In addition, at least 20 more companies have defaulted on loans of varied amounts. Some of them are Vishal Exports Overseas Limited, Neesa Agritech and Foods Limited, Surya Vinayak Industries Limited, Laxmi Cotton Industries Limited, and Kandla Energy and Chemicals Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-guj-firms-wilfully-defaulted/articleshow/77043847.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Bank employee booked for raping co-worker for months||HISAR: The police on Saturday registered a case against a government bank employee here for allegedly raping a co-worker for eight months on the promise of marrying her.  On the complaint of the 29-year-old woman, a resident of Sirsa district, who is living currently in Hisar, a case has been filed against her colleague at the women police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bank-employee-booked-for-raping-co-worker-for-mths/articleshow/77043874.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Missing girl’s body found, Gujarat HC questions cops||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has asked for an explanation for the failure to file an appropriate FIR for 25 days, following the discovery of the mutilated bodies of a boy and a girl. The court issued notices on Friday to the state government and the Dahod district superintendent of police. The bodies of a 14-year-old girl and a boy were found hanging from a tree on June 25. Justice Gita Gopi on Friday also allowed the plea of the girl’s father to have Devgadh Baria police inspector M K Chaudhary questioned in his private capacity. The petitioner has alleged negligence on Chaudhary’s part to save the minor when he first went to the police station to file a complaint about her abduction. According to the petitioner’s advocate Nisarg Jain, the teenage girl was abducted by four persons including one Kishan Mavi on June 23. Her father approached police, but his complaint of abduction was not registered. Instead, he was asked to inquire the next day. His complaint was not registered the next day either and Chaudhary allegedly rebuked the petitioner for wasting his time. On June 25, the girl’s father approached the superintendent of police’s office and filed a written complaint requesting police to trace his daughter and take action against the alleged abductors. On that very evening, the girl’s body along with Kishan’s was found hanging from a tree in a mutilated condition. Police registered a case of accidental death on June 26. The alleged inaction on part of the cops infuriated the girl’s father and he approached the high court. His petition seeking the registration of an FIR for murder and abduction as well as under Pocso and Atrocities Act was registered on July 6. Before the HC, advocate Jain submitted that the police inspector should have immediately registered an FIR under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC because a girl was missing and abduction was alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/missing-girls-body-found-high-court-questions-cops/articleshow/77043809.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Congress to Pilot: Why is BJP sheltering you?||NEW DELHI: Seeking to undercut its Rajasthan rebel’s defence against disqualification, Congress on Saturday told sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot that it was ironic he is arguing in court that he was in the party while seeking shelter from BJP-ruled Haryana, the Haryana police and BJP-associated lawyers. While attacking Pilot, Congress also accused the saffron party of orche-strating an “Operation Lotus” in Rajasthan. AICC spokesman Pawan Khera said, “What is the reason that Pilot has more trust in Haryana Police than Rajasthan Police, that on one hand you are telling the court that you are in Congress and then you are sheltered by BJP in Haryana? What is the reason that top lawyers affiliated to BJP are proving in court that these MLAs belong to Congress and then they are helped by BJP to escape the Rajasthan Police from the hotel backdoor to avoid giving voice samples? Now, we hear these MLAs can be taken to the BJP-ruled Karnataka.” The bid to tie Pilot to BJP comes amid the court battle where the Pilot camp has challenged the disqualification notices by saying that they are in Congress and could not be accused of anti-party activities for merely challenging CM Ashok Gehlot’s style of functioning. Reacting to BJP’s remarks about “illegal” phone tapes allegedly discussing horse-trading, Khera said, “We are witnessing daylight murder of democracy by BJP in Rajasthan. BJP’s only grievance is that when they were murdering democracy, why were they getting recorded and if they were getting recorded, was it legal? It is like a murderer claiming that the witness who saw him committing the murder and who informed police, violated the privacy of the murderer by peeping into his room when he was committing the crime. The shamelessness of this admission is also very shocking.” He made light of BJP’s accusations of illegal phone-tapping by the Rajasthan government, saying the protagonists of “snoopgate” are sitting at the pinnacle of power today. Congress lamented that BJP’s bid to gain power through illegal means is dubbed by commentators as reflective of the BJP leadership’s “fire in the belly” though it is “actually burning the Constitution”. About BSP chief Mayawati’s demand for President’s rule in Rajasthan, Khera said, “We should not comment on the helplessness of a leader. She has her own reasons, her own compulsions, her own fears, which forces her to come out with such comments to help the BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-to-pilot-why-is-bjp-sheltering-you/articleshow/77045065.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||‘Apartment owners’ associations can’t enforce bylaws’||Kochi: From instances of denying entry to flat owners who own properties in apartment complexes to violating rights of fellow citizens, various apartment owners’ associations have hit the headlines for wrong reasons. Legal experts say that owners’ associations cannot take control of law and order issues and cannot enforce bylaws which are unconstitutional. Sherry J Thomas, a lawyer from Kochi, said that if any owner or tenant is committing an act, which can be termed as public nuisance, the owners’ associations can report it to police or other authorities. “The owners’ association cannot directly initiate action against an owner or a tenant,” he said. Speaking about the moral policing by apartment owners’ associations, Thomas said that “such actions amount to breach of right to privacy and also right to life”. Jacob Mathew Manalil, a lawyer who represents All Kerala Apartment Owners’ Association (APOAK), said that owners or tenants, particularly single women, are forced to undergo much surveillance in apartment complexes. The apartment owners’ associations have no locus standi to direct owners or tenants regarding who should visit them at their individual residences. “Women have every right to privacy. They can have visitors at their apartments. It is basic human rights,” he said. However, apartment owners’ associations can raise a complaint and take it up with police when there is an activity like “immoral traffic or the place is being misused for making money.” These are matters that have to be decided by law enforcing authorities and not by citizen organizations. Manalil said that single women and bachelors are often subjected to character assassination. Archaic stipulations and norms set up apartment owners’ associations are being cited as one of the main reasons why youngsters refuse to buy flats in the city. “Why would you want someone else to dictate how to live your life in your home? As long as an individual is a law-abiding citizen others shouldn’t have a problem. It is better if associations stay out of people’s private lives,” said Asha P, a prospective flat buyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/apartment-owners-associations-cant-enforce-bylaws/articleshow/77043976.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Dedicated number launched for Covid ambulance service||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada (DK) district administration has formulated an ambulance management plan that will facilitate expeditious shifting of patients to either the Covid care centre (CCC) or Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital. A common number with a minimum 10 hunting line facility will form the crux of this plan that will utilise the various ambulances at the disposal of the district administration, for this purpose. People in need of ambulances at present dial either 108 or 1077. They can henceforth call 0824-2441444, the dedicated number instead. The administration has at its disposal 10 out of 28 ‘108’ ambulances stationed in DK for Covid duties, and around an equal number from other health department schemes such as ‘Nagu Magu’. While ‘108’ ambulances are already fitted with GPS and centrally monitored, work on fitting GPS to the health department ambulances is on. The process to acquire additional ambulances through the state disaster relief fund at the disposal of the deputy commissioner is on, and these will be pressed into service shortly, said M J Roopa, additional deputy commissioner. Sponsors have come forth to aid purchase of two out of 5 new ambulances with basic life support systems, she said. Efforts are also on to source spare ambulances under a pooling system from other parts of the state too, she said. “We are also mulling to pool Maruti Omni Eeco ambulances after the RTO certifies these vehicles as road worthy,” she said. Even these will be GPS fitted and used mainly to shift Covid patients for medical care. Going forward, all the ambulances will be linked to the command control centre of Mangaluru Smart City, from where they will be monitored, and the nearest available ambulance dispatched with the medical team to the doorsteps of a Covid-19 patient. The command control centre will coordinate with nodal officers in charge of quarantine centres, hospitals, Covid care centres and even home isolation units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dedicated-number-launched-for-covid-ambulance-service/articleshow/77043100.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake tocilizumab racket busted in Gujarat, first in the country||AHMEDABAD: We have heard of misuse or black marketing of the lifesaving drug tocilizumab — that calms an overreacting body’s immune system in Covid patients. But on Saturday, the Gujarat’s Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) was shaken when it busted, probably the country’s first spurious tocilizumab drug manufacturing racket. This lifesaving injection is required for Covid-19 patients who are today battling for their lives in ICUs and on ventilators. Those held have pointed at one Sohel Ismail Tai, owner of a website by the name of Genic pharma as the kingpin of the racket. FDCA officials suspect that the gang may have pushed several of these fake tocilizumab injections to unsuspecting customers. The racket operated out of Surat and Ahmedabad. The FDCA followed a trail that led to Sanjivani hospital in Ahmedabad, where a patient had bought the drug from outside the hospital. While explaining the trail, Gujarat FDCA chief H G Koshia said, Akshay Shah and Ashish Shah of Maa Pharmacy in Sabarmati area had purchased four boxes of spurious tocilizumab for Rs 80,000 without bill from one gym instructor Harsh Thakor from Chandkheda area. Thakor had purchased them from Nilesh Laliwala of Happy Chemist in Paldi for Rs 70,000, who in turn had sourced it from Sohel Tai in Surat. The racket was busted after relatives of a patient, Lataben Balduva, purchased three boxes of 10ml each, which had ‘Tocilizumab Actemra 250mg’ printed on packaging, for Rs 1.35 lakh from Ashish at Maa Pharmacy without a bill. Sohel Tai is yet to be arrested. FDCA contacted the doctor in charge of the patient at Sanjivani Hospital and learned one ampoule of the spurious drug bought by the patient had already been administered. “The patient, Lataben, was not harmed due to this spurious ampoule. This is probably the first case of fake tocilizumab busted in the country,” says Koshia. An FIR is being lodged with the crime branch for further probe. Koshia’s team had been trailing the criminals since Thursday. They raided the Surat apartment on Friday night, and seized spurious medicines of Rs 8 lakh face value and packaging material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-tocilizumab-racket-busted-first-in-the-country/articleshow/77043992.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Wrist-watch’ for sanitising||AHMEDABAD: A group of innovators at Gujarat Technological University (GTU) have developed ‘G-Band’, a wrist-watch which can be used for sanitising hands in the fight against the spread of Covid-19 infection. This new equipment was launched at a function held in the GTU, according to a media statement. The vice-chancellor in his address said that the watch had been developed using thermos plastic elastomer and this equipment could easily be used for sanitising hands. The product has been developed by a group of students including Sarthak Baxi, Kartik Sheladiya, Sagar Thakker, Karan Patel and Jagrut Dave. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wrist-watch-for-sanitising/articleshow/77043903.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Mangaluru||PU results: Many failed in English||Mangaluru: Udupi and Dakshina Kannada (DK) have again retained the top spots in the II PU results in the state, that were announced on Tuesday . Udupi and DK both had a pass percentage of 90.7%, while it was 92.2% for Udupi last year, and 90.9% for DK last year. While Udupi had a topper in the science stream, Udupi also had students in the top 10 ranks in the commerce stream as well. In Dakshina Kannada, though there wasn’t any topper, students from various colleges have managed to secure high marks—a majority of them being from the commerce stream. Rural students falter in EnglishHowever, according to PU college lecturers, Udupi and DK could have done better, if the last exam, English, held after two months due to the lockdown, was held in a more planned manner. Vittala A, principal, Kittel Memorial PU College, said that it is understood that English is a tough nut to crack for Kannada medium students. As there was a gap of nearly two months, they had lost their grip over the subject, which resulted in many failing in English. In his college alone, 9 students have failed only in English. Overall, both the districts have done better than expected in the II PU examination, despite the pandemic. G Jagadeesha, deputy commissioner, Udupi, attributed the success to the DDPU and his team, PU colleges and their managements as well as lecturers, students and parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pu-results-many-failed-in-english/articleshow/77043117.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 19, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra monsoon session may be for 2-3 days in August||Mumbai: The state government, which has already postponed the monsoon session from June to August, is now contemplating to cut it to two-three days in the first week of the month with minimum attendance of legislators. The government is likely to request legislative assembly speaker Nana Patole to relax the rule of having a minimum quorum to proceed with business. Minister for parliamentary affairs Anil Parab told TOI the state will discuss the issue of holding the monsoon session with minimum MLAs attending it. “We are planning to meet the assembly speaker to request a relaxing of the quorum rule temporarily considering the pandemic so that session can be held with minimum members. The session will be conducted probably from August 3 to 5,” said Parab. He said a decision has not yet been taken and it will be discussed at the next business advisory committee meeting on July 22. The state assembly has 288 members, and as per Article 189(3) of the Constitution that deals with state legislators, conduct of business rules states that a quorum of at least 10 members or one-tenth of the total number of members of the House, whichever is greater, is required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-monsoon-session-may-be-for-2-3-days-in-august/articleshow/77044360.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot first to get IGBC certification||Rajkot: After bagging the prestigious title of ‘National Capital of India 2019-20' by winning the global climate challenge last month, Rajkot has added another feather to its cap by becoming the first city to get the crucial Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) certification for the Raiya Smart City.The Smart City is being developed on 930 acres of land earmarked in Raiya area under the Smart Cities Mission of the union government. The IGBC certification was awarded based on the initiatives focussing on energy efficiency and conserving natural resources taken in the city and the master plan developed for the smart city as per the IGBC guidelines.“Rajkot smart city project plan scored 81 out of 81 points after final certification review and got the highest platinum level accorded by IGBC. Rajkot has become India’s first green-rated platinum level smart city,” said Udit Agarwal, municipal commissioner. RMC had applied for this certification in August last year. According to IGBC, a green building is one that uses less water, optimized energy efficiency, conserves natural resources, generates less waste and provides healthier spaces compared to a conventional building.”“The IGBC rating recognizes the Rajkot Smart City for excellent initiatives, covering master planning, among many other aspects,” RMC said in a statement.The agency will verify the green initiatives after completion of the work and compare it with the master plan. "This certificate is important because it is a like a stamp of approval for our proposals and the fact that we are working in a proper direction,” said Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-first-to-get-igbc-certification/articleshow/77043130.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Varanasi||MLA Vijay Mishra booked under Goonda Act in Bhadohi||VARANASI: Bhadohi police on Saturday booked muscleman MLA Vijay Mishra under Goonda Act for threatening a contractor who got the contract of realising toll at Lalanagar toll plaza on National Highway-2 in Aurai area. Talking to TOI, SP Bhadohi RB Singh said, “Police lodged a case against Vijay Mishra on the basis of his viral audio clip with Aurai police after contractor Gopal Krishna Maheshwari refused to lodge any case in this connection, claiming to have life threat from Mishra.” The SP said after getting the audio clip in which Mishra can be heard threatening Maheshwari for utilising his contacts for getting contract of Lalanagar toll plaza, a beat constable was sent to the place of Maheshwari for registering a complaint against Mishra. When Maheshwari refused to lodge any complaint, the Aurai police was asked to register a case. “The case was formally lodged under Section 3 of UP Control of Goondas Ac-1970 on Friday. A report with full details of 71 criminal cases lodged against Mishra in different districts of state and 10 cases being heard in MP/MLA court were forwarded to the district magistrate for its approval,” he added. SP Bhadohi said that after failing to get the contract of this toll plaza, Mishra had levelled several allegations against the contractor like realisation of huge amount against actual toll from vehicles. He said when CO Aurai was asked to probe these Mishra’s allegations of Mishra, they were found baseless. Mishra is known as a muscleman politician of east UP region. After winning Gyanpur seat for three consecutive times including 2012 election which he contested from jail, he was denied ticket by Samajwadi Party in 2017 assembly polls when he contested on Nishad Party ticket and emerged victorious for fourth time. His wife is an MLC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mla-vijay-mishra-booked-under-goonda-act-in-bhadohi/articleshow/77044726.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Plot to kidnap builder foiled||AHMEDABAD: The city crime branch on Friday night arrested five men for plotting to kidnap a Vapi builder to extort Rs 50 crore from him. Their target was Saeed Shaikh. The accused were arrested near a mall on SP Ring Road based on a tip-off. The arrested men are: Arif Shaikh, 29, of Sarkhej; Mohammad Bandhiwala, 41, of Jamalpur; Rajesh Rathod, 24, and Vikki Jadeja, 26, of Sabarmati; and Mohammed Memon, 29, of Danilimda. Deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Deepan Bhadran said a team of cops will pick up Altaf Mansuri, who had turned the gang’s attention to the builder. “Mansuri had arranged a farmhouse near Manohar Road Bridge to confine Shaikh,” Bhadran said. Bhadran said the accused have a history of crime. Due to the lockdown they were not able to pull off a big heist so they planned the kidnapping. “Mansuri of Vapi used to work for Shaikh,” Bhadran said. “He told the gang that Shaikh had Rs 50 crore with him in addition to a lot of money in his office.” The gang went to Vapi to monitor Shaikh’s movements. When the gang was caught by inspector A Y Baloch and his team on Friday, it was headed to Vapi to make the second kidnapping attempt. Crime branch sources said the gang members had planned the crime about a fortnight ago and had even gone to Vapi to execute it. “Because of the lockdown bandobast, they could not kidnap Shaikh,” a cop said. “They came back to Ahmedabad on July 7.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plot-to-kidnap-builder-foiled/articleshow/77043965.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Sorry, no big fat Indian wedding this Sravana||Vijayawada/Visakhapatnam: The month of Sravana, considered in both Telugu-speaking states to be the most auspicious in the year, will begin on July 21. Every year, between 50,000 to 60,000 weddings are held during this month, but Covid-19 fears are expected to drastically shrink that number this year. When the lockdown was imposed in March, many weddings scheduled for April and May were postponed. After restrictions were lifted in Unlock 1.0, the Union government permitted wedding celebrations, capping the number of guests at 50. Prior permission from the district administration was made mandatory. This involves presenting an application at the tehsildar’s office in which the venue has to be disclosed and the number of guests expected. After examining the application, the tehsildar will foward the request to the sub-collector for approval. Final approval will be given after taking an undertaking from the organisers of the wedding. At present, as the number of cases continues to surge across the state, the state government has directed district collectors to keep an eye on weddings held during Sravana. “It is high time for all of us to think of our health and strictly say no to big fat weddings. One should celebrate weddings in low-key manner. People above the age of 55 should stay away from wedding celebrations. Persons attending weddings should wear masks and keep sanitizers with them,” said Arja Srikanth, state Covid-19 nodal officer. Echoing the sentiment, residents said they were planning small weddings. “We have waited for almost three months so that we can celebrate our daughter’s wedding ón a large scale. But the Covid-19 situation is worsening and it seems unlikely that things will improve in the near future. We have decided to celebrate the wedding with 10 to 20 persons,” said KSN Sharma, a retired employee. “Even our relatives are not willing to attend the wedding and we have applied for permission to celebrate the wedding in our apartment cellar,” he added. Added to this, with the state government directing all function halls and managements of convention centres to not start operations till further orders around 40,000 priests have been rendered jobless in both Telugu states. Similarly, musicians of wedding bands caterers, people in the business of lighting have had not business since the outbreak of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sorry-no-big-fat-indian-wedding-this-sravana/articleshow/77043122.cms||Venu Lanka
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Agri department begins sale of seedlings for Onam harvest||Kochi: The district administration has begun a massive programme of distribution of vegetable seeds and seedlings under the ‘Onathinu Oru Muram Pachakari’ project. The agriculture department has set aside Rs 10 crore towards supply of seed kits and seedlings to homesteads and farmers across the state. The aim is to ensure that people utilize their time at home for vegetable cultivation and thus produce safe-to-eat and pesticide-free vegetables in their home. Under the project, three lakh packets of seeds have been distributed to reach all households in the district. About 10 lakh seedlings are also being readied for supply to reach both commercial farmers as well as small household gardens. “We have found that it is more effective to distribute seedlings because that will ensure a produce. In case of seeds, not all people follow it up or even plant it,” said Ernakulam principal agriculture officer Dileep Kumar T. The agriculture department gets the seedlings mainly from their own farms, Kerala agricultural research stations, agro-service centres and nurseries which get support under the vegetable development schemes. This apart, all local self-government bodies have also launched their own programmes for promoting vegetable cultivation. “We are targeting a minimum of 500 tonnes production this season as there has been a lot of response to fallow land cultivation and cluster farming groups which are cultivating vegetables, paddy, banana and tuber crops. Lots of individuals, Kudumbashree, male self-help groups, political parties and NGOs have all invested in farming. Agricultural officials said that only paddy cultivation was affected due to the exit of migrant workers following Covid-19,” Kumar said. According to government officials, 150 hectares of fallow land has already come under cultivation and another 250 hectares will also be added in the district. On an average 20-30 tonnes is cultivated per hectare, mostly depending on the crops. In case of cucumber, it works to more than 30 tonnes per hectare. Since most of the fallow land is acquired by people looking for commercial production, the state government is giving a financial assistance for vegetable cultivation at the rate of Rs 40,000 through Subhiksha Kerala project. For leased land, it works to Rs 37,000 to the farmer and Rs 3,000 to the owner. During the lockdown period in March-April, the department activated its eco-shops and agro-service centres which functioned as a point of sale for farmers from across the district. Officials are confident that since WhatsApp groups are in place since the lockdown began, which helped the sale of almost 80% of the Vishu market produce, the network will keep the department in loop in the event of any crisis. District-level committee for market management is expected to take action in the event of any unusual situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/agri-department-begins-sale-of-seedlings-for-onam-harvest/articleshow/77043999.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic push for police’s digital drive||Ranchi: While the Centre’s Crime and Criminal Tracking and Networks Systems (CCTNS) project -- for creating a comprehensive and integrated system for effective policing through e-Governance -- could not take off properly in Jhrakhand in the 11 years since it was launched in 2009, the Covid-19 pandemic has pushed the state police department to go digital in a big way. Jharkhand police is now making increasing use of digital and social media platforms, including WhatsApp and Twitter, to interact with people and address their grievances. The new virus has infected 179 police personnel, including a DSP-rank officer, seven inspectors and 18 sub-inspectors so far. Inspector general (South Chhotanagpur) Navin Singh said the police and the people are now using the electronic mode to interact with each other on various issues and Jharkhand DGP M V Rao has also stressed on activating all the social media platforms. Notably, the number of people following Jharkhand Police’s Twitter account has increased from 17,000 before the lockdown to more than 80,000 at present and citizens are increasingly using this platform to lodge complaints affecting them and the society in general. Recently, former MLA Kunal Sadangi had taken to the social media site and sought the rescue of children who had gone missing during the lockdown. Subsequently, an order was issued to SPs of several districts on Twitter to take cognizance of the complaint and initiate appropriate steps. Another person tweeted saying he got a call purportedly from the police and was asked his name. Jharkhand Police clarified on the site that they never call anyone without identifying their organisation and purpose. People are also using this platform to complain about lockdown violations in their area and issuing frequent advisories to people on avoiding cyber crime traps and helping those seeking support on various law and order issues, including gambling and illicit liquor. Jharkhand Police spokesperson and IG Suman Gupta said, “The DGP is keen to reach out to people and take their feedback through various ways including social media sites like Twitter. We are directing the concerned police units to address the issues raised by the people online.” Meanwhile, police have also ensured that mobile phones of officers in charge of all police stations have WhatApp. Gupta said people could send their complaints through this medium also. Police said all electronic mediums including the online FIR system are welcome under the present circumstances. For online FIRs, the complainant has to visit police station to explain his case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-push-for-polices-digital-drive/articleshow/77044004.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 900-plus Covid cases again||AHMEDABAD: In 18 days of July, Gujarat recorded 16th new highest daily tally at 960 Covid-19 positive cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Saturday, taking the total cases to 47,476. It was the sixth consecutive day for the state to record 900-plus daily cases, whereas it was the highest daily death toll in 14 days. The cases included 268 from Surat, 199 from Ahmedabad, 78 from Vadodara, 57 from Rajkot and 40 from Junagadh. The state also recorded the deaths of 19 Covid-19 positive patients, taking the state Covid-19 death toll to 2,127. The deaths included 10 from Surat – the highest for the district which included seven from the city and three from the district – four from Ahmedabad, two from Kutch and one each from Banaskantha, Navsari and Rajkot. It was after 24 days that the state recorded more discharges than daily cases as 1,061 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 34,005. It was also the second highest ever daily discharge figure, second only to 1,114 recorded on June 2, and only second time that more than 1,000 patients got discharged in a day. The discharges included 337 from Surat, 169 from Ahmedabad, 139 from Rajkot and 102 from Vadodara. With the update, the state now has 11,344 active patients, which is 23.9% of total patients. The share of discharged and deceased patients is now at 71.6% and 4.5%. Gujarat carried out 12,297 tests in 24 hours for finding new Covid-19 positive patients, taking the total to 5.2 lakh. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 3.8 lakh persons under quarantine. Ahmedabad, after nearly one week, recorded 182 cases. The city for the past few days has been recording fresh cases around 150. The officials said that maximum cases were reported from the west zone, the South West zone and the North West zone. These three zones have reported over 60% of the cases. In the active cases, the western part accounts for 51% of the total active cases in city. Till Thursday morning, the city had a total of 3,619 active cases of which 1,603 are from the western part. Of these 1,603 cases, the west zone has recorded 621; the North West zone 522; and the South West zone 460. The other zones included the central zone (266), the North zone (422), the East zone (436) and the South zone (442).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-records-900-plus-cases-again/articleshow/77044001.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||As new cases mount, Covid centres run out of space in Goa||PANAJI: The state government has put up a brave front in the face of the rapid rise in Covid cases over the last fortnight, but with health officials finding it difficult to make place for new patients, medical practitioners in the state were of the opinion that it is high time the health department seriously considered home quarantining asymptomatic patients wherever possible. The state has expanded Covid care facilities given the rising cases, but since the past few days, on an average nearly 200 new cases are being reported every day against the 100 recoveries a day. “It is the need of the hour that asymptomatic patients be home quarantined,” city physician, Dr Oscar Rebelo, said. Tuesday saw health officials struggling to find beds with all Covid care centres almost full to capacity. “We had a problem identifying beds in Covid care centres. I have been calling all centres since morning,” a health official from South Goa said. However, a senior health official denied that the state was running out of place in Covid care facilities. “It is not true. We have activated more areas like that at the National Institute of Technology (NIT) hostel in Goa Engineering College campus, and the Shyamaprasad stadium has been kept ready for the last three to four days,” the official said. On July 2, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) issued revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild, pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. The official said that the government is yet to take a call regarding home quarantine protocols for asymptomatic cases as most are from extremely congested areas, where it may be difficult for individuals to be suitably isolated. The guidelines of the MoHFW states that only those clinically diagnosed as very mild, pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic by a medical officer will be eligible for home isolation. A person said he could have isolated himself at his residence and avoided burdening the infrastructure. “I don’t want to complain about the service, but given a choice, I would have stayed home. I was quarantined, and I had no symptoms at all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-new-cases-mount-covid-centres-run-out-of-space/articleshow/77044706.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University constituent colleges teachers can now become professors||PRAYAGRAJ: The teachers of the constituent colleges of the Central University of Allahabad will now be able to become professors. For this, Dean College and Development (CDC), Prof Prashant Agarwal, has invited applications which can be submitted till July 31. The qualifying teachers will have to submit their applications to the principal of the college, after which, further process will start. Earlier, there was no post of professor in colleges and the teachers had to retire from the post of associate professor. With this, more than 100 teachers of the constituent colleges of AU will now get a chance to become professors and will be able to do their research work. However, to become a professor, a teacher will have to have an experience of three years as an associate professor. For this, the applicants will have to go through the same process which is followed for the recruitment of teachers. On behalf of Dean CDC, Prof Prashant Agarwal, all the principals have been instructed to seek applications from the teachers by July 31. Screening of application forms will be done after the application process is completed. After this, a selection committee will be constituted at the college level, headed by the chairman of the governing body of the college. This committee will take interviews of the qualified teachers after the screening process is completed. After this, the list of the selected teachers will be sent to the governing body of the college. After the governing body’s approval, the names of the selected teachers will be sent to the Vice Chancellor in a closed envelope. After the approval from the VC, the governing body will disclose the names of the teachers promoted. “Principal teachers of all colleges have to apply for qualifying teachers by July 31 after which the process would follow the lines of the teacher recruitment”, said Prof Aggarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-constituent-colleges-teachers-can-now-become-profs/articleshow/77044753.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhopal||EDITEDKnowing correct way to wear a mask is vital, say experts||Bhopal: Science affirms that face coverings are a critical tool in the fight against Covid-19 that could reduce the spread of the disease. However, the most powerful weapon is not being worn correctly, warn experts. If a mask is worn loose and the nose not covered, it is likely to put a person at more risk. Keeping the same mask on for an extended duration is also unsafe. In public spaces, the main purpose of wearing a mask is to avoid aerosol penetration. Certified masks ensure unhindered breathing with maximum resistances. “When the mask is removed or allowed to hang around the chin or neck, the exposure to contagion is more lethal,” said GMC pulmonologist Dr Parag Sharma. None of the policemen on duty in various locations of the city had more than one mask, when TOI scouted different zones. A number of infections have been reported in these Covid-19 warriors. To keep them safe, more stringent measures are needed. “All those serving as Covid-19 warriors should be sensitised about the correct use of protective gear. Doffing off a protective gear, hand hygiene or a simple task of drinking water while on duty needs to be scientific and safe,” said a consultant with AIIMS Bhopal, seeking anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editedknowing-correct-way-to-wear-a-mask-is-vital-say-experts/articleshow/77043988.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Govt to rehabilitate landslide displaced at Neermarga||Mangaluru: With landslides continuing in Bangalagudde, Gurupura, where two siblings were killed and several houses were destroyed on Sunday and subsequent days, the government has proposed to rehabilitate residents of 100 houses affected by the landslides at Bondantila in Neermarga village panchayat. Officials who visited the spot in Bondantila on Tuesday, said that the government has decided that each resident displaced by the landslide will be allocated a house on 2.5 acres of Gomala land in Bondantila. Each beneficiary will get 2.8 cents with a house on it. “As per the direction received by the Dakshina Kannada (DK) district administration from the state government, we have decided to rehabilitate 100 displaced people at Bondantila, for which a survey was conducted on Tuesday. The survey report will be submitted to the deputy commissioner for consideration,” said Shivaprasad, deputy tahsildar, while speaking to the media. Even two days after the incident, there was a pall of gloom in Bangalagudde, as most of the residents have gone to the rehabilitation centre, and the place has turned into a ghost village. According to locals, landslides have continued in the area since Sunday, and two houses are about to collapse, and several more houses will also get destroyed. “On Monday, most of the affected residents vacated their houses, and left either for a rehabilitation centre or to their relatives’ houses,” said a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/govt-to-rehabilitate-landslide-displaced-at-neermarga/articleshow/77043140.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||‘Expedite tracing, testing in Porvorim’||Panaji: Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte met with officials and urged them to seal off parts of his constituency where Covid-19 cases have been detected. The MLA also raised an alarm over the shortage of beds and doctors in the state to treat positive patients. Insisting that the 3-day lockdown was not enough to stop the curb the outbreak, Khaunte asked locals to stay indoors for 15 days in order to break the spread of the virus. “I have been made to understand that there is a shortage of beds for which there is a delay in taking those who have been tested positive to the Covid care centres. I am taking it up with the health minister,” said Khaunte after the meeting with the state authorities. Khaunte also asked the government to expedite contact tracing and rope in more doctors to help tackle the spread of the virus. The former revenue minister met deputy collector of Bardez Mamu Hage, DySP Edwin Colaco and Dr Sikander Talwar besides other government officials. According to the health office, there are 24 cases of Covid-19 in Porvorim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/expedite-tracing-testing-in-porvorim/articleshow/77044717.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Special parcel trains to continue for next 6 months||VIJAYAWADA: To keep the supply chain intact, the Vijayawada division has started transporting large number of commodities through special parcel trains to different parts of the country. During the lockdown, a total of 5,000 tonnes of essential commodities like lime, iced fish, eggs, containers of clarified butter, mangoes, perishables, other essentials, including 74.127 tonne of medicines, were transported to various destinations from Vijayawada, Rajahmundry, Eluru, Gudur, Nellore and Anakapalle stations of the division till date. Officials said dry fish, alone, recorded the major share in the parcel load — 3,120 tonne. Since, April 2 it has been sent to several cities, including Howrah and Guwahati. “Due to increasing patronage and demand for these trains, it was decided to continue its operation in select routes for six more months. Because of its (Vijayawada) strategic location, 12 special parcel trains are currently plying across the division,” a railway official stated. From July 1 onwards, around 12 trains, mainly originating from Secunderabad, transits VIjayawada railway station every week. Officials informed that merchants and cargo aggregators can load their parcel consignments at important junctions like Pune, Bhubaneswar, Malda town, New Bongaigaon, Solapur, Dimapur and other north east states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spl-parcel-trains-to-continue-for-next-6-mnths/articleshow/77043144.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 10 lakh seized; three arrested||RAJKOT: A total of 1,911 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 72 cans of beer, worth 10.29 lakh, were seized in two different raids reported from Jamnagar and Sayla in Surendranagar district on Saturday. Three bootleggers were arrested in one of the operations. The officials of Jamnagar A division police station during patrolling received a tip-off that three bootleggers were going to pass through Kalavad Road, piloting the truck carrying liquor with their car. “Acting on the tip-off we kept a watch on Kalavad Road and intercepted the truck and the car on the basis of their registration numbers that we had already received. We found 749 IMFL bottles and 72 cans of beer, all worth Rs 3.29 lakh, from the possession of the accused, Satish Barot (30), Rajesh Kanchawa (23) and Ravirajsinh Vala,” said an official from the Jamnagar A division police station. “The liquor cache had been supplied by one Badha Patel and it had been ordered by one bootlegger identified as Paresh. We have launched a manhunt for them as both of them have gone absconding,” added the official. Meanwhile in Sayla, 1,162 IMFL bottles worth Rs 7 lakh were seized from a pick-up van that was abandoned near Sayla circuit house on Sudamda Road in Surendranagar. “Though no accused was found from the spot, we have booked Vijay Khachar for the crime, as we had a tip-off that he had brought the supply of the liquor cache,” said an official from Surendranagar local crime branch. “The liquor bottles were concealed beneath the heaps of saw dust stored in the pick-up van,” added the official. Box: IMFL worth 36.31L seized; one held A total of 8,189 IMFL bottles worth 36.31 lakh were seized from a truck on Tarnetar-Sara Road near Thangadh of Surnedranagar district on Saturday. The truck driver,Papparam Jat, was arrested. Jat had hidden the liquor cache beneath the heaps of wheat bags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-10l-seized-three-arrested/articleshow/77043861.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Couple with 3-year-old son killed as train rams into car||PATNA: An engineer working for a US firm, his wife and their three-and-a-half years old son were killed when a train rammed into their car on an illegal railway crossing around 25km from Patna on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Sumit Kumar (42), Neelka Bihari (36) and Praneet. Sumit, along with his wife and son, was going to meet his in-laws at Dharhara village under Punpun police station area. The accident took place at 6.35am when their car got stuck on the railway track while trying to cross it near Potahi railway station. Before they could understand anything, the Patna-Ranchi Janshatabdi special train came and rammed into the SUV, killing them on the spot. “Sumit was working as an engineer for a US firm and lived in Noida. He had his residence at Anandpuri in Boring Road at Patna,” Neelka’s father Surendra Bihari Singh told TOI over phone. Sumit had come to Patna last month amid the Covid-19 pandemic and was working from home. “My grandson Praneet had been asking Sumit and Neelka for the last few days that he wanted to visit his nana-nani. On his insistence, they planned to visit us on Saturday,” Singh said. Taregana GRP station house officer Suresh Ram said the spot is only one kilometre away from Dharhara. “Villagers had created an illegal crossing on the track where Sumit attempted to cross. His car got stuck on the track and the Janshatabdi rammed into the vehicle, killing all three on the spot,” he said. Ram said the car was dragged for at least 400 metres before the train came to a halt after its driver applied emergency brakes. “The bodies were sent to PMCH for autopsy,” he said. When contacted, Danapur railway division safety inspector Anil Kumar said villagers create such illegal crossings to reduce their travel distance by a kilometre or two. “Railways continuously organizes awareness programmes against such acts. We even get removed the debris put up near the track by informing the RPF. However, villagers repeatedly do it,” he said. East Central Railway’s CPRO Rajesh Kumar, in a press statement, said attempt to cross the track at an unauthorized location resulted in the accident. He said traffic on Patna-Gaya section resumed soon. He said the accident took place at 6.35am and the train left for onward journey to Gaya at 9.37am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/couple-with-3-year-old-son-killed-as-train-rams-into-car/articleshow/77044024.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Day 2 uneventful, grocery stores confusion continues||PANAJI: Goa continued to support the three-day lockdown with residents staying indoors throughout Saturday. Shops and markets remained shut on the second day of the lockdown with heavy rain providing further reason not to venture out. Industrial establishments continued to remain operational but the confusion around grocery stores continued in some parts of the state. Questions whether general stores are classified as “essential services” led many proprietors to keep their shutters down. Small grocery shop owners in the Baga-Calangute-Candolim belt, who had stocked up on milk found few takers, with a shopkeeper saying that customers got the impression that all shop have been shut. In South Goa, police officials continued to pull down shutters of grocery stores. “If the authorities keep interpreting the rules on their own and closing down general stores then people will panic,” a Margao resident said. Goa Police officials said that unlike the lockdown in March when vehicular movement came to a complete halt, this time around movement of cars and two-wheelers can be seen. In the hinterland, people took the lockdown in their stride with some youth seen moving about on two wheelers. In Pernem, a few chemists keep the pharmacy shut because of the rise in positive cases in the locality. At the three checkposts, cargo vehicles were permitted to enter into the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/day-2-uneventful-grocery-stores-confusion-continues/articleshow/77044720.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Governor, Goa CM will work together to win Covid battle: Raj Bhavan||PANAJI: Governor Satya Pal Malik on Saturday extended full support to the Goa government in its fight against Covid-19. The move came two days after he on Thursday heavily criticised chief minister Pramod Sawant’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, warning him to “pull up his socks” and that Delhi was keeping a close watch. Sawant met Malik again on Friday and discussed a range of issues pertaining to Covid-19 management. “The governor and chief minister pledged to continue to work in full cooperation and synergy in order to win the battle against the contagion and in the interest of the state,” Raj Bhavan said in a statement after the meet. Sawant, too, said that the governor’s observations and suggestions would be acted upon by the government in right earnest. On Thursday, Malik slammed Sawant’s handling of the pandemic. “The main problem is that we got satisfied at a time when we should not have been satisfied,” he had said. “When people were calling for a lockdown in Vasco, we did not do it. Now that it has increased, we are going for a lockdown. This is an error of judgement,” Malik had said. He had also said the deaths taking place due to Covid cannot be simply classified as comorbid deaths, and the government cannot wash its hands off. “If a cancer patient gets Covid and he is sent to the Covid hospital, he is treated with paracetamol tablets. This cannot continue. I have given clear instructions to the government to treat patients with co-morbidities properly and not put them under a similar treatment like the other patients,” Malik had told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-cm-will-work-together-to-win-covid-battle-raj-bhavan/articleshow/77044718.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Varsity gets legal notice for exam during pandemic||AHMEDABAD: An Ahmedabad lawyer on Saturday sent a notice to Children’s University accusing it of putting candidates’ health at risk by organizing an entrance test on July 20. Advocate Salman Mansuri has told the university that it should be ready for legal consequences, if any candidate contracts Covid-19 due to its “shocking and irresponsible” decision. The lawyer has concealed the identity of his client saying that he feared reprisal and bias from the university. It has been stated in the notice that the university was warned of legal action because there was not enough time to move court against the decision to hold the examination. It was also pointed out that due to the night curfew, candidates coming from other towns will find it very inconvenient to take the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/varsity-gets-legal-notice-for-exam-during-pandemic/articleshow/77043986.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||GPSC hiring stuck due to women’s reservation GR||AHMEDABAD: The contentious government resolution (GR) of August 1, 2018, regarding reservation for women in government jobs, has continued to trouble the state government, particularly its recruiting agency, the Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC). GPSC approached the Gujarat high court complaining that the unresolved issue left it unable to fill 93% of total posts, which are governed by the GR. The issue has been pending in the HC since December 2018, with women candidates objecting to the new provisions. The HC had asked GPSC to go forward with recruitment processes but the final selection would be subject to the outcome of the litigation. As the litigation is not over, the recruitment agency approached the HC, requesting it to adjudicate the dispute because as many as 3,395 posts of 3,667 (93%) are governed by the GR. It further said that the future of 1.6 lakh candidates out of 1.7 lakh candidates for pending posts depends on the outcome. With this, the GPSC urged the HC to grant early hearing and adjudicate the issue expeditiously. The GPSC also submitted that it was unable to move ahead with various pending recruitment processes due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As various litigations are pending and instructions for completion of recruitment were issued by the high court, GPSC received a contempt notice as well. It explained that the delay was not wilful, but due to the pandemic. The issue of 33% reservation for women caused a huge controversy during recruitment for the Lok Rakshak Dal. Candidates from reserved categories and the general category approached the high court, opposing the August 1, 2018 GR and supporting its implementation, respectively. As pressure mounted on the government, it decided to drop the application of this GR in the LRD recruitment and offered to lower cut-off marks and increase posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gpsc-hiring-stuck-due-to-womens-reservation-gr/articleshow/77044012.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs probe almost complete||KOCHI: Commissionerate of Customs Preventive (CCP) – probing the gold smuggling case – has completed 80% of the investigation and has set its eyes on the kingpins staying in the UAE, sources said on Saturday. Sources added that the accused who need to be arrested are hawala operators and financiers based in the UAE. “There are a few key investors in the UAE, apart from Faisal Fareed and his associates. There is a high likelihood of unaccounted money getting invested in procuring gold in the UAE. The gang had close ties with hawala operators there and the ones in Kerala,” said a source. Customs sources said that they are confident of nabbing the suspects abroad. “Since, NIA has already begun the extradition process, we are not going to interfere. Apart from the hiccups caused by the pandemic, we are confident of getting the accused from abroad as well. But, there is work to be done on that front,” said a senior customs official. Meanwhile, customs claimed that Swapna Suresh, one of the accused, had given a statement that a couple of diplomats allegedly got monetary benefits from the smuggling operation. Sources said Swapna claimed that $1,500 were allegedly given to diplomats when each consignment was cleared at the airport. However, this finding is yet to appear in public documents relating to the investigation. Customs sources said the agency didn’t get a statement from her implicating IAS officer M Sivasankar in the smuggling case. Customs officials claimed that Sarith and Sandeep knew each other as they had worked together. “Sandeep and Ramees knew Swapna through Sarith. They planned to include Swapna considering her influence. Swapna was in need of money due to some family issues, which is why she agreed to be part of the operation,” said the source. However, even if her statements are true, the probe is unlikely to touch diplomats considering the sensitive nature of the issue. Customs is unlikely to get a chance to collect statements of the diplomats again as they have left the country. Customs sources said that almost the entire network of the gang in Kerala has been picked up by the agency. “We are confident that our investigation is foolproof. The investigation officer is visiting the concerned court each day in order to ensure that the court is apprised about the developments of the probe so that there are no hiccups on the legal aspects of the case,” said an official source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-probe-almost-complete/articleshow/77173851.cms||Disney Tom
July 19, 2020||Bhopal||Numbers up, curbs back in Bhopal||Bhopal: With 722 new Corona cases in Bhopal in just seven days, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday ordered shops to be shut at 8pm instead of 10pm and 50% attendance in private offices from Monday. The decision came on a day Madhya Pradesh recorded 682 cases, and Bhopal crossed the 4,000 mark with around 1,057 active cases. Officials said more restrictions could be imposed in areas seeing spikes in Covid-19 count. The CM cautioned that positivity rate in Bhopal is 10% and “special focus” is needed to curb the virus in the state capital. “Coronavirus isn’t gone yet. Do not be relaxed. Take full precautions and be alert. Do not overcrowd places. Do not move out of your house unnecessarily. Wear masks, maintain physical distancing and take all necessary precautions. Even the slightest negligence can prove fatal,” the CM warned. A week ago, the state government had announced complete Sunday shutdown across MP, with only essential services, milk parlours and medicine shops being allowed to open. The state’s Corona count shot up to 21,763 on Saturday, with 5,102 of them coming in the last eight days. The daily count was 700-plus on the previous two days. With 9 more deaths in the state, the toll has gone up to 706. The mortality rate has dipped to 3.2 but the recovery rate has kept sliding all month and now stands at 68.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/numbers-up-curbs-back-in-bhopal/articleshow/77044015.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||GMC doctor said to leave: Vasco local||Panaji: A man and his wife were allegedly thrown out of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital after a doctor found out that the couple had come from Vasco. The man, Gaurish Volvoikar had brought his wife Mahi to GMC to get her treated for severe back pain. “It is sad and unacceptable that at GMC after asking us how the pain started and after filling up the papers, they found that we have come from Vasco, they asked us to get out,” said a livid Volvoikar who uploaded a video on social media. He questioned why Vasco residents were being stigmatised and blamed for bringing Covid-19 into the state. He also said that nearly all the Mormugao taluka MLAs had asked the chief minister to impose a complete lockdown when the outbreak started in Mangor Hill. “They clearly told us that we are not supposed to come here. I request the health minister to put up a board saying that Vasco people are not allowed at GMC,” Volvoikar said. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat expressed shock over the “ill treatment” meted out to the Vasco couple.  “The government must ensure that sensitive approach is shown to the people, especially patients,” said Kamat as he urged chief minister Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane to take note of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-doctor-said-to-leave-vasco-local/articleshow/77044723.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Micro-containment zones planned in Chellanam to stop virus spread||KOCHI: With Coronavirus infection making inroads into more areas of Chellanam panchayat, health authorities have proposed to create micro-containment zones at ward-levels in the local body to prevent the spread of the infection. Ward numbers 15, 16 and 17 were the seriously affected areas in the in the panchayat, which has already been declared as a containment zone. Now, cases have started to surface from ward numbers 20, 10, seven and 16 forcing the health authorities to recommend police to implement micro-containment zone restrictions, restricting the movement of people. A total of 182 contact cases have been reported from Chellanam panchayat till Saturday. People’s representatives said as many as 122 cases were reported from around 75 families residing at ward number 15 alone. “Clusters in Chellanam in Ernakulam and Ezhupunna in Alappuzha were formed simultaneously. People in Chellanam area is closely associated with Ezhupunna. We were able to contain virus spread in three wards in Chellanam as we identified all symptomatic people. An elderly woman was the first person to have contracted Covid-19 in Chellanam. As she did not have any travel or contact history, she was admitted to the general hospital. When we tested her immediate family members they also tested positive. Her son had developed the symptoms nine days ago. This prompted us to start symptomatic surveillance in the area. By the time reporting of fever cases in the OP section in the nearby government hospital began. Now, reports of positive cases have surfaced from other wards in the local body. That is why we have proposed to make each ward a containment zone,” said a district health official. Police said they are yet to get written order from the authorities about implementing micro- containment zone strategy in the panchayat. “The social life of people in coastal areas is much different from that of city folks. In cities, even neighbours may not know each other. But in coastal areas, people live in close-knit neighbourhoods. It is difficult to force them to remain cooped up in their houses putting their jobs at risk. The elderly woman, the first person to test positive in the area, came into contact with 154 people in 10 days. Though Chellanam has been declared a containment zone, many step out of their homes and engage in gambling. When they see a police vehicle approaching, they run for cover,” said Shiju S, Kannamaly CI. After a person in ward number 16 tested positive, the panchayat president and a medical officer have been advised to go into quarantine. Meanwhile, as part of cluster containment testing strategy, 760 samples were taken from Chellanam, 855 from Aluva, 160 from Keezhmad and 312 from Ernakulam Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/micro-containment-zones-planned-in-chellanam-to-stop-virus-spread/articleshow/77043229.cms||T C Sreemol
July 19, 2020||Varanasi||Opposition playing cheap politics, Yogi govt not anti-Brahmin: Ravi Kishan||GORAKHPUR: Member of Parliament from Gorakhpur constituency, Ravi Kishan slammed the Opposition parties on Saturday for playing caste politics on the encounter of Bikru carnage accused gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides and accused them of playing cheap politics to divide the society. Criticizing the Opposition for calling Yogi government anti-Brahmin, actor Ravi Kishan, whose real name is Ravindra Shyamnarayan Shukla, said, “A criminal has no caste and is only a criminal. Calling a criminal Brahmin is disrespect of the entire Brahmin community. Brahmins never torment or trouble others and have been respected since ages for imparting knowledge and giving direction to society.” Taking a dig at Congress party, he said, “Opposition can see its defeat in 2022 assembly elections, that’s why they are playing dirty politics. These parties always used Brahmins like vote banks. Congress party started caste-based politics against the government and SP and BSP are also supporting it. The Brahmin community knows the reality very well.” “I am a Brahmin. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath who was MP from Gorakhpur supported me in becoming Member of Parliament from his seat. Brahmins are on top positions in government and administration. How can anyone call this government anti- Brahmin,” Ravi Kishan asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/oppn-playing-cheap-politics-govtnot-anti-brahmin-ravi-kishan/articleshow/77044733.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Forensic experts recreate scene of Vikas Dubey's encounter||KANPUR: A team of forensic experts visited the site where gangster Vikas Dubey was gunned down in Sachendi area of the district on Saturday and recreated the scene of the encounter.The gangster was shot dead in a shootout after the SUV ferrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he snatched the pistol of a cop and opened fire while trying to escape. The Forensic Sciene Laboratory (FSL) team re-enacted the blow-by-blow account of the encounter which had taken place amid rain in Kisan nagar area of Sachendi on July 10 morning to probe the encounter theory. UP STF sleuths and officials from district police who had taken part in the encounter, were present at the spot and narrated the account of what had transpired. Sources told TOI that FSL team directed members of STF team to stand at the positions where they stood during the shootout. The entire recreation was conducted in multiple phases with the FSL team members jotting down every minute detail. The FSL team also complied information related to distance from the main road and the spot where SUV overturned after a herd of buffaloes came in its way. “The FSL wanted to know exact details of the encounter, and so the STF and district police personnel who were present during the shootout were called,” said Dr A K Srivastava, member of FSL team. The forensic experts took details of kind of weapons used by STF sleuths and the gangster. “The aim was to recreate the scene when the shootout had taken place, to understand how the encounter took place,” the official said. The FSL will prepare a report and submit it to the state government. Police had said a herd of buffaloes came in the way of the vehicle carrying Dubey near Kisan nagar in Sachendi and the SUV flipped. Taking advantage of the situation, Vikas snatched a 9 mm pistol of an officer and tried to escape by firing at the police team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/forensic-experts-recreate-scene-of-dons-encounter/articleshow/77044740.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 19, 2020||Kochi||City college starts aeromodelling club||Kochi: An arts college in the state has started an aeromodelling club to nurture young aeromodellers and radio control (RC) hobbyists and bridge the gap between them and the industry. St Albert’s College, Ernakulam, in association with Kochi-based Glorod Avionics Pvt Ltd started the club on Thursday aiming to provide training in designing, developing, and building new model prototypes of aircraft models, UAVs, UVs, etc., to its members. The club membership is not limited to the college’s students but anyone interested in aeromodelling can join at a very low yearly fee ranging between Rs.500 and Rs.2,000, based on age group. An was MoU was signed by college chairman Fr Antony Arackal and founder director of Glorod Avionics Pvt Ltd Sheen Thomas in the presence of principal Nelson Rodriguez, vice principal Fr John Christopher, Glorod managing director Annie Sheen Thomas on Thursday. “Developing expertise through the hobby of aeromodelling and other RC activities and transferring skills to its members who want to explore opportunities in the field are the main motto of the club. Other RC activities would include designing, developing, and building new model prototypes of cars, trucks, boats, ships & trains and repairing of damaged models. Flying using aircraft models and ground training to the budding pilots are also included in the activities the club,” said Sabu MC, HoD, mathematics department and coordinator of the club. Organizing workshops related to chuck gliders, control line aircrafts, RC gliders, powered RC aircrafts and drones will also be part of the club’s activities. “The club will prepare the students/club members for different flying competitions, exhibitions in the state, national and international levels. We will enable interaction with professional aeromodelers and aid internship programmes with a view to generate employment opportunities for them,” said Sheen Thomas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-college-starts-aeromodelling-club/articleshow/77044011.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||You’re in queue: C+ve patients left to fend for themselves in Goa||VASCO: A woman from Baina, who tested positive for Covid-19, had to wait for three days before she was shifted to the Covid care centre at MPT in Vasco. It’s not a stray case. With numbers on the rise every day, the authorities have realised that they have more patients than beds at centres. “The 180-bed Covid care centre at MPT is full. As and when patients recover and are discharged, new patients are admitted. There are many on the waiting list,” Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai told TOI. Karim Mulla, a resident of Vasco who first took the couple for swab tests after seeing Covid-19 symptoms, said he was informed by the “authorities personally over the phone that they are overburdened and there is shortage of beds for Covid patients”. Mulla said he first contacted Dr Prashant Suryavanshi, medical officer at the directorate of health services, requesting for an ambulance to shift the woman to a hospital. He was told that an ambulance will duly arrive, but with no sign of the ambulance, the woman was forced to go to the sub-district hospital at Chicalim. She was given medication and asked to stay at home, a tough task given that there were six others at home, including her elderly mother-in-law. Mulla then called 108 EMRI and warned that if an ambulance does not arrive, he will approach the media. On Saturday, three days after she was confirmed positive, the woman was finally admitted to the MPT Covid care centre along with her sister-in-law. The woman from Baina is not alone. Even a 38-year-old man from New Vaddem and his wife have to remain quarantined at home. After being told that an ambulance will pick them up, they waited for six hours before deciding to go to the sub-district hospital. They begged the staff to admit them. Returning home was not a good option with two children—eight and four year olds—at risk. “The staff was courteous. They gave us the medicines. They even called twice to inquire about our health, but we continue to be quarantined at home,” he said. It has not been easy for staff of Zuari Agro Chemical Ltd either. The Zuarinagar-based company was the first to get all its employees tested, but 23 employees who tested positive four days ago are still waiting to be hospitalised, according to Arun Galve, general secretary of Goa United Workmen Union “Since the number of cases at ZACL have gone up to 98 and patients have not yet been moved to Covid care centres, they have now been quarantined at the company quarters,” said Galve. GUWU president Olencio Simoes hit out at the state administration for its failure in admitting Covid-19 patients of Zuarinagar, Velsao and Cansaulim among others to the centres due to unavailability of beds. “Health minister Vishwajit Rane had said that if the cases increase, a 2,000-bed capacity will be arranged,” Simoes said. Dr Jose D'Sa, director health services, though, said there is no shortage of beds in Covid care centres. “With opening of Covid care centre at Farmagudi, 400 beds are available. People tested positive are shifted there. We have beds in Covid care centres,” D'Sa told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wait-you-are-in-the-queue-cve-patients-left-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/77044722.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar civic body mulls ‘no-mask fine’||KOLKATA: With over 620 new Covid cases in this month so far and the tally crossing 1,100 on Saturday, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is now mulling a penalty on those not wearing masks when they move out of their homes. “Wearing masks is compulsory. However, despite extensive awareness campaigns, many are still not wearing masks properly and some are venturing out without any mask. Hence, we are contemplating imposing a penalty on those flouting the rule on streets and markets,” said a civic official. Sanitisation was done at CGO complex in Salt Lake on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-civic-body-mulls-no-mask-fine/articleshow/77044724.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 19, 2020||Chandigarh||17 lose Covid battle in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: A day after recording its highest number of Covid-19 cases in a day, Haryana recorded the highest number of fatalities due to the virus in a day on Saturday as 17 people succumbed to the disease. There was no let-up in new cases, as 750 more people tested positive, falling just a wee bit short of the all-time high of 795 cases on Friday. With this, the state’s Covid tally reached 25,547 and the number of fatalities rose to 344. Also, 600 patients recovered from the virus, taking the number of recoveries to 19,318. The state’s recovery rate is 75.67%. There are 5,885 active patients, of whom 74 are in a critical condition. Now, the fatality rate is 1.35%. Of the 17 patients who died, five were from Faridabad, two each from Ambala, Rewari, Rohtak and Gurgaon, and one each from Palwal, Nuh, Fatehabad and Sonipat. While 251 patients who died were men, 93 were women. Number of persons who have died due to Covid alone is 146 and deaths along with comorbidities are 198. Haryana’s testing rate is now 17,220 tets per million of population and 4,36,535 Covid tests have been conducted in the state so far. Faridabad continued to top the count in new cases as 139 people were found infected in the district. Here, the tally has risen to 6,350 cases with 109 deaths. Gurgaon got 111 new patients, taking its tally to 7,594 cases with 114 deaths. Ambala, the home district of health minister Anil Vij, had a spike in new cases as 96 people tested positive for the virus in the district, taking the coronavirus tally to 832 cases with eight deaths. Rohtak had 56 new patients and its tally rose to 1,134 cases with 18 deaths. Sonipat had 46 new cases, and its tally was2,344 cases with 25 deaths. Rewari got 42 new patients and here the total reached 1,017. Hisar’s Covid count reached 609 with 40 new cases, Also, 39 new cases were reported in Jhajjar, 35 in Panipat, 23 in Palwal, 21 each in Karnal and Fatehabad, 20 in Panchkula, 15 in Nuh, 14 in Jind, 11 in Bhiwani, seven each in Mahindergarh and Kurukshetra, four in Sirsa, two in Yamuananngar, and one in Kaithal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/17-lose-covid-battle-in-haryana/articleshow/77044725.cms||Manvir Saini
July 19, 2020||Varanasi||UP: 3 minor siblings die in waterlogged ditch||VARANASI: Three minor siblings died after drowning in a waterlogged deep ditch created due to illegal mining in the hills of Chiraiyya under Ahraura police station of Mirzapur district on Friday. The incident came to light when the body of a child was found floating in the waterloggged ditch on Saturday morning. The divers engaged by the police took out two more bodies from the ditch. Varanasi DM Sushil Patel ordered suspension of the lease of land till the completion of investigation in the matter. As per Mirzapur police, the three children were identified as Radha (12), Khushbu (10) and Kaju (8), residents of Chakjata Sariya village under Ahraura police station. They had taken their cows and goats for grazing on the hills of Chiraiya area on Friday afternoon, but did not return home. On Saturday morning, villagers noticed the body of Kaju floating in the ditch and alerted police. Later, CO (operations) and cops from Ahraura police station reached there with PAC flood team and divers who recovered the bodies of Radha and Khushbu. Villagers alleged that the persons who had been allotted the land on lease for stone mining had violated the prescribed norms and created 15-20-feet-deep ditches over it which remained waterlogged during the rainy season. The three siblings fell in one of the ditches. Taking note of the incident, local MP Anupriya Patel asked the district administration for appropriate action in this connection. Mirzapur DM also inspected the spot and sought a report by SDM Chunar and officials of mining department. The SDM reported him that the lease of this land had been allotted to one Rekha Jaiswal and it will expire in 2022. DM said that on getting the initial report from SDM, order for suspension of the land lease on immediate basis had been issued. Further action would be taken in the matter after the arrival of the report following detailed investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-minor-siblings-diein-waterlogged-ditch/articleshow/77044719.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man stabs to death woman, 18, after she ends relationship||COIMBATORE: An 18-year-old girl, who was stabbed by her spurned boyfriend in front of her residence at Arumuga Goundanur near Perur on Friday night, passed away at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Saturday. The Perur police identified the deceased as S Aishwarya, daughter of M Sakthivel. She was a I Year BCom student at a college in Perur. Police have formed three teams to nab her killer C Ratheesh, 24, a mechanic. Aishwarya was in love with Ratheesh, who belonged to another community, said superintendent of police Ara Arularasu. “But she ended the relationship in March after her family discouraged her. Ratheesh was not able to meet her for four months due to the lockdown. She also refused to respond to his calls. Around 8.30pm on Friday, Ratheesh visited her house and asked her to come out. When she came out with her father, Ratheesh stabbed her on her chest and abdomen using a knife. Sakthivel, who tried to save his daughter, suffered injuries,” the officer said. Ratheesh managed to flee from the spot, said Muthukumar, a resident of Arumuga Goundanur. “When I tried to catch him, he pushed me down and escaped. We took Aishwarya and Sakthivel to CMCH,” he told TOI. Police have registered a case against Ratheesh under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-man-stabs-to-death-woman-18-after-she-ends-relationship/articleshow/77044009.cms||A Subburaj
July 19, 2020||Goa||‘Approved labs only can use test kits’||Panaji: The directorate of food and drugs administration (FDA) has informed members of the general public and chemists and druggists in particular, that rapid diagnostic kits approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) are to be used only by ICMR recognised laboratories. These facilities are required to enter the result of the test on their portals. The FDA said that these kits cannot be sold to individuals for home testing and that many such kits are being advertised online for sale. The FDA has issued the clarification as it has come to their notice that some videos and messages on ‘Abchek Rapid Diagnostic Kit’ are being circulated on social media, wherein corona rapid home test kits are said to be available in medical shops. The FDA asked chemists and druggists to take a note of the same, and warned that any violation will attract strict action as per the provisions of the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/approved-labs-only-can-use-test-kits/articleshow/77044728.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Man robs petrol bunk cashier at knifepoint||Coimbatore: An unidentified person barged into the casher’s office of a petrol bunk at Anna Nagar at Palladam in Tirupur in the early hours of Friday and attacked and robbed him of Rs 9,000 at knifepoint. The Tirupur police have formed four special teams to nab the robber and his aide. An investigation officer said the casher, identified as C Mani, 48, of Chinniyagoundenpalayam near Palladam, was admitted to a private hospital with head injuries. He said the incident took place at the Reliance Petrol bunk a little after 2am on Friday. “Two people came there on a bike around 2am and filled petrol themselves, as there wasn’t any staff around, and left. After five minutes, they returned. The pillion rider knocked on the casher’s office door and Mani, who was sleeping, opened the door.” The pillion rider threatened Mani at knifepoint, hit him on his head and locked him in a room. “Later he took away the cash and central processing unit of a computer, mistaking that for the digital video recorder of CCTV cameras. The rider was waiting for him on the bike,” the officer said. The Palladam police have registered a case under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. The special teams have collected CCTV footage from nearby areas. “The rider was wearing helmet while the pillion rider was wearing face mask. So, we haven’t identified the culprits,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-robs-petrol-bunk-cashier-at-knifepoint/articleshow/77044023.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Virus hotspot textile shop faces building violation charges||Coimbatore: Ever since it became a Covid-19 cluster, one of the textile showrooms at Balan Nagar near Masakalipalayam has been finding its going tough. Two weeks after the city corporation lodged a police complaint against the showroom for triggering virus spread by flouting government guidelines to contain the same, it has been now issued a show cause notice for building violations. A source said renovation works were being carried out at the showroom building without obtaining the civic body’s approval. The city corporation has ordered the showroom owner to immediately stop the unauthorized construction and demolish the same within seven days or by July 21. The four-storeyed is situated on 5,608sqft land. Under Section 296 (2) of the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1987, the shop owner has three days or 72 hours to explain why the new portion should not be demolished. The showroom was sealed on June 24 for violation of social distancing norms. However, the very next day it was reopened, forcing authorities to seal it again on June 26. Two days later (June 28), 18 employees and the owner of the showroom tested positive for the virus, which they contracted from the owner’s friend, who was positive and visited them often from Ondipudur. The cluster spread after some of their customers and the employees’ contacts at their place of residence began testing positive. The customers had also infected their family members. The cluster has now spread to an automation factory in Arasur. On July 1, east zone assistant commissioner of city corporation M Selvan had lodged a police complaint against the showroom for causing virus spread by flouting government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/virus-hotspot-textile-shop-faces-building-violation-charges/articleshow/77044016.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Shimla||40 found infected, 19 recover in Himachal; count rises to 1,457||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 40 positive cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, including 16 from Solan district, seven each from Una and Kangra, five from Sirmaur, two from Shimla, and one each from Hamirpur, Kullu and Mandi. In the state, 19 patients have also recovered, including eight from Una, three each from Kangra and Mandi, two each from Shimla and Bilaspur, and one from Chamba. Total number of positive cases in the state has now increased to 1,457, of which 401 cases are active, while 1,030 positive patients have recovered. Of the total positive cases tested so far, 15 have migrated out of state, nine have died of Covid-19. Two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district have occurred due to non-Covid reasons. In Shimla, Indian Coffee House on Mall Road was closed temporarily by the district administration for sanitisation, after it was found that an employee had arrived from Delhi. Administration initiated the action on a complaint by ICH as the employee was not ready for quarantine. In Shimla, a 63-year-old cancer patient from Hamirpur tested positive, while a 20-year-old woman who came from Kyrgyzstan and was in institutional quarantine at Shilaru, also tested positive. In Kangra, a 28-year-old woman and her 24-year-old brother, who had arrived from Chandigarh on July 9, and and their 52-year-old mother, who was at home, have all tested positive. While brother and sister have been shifted to Dedicated Covid Care Centre Baijnath, their mother has been shifted to Dedicated Covid Health Centre Dharamshala for treatment. A 52-year-old paramilitary personnel from Harot village, who had arrived from Kanker in Chattisgarh on July 13, has been tested positive and has been shifted to Dedicated Centre at Baijnath. A 64-year-old men from Bagga village of Jawali tehsil, who had arrived from Delhi on July 10, has been tested positive. A 30-year-old army personnel from Baranda village of Nurpur, who arrived from Jammu on July 12, is also among the new patients. In Una district, a 25-year-old man from Kuthar Kalan village and a 26-year-old man from Nangal Khurd, who had arrived from Kuwait via Delhi on July 10, and were in institutional quarantine have been tested positive. A 23-year-old men from Pandoga, who had arrived from Gurgaon and was in institutional quarantine, has also been tested positive. The other patients include a 50-year-old man from Gagret who arrived from Jalandhar on July 10, two men aged 20 and 25 are primary contact of patients, and a 43-year-old woman from Nangal Jariala who arrived from Ahmedabad on July 11. A total of 1,13,129 persons have been tested for Covid-19. Of them, 1,11,393 have tested negative and results of 279 samples are awaited. In Mandi, the new patient is a 28-year-old man from Bihar who is a migrant worker. In Solan, 12 cases are from Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area and remaining four cases from Kunihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/40-found-infected-19-recover-in-himachal-count-rises-to-1457/articleshow/77044731.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Nimmagadda to meet governor tomorrow||Vijayawada: Former state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar is scheduled to meet governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at 11.45 am on Monday. The high court had on Friday asked him to approach the governor, after hearing a contempt petition filed by Nimmagadda against the state government. The former SEC said in the petition that the government is yet to restore him despite the HC’s instructions. The court suggested Nimmagadda to meet the governor and seek his advice, following which he sent a request to Raj Bhavan seeking audience with the governor. It is to be seen what stand the governor takes as the Raj Bhavan has already issued an ordinance fixing a three-year term for the post and appointed Justice Kanagaraj as the new SEC. Meanwhile, retired IPS officer A Sundar Kumar Das has written to the governor, requesting him not to appoint Nimmagadda as SEC. “The high court has said the state government has no role in the appointment of SEC. Since the SEC was appointed on the advice of the state government in 2016, his reinstatement cannot be considered,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nimmagadda-to-meet-governor-tomorrow/articleshow/77043153.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata municipal corporation staffer dies of Covid after working with fever||KOLKATA: Covid-scare gripped employees of the birth and death certificate registration wing at Kolkata Municipal Corporation on Saturday following the death of a colleague on Friday night. He had reportedly been working at the birth registration counter till July 10 despite running a fever for two days. He complained of mild breathlessness and high fever that Friday and could not continue working. KMC authorities on Saturday had refused to call it a Covid death till a test report reached the civic headquarters. However, late at night a KMC health department source confirmed that the deceased’s report revealed that he was Covid-19 positive. “RG Kar hospital authorities refused to hand over the body to his family. Health department decided to arrange for a cremation on Saturday night in presence of his family,” the officials said Sources in KMC said the man, who was in his late fifties, had been admitted to a government hospital in Chandannagore on Monday with fever and severe breathing troubles. However, as his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. On Thursday night, his oxygen saturation level dropped and he collapsed inside a washroom. He was later pronounced dead. A senior health official said, “No one from the department had informed us that he was running a fever.” Some of his colleagues were so panic-stricken that they refused to work at the counters that led to a disruption in services. “He was healthy and never showed any sign of disease. He was not known to take medical leaves. Now, we are scared and need to undergo a Covid test since some of us worked with him till Friday afternoon,” said a worker in the department. “This is violation of a state government guideline that exempts government employees from attending office who have either fever, cough or cold. In our case, we are simply asked to attend office or take medical leave,” another civic employee said. Later, the KMC conducted a sanitization drive at the birth and death registration wing. The headquarters will be sanitized on Sunday. The civic brass may consider a temporary shutdown of the department on Monday. The birth and death registration department employees will also be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-staffer-dies-of-covid-after-working-with-fever/articleshow/77044727.cms||Saikat Ray
July 19, 2020||Goa||Education director messed up system, shunt her: Goa minister||PANAJI: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo on Saturday said that education director Vandana Rao has “messed up education” in the state and to stop her from messing it further, she should be immediately “removed from the post”. The education director doesn’t understand the ground reality of education in Goa, Lobo told TOI. Rao doesn’t understand how to take managements along to take education forward in Goa which has been happening for years together, he said. “She wants to bring in rules which she has learnt as an IAS officer and wants to implement them here. She wants to bring reforms in education, but wants to go purely by the book in that case education will go haywire,” the minister said. “Her moves have not gone down well among educational institutions. She has fought with and insulted every institute in Goa,” he said. Lobo said that Rao says she wants to bring reforms in the educational sector, but that it appeared like “an agenda to shut down educational institutions in the state”. “She is running the directorate of education like a private company. It is for the first time in Goa that step-motherly treatment is given to the education sector,” he said. The minister said that what education director was trying to do, including the salaries circular, was wrong as no institute has the money to pay salaries. The state government on Friday clarified that salary disbursal to staff of all aided schools for July is likely to be delayed as all the staff of the grant-in-aid (GIA) section of the directorate of education has been placed under home quarantine. Referring to the one of the circulars which stated that educational institutions should keep three-month reserve funds to pay salaries, Lobo asked if the education director knew how much the salaries of an institution amounted to.“Big institutions would have to pay salaries of Rs 50 lakh,” he said. “I have told chief minister Pramod Sawant that in the interest of education in the state he needs to change the director with immediate effect. It is not my demand, it is the demand of all the education institutions and others who interact with her,” the minister said. “She has to take everyone along, she cannot dictate and she should understand the ground reality of institutions, teachers, students, and educational infrastructure,” he said.  “If one lady with an iron hand wants to choke the educational institutions then it is better to replace her. She has issued 18 circulars which are against the institutions,” Lobo said. He said that Rao does not allow education institutions to fill permanent vacancies and that she instead tells them to take people on contract basis. The minister said that chief minister has enough problems in the state which he needs to address, so he cannot concentrate on education, which portfolio he holds. “He has to have the right person sitting as education director to solve all the problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-dir-messed-up-system-shunt-her-lobo/articleshow/77044730.cms||Murari Shetye
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight-month-old girl operated upon to remove tumour from her tongue||AHMEDABAD: Eight-month-old Rushika was not able to consume anything – even milk – as a tumour, the size of a small lemon – was obstructing the food pipe at the end of her tongue. Identified as tongue haemangioma in medical terminology, it’s a rare congenital condition, said experts. Dr Rakesh Joshi, the head of paediatric surgery department at Civil Hospital, said that her parents had approached the hospital with the presentation of swelling of the tongue. “But her examination revealed that it was a clotting of blood vessels – a non-cancerous tumour. In some cases, it gets dissolved with age and in some cases, with medication. But here the girl could not swallow anything and could not even close her mouth,” he said. The girl was operated upon with a team of surgeons and anaesthetists earlier this week. “The surgery was difficult as the adjoining blood vessels need to be preserved. The child also needs feeding from nose with a special tube till the surgery marks are healed. But she responded well to the treatment and is now ready for discharge,” said a hospital official, adding that she would now be able to take food and milk and would have no future complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eight-month-old-girl-operated-upon-to-remove-tumour-from-her-tongue/articleshow/77044021.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab closer to 10k mark as 350 test +ve||Chandigarh: With no sign of slowing down, Covid-19 cases inched closer to 10,000 mark in Punjab with 350 new cases added to the tally of Saturday. Seven more people died of the virus, taking the overall death toll 246. The number of people falling prey to the virus is expected to rise in the coming days as four patients are in ICU, while two are on oxygen support. With addition of new cases, the overall tally of positive cases shot up to 9,792, just 208 shy from breaching 10,000 mark. A total of 81 patients were discharged after recovering. So far, 6,454 patients have recovered. Continuing with the trend, bulk of cases were from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Sangrur and Patiala. As many as 72 cases were added to the tally from Ludhiana. Of them, 32 were contacts of positive cases, while 21 were co-infected with influenza like illness (ILI). In Jalandhar, 71 people were found infected, of which 40 were contacts of positive cases, while in 18 cases, the health department failed to trace the source. As many as 48 cases came from Patiala and 31 from Amritsar. In all, 28 cases surfaced in Fazilka, 23 in Sangrur, 15 in Ferozpur, 12 in Hoshiarpur, and 10 in Moga. Kapurthala and Ropar contributed seven cases each to the tally, while six cases were from Faridkot. Gurdaspur and Bathinda reported four cases each, while Nawanshahr and Mukstar reported three and two cases, respectively. One case each was from Kapurthala, Mansa and Pathankot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-closer-to-10k-mark-as-350-test-ve/articleshow/77044729.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||First positive case detected at Anjuna||SALIGAO: Swab samples of 86 people from Anjuna were collected by the Siolim primary health centre (PHC) after the first Covid positive case was detected in the coastal village on Friday. Deputy sarpanch Sheetal Naik said the woman was from outside the state and was working at a hotel in Anjuna, from where she might have contracted the virus. “After the case was detected we started contact tracing . The woman from Gumalvaddo has been shifted to the quarantine facility,” Sadhana Shetye, health officer at the Siolim PHC, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-positive-case-detected-at-anjuna/articleshow/77044738.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 11 years on, their minds clear them of friend’s murder||AHMEDABAD: Two men from Haryana lived 11 years under the cloud of allegations of having murdered their best friend and the fear of prison. Rud Singh and Baljinder Singh, 24 and 26 at the time, were the only official witnesses to the drowning of their 27-year-old friend, Maninder Singh, in July 2009. No one bought their story of his accidental drowning, because Maninder was an ace swimmer and a case of murder and destruction of evidence was filed against them. In the end, their minds came to their rescue, standing witness to their innocence. The case against Rud and Baljinder was closed recently, after the court acknowledged the results of the forensic psychology tests conducted on them by the Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS) in Gujarat. The report concluded that the duo had no role in Maninder Singh’s drowning in a canal of the Yamuna, which could indeed be an accident. On July 25, 2009, the family of Maninder Singh, a resident of Radaur village in the Yamuna Nagar district of Haryana, learned of his disappearance after he had stepped out with his friends, Rud and Baljinder. The two insisted that Maninder had drowned near Darbar Ghat. The family refused to believe this because Maninder was a good swimmer. In their complaint at Jagdhari police station, the family alleged he had been killed because his body could not be found. Police did not find any other witnesses . Maninder’s family moved court alleging that Rud and Baljinder had a motive, an earlier small financial dispute. The court formed a special investigation team (SIT) under the then IGP of Rohtak range, Sandeep Khirwar, in 2012. In January 2019, the Haryana court passed an order allowing the duo to undergo narco analyses and BEOS (brain electrical oscillation signature) profiling here. They were found medically unfit for narco analysis when they were brought here in August, but the BEOS profiling proved useful, revealing details new to the case and confirming a few known ones,” said a senior DFS official. Based on the test results, investigators put together a sequence revealing that the three friends met at Yamuna Nagar, where they had all gone to sell timber. After striking business deals, the trio went for an impromptu food and liquor party at 11.30am. Three hours later, they got together again and had more drinks. They then went to a canal of the Yamuna, where Maninder went for a swim despite protests by Rud and Baljinder, who warned him about the strong current. The duo did not know how to swim. The findings in the forensic report were held valid by the court. In a recent order it observed, “From the above tests, it was opined that both the suspects did not participate in the killing of Maninder by drowning him. However, it transpired that the deceased was in an intoxicated state and had jumped into the heavy flow of water which led to his drowning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-years-on-their-minds-clear-them-of-friends-murder/articleshow/77044061.cms||Parth Shastri
July 19, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Amid curbs, protesters take to writing slogans||BATHINDA: As the government has issued restrictions for holding protests due to Covid-19, the unemployed youth have devised another way of protest — writing slogans at various places in towns and villages. Unemployed Multipurpose Health Workers’ (MHW) Union and Unemployed Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) Pass BEd Teachers Union, who are demanding jobs and increase in the numbers of already advertised posts for various categories, have asked their activists to write slogans in bright colours at places that catch people’s attention. The state government had in the recent past advertised 200 posts of male health workers and 600 female health workers, including auxiliary nursing midwives (ANMs), and 3,282 posts of master cadre. Both unions have termed these posts as much less than needed in the state and also claimed that most of the unemployed are getting overage for the jobs. The MHW union had tried to march towards the residence of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh at Patiala on July 13 but were stopped midway. The TET-pass union had also given a call to march towards the residence of education minister Vijay Inder Singla at Sangrur on July 17, but later took the call back after the district administration advised them against it due to Covid-19 restrictions. Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, the joint president of both organisations, on Saturday told TOI that they have been raising voice for jobs, but they are not being heard. “So, from Friday evening, we have launched the campaign to write slogans at various places across the state. We started it from Bathinda, Mansa and Fazilka district and have nearly 600 activists doing the work.” Activist Randeep Sangatpura said nearly 6,000 male and female health workers are needed in Punjab, but the government is recruiting only 800. Similarly, there are over 40,000 posts of teachers lying vacant in government schools, and with around 2.5 lakh more students taking admission in these schools, still more teachers would be needed. But, the government is going to recruit only 3,282 teachers, which is injustice with students as well as the unemployed, as most of them are getting over age for the jobs, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/amid-curbs-protesters-take-to-writing-slogans/articleshow/77044734.cms||Neel Kamal
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||47 recover from Covid in Nilgiris, 40 cases emerge||Udhagamandalam: At least 47 patients recovered from Covid-19 in the Nilgiris on Saturday, even as the district reported another 40 fresh cases. An official said 21 new cases were linked to the secondary contacts of the public relations officer (PRO) of the private needle manufacturing company and 10 were related to T.Oranalli wedding function. Of the 47 recovered, 42 were treated at the Covid care centre in Ooty and the remaining at the Coonoor government Lawley hospital. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said they were discharged on Saturday and provided with gift packets comprising fruits, vitamin supplements and masks. However, the recovery rate in the Nilgiris stands at 38%, compared to the state’s 60%. The doubling time of cases in the district is below 14 days. Divya said, “The positive cases are on the rise. This is mainly because of intensified contact tracing and testing. There is no need to panic. The situation could be well handled as we have enough facility.” Attributing the spike in cases to the wedding function at T.Oranalli village, a funeral and the PRO of the private needle manufacturing company, the collector said, “Severe action will be taken if functions are conducted with more people than allowed by the government.” The new cases include an 83-year-old woman from Thummanatty and two boys, who are aged 6 and 4 years, from Wellington. According to an official, 21 of the new patients are women. The district has reported a total of 410 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 252 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/47-recover-from-covid-in-nilgiris-40-cases-emerge/articleshow/77044036.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt breached norms by assigning PSO||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Offering the service of a personal security officer for the UAE consul general by Kerala police has raised further questions regarding the non-adherence to the protocol set by the Centre in the dealings between the state government and a foreign mission. In complete violation of the protocol set by the ministry of external affairs (MEA), the UAE consul general had directly communicated with the state police, on the basis of which state police chief Loknath Behera had extended the service of PSO to the consular general. The LDF took charge in May 2016 and the PSO was initially assigned on June 27, 2017. Incidentally, Jamal Hussain Al Sabi had joined as consul general of UAE in Kerala in the same year. The services of the PSO were renewed in 2018 and 2019. On December 18, 2019, the consul general had again written to the state police chief on the basis of which the PSO’s term was further extended for another one year. As per the protocol, no security could be provided by the state government directly, without a clear-cut directive from the ministry of external affairs and the ministry of home affairs. “If a foreign representative has information on any likelihood of threat to their peace, it will, without delay, convey such information to protocol-2 section (of the MEA),” reads the security section of the protocol for diplomats. It further says that all security measures should be implemented only in consultation and approval of the MEA and requests for police assistance should also be addressed to the protocol division. Direct communication with the state government is specifically prohibited. In this case, the consul general chose to communicate with the state police chief instead of the central or state governments. Providing a personal security officer to a consul general is unheard of, a senior foreign service official said. “These things are based on reciprocity. If he faces a specific threat, the government of Kerala can depute some security personnel on the recommendation of MEA and MHA. Our consul general in Dubai doesn’t get an escort from the Dubai police despite our mission having more threat perception due to the active presence of our immediate rival country in UAE,” he said, on conditions of anonymity. Former diplomat T P Sreenivasan said that such measures are offered only in exceptional circumstances. “The government will provide the services of a personal security officer only in exceptional circumstances. Unless there is a specific threat to a diplomat, the services of a personal protection officer are not offered. For instance, the Indian mission is provided security in Canada because of the threat from Khalistan. However, our mission in UAE is not offered any security from the UAE government,” Sreenivasan said. Incidentally, M Sivasankar was suspended from the service for violation of provisions of All India Service (conduct) Rules 1968 that restricts members of all India services from directly interacting with foreign missions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-breached-norms-by-assigning-pso/articleshow/77043178.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Wrapped in tarpaulin, students trek 3km to a Surla hill to attend classes online||PANAJI: Every morning at around 9, Santosh Gaonkar’s two sons, students in Class V and X, leave their house post-breakfast for an arduous trek. Joining some neighbourhood kids in the remote hamlet of Surla, they cover themselves with tarpaulin and set off uphill. They walk 3km through dense forest, and always keep together to avoid animal attacks. Once at the top of the hill, where there is mobile network, they take out their smartphones, sit under the tarpaulin sheets, and access their teachers’ online lessons. Here in Surla, on the Goa-Karnataka border, there is no network, and students from the village can’t access classes from home. Even up on the hill, it’s thanks to a tower in Karnataka that students can access their lessons. This elevated point, however, is only accessible through dense forest, a trail that’s even more dangerous during the monsoon. “There are around 70 children in Surla studying in high school,” said Santosh. “The teachers from government high school, Surla, have started live sessions for children from Class IX and X, and they upload prerecorded videos for those from Class VII and VIII. To attend the live sessions as well as to download the uploaded videos, students have to climb the hill.” He said the village didn’t have a mobile tower till last Sunday, when a private service provider installed a tower for the first time. However, villagers are yet to be provided connections. “One villager is objecting to the tower, claiming it is hazardous to his health,” said another villager Chidambar Gaonkar, whose daughter studies in Class IX. “Now, the children have to walk through the forest, risking their safety to be able to access online classes. We urge the authorities to expedite our request and make the tower functional.” For the past 15 days, around 50 students from the village leave in small groups at regular intervals for their trek up the hill. They spend around two hours there, and then make it all the way down to be home in time for lunch. “They walk in groups. But they are children after all, and they are afraid of animal attacks,” said Rajaram Gaonkar, whose daughter is a Class VII student. “Over the past few days, it has been raining heavily, and it makes the walk even more difficult for children. Some of us have had to buy new smartphones for them to be able to access online classes, and they walk and sit under tarpaulin sheets to protect their new smartphones, which is the only mode through which they can access school now.” The villagers said that the journey from Sattari to Surla itself is 30km, and that now, with no public transport available during the pandemic, it is virtually impossible for teachers to make it to the hamlet. “At least if we got mobile connectivity at home, our children would not have to risk their safety, and would be able to attend online classes from home,” said Rajaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrapped-in-tarpaulin-students-trek-3km-to-a-surla-hill-to-attend-classes-online/articleshow/77044737.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: 400-bed centre now at Farmagudi||PONDA: With the number of cases increasing rapidly, the disaster management committee has readied a fifth Covid care centre in Ponda taluka at the Indian Institute of Technology hostel. It is situated on the Farmagudi hillock, around 3km from Ponda town with a capacity of over 400 beds, but only 250 beds would be utilised in the initial stage, said officials. The four centres that are functional in the taluka include the Shiroda primary health centre (120 beds), Farmagudi Residency (75 beds), Goa Engineering College Hostel, Farmagudi (75 beds) and National Institute of Technology, Farmagudi (72 beds). Until Saturday, the taluka had 135 active cases — 49 from Ponda PHC, 42 from Betki, 17 from Shiroda PHC, 15 from Madkai PHC and 12 from Dharbandora PHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/400-bed-centre-now-at-farmagudi/articleshow/77044735.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar among 4 states to get Centre’s letter on Covid-19 spike||PATNA: The Union health ministry has sent a letter to four states, including Bihar, to make renewed efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus. The other states to receive the Centre’s letter are West Bengal, Assam and Odisha. In the letter to the state health department, the Union health ministry has asked to make renewed efforts to bring down the fatality rate below 1% even as 1,667 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total count to 24,967. Patna district reported the highest number of cases at 137. Saturday also saw four deaths being reported, including two from Patna, which has taken the Covid toll in Bihar to 177. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 9,017. According to the letter sent to the principal secretary (health), cases in Bihar are rising at an alarming rate and a majority of the total active cases in the state were reported in the past week. The ministry also posted a tweet through its twitter handle on Saturday saying a special team was being rushed to Bihar to assist the state in Covid-19 management. The Union health ministry has sent similar letters to the health departments of Odisha and Assam asking them to trace the close contacts of 80% of the new cases and get them quarantined within 72 hours of confirmation of their Covid report. Meanwhile, as per information shared by the state health department, Saturday’s cases were reported from 34 districts. These included 928 cases on Thursday and 739 cases on Friday. Districts other than Patna which have reported a large number of cases are Muzaffarpur (85), Nalanda (52), Rohtas (45), Bhagalpur (40) and saran (39). The health department reported four deaths, two from Gaya and one each from Patna and Kishanganj. As per information shared by the Nalanda Medical college and Hospital (NMCH), four deaths were reported there on Saturday of which two had died on Friday night. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said two of the deceased were from Patna. “One was a 56-year-old male from East Lohanipur locality. He was admitted on Friday and died the next day due to cardiac arrest. Another was a 70- year-old male from Karbigahiya. He had a medical history of asthma and hypertension. He was admitted on Friday and died on Saturday,” Dr Mukul said. The third deceased was a 41-year-old woman from Saran and the fourth was a 65-year-old woman from Rohtas. Both had comorbidity and died of cardiac arrest. Three deaths were also reported from AIIMS-Patna on Saturday. The deceased were from Saran, Muzaffarpur and Siwan. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh stated that 774 people recovered in the past 24 hours and with a total of 15,771 recoveries, the recovery rate stands at 63.17%. He said 10,502 samples have been tested in 24 hours and so far 3,68,232 samples from across the state have been tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-among-4-states-to-get-centres-letter-on-covid-spike/articleshow/77044045.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Monsoon clouds embrace blue mountains||Udhagamandalam: The southwest monsoon, which has set in a bit late, is pounding the hill district. But farmers and tea cultivators are overjoyed by the downpour that has filled up the reservoirs here. Rain has intensified in Ooty and Gudalur in the last couple of days, bringing along gusty winds and bitter cold. The district received a total of 646.7mm and 563mm rain on Friday and Saturday respectively. While Devala registered the highest of 96mm for 24 hours ending Saturday 7am, Pandalur and Avalanche recorded 53mm each. Naduvattam received 40mm rain. Ooty and Coonoor registered 18mm and 11mm respectively. “The showers are beneficial for the farmers, including vegetable and tea cultivators. But we need more rain in the surrounding areas of Ooty,” said an official of the horticulture department. Rain has reached at the right time as tea gardens have been fertilized, said Halbhojan, a farmer. “It will also benefit vegetable crops,” he told TOI. Hours of continuous rainfall has fed dams such as Avalanche, Upper Bhavani and Emerald. Storage in Parsons Valley, the main source of drinking water for Ooty town, has touched a comfortable level. Meanwhile, the overcast sky, intermittent rain and biting cold have hit normal life in the Nilgiris. While there had been no reports of tree fall or landslip, the district administration is ready to deal with any emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/monsoon-clouds-embrace-blue-mountains/articleshow/77044047.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||People mostly stay off streets in S Goa||Margao: The second day of the lockdown was no different from the first in South Goa as streets continued to remain deserted and shops largely closed. Markets remained closed, while essential services like petrol pumps, banks, pharmacies, medical dispensaries and pharmacies remained open. Significantly, grocery stores and standalone shops which are exempt from the lockdown, also remained largely closed. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said that the police had to close down a super store in Colva on Friday after it was found that the unit also dealt in selling liquor. “If people get to know about availability of liquor in a particular shop, they would soon crowd the store, and, obviously, police can’t keep a watch on the shop all day. It was therefore ordered to be closed,” Singh said. The South Goa collector Ajit Roy had earlier clarified that shops dealing in essential commodities were exempt from the lockdown. As grocery shops come under essentials, they are allowed to remain open, and so are standalone shops . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/people-mostly-stay-off-streets-in-s-goa/articleshow/77044743.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad, 11 other districts await CWC||AHMEDABAD: On May 31, the three-year tenure of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in 12 districts of Gujarat, including Ahmedabad, came to an end. The committee – having a chairperson and four members – is crucial in attending issues ranging from allocating the observation homes for the children to working as guardians for those in the government facilities. State-based organizations said that delay in appointment is causing delays in matters as it’s now referred to the respective district collectors or district social defence officer. In a recent instance, custody of a girl from Rajasthan to her parents got delayed and the case was presented to the Ahmedabad collector. Similarly, in another instance, a child found from the streets of a city waited for two days before he was allocated an observation home. Manoj Agarwal, principal secretary, social justice and empowerment, told TOI that several district-level CWCs are being reconstituted. “Meanwhile, we have asked the social defence officers to take the required action. The committees will be formed very shortly but we will not allow it to affect welfare of the child,” he said. In July, the director of state social justice department issued two notifications regarding the absence of CWCs and charge of the operations. Sources close to the development said that due to Covid-19, one of the proposals was to extend the tenure of existing committees but it was not acceptable to all stakeholders. Vaijanti Mamtora, in-charge of Gujarat region for Childline India Foundation (CIF) that runs 1098 helpline for children, said that according to Juvenile Justice Act, CWC is a quasi-judicial body and it need to be formed to issue orders in child-related matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-11-other-districts-await-cwc/articleshow/77044055.cms||Parth Shastri
July 19, 2020||Kanpur||Slain gangster Vikas Dubey throws wrestling challenge in old video||KANPUR: Another old video of gangster Vikas Dubey has gone viral in which he is seen standing in a white vest and black brief, smiling and challenging by raising his hand in air before mobile phone camera at a wrestling meet, “Batao hai koi ladne wala pehalwan...(Tell me if a wrestler is ready to fight…).” The video was captured a few days before Vikas Dubey's death. An old video of slain gangster #VikasDubey has gone viral in which he is seen throwing a wrestling challenge. “Bata… https://t.co/AANiTCsDNg— TOI Kanpur (@TOIKanpur) 1595133972000Vikas Dubey was traced to the famous Mahakal temple in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh where he surrendered and was being taken to Kanpur. However, en route, he was shot dead by the STF when he opened fire and attempted to escape after an accident in the Kisan Nagar area of Sachendi on July 10 morning. Meanwhile, more startling revelations came to fore that Vikas was fond of equipping his aides of sophisticated Bihar’s Munger-made pistols. "During interrogation, the aides of gangster Vikas revealed that he had a very wide network of illegal firearm suppliers including as far as from Bihar's Munger, infamous for producing illegal sophisticated pistols. Then, firearm smugglers from Billhaur, Unnao and Shuklaganj used to provide his gang members arms and ammunition. They also informed that nearly half-a-dozen such pistols were used apart from licensed firearms on the day the eight policemen were killed in an ambush in Bikru village on July 2 & 3 night," said an investigator. According to a senior police official privy to the investigation, separate teams have been relentlessly looking for middlemen supplying firearms to Vikas’s gang. "We are also looking for suppliers of cartridges in this case," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-throws-wrestling-challenge-in-old-video/articleshow/77044747.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 19, 2020||Vadodara||78, including 11 of a family, test positive in Vadodara||VADODARA: With 78 new cases of Covid-19 in the city and district since Friday evening, yet another single-day peak was registered. The total number of Covid-19 cases detected so far went up to 3,525 with the fresh cases. The 78 new cases were detected from 542 tests conducted since Friday evening. Sources said that these included at least 11 members of a family residing in the Karelibaug area of the city. In the city limits, the west zone where the outbreak is showing a rising trend registered the highest number of cases with 18 testing positive. This was followed by the south zone with 17, and the north zone with 13 cases. Ten persons were found infected in the east zone of the city. The rural areas of the district witnessed 20 new cases. These included cases from Karjan, Dabhoi, Timbi, Sevasi, Sisva, Bhayli, Chapad, Savli, Padra and Limda. On Saturday, 102 patients were discharged from various Covid-19 treatment facilities. With this the total number of discharged Covid-19 patients went up to 2,729. The number of discharged patients include deceased persons who had tested positive for Covid-19, but died due to other comorbidities. As many as 736 persons remained under treatment in hospitals or home isolation. These include 36 persons on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 128 on oxygen support. The condition of remaining 572 patients is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/78-including-11-of-a-family-test-positive-in-vadodara/articleshow/77042906.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: DPEOs to report on school safety policy||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat education department has directed all the district primary education officers (DPEOs) to submit quarterly report regarding adherence of guidelines as laid out in the national School Safety Policy, 2016. The DPEOs are supposed to collect information for only primary schools in their areas within a week for the three-month period beginning from January 20 to March 20. The information, submitted to the state education department, will be further submitted to the Supreme Court via the ministry of human development resources, as per the directive. The National Disaster Management Authority had chalked out guidelines for School Safety Policy, 2016 with an aim to ensure that all children and their teachers, and other stakeholders in the school community are safe from any kind of risks due to natural hazards. The guidelines focus on the urgent need to strengthen risk resilience of schools in rural as well as urban areas of the country. The DPEOs have been directed to submit a check list which contains various details like number of schools that have finalised school disaster management plan, conducted mock drill, have fire extinguishers installed and number of schools that teach disaster management as per part of the course curriculum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dpeos-to-report-on-school-safety-policy/articleshow/77044083.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Consultancy jobs not at the cost of PSC candidates: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said service of professional consultancies for short tenures was imperative for any government when it deals with projects that leverage on cutting-edge technologies. “As you are aware, contract/consultancy appointments for a maximum one-year period is indispensable. Such short-term appointments are made through consultancy companies when the government finds itself in need of the service of professionals with relevant experience. It happens when governments take up mammoth infrastructure projects or deals with projects that pivot on new technologies. Such appointments are made by ensuring ‘process integrity’. They are not government appointments. Such appointments need not to be referred to PSC,” chief minister said in his answer to the queries raised by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala regarding contract appointments and consultancy engagements under the LDF government. The copy of his answers to Ramesh’s questions was shared with media on Saturday. CM said at least 10,000 more candidates got appointments in government services through PSC in the last four years as against the four-year rule of the former UDF government. “No consultants or contract employees appointed for specific projects have been absorbed into government service. Government was never reluctant in initiating action against such people if they get involved in unacceptable practices or their educational qualification is questioned. This government didn’t shy away from cancelling the contract of such people,” he said. Unveiling the number of contract employees in service at present, Vijayan said the number was three times higher during UDF regime. Number of contract employees in government was close to 32,000 in 2011-12 and over 25,000 in 2012-13. However, it was only around 12,000 during 2020-21, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/consultancy-jobs-not-at-the-cost-of-psc-candidates-cm/articleshow/77043191.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Business||Pune-based company plans human trials of Covid vaccine in October||MUMBAI: There's a new vaccine technology platform in the works in India. Pune-based biotech firm Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, which recently secured government funding for its `messenger or mRNA-based vaccine’ candidate for SARS-CoV-2, is planning to start human trials by October. The company expects to launch the vaccine by March 2021, subject to successful completion of Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials. Globally, two mRNA based COVID19 vaccine candidates are being pursued by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNtech, which have completed Phase 1 human trials, and shown `promising' results. The mRNA vaccine technology is synthetic in nature and has the potential to reduce the speed of vaccine development timeline, Gennova CEO Dr Sanjay Singh told TOI. The `pandemic-ready’ tech platform can be utilised and scaled up in case the virus mutates, or a novel virus hits the world in future. Hence, vaccines under this platform can be quickly manufactured to ensure their “availability” and “accessibility” for mass vaccination on a sustainable basis. In traditional viral vaccines, either inactivated (or attenuated) virus or viral proteins known to cause infection are used to immunize. While, the mRNA vaccine carries molecular instructions to make the protein in the body through a synthetic RNA of the virus. The host body uses this to produce the viral protein that is recognized by the immune system, thereby making the body ready to fight against the disease. Further, the company is in discussions with Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi) --a global alliance financing and coordinating development of vaccines against infectious diseases, for supporting its vaccine development. India is a major supplier of vaccines globally, and its huge manufacturing capacity is being considered by MNCs and global entities, a big asset for potential Covid-19 vaccines. Globally, Cepi is funding nine potential vaccines with "pioneering technologies’’ under its Covid-19 programme, with University of Queensland’s candidate becoming the seventh to enter clinical trials recently. Recently, Gennova secured Department of Biotechnology and Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) funding under Covid-19 Research Consortium, as part of the 10 shortlisted vaccine candidates. The DBT investment in Gennova marks its shift from supporting a conventional vaccine model to a next-generation tech platform. The proposal went through a multi-layered review process, after which it was seed funded under India-CEPI, Singh added. Gennova initiated the vaccine programme HGCO19 in January with its US partner, HDT Bio, who established the proof of concept on a laboratory scale. "We are developing the process for mass production, and plan to roll out 200 million doses to start with, next year”, he said, adding, clinical trials will include two cohorts (groups) of 18 – 55 years and 55- 70 years. Since the mRNA technology platform for vaccine development offers an advantage in terms of significantly reduced timeline, establishment of this platform will enable India to be ready for future pandemic situations (like Covid-19) where we might be required to quickly produce a vaccine, he added. Watch Covid-19: Pune-based company to start human trials of vaccine in October||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pune-based-pharma-to-start-human-trials-by-oct/articleshow/77044749.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
July 19, 2020||India||8 routes to bond with Bangladesh||NEW DELHI: With China looking to improve trade and connectivity with Bangladesh, where the government seems to be warming up to Chinese overtures, India looks to provide a leg-up to connectivity with its eastern neighbour. The government is hoping that the first trial run last week of a container ship from Kolkata to Agartala through Chattogram Port of Bangladesh will go a long way in improving trade connectivity with Dhaka, apart from facilitating development of India’s northeast. According to Indian authorities, 8 routes have been identified for improving northeast’s connectivity with Bangladesh. “Both sides recognise that increasing connectivity through air, water, rail and road offers mutually beneficial opportunity for enhancing economic cooperation between Bangladesh and the northeastern states of India and beyond,” said a source. The two sides had last year finalised Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the use of Chattogram and Mongla ports for movement of goods to and from India, particularly to and from the northeastern region. This agreement allows movement of goods in Bangladesh through waterways, rail, road or multi-modal transport. The eight routes identified for access to the northeast via Bangladesh comprise Chattogram/Mongla Port to Agartala (Tripura) via Akhura, Chattogram/Mongla Port to Dawki (Meghalaya) via Tamabil, Chattogram/Mongla Port to Sutarkandi (Assam) via Sheola and Chattogram/Mongla Port to Srimantpur (Tripura) via Bibirbazar and vice versa. “Thus the trial run assumes significance as this will lead to development of the northeast region and enhance India’s connectivity with Bangladesh,”said an official. Despite a pro-India government in Dhaka, the Indian government realises there’s a need for special attention to ties with Bangladesh at a time China is working overtime to improve trade and connectivity with the South Asian country. China has provided an important trade boost to the country by announcing tariff exemption for 97 per cent of Bangladeshi products effective from July 1. The decision came a month after Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Chinese President Xi Jinping held discussions to upgrade their bilateral relations during the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/8-routes-to-bond-with-bangladesh/articleshow/77045073.cms||---
July 19, 2020||World||8 routes to bond with Bangladesh||NEW DELHI: With China looking to improve trade and connectivity with Bangladesh, where the government seems to be warming up to Chinese overtures, India looks to provide a leg-up to connectivity with its eastern neighbour. The government is hoping that the first trial run last week of a container ship from Kolkata to Agartala through Chattogram Port of Bangladesh will go a long way in improving trade connectivity with Dhaka, apart from facilitating development of India’s northeast. According to Indian authorities, 8 routes have been identified for improving northeast’s connectivity with Bangladesh. “Both sides recognise that increasing connectivity through air, water, rail and road offers mutually beneficial opportunity for enhancing economic cooperation between Bangladesh and the northeastern states of India and beyond,” said a source. The two sides had last year finalised Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the use of Chattogram and Mongla ports for movement of goods to and from India, particularly to and from the northeastern region. This agreement allows movement of goods in Bangladesh through waterways, rail, road or multi-modal transport. The eight routes identified for access to the northeast via Bangladesh comprise Chattogram/Mongla Port to Agartala (Tripura) via Akhura, Chattogram/Mongla Port to Dawki (Meghalaya) via Tamabil, Chattogram/Mongla Port to Sutarkandi (Assam) via Sheola and Chattogram/Mongla Port to Srimantpur (Tripura) via Bibirbazar and vice versa. “Thus the trial run assumes significance as this will lead to development of the northeast region and enhance India’s connectivity with Bangladesh,”said an official. Despite a pro-India government in Dhaka, the Indian government realises there’s a need for special attention to ties with Bangladesh at a time China is working overtime to improve trade and connectivity with the South Asian country. China has provided an important trade boost to the country by announcing tariff exemption for 97 per cent of Bangladeshi products effective from July 1. The decision came a month after Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Chinese President Xi Jinping held discussions to upgrade their bilateral relations during the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/8-routes-to-bond-with-bangladesh/articleshow/77045074.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||At 1.8%, Vizag district’s death rate crosses state average||VISAKHAPATNAM: With 49 deaths and a total of 2,741 cases as of July 18, Visakhapatnam district has a death rate of 1.78 per cent, higher than the state average of 1.31 per cent. Forty-eight of the 49 deaths were reported over the last month, while 34 of the 49 deaths were reported in the last eight days, according to data from the district administration. Kurnool district, with 116 deaths and a total of 5,681 cases, has a a higher mortality rate of 2 per cent. The 50 to 70 years age bracket has reported a high number of fatalities. Doctors attributed the high mortality in this age group to delay in medical intervention and late admission to hospitals. Director of Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) Dr K Satyavaraprasad said, “Since VIMS has been designated as a state Covid hospital, all co-morbid patients and patients with complications from the four north-coastal Andhra districts are referred to our hospital. Therefore, deaths are more here than in other hospitals. Deaths have increased not just because more positive cases are being detected. Co-morbidity and delayed detection and late referral are reasons why cases are turning more complex and fatal. The earlier the medical intervention, the better the outcome.” Covid-19 special officer (north-coastal AP) Dr PV Sudhakar also pointed out that the 50-odd deaths reported in the district are mainly due to complexities and delay in treatment. “Sometimes the patients are brought when they start experiencing respiratory distress and require oxygen. Had the patients or their family members taken the onset of fever or symptoms seriously and sought testing and hospital admission, then most of these patients could have been saved with timely treatment. Any Covid-19-related symptoms, especially in the elderly and those with co-morbid conditions, including those suffering from diabetes, hypertension, kidney ailments, cardiac problems, lung and respiratory diseases, should be given medical attention at the earliest to reduce the fatality rate.” The district reported its first Covid-19-related death on May 1 after a 62-year-old with kidney ailments succumbed to the virus. No other Covid-19-related fatality was reported till June 19. Five deaths were recorded in June, after which the mortality rate started to rise in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-1-8-vizag-dists-death-rate-crosses-state-average/articleshow/77043194.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Bus driver held for ferrying passengers without e-pass||Coimbatore: A 30-year-old private bus driver from Kerala was arrested near KG Chavadi on Saturday for ferrying passengers without proper e-pass. The KG Chavadi police identified the accused as S Mohammed Sabath, a resident of Ernakulam in Kerala, and said they have seized the bus, which belonged to a travel agency in that state. A police officer said the agency had advertised on social media that it would arrange e-pass for people who want to travel from Kerala to Chennai and vice versa. “Based on a tip, we arranged a person fluent in Malayalam to contact them for a trip to Chennai from Coimbatore. They agreed and assured him that they would take care of e-pass.” The bus arrived at Ettimadai pirivu near KG Chavadi from Kerala on Saturday to pick him up. Police inspected the bus and found it was not having the e-pass to enter the district. The driver, the officer said, showed them a different vehicle’s e-pass. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the travel agency used to get e-pass to travel between any two places and pick and drop passengers along the route. “It was also carrying more passengers than allowed,” the officer said. Police have booked the driver under Sections 269, 420 and 279 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 52 and 57 of Disaster Management Act, 2005. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bus-driver-held-for-ferrying-passengers-without-e-pass/articleshow/77044082.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||24-hour complete lockdown in East Godavari every Sunday||VISAKHAPATNAM: East Godavari district will go under complete lockdown every Sunday, except for medical emergencies, government and essential services. Restrictions will be in place from 6 am on Sundays to 6 am on Mondays. The order will come into force with immediate effect from July 19 and will be implemented every Sunday till further orders. The district is the first in the state to impose 24-hour-long restrictions. Several restrictions are already in place in the district. Commercial establishments are allowed to function only from 6 to 11 am everyday. District collector D Muralidhar Reddy said, “We observed youngsters roaming in groups on the beaches and at other places last Sunday. The district is now recording an alarming 10% positivity rate. Even though the cases are mostly reported from thickly-populated urban areas, all people should adhere to Covid-19 related precautions.” The district, which remained relatively free of the virus till May, has now become one the Covid-19 hotspots of the state. On Saturday, it detected 1,051 new cases, the highest in the state. — Umamaheswara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/24-hour-complete-lockdown-in-east-godavari-every-sunday/articleshow/77043205.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore district logs 118 new Covid cases, 1 death||COIMBATORE: At least 118 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Saturday, taking its tally to 1,905, of which 1,169 are active cases. The toll also went up by one to 18, after a man was tested positive for the virus after his death. Selvapuram, which emerged a cluster some 10 days ago after 34 goldsmiths contracted the virus, recorded 13 new cases. The deputy superintendent of police (DSP)’s office in Karumathampatti was closed for fumigation after a head constable there tested positive for the virus. A police source said the head constable was staying with his family at the police quarters at Mettupalayam. “After he developed fever and cough three days ago, DSP Balamurugan had asked him to take rest. He gave his throat swab for Covid-19 test and the result showed him positive for the virus on Saturday morning. He has been admitted to the ESI Hospital.” A health department official said they would test the DSP and other police personnel at his office for Covid-19. “We will also test the family members of the head constable. The police quarters at Mettupalayam was disinfected on Saturday evening.” The health officials also sealed a jewellery shop near Rakkipalayam after four of its employees tested positive for the virus. New cases were also reported from KK Pudur, Kovaipudhur, Ramanathapuram, Goundampalayam and other parts of the district. Another source identified the deceased as an 84-year-old man. He was brought dead to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. “Samples were collected from the body and test results showed that he was infected.” Meanwhile, 21 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the ESI hospital on Saturday. The neighbouring Tirupur reported 24 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in that district has gone up to 433, of which 217 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-118-new-covid-cases-1-death/articleshow/77044100.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 19, 2020||Kochi||CM’s addl PS a ‘middleman’ in shady deals: Surendran||THRISSUR: The BJP on Saturday stepped up attack against the LDF government in the smuggling case with the party state unit president K Surendran stating that nothing short of the resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will be acceptable to the people. Talking to reporters here, Surendran alleged that CM’s office has become a den on mafias and smugglers. The BJP president made a new allegation that CM’s additional private secretary C M Raveendran was also a major ‘middleman’ in the corrupt deals and illegal acts going on in the CM’s office. He alleged that the CM’s former principal secretary Sivasankar, IT fellow Arun Balachandran, and Raveendran were behind all the illegal appointments, as well as several other corrupt deals and smuggling that had taken place in the state. The investigations by the NIA and the customs have brought out the involvement of these people in the smuggling case. All these people would not have indulged in such acts without the knowledge of the CM. So, the CM cannot wash his hands off merely by suspending Sivasankar or by removing the IT Fellow. The CM should resign, if he possesses an iota of moral consciousness, the BJP leader said. He also demanded cancellation of all the appointments made by the IT department during the past four years and conduct an enquiry into them. Surendran pointed out that the CM was still not ready to register an FIR or launch a probe against these officials who were his confidants. The BJP leader alleged that Raveendran had acted as the middleman in the deals with some labour supply societies, which could make profits running into crores of rupees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cms-addl-ps-a-middleman-in-shady-deals-surendran/articleshow/77043212.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Mins to quit on July 21, take RS oath next day||Vijayawada: The two ministers in the Jaganmohan Reddy’s cabinet, who got elected to the Rajya Sabha are likely to resign on July 21. They are scheduled to take oath on the next day. Ministers Pilli Subhaschandra Bose and Mopidevi Venkata Ramana were elected to Rajya Sabha from the state, along with two other industrialists, Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy and Parimal Nathwani. . Meanwhile, sources said chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has zeroed in on Palasa MLA Dr Sidiri Appala Raju and Ramachandrapuram MLA Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopal to fill the vacancies in the cabinet. Although the two vacancies are from East Godavari (Bose) and Guntur (Ramana) districts, the chief minister, after prolonged deliberations with the party leaders at various levels, has decided to give representation to Srikakulam and East Godavari districts, keeping Guntur aside. Venugopal’s inclusion is to keep the BCs in good humour and ensure that the East Godavari is given due representation, while Appala Raju had earned his berth through his performance in the assembly and outside during the last one year. Sources also indicated that the chief minister has made up his mind to fill the two vacancies in the legislative council as well. He has picked an SC candidete from West Godavari Moshen Raju and a Muslim minority woman from Kadapa district. A notification is likely to be issued in the next couple of days to fill these two vacancies in the governor quota. However, the decision on the vacancies caused by the resignation of the two ministers is yet to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mins-to-quit-on-july-21-take-rs-oath-next-day/articleshow/77043202.cms||Gopi Dara
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Tyres set on fire in front of 4 temples||Coimbatore: A day after a Bharat Sena functionary desecrated rationalist leader Periyar EV Ramasamy’s statue at Sundarapuram by smearing it with saffron paint, unidentified people set tyres on fire in front of four temples in the district – three in the city and one on the outskirts - in the early hours of Saturday, triggering tension. City police commissioner of police Sumit Sharan said six special teams have been formed to nab the people who were involved in the incidents. “They have collected CCTV footage and been working on various angles. Police protection has also been provided to important temples in the city.” Police said the incidents were reported in front of Mahaliamman shrine on NH Road near Five Corner, Nava Sakthi Vinayagar temple at Kottaimedu, Mappilai Vinayagar shrine on State Bank of India road near the city railway junction and Selva Vinayagar temple at Nallampalayam near Kavundampalayam on the outskirts of the city. CCTV footage collected from the Mahaliamman shrine, a police officer said, showed a man taking a used tyre from a roadside puncture shop and setting that ablaze. Later, he sped away on a moped. “He also damaged a bulb, a board and other properties of the temple, including a trident.” At Nallampalayam, another police officer said, some properties of the temple authorities were also set on fire. The Thudiyalur police have deployed a sub-inspector of police and 12 cops to guard the temple there. Following the incidents, tension gripped the city with hundreds of Hindu Munnani, BJP and Hindu Makkal Katchi cadres gathering near the temples, demanding action against the culprits. BJP urban district president R Nandakumar said the party had faith in police, who would hopefully crack the case within 24 hours. “A few years ago, petrol bombs were hurled at the party office and one of our leaders’ house in the city. But police failed to nab the culprits and the cases are yet to be solved. We request police to speed up the investigation and arrest the culprits.” He also warned of a massive protest by all Hindu outfits if police failed to bring the people who were involved in attacking temples to justice immediately. Pointing out that people with learning difficulties were often arrested for attacking temples or sacrilege, Guna, member of state administrative committee, Hindu Munnani, said, “How come they target only Hindu temples? Police have CCTV footage and based on that the culprits should be nabbed at the earliest.” City deputy commissioner of police (law & order) G Stalin and other police officials have assured the Hindu outfit leaders to take necessary action in connection with the incidents. The Ukkadam, Race Course and Thudiyalur police have registered four separate cases under Sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc.,) and 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) of the Indian Penal Code and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tyres-set-on-fire-in-front-of-4-temples/articleshow/77044105.cms||A Subburaj
July 19, 2020||Vijayawada||HC grants bail to Jana Sena worker||VIJAYAWADA: The high court granted anticipatory bail to a Jana Sena party worker who was booked for posting allegedly objectionable content on WhatsApp and Facebook. The high court observed that the accusation made against the petitioner for any of the offences for which the FIR is registered are prima facie and not well founded. A person, Challa Ravi, moved high court for anticipatory bail after a case was registered against him at Sakhinetipalli police station for posting photographs of Razole MLA Rapaka Vara Prasad and chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy with a background song. A follower of Vara Prasad lodged a complaint with the Sakhinetipalli police following which a case had been registered under sections 153-A, 505(2) of IPC and the SC, ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. The counsel for petitioner, Challa Ajay Kumar, argued that the facts of the case do not attract any of the offences under the sections in which he was booked. He said 153-A and 505(2) are applicable only when the intention is to create enmity between two religious groups or any other groups or among people at large but in this case there is no such intention at all. With regards to SC, AT Act, Ajay Kumar said that there is no allegation in the FIR that the petitioner abused the MLA or any other person in the name of their caste. The high court judge, Justice Ch Manavendra Roy, observed that the sections under which the case has been registered do not apply to the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-grants-bail-to-jana-sena-worker/articleshow/77043216.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Protect temple ruler’s rights: TPM convener||Tirupati: Temples Protection Movement convener Chilkur Rangarajan urged President Ram Nath Kovind to protect Constitutional rights of Lord Sri Padmanabha Swamy ruler (citizen) deity and to advise the Union’s counsel to bring these provisions to the Supreme Court’s notice. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/protect-temple-rulers-rights-tpm-convener/articleshow/77043224.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||MSME forum seeks loans for 500 units||Coimbatore: Members of Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations have collected 500 loan applications from micro industrial units and submitted them to banks as some of the units were refused loans under the Centre’s Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, citing not availing term loans or cash credit limit loans as a reason. The scheme offers 20% of the outstanding loan as on February 29. They had been collecting loan applications from micro units for more than a month. “Around 99% of applications are from micro units. They seek loan amounts only from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh,” said S Surulivel, a representative. He said they had sought loans under Mudra scheme. “When we approached banks, only four or five of them received our applications. Later, we approached the lead bank officials, who received the applications and forwarded them to other banks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msme-forum-seeks-loans-for-500-units/articleshow/77044113.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Two men killed in bike accident, 1kg ganja seized from vehicle||Coimbatore: Police recovered 1kg ganja from a motorcycle that was involved in an accident, which killed two people, on the Palladam-Dharapuram Highway in Tirupur on Friday night. The deceased were identified as P Sathiskumar, 26, of Meenampalpuram in Madurai and A Suresh, 34, of Azakiya Goundampalayam in Dharapuram. “Sathiskumar was on the way from Koduvai to Palladam in Tirupur on his bike with his friend M Manikumar, 24, of Sika Kokkukulam in Madurai, when the vehicle crashed into the motorcycle of Suresh that was coming from the opposite direction around 9.30pm,” a police officer said. Sathiskumar died on the spot. Suresh and Manikumar were given first aid at the Palladam Government Hospital and shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). But doctors could not save Suresh. The contraband was seized from Suresh’s vehicle, which had a ‘Press’ sticker, the officer said. Police are investigating the incident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-men-killed-in-bike-accident-1kg-ganja-seized-from-vehicle/articleshow/77044108.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||With grid of informers in villages, “police and administration”, Haridwar’s mining mafia escapes the net||When Haridwar subdivisional magistrate Kushm Chauhan got to Pathri along the Ganga on Tuesday to apprehend illegal sand miners, he found nobody — only earthmovers and loader vehicles. He had received a lead. But the mining mafia, it appeared, had been tipped off about the tipoff. Over the past few years, chasing down the illegal mining network in Haridwar has become a futile pursuit — the network of mafia informers always outdoes that of the police and administration and, perhaps, may even have coopted the latter. “The mining mafia have always used local villagers as informers, which has been the biggest challenge we face. But now, they have informers in the revenue, forest and police departments too,” Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI. About six to seven such raids are conducted in a year, a source said, adding that only one has been attempted so far this year. The state has 100 operational sand mining leases, but doing so along the banks of the Ganga is illegal during monsoon — the ban had taken effect in 2015. The buyers are stone crushers — Haridwar has 42, of which about 60% operate near the Ganga. The parallel economy of the sand mafia is worth crores, up to Rs 1,000 crore, by some estimates. The villages of Bhogpur, Bishanpur, Shyampur, Kangri, Jagjeetput, Tanda Bhagmal and Raysi are considered “strongholds” — these are places where the mafia operates freely and has cultivated a loyal network of local informers over the years. “It is not only villagers but also the administration and police who feed information to the mining gangs. The thing to ask is, why have authorities failed to track key players?” asked a source. Crackdown on sand mining across the country has been risky business, perhaps why it’s called the mafia — a forest official was crushed to death by a tractor in Madhya Pradesh in 2018, a journalist was run over by a truck in Madhya Pradesh in the same year, a person who resisted mining was killed with an earthmover in Kerala in January this year and, closer home, a top police official was said to have been transferred because of pressure from the mining mafia. The list is not exhaustive. So locals know it’s just easier to comply. “Whatever they mine is bought by local stone crushers. Neither police nor the administration wants to stop this. Before every raid, the mafia escapes. But who will track them?” said Ajab Singh, a local. The district magistrate said they are “working” on a plan for greater accountability. “We are fixing responsibilities of officials in all departments. We have ordered the stocks of stone crushers to break the supply chain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-grid-of-informers-in-villages-police-and-administration-haridwars-mining-mafia-escapes-the-net/articleshow/77043207.cms||MS Nawaz
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Gold smuggling case: LOC issued against Faisal, NIA seeks Interpol notice||KOCHI/THIRUVANTHAPURAM: Ministry of home affairs (MHA) has issued a look out circular (LOC) against Faisal Fareed of Kaipamangalam, a key suspect in the smuggling of gold through Trivandrum International Airport, for misusing the diplomatic channel. LOC was issued by MHA against Faisal Fareed, based in Dubai, on the request of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the terror funding angle in the case. Earlier, the central agency had obtained an open-ended non bailable warrant (NBW) against Faisal from NIA court in Kochi. The NBW was issued on Tuesday after NIA filed a plea for the same on Monday. It is learnt that the request to MHA to issue the LOC against Faisal was based on this NBW. According to sources, the agency has also approached Interpol to issue a Blue Notice. The Blue notice would help the agency collect additional information about a person’s identity, location or activities in relation to a crime through member nations of the Interpol. Sources said that agencies in UAE have already kept the person under surveillance. The NIA teams along with Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair have begun visiting the apartments and the house where Swapna and Sandeep resided in Thiruvananthapuram, as part of gathering evidence. One team of NIA took Swapna to her apartment in Ambalamukku in the capital city, while another team took Sandeep to his house in Aruvikkara. The NIA team also took the accused to the apartment near the Secretariat, where deals on the smuggled gold is alleged to have been finalized. The customs also conducted a search at Sandeep’s vehicle maintenance shop Carbon Doctor at Nedumangadu. Sources said that the search was conducted assuming that the gold smuggled earlier was stored at many places including the workshop. It is learnt that the customs and NIA will interrogate M Sivansankar again, after gathering enough evidence and interrogation of Sarith, Swapna and Sandeep Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/loc-issued-against-faisal-nia-seeks-interpol-notice/articleshow/77043238.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold bullion dealers to shut shops||Coimbatore: Gold bullion dealers in the city have decided to shut shops from July 21 to July 27, as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Representatives of the Gold Bullion Association said they wanted to ensure the safety of their members, workers and their families, and also to relieve stress associated with working in a restricted environment. “There are 100 gold bullion dealers in the city in areas such as Raja Street, Big Bazaar Street and Karuppa Gounder Street. There are around 300 workers. On normal days, we see a turnover of Rs 50crore and in peak days Rs 100 crore,” said N Sathyamoorthy, a former committee member of the association. “We buy gold from the government through dealers and sell it. Those in the sector purchase pure gold from us and convert it to 22 carat gold to make jewellery,” he added.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-bullion-dealers-to-shut-shops/articleshow/77044116.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Traders close TK Market, set an example in Covid-19 fight||Coimbatore: Traders decided to close the Thyagi Kumaran (TK) Market for four days after a 68-year-old trader died on Friday. He is suspected to have tested positive for Covid-19, they said. The deceased was ailing from heart disease and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. In between, he had undergone the Covid-19 test. He was shifted to the government hospital on Friday. As officials are not handing over the body to the family, he is likely to have tested positive for the virus, traders said. “We are not sure whether he was infected. But to be on the safer side, we have decided to close the market for at least four days. We informed the city corporation officials and requested them to fumigate the market premises,” president of the Vegetable Traders’ Association M Rajendran said. The market was open till 2pm on Saturday, he said. “We requested the corporation to test all traders and workers in the market. A decision on reopening the market will be taken based on the test results. We will reopen immediately only if all of us test negative. If not, we will follow the directions given by the corporation.” “Some of the traders and workers are staying near containment areas like Selvapuram, Ukkadam, Chetti Vedi and Karumbukadai. So, it is better to reopen shops after undergoing tests,” Rajendran added. The market has 750 shops including 450 vegetable shops. As many as 1,800 traders and workers occupy the space. The corporation is planning to test everyone in the market even though some of them had undergone tests when medical camps were conducted, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traders-close-tk-market-set-an-example-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/77044115.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Industrialists slam changed definition of MSMEs||Coimbatore: The emphasis on the identify of manufacturers has been withdrawn from the new definition of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and this would pave way for traders to enter the category, industry representatives in the district said. Manufacturers, who do value addition, should be given preference, they demanded. A notification of the ministry of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in 2009 mentioned that only manufacturing units using plant and machinery in the process of value-addition are eligible to get registered under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, MSME industrialists said. The changes spelled out by the notification of the MSME ministry on June 26 allow any business enterprise to get registered as micro or small unit, representatives of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia) said. “The emphasis on manufacturing has been abruptly withdrawn. The manufacturing units are equated with pure trading enterprises,” the association said in a communication to the Centre. Traders can import products and materials to sell them at a lower cost, but they might not be of good quality, said Focia representative S Surulivel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrialists-slam-changed-definition-of-msmes/articleshow/77044117.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hubballi||Govt order staying approval of teachers’ appointments sparks outrage||Dharwad: The Karnataka government’s decision to put on hold the appointment of teachers to private educational institutions under the grant-in-aid scheme has triggered outrage among the fraternity. Several legislators and management of the educational institutions have thrown their weight behind the beleaguered teachers. The department of public instruction (DPI), citing the nosedive that the economy of the state had taken owing to the Covid-19 crisis, issued an order wherein it was stated that appointment of teachers to vacant posts will not be allowed till 2021. The move is likely to have a telling impact on the education sector in North Karnataka, where private-aided schools, established by several religious institutions among other organisations, have filled a huge gap in the field. Many of these schools have been providing education from the times when India was not free of the colonial yoke. In a rare display of political unity, legislators from BJP, Congress and the JD(S) have raised their voice against the government’s decision, urging the DPI to roll back the order. Former education minister and MLC Basavaraj Horratti, BJP MLC SV Sankanur and Congress member RM Kuberappa have written to chief minister BS Yediyurappa, seeking his intervention to resolve the issue. The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had greenlighted appointment of teachers to posts that had fallen vacant before and on December 31, 2015. Many posts were subsequently filled and the teachers took up their responsibilities at the institutions they were assigned to. The teachers will be eligible to receive their salary from the date their appointment gets approved and the date on which they took up their posts is disregarded for the purpose. Even as many proposals of appointment were pending with the DPI the department’s order has banned the approval of pending proposal. Consequently, several teachers currently serving in various institutions have received a rude jolt. Currently, there are 850 vacancies in private aided institutions. In order to tide over the shortage, part-time teachers are being hired, and being paid measly sums, which is also telling on the quality of education being imparted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-order-staying-approval-of-teachers-appointments-sparks-outrage/articleshow/77044106.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Trade unions flay new layoff ordinance||AHMEDABAD: A few days after the government of Gujarat passed a new ordinance enabling companies with up to 300 employees to lay off staff without state’s nod, trade unions have criticised the move. A statement released by Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) states that the government’s decision has put in place a hire and fire policy in the state, which will threaten job security of labourers. “Recently, two decisions by the government of Gujarat are not in the interest of the labourers. Sometime back, the government announced that new industries will get exemption from labour laws for 1,000 days. Recently, it has also announced that companies with up to 300 people can lay off its employees without having to seek government’s nod. With the implementation of this law, employment will be a huge concern in the state,” said Arun Mehta, general secretary – Gujarat, CITU. “Due to lockdown, 60% labourers have not resumed work. Such a law will further encourage companies to fire employees indiscriminately. The government decision is un-empathetic. Instead of passing an ordinance, the issue should have been debated upon in the assembly,” Mehta further added. The Indian National Trade Union Congress too issued a similar statement criticising the decision. “We have written to the CM, asking them to revoke the decision else it will lead to exploitation of labourers and employees across the state,” said Ashok Punjabi, national secretary, INTUC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trade-unions-flay-new-layoff-ordinance/articleshow/77044159.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Vadodara||Mining of black trap stone worth Rs 56 crore unearthed in Godhra||VADODARA: The mines and minerals department of the state government has unearthed a major racket of illegal mining of black trap stones in Mahi River near Godhra in Panchmahal district. An offence alleging the theft of black trap amounting to Rs 56 crore was registered at the Kakanpur police station on Saturday. The irregularities had come to light during a raid by the mines and minerals department in January. After complaints regarding a large-scale illegal mining near Timbi were received, a team of officials from Gandhinagar and local police officials raided the place and seized boats, trucks, compressors and generators. Sources said that after the raid, a detailed measurement of the site was taken up to ascertain the volume of black trap mined illegally. It came to light that 14,02,021metric tonne (MT) black trap had been removed from the site. This was valued at Rs 45 crore. Black trap stones are used in building construction. These stones are crushed into small pieces and then used in construction materials. The offence registered at the Kakanpur police station also alleged that the damages to the environment amounted to Rs 12 crore. This amount has to be paid to the district mineral foundation (DMF). A complaint was submitted to the police under the Mines and Minerals Act following which an offence was registered against 28 persons involved in the mining activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mining-of-black-trap-stone-worth-rs-56cr-unearthed-in-godhra/articleshow/77042925.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Salem||Covid: 107 get discharged from Salem government hospital||SALEM: A total of 107 people, who were getting treated for Covid-19, were discharged from the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH) on Saturday Dean Dr. R Balajinathan said this was the highest number of people discharged in a day from the hospital so far. With this, a total of 1,107 people were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in the hospital. The dean said 80 pregnant women got admitted to the hospital after they tested positive for the infection. “Of them, 32 were cured of Covid-19 and they got discharged from the hospital,” he said. “The hospital is equipped with 300 beds along with oxygen supply and 50 ventilators,” the dean said. The dean and the medical superintendent Dr. P V Dhanapal handed over fruit baskets, tablet kits and kabasura kudineer packets to the discharged people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/107-get-discharged-from-salem-gh/articleshow/77044120.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Amte 3rd gen brings tapped water to tribal homes, jobs and farm growth||Nagpur: An aerial view of Kumarguda throws up a picture perfect sustainable village development. A flourishing avian presence circling over a placid lake, greenery all around and neat rows of village homes a couple of kms away from the water body. Just like the birds hovering over the lake, the hamlet’s development revolves around the lake. Kumarguda is among 21 villages in Bhamaragad and one in Aheri tehsil of the Naxal-hit Gadichiroli where the famous Lok Biradari Prakalp (LBP) has successfully implemented the ‘Village Development Programme’. The initiative has put an end to the daily struggle of Madia Gond tribes for water, predominant since the Independence days. Carrying forward the legacy of the father-son duo of Baba Amte and Prakash Amte to serve tribals, the third generation is working to make the tribal belt self-reliant through development projects. Known for providing health care and educating tribals in Gadchiroli district beside running a wild animal shelter at Hemalkasa, LBP, led by Prakash Amte’s younger son Aniket, is now spearheading the development of villages since 2016. The project has also provided tapped water connections in two villages. In all the 22 villages, water is available for irrigation and fisheries in the other 20 round the year. “These villages are also open defecation free,” said Aniket, whose photographer friend Vinod Kashyap captured through drone-cam the mesmerizing view of Kumarguda, 3km from LBP’s headquarters at Hemalkasa. The offer to excavate 100x50 metres and 3-feet deep lakes comes with certain conditions intended to make villagers socially and environmentally more responsible. No alcohol and tobacco, saving trees, educating every child, no hunting but conservation of wildlife and dispute-free village are part of the agreement with each gramsabhas before the project is implemented. “Schemes like the ODF (open defecation-free) village under the Swacch Bharat Abhiyan were rendered meaningless as tribals didn’t have enough water at home. We not only deepened the existing lakes at Koyanguda and Jinjgaon but also laid pipelines, set up a 50,000-litre overhand tank to provide tap water. 90 homes in Jinjgaon and 65 homes in Koyanguda are now the beneficiaries of the project,” said LBP director Aniket. The tribals, especially women, had to walk 2 to 3km to fetch water from the lake, where all the other activities, right from washing clothes, bathing to relieving oneself would take place. “We have set an example. If they (tribals) get tap water, they will use the toilet, bathe indoors and have clean drinking water. Above all else, it has saved time for women who can now work in farms and take part in other development activities,” said Aniket. The lakes are providing income from fishing and the surplus water is being used for multiple crops round the year. “Having no other source of water, the entire village was dependent on small lakes with limited water. After rains, they would face acute shortage,” he said. To ensure that the lakes are not polluted and maintained properly, local participation was made compulsory. “The project is undertaken only if the gramsabha agrees to a 10% contribution from people. If it’s 100% free, then people won’t value it. A sense of ownership ensures that it’s not damaged,” he said. The rest of the funding for the project comes from donations, nationally as well as internationally. Each lake costs around Rs10 lakh. “Donations have gone down during the lockdown,’ he said. While Aniket gave up his engineering career, his techie friend Ashok Gaikwad quit his job in Pune and shifted to Hemalkasa in 2016 for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amte-3rd-gen-brings-tapped-water-to-tribal-homes-jobs-and-farm-growth/articleshow/77044157.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Fadnavis threatens to send audio clip to court||Nagpur: In his latest letter to home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has threatened to hand over the honeytrap audio clip to the chief justice of the high court and registrar if the probe is not conducted fairly. The former CM has stated in the latest letter that the issue is beyond politics as it concerns the image of the judiciary as well as the police department and that he expected Deshmukh to conduct a fair trial. Deshmukh, who was in city on Saturday, is set to review the progress of the probe conducted by the crime branch. Sources stated that Deshmukh is now geared up to ask the Joint CP of Nagpur police (Nilesh Bharne) to conduct a thorough probe into the audio clip case. Fadnavis had earlier written a letter to Deshmukh on July 14 following which the home minister too had sent him a reply stating that the alleged honeytrapper was a BJP worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fadnavis-threatens-to-send-audio-clip-to-court/articleshow/77044154.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 19, 2020||Pune||PCMC takes over all Covid beds in private hospitals||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: With a rising number of reports of patients unable to find critical care, the PCMC has decided to take over all allocated Covid-19 beds, including the ones in private hospitals. There are about 1,200 Covid-care beds across 17 private hospitals within PCMC limits. From Monday, the hospitals will be barred from admitting those not approved by the civic body. The commissioner of PCMC, Shravan Hardikar, said: “We will start regulating coronavirus admissions even in private hospitals. There need not be any walk-in because we will control all the admissions. We will know who is positive and when they are being admitted.” Hardikar added that the civic body is creating infrastructure to support this massive monitoring system. “We are setting up call centres and war rooms in all our (32) ward offices. Each ward office will be empowered to direct people who have tested positive in their area. Based on their condition patients will be instructed home isolation, a Covid-care unit (if symptoms are very mild) or hospitalisation," he said. The PCMC will also monitor all Covid-19 testing, including those carried out in private labs. There have been reports of asymptomatic patients occupying beds that can better serve the critically ill. A civic official said, “Many such asymptomatic patients have been blocking critical oxygen beds, which could have been used by those in real need. When we ask them to vacate, they claim to have support from local politicians and refuse to leave.” The PCMC has a total of about 4,000 beds set aside for coronavirus treatment. Of these, it has about 175 ICU beds with ventilator support and 629 beds with regular oxygen support. Hardikar said the civic body has the capability to add 25,000 Covid-care beds. “But that will not help as asymptomatic patients can recover without intensive intervention. What we need are ICU beds, ventilator beds and oxygen beds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-takes-over-all-covid-beds-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/77044760.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 19, 2020||Erode||Pending Class XII results will be announced within 3 days of exam, says school edu min||ERODE: The pending exam of Class XII would be conducted on July 27 and results would be released within three days, state school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said during a press meet at Dasappagoundanpudur village near Gobichettipalayam in Erode district on Saturday. Distributing Covid-19 safety gears, rice and grocery items to students at a school in the village, the minister said the government had taken steps to set up Wi-Fi facilities at 6,019 government schools across the state. “Tamil Nadu will be the first state in the country to have such a facility in government schools,” the minister said. The minister said recognitions of about 2,000 private schools in the state were temporarily renewed. “These schools are allowed to develop infrastructure and transport facilities, but are not allowed to collect fees from parents,” he said. On digital classes, the minister said steps were taken by the education department to teach through mobile and computer. The school education department is now implementing a new system of learning for in Class XI and Class XII students. They could download their lessons using QR code in their mobile phones. The minister also inaugurated a practical session of downloading lessons using QR code at a government school in Vilangkombai village on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/pending-class-xii-results-will-be-announced-within-3-days-of-exam-says-school-edu-min/articleshow/77044137.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: It’s bad coordination that stranded patients, say experts||PUNE: The death of a fifth patient this week, who was unable to find an intensive care on time, points to a serious lack of coordination among government agencies in the region, experts said. The family of the 76-year-old patient said he died at Sassoon General Hospital after a two-day wait for a ventilator-supported ICU bed at the state-run unit and at two private hospitals in the city. But reports have indicated that there were beds available at hospitals within the PCMC area when the patient died on Thursday. On Saturday, again, the dashboard set up by the administration showed Sassoon had zero vacant ICU beds with ventilators (as of 9pm). But PCMC hospitals showed 28 such vacant units. There are plans to add 120 more ICU beds at Sassoon. But that “isn’t enough”, said retired bureaucrat Mahesh Zagade, who was PMC commissioner during the 2009 swine flu outbreak. He said addition of beds should be accompanied by enough medical staff and even canteen facilities for those admitted. “Beds do not mean cots; we need staff too. I have seen case jumps from a mere 200 to 1,800. We need to prepare for exponential growth,” Zagade said, while adding that the city should release details on the 80% of beds it was to acquire from private hospitals. Pradeep Bhargava from the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) said it was troubling to note that that a death had occurred at Sassoon when there were nearly vacant ICU beds in hospitals within PCMC limits. Bhargava said, “The administration should consider these as common resources for the entire city. Regimentation into wards and corporations is good for containment, but not for vital care. Our addresses should not come in the way of treatment. Also, the large resources available with defence establishments in Pune should be brought into the infrastructure pool to save lives.” Activist Vivek Velankar asked why authorities, despite being nearly five months into a pandemic, had still not set up a simple three-digit toll-free number for critical coronavirus information. “One helpline number is easier to remember. A helpline can get patients to hospitals on time,” he said. Administration officials have said they are setting up a centralised system to handle patient admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/its-bad-coordination-that-stranded-patients-experts/articleshow/77044762.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sack speaker, minister KT Jaleel: KPCC chief||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Higher education minister K T Jaleel and speaker P Sreeramakrishnan should be ousted from their positions since both of them have violated their oath, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said. “Both have failed to uphold the basic etiquette that people donning such high posts should maintain. While the chief minister’s former secretary was suspended citing violation of service rules, the minister and speaker committed even graver crime,” he said. The KPCC president said that Jaleel violated all protocols in accepting gifts from UAE consular general, and the minister’s actions have degraded the country’s dignity. Even when there are specific laid out rules for ministers, MLAs and MPs while dealing with foreign missions, the minister did not bother to follow any of them, he added. Mullappally said that the minister claims that he accepted the food packets for giving it to the poor during the month of Ramzan. This has not only violated the rules, but also has shown the image of the country as a poor state which cannot even feed its population. The KPCC president further said that the speaker could not uphold the dignity of the assembly which is considered the temple of democracy and its values, by maintaining contact with the second and third accused in the gold smuggling case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sack-speaker-minister-jaleel-kpcc-chief/articleshow/77043273.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||Mandi samiti forms team to check adherence of Covid-19-related guidelines||Dehradun: A day after city police booked five vegetable traders at Niranjanpur market for not following social distancing norms, the Mandi Samiti on Saturday set up a team to inspect that the Covid-19 guidelines are being followed. The team will conduct random checks at godowns and shops and also keep a check on the traders and their staff for the compliance of social distancing, wearing face masks, and regular sanitisation. On Saturday, the team inspected the Niranjanpur vegetable market and issued challans to five persons for not wearing face masks and collected a fine of Rs 3,500 under provisions of the Disaster Management Act. The team also checked the godown and shop areas of the mandi (vegetable market) and instructed the traders to install sanitiser stands and also keep additional face masks for the staff members. In addition, the team also made sure that water was not stagnant in the market place so as to keep dengue and malaria infections at bay. Talking to TOI, Mandi Inspector Ajay Dabral said, “The team will inspect the market area on a regular basis to ensure that the norms of social distancing are being followed and no one is entering the premises without a face mask. The traders have been given clear instructions to keep their surroundings clean in the interest of everyone.” District Magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava also inspected the Niranjanpur Mandi on Saturday and objected to the blocked drains. He also directed the Secretary of the Mandi Samiti to issue show cause notice to 12 traders for not keeping their surrounding area clean. In case the traders are not able to submit a satisfactory reply to the notice, the license of these traders will be cancelled. These traders were also challaned for Rs 5,000 each by the Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mandi-samiti-forms-team-to-check-adherence-of-covid-19-related-guidelines/articleshow/77042539.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||Wagholi and Narhe get two isolation units||Pune: The Haveli tehsil administration has started two new Covid care centres (CCCs) at Narhe and Wagholi. Two colleges hostels have been turned into CCCs with a total bed capacity of about 800. Only asymptomatic covid positive patients will be admitted at these centres. The tehsil administration has roped in 10 doctors and 20 nurses to take care of the patients. Prashant Shirke, block development officer of the tehsil, told TOI, “We are carrying out testing in big gram panchayats like Wagholi, Narhe, Loni Kalbhor etc to break the chain of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wagholi-and-narhe-get-two-isolation-units/articleshow/77044764.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Dangerous decibel: Shahdara worst at 91%, Dwarka, Lajpat Nagar follow||NEW DELHI: Shahdara was the noisiest location in Delhi, breaching the 60 db (A) mark for more than 91% of the time in the month of June. It was followed by Dwarka, Lajpat Nagar and Karol Bagh wherein a reading between 60 and 70 db(A) was recorded for more than 60% of the time, a report submitted by Delhi Pollution Control Committee to the National Green Tribunal states. The report also informs the NGT that Delhi’s noise monitoring network has now increased to 26 stations, which will be used to cover all four categories – silence zones, residential zones, commercial zones and industrial zones. Data analysed from all 26 locations in the month of June revealed that ambient noise levels at silence zones, residential zones and commercial zones exceeded the prescribed standards. Industrial zones, where the limit is set the highest, were the only zones in which the values were being adhered to, the report stated. Among the locations recording the least amount of noise were Alipur, Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range, Najafgarh and National Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases at Aurobindo Marg, which recorded more than 30% of the monitored hours in June to be ranging between 40 and 50 dB (A). All locations were found to be getting impacted by vehicular noise as the primary source. However, inspections at each location will also be carried out to ascertain sources of noise pollution that may be specific to the area. “Analysis of hourly data shows that the range varied from 40 db(A) to 70 db(A) in different land-use areas of Delhi. The short term data, compared with prescribed standards, shows that ambient noise levels exceed the prescribed standards in silence, residential and commercial zones. In industrial zones, the noise level meets the prescribed standards,” said the report. “Though in general, it seems the primary source is vehicular noise. However, a survey of nearby areas of these stations will be undertaken for the identification of sources to develop a customised action plan for each location,” the report added. Until last year, DPCC only had five noise monitors across the capital, which it admits was not adequately representing the four categories of land-use areas in Delhi. For further ground visits, DPCC said teams had already been formulated, while handheld devices would be used to identify problem locations. “Handheld integrating-averaging sound meters have been provided to the inspecting teams to enable them to identify local sources of noise emission. Based on the reports by the inspecting teams, further action will be taken as a constant process,” said DPCC, adding that it now plans to analyse data every week and make it available to authorities for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dangerous-decibel-shahdara-worst-at-91-dwarka-lajpat-nagar-follow/articleshow/77044765.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Around 40% power consumers yet to pay June bills||Nagpur: Irate power consumers are gradually paying astronomical June power bills but MSEDCL has a long way to go before the figure reaches 100%. Till June 30, only 32% consumers in Nagpur zone (Nagpur and Wardha districts) had paid their June dues. By July 15, this figure has reached around 60%. That 40% consumers are yet to pay their bills is an alarming fact for MSEDCL. A MSEDCL spokesperson, however, expressed satisfaction over the progress. “People are gradually realizing that we have not have not overbilled them. Moreover, we are giving them three instalments. So people are paying up. By the month end, we expect most of them to clear their bills,” he said. MSEDCL had not taken readings after mid-March up to early June. The discom issued average bills for two to three months based on winter consumption. As a result, a large number of units got accumulated in the June bill and it was more than twice of the normal one. In addition, Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) increased the tariff for lower end consumers. All this led to consumers getting mammoth bills. Data provided by MSEDCL shows that despite the lockdown, more people paid bills at collection centres than online. In Nagpur city, between July 1 and 15, 1.56 lakh consumers paid their dues offline and 1.06 lakh paid it online. In Wardha district, 42,530 their paid bills offline against 20,697 online. In rural areas of Nagpur district, the corresponding figures are very skewed. While 69,884 consumers paid their bills at collection centres, only 1,329 did it through the MSEDCL website or mobile application. Meanwhile, opposition parties like the BJP, AAP, Janata Dal, etc continue to protest against the astronomical bills. They are demanding free units ranging from 100 to 200 units per month during lockdown period, cancellation of the power tariff hike implemented by MERC, abolition of fuel surcharge, etc. Energy minister Nitin Raut has promised to provide free power to domestic consumers if the central government provides MSEDCL Rs10,000 crore aid. He had put up this demand before the union power minister but did not get any assurance. The state government is cash-strapped and in no position to waive power bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/around-40-power-consumers-yet-to-pay-june-bills/articleshow/77044163.cms||Ashish Roy
July 19, 2020||India||‘560 univs have either had exams or plan to’||NEW DELHI: The University Grants Commission stated on Saturday that of 945 universities asked to share status of the conduct of examination, 755 had responded by Saturday with 560 claiming they had either held the examination or are planning to conduct them. The commission in its revised guidelines on July 6 stated that the final exams have to be conducted by September-end and that the exams are mandatory. The UGC on Saturday reiterated that performance in examinations contributes to merit, lifelong credibility, wider global acceptability for admissions, scholarships, awards, placements, and better future prospects. In a statement it said: “A large number of best universities across the world including the US, UK, Canada, Germany, Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong and other countries, have conducted or are conducting examinations by giving various options such as online/offline/blended or other alternative forms of examinations. While making the exams mandatory, the guidelines also mentioned that in case a student of terminal semester/ final year is unable to appear in the examination conducted by the university for any reason, he/she may be given opportunity to appear in special examinations for such course(s)/ paper(s), which may be conducted by the university as and when feasible, so that the student is not put to any inconvenience/ disadvantage. A total of 194 universities have already conducted examination (on-line/off-line) and 366 are planning to conduct examination (on-line/off-line/blended mode) in August/September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/560-univs-have-either-had-exams-or-plan-to/articleshow/77045097.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Former pro VC, deans, HoDs, directors in race for Ngp University VC post||Nagpur: Around 10 applicants, including a former pro-vice chancellor, two deans, director of Nagpur University’s (NU) autonomous college, former director of Internal Quality Assurance Cell, three professors from PG departments and a couple of principals are among those so far shortlisted and asked to appear for an interaction on July 31 and 31 with the NU’s VC search panel. These candidates would make a presentation before the panel through video conferencing as per the mails received by them. The process for new the vice chancellor’s selection has gained steam after chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s office asking the panel to recommend the ultimate five names by July-end. The panel had received a whopping 130 applications and it took over a month to shortlist the candidates. Though the exact number of candidates shortlisted is yet to be disclosed, TOI has learnt that 12 applicants, including a woman HoD and a professor, had applied for the coveted post. In its July 13 issue, TOI had reported that Koshyari’s office had asked the search committee led by former chief justice of Allahabad High Court Dilip Bhosale to speed up the process which has been moving at a snail’s pace due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The panel also comprises principal secretary Sanjay Chahande along with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, chairman Abhay Karandikar, who was nominated by NU’s management and academic councils. NU’s deputy registrar Wasim Ahmed is the liaisoning officer while IIT Bombay registrar R Premkumar is the nodal officer. NU officials said it is likely that around 30 to 40 applicants have been shortlisted and the interactions have been staggered over a period of a couple of days. Following their interaction, the panel is likely to recommend the final five names to the chancellor who will name the new VC. As VC appointments have been political in nature, the fight for the post is set to be an exciting one with the MVA government in power and the governor belonging to the rival camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/former-pro-vc-deans-hods-directors-in-race-for-ngp-university-vc-post/articleshow/77044185.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||Rainwater helps Jafrabad farmer sow dreams||Rajkot: God helps those who helps themselves, says an axiom, instilling the belief that good deeds beget higher rewards. And nobody else but this farmer in Vadali village in Jafrabad taluka, Pravin Sankhat, can showcase the strength in these words better. By dint of his own strength of belief and honesty in action, Sankhat has literally reaped gold in the arid expanse of his farm land. Here’s how. Vadali village in of Amreli distric is located just 4kms away from the seashore. Thus, the land here is saline which includes Sankhat’s farm too. It has stretches of saline land which leaves it uncultivated and barren. However, the enterprising farmer turned this impossibility into fertile reality on one bigha of land. “I have sunk a 30 feet deep pond in my farm, where I store rain water. The water thus collected will help irrigate my plans to cultivate groundnut and cotton,” said Sankhat. Jafrabad is known for crops like groundnut, cotton, pearl millet and sesame. But the depth of his sweet-water pond will fall short when measured against the man’s high thinking and honesty of purpose. “I have come to know about the state government scheme ‘khet talavadi’ which helps farmers sink such ponds in their farms. However, I did not opt for such a scheme. I sank my own pond at my own cost as I can afford it. I would prefer that the government instead give the benefit of the khet talavadi scheme to some other needy farmer,” said the man who has set a textbook example of individual endeavour and integrity. This year, Sankhet was rewarded again with good rainfall in Amreli district, which has replenished his pond. “The good rainfall has left my pond brimming and has also recharged the well in my farm,” he added. Cousin Govind, whose farm abuts Sankhat’s farm, too benefited from the pond. He said: “Due to the pond in Pravin’s farm, the level of ground water in my farm too increased with a fresh influx of rainwater seeping from his pond.” Anil Parmar, another farmer whose farm adjoins Sankhat’s, said: “Hearing Pravin’s success story, I paid a visit to his farm and now I, too, want to sink a pond in my farm. However, I am not as financially sound like him and so, I would prefer to take help of the state government’s khet talavadi scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rainwater-helps-jafrabad-farmer-sow-dreams/articleshow/77043306.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||Body of male elephant found in US Nagar||Rudrapur: The body of a male elephant was found in the Seepka beat of the northern range of Jaspur forests in Udham Singh Nagar district on Saturday. The jumbo was reportedly electrocuted to death. The body was first spotted by a local villager who told TOI that all the organs and the tusks of the jumbo were intact. “I informed the gram pradhan about the death but no forest department official turned up till several hours,” he said, while adding that locals took pictures of the body and circulated it on social media platforms. Meanwhile, divisional forest officer Himanshu Bagri and ranger RC Sharma didn’t entertain calls by TOI. Parag Madhukar Thakare, conservator of forests, responded to the call but was unaware of the death as he was in Dehradun to attend a meeting. The episode highlights the negligence of state forest officials towards the safety of wild animals. Notably, there have been 21 non-poaching deaths of elephants in the state in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-male-elephant-found-in-us-nagar/articleshow/77042553.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana's Covid caseload touches 43,780; 8th worst-hit state||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded six deaths and 1,284 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the caseload to 43,780 and eight overall in the countrywide standing. While the overall toll rose to 409, authorities said 29 percent (12,765) are active cases and under medical care. Of the active cases only 1,912 are admitted in government hospitals according to the official data, while an estimated 60 percent are in home quarantine. A total of 14,883 samples were tested on Saturday of which 8.6 percent turned positive. The total number of tests done in the state have now reached 2,37,817. More than half of which have been done in the last 30 days alone, after the state government ramped up testing in the state and allowed private facilities to conduct tests. The state currently has 39 approved testing laboratories of which 12 are government labs while the remaining are private ones. The number of cases testing positive in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area is on the decline going from 881 on July 1 to 667 on Saturday, as the spread in neighbouring districts continues to increase. The latest districts seeing a surge in numbers is Vikarabad, Nalgonda, Wanaparthy, Suryapet and Mancheriyal. Cases continue their upward trend in Ranga Reddy, Medchal, Medak and Sanga Reddy districts. The state health authorities listed 57 private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the state and have urged people to contact the WhatsApp number- 9154170960 for any grievances. Also, the helpline no- 180059912345 can be utilized for telemedicine consulting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-covid-caseload-touches-43780-8th-worst-hit-state/articleshow/77044179.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 15 lakh migrant workers left during lockdown, says study||AHMEDABAD: As factories and industrial establishments downed their shutters following the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, thousands of migrant workers who kept these plants humming chose to go back to their native places. As many as 14.97 lakh migrant workers returned to their home states from Gujarat during the lockdown, states a study conducted by Mahatma Gandhi Labour Institute (MGLI), a state government founded institution for education, training, study and research in labour and related subjects. These stranded labourers—working in organised and unorganized sector—were ferried back to their hometowns through 1,008 Shramik Special Trains or buses from Gujarat. While arranging the special transportation, Gujarat government’s labour department conducted a concurrent survey through state labour officers and various district functionaries. Titled as ‘Migration of Workers by Shramik Special Trains in Gujarat’, the study shows that Surat witnessed the largest exodus followed by Ahmedabad and Rajkot. Of the total home-bound migrants, 6.67 lakh were from Surat. Ahmedabad saw the flight of 3 lakh labourers and Rajkot 1.02 lakh. “The study also reveals that 94% of the labourers had shown willingness to come back while leaving the state. Only 6% chose not to return when the situation normalizes,” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department, Gujarat government. Maximum trains departed post Lockdown 2.0Of the 1,008 Shramik Special trains from Gujarat, the maximum number were sent after Lockdown 2.0 ended. As many as 527 trains from Gujarat left for various states carrying migrant workers during May 15 to May 25. May 19 recorded the highest number of 71 Shramik Special trains departing in a single day. This was followed by 62 trains on May 20. Since the highest number of labourers left from Surat, the diamond city also accounted for 44% of the total trains from the state. Surat was followed by Ahmedabad and Rajkot in terms of trains leaving with migrant labourers, the study revealed. Fear, panic triggered exodusMigrant workers faced income loss, food shortage and uncertain future and other difficulties due to the shutdown of factories and workplaces in the lockdown. Thousands of them started heading back to their home states on foot as no means of transport was available till April 30 due to lockdown. Many did not have any savings and lived in factory dormitories which were shut due to the lockdown. Gujarat is home to 30 lakh migrants, which include 7 lakh in white collar jobs or have their own businesses. The remaining 23 lakh workers and labourers are in the formal and informal sector. 231 shelter homes; 8,000 workers stayedFollowing the central government directive, the state government had set up shelter homes in each district to stop workers’ movement and provide them with safe shelter, food and other basic facilities. According to the study, 231 shelter homes were put up across the state, where 8,000 workers stayed for 40 days. 68% workers belonged to unorganized sectorOf the migrants who chose to leave Gujarat amid lockdown, 68% were employed in the unorganized sectors and 24% worked in the organized sector. Around 8% were self-employed. Majority of these workers were found to be skilled and semi-skilled in fields such as embroidery, sewing, diamond cutting and polishing, cooking, photography, brick kiln making, plant and operating machines. Trend reversal: 3.5 lakh return to GujaratMore than 3.5 lakh labourers are estimated to have returned to Gujarat from their hometowns. Many others have also booked their tickets to come back to the state. “I took up a farm labourer job in Bihar but I was not able to earn much. Hence, I decided to return to Gujarat as I was sure I would earn enough even if I get the same job (farm labourer) in Gujarat,” said Nirmal Singh, a resident of Baktar who has returned from Bihar and is working with his former employer in Rajkot. “Gujarat is a frontrunner state in providing employment, and I am sure people who left during lockdown will definitely return,” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary labour and employment. Nizamuddin Ansari, 45, a native from Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh, returned in July first week after he failed to earn his livelihood there. “When I left, I had decided not to return. But soon I realized that it was better for me to return,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15l-migrant-workers-left-during-lockdown-study/articleshow/77044207.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 19, 2020||Pune||Couple with 2 children brave homelessness, money woes with grit||Pune: Not many would have dared to fight against so many odds as this Pune couple, who kept their hope and positivity alive even during the time of Covid-19. The lockdown has already hurt many due to loss of livelihood and lack of food, shelter, health, and other basic needs. But this couple, who have battled many a demon in the past, continue to hope for a better tomorrow. Their marriage was made possible by medical practitioner Abhijit Sonawane from Doctor for Beggars — who provides medical care to people begging to survive or those abandoned in the city. Both had taken to begging for survival. The woman — a rape survivor with a son — .and the man, homeless with no family or a source of livelihood, were keen on starting afresh at the time of meeting. Sonawane gave the man the capital to set up a roadside barber shop. He then introduced the duo to each other, hoping that their common sufferings might make them want to share the burden. The couple welcomed a son last month. “Despite their sufferings, they were thrilled to have the newest addition to their family,” Sonawane said. Sonawane said the lockdown had forced the couple and their two sons to live in temporary shelters outside various places of worship in the city, but they have not lost sight of a better future. While Sonawane managed to get a job for a man in a tea stall a few days ago, he is worried that the reimposed lockdown will again hurt the couple financially. Though they recently managed to find a house in one of the city’s slum pockets and were trying to shift there, lack of income would be a lingering concern. “The couple have been through many tough years, but emerged stronger than before. Their indomitable spirit should be an inspiration for everyone,” Sonawane said. The doctor said he had found the woman (35) outside a religious place a few years ago, while he was distributing medicines. She was accompanied by a little boy. “I got talking to her and realised the scale of all that she had to endure in her life. She told me that her parents had died when she was young and she had been begging for survival ever since. She also confided in me that she was sexually assaulted and became pregnant with her now 5-year-old son,” he said The doctor said a few days later, he met a homeless man who had come to the city from Marathwada. “Upon talking to him, I realised that he was keen on working hard to start his own business and I helped him through the process of working as a roadside barber. Over the days, I told him about the woman and her child, and he agreed to marry her. I then asked the woman if she wanted to go ahead with the alliance, and she agreed as well,” Sonawane said. After the wedding, the couple gained some semblance of financial independence with the help of the income generated by providing their services to the city’s multitudes. “I would find a spot along the road and set up my stall. I charged them Rs50 for a haircut and Rs20 for a shave. However, if someone didn’t have money to pay me for my services, I would do it for free. I learnt the tricks of my trade by observing other barbers. Things were fine until the lockdown was imposed,” the man said.  With no income in sight, the family had to resort to begging again. “We were living along the footpath. Soon after the lockdown was imposed, we were asked to vacate the spot by the police. My son was born on June 19 and we continue to survive on donated food packets and rations. I am waiting for the lockdown to ease so that I can resume work,” he added. Sonawane said, “When I went to meet their child in the hospital, the man refused to take money from me for expenses. He still hasn’t lost hope.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couple-with-2-children-brave-homelessness-money-woes-with-grit/articleshow/77044767.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR wing staff give essentials to porters||Hyderabad: The officers and staff of commercial branch provided essentials to around 70 licensed porters of the Kacheguda Railway station on Saturday. The porters are among the worst affected due to the Covid-19 crisis as there are no special trains originating from Kacheguda station. “To help these porters, the officials have voluntarily contributed money and purchased essential items for distribution. I also request license porters to make use of welfare-oriented schemes by Central and state governments,” said G John Prasad, principal chief commercial manager, SCR. Prasad assured them Railways would always come to rescue of licensed porters and families. The essentials included groceries, soaps, mask, sanitiser and cash. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-wing-staff-give-essentials-to-porters/articleshow/77044184.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||PMC sets up 2.8k-capacity nCoV hub in Vimannagar||Pune: The civic administration has set up a 2,800-bed Covid Care Centre at Vimannagar as part of its ongoing efforts to boost isolation facilities for accommodation of increasing Covid-19 patients in the city. Around five buildings of the Slum Rehabilitation project in Vimannagar are being utilized to quarantine patients with mild symptoms. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is taking care of provisions of all the related infrastructure including beds, adequate toilet facilities, staff, availability of water and power at the facility. Sunil Yadav, in-charge of the centre said all the buildings were ready for use. The flats were vacant and are now being utilized for the patients. Beds have been arranged as per the social distancing norms. The necessary staff for cleaning is being made available. As of now, the facility will cater to patients with mild symptoms, Yadav said. It may also have beds with oxygen in the future, after the necessary arrangements are made. Initially, the patients from nearby areas such as Kharadi, Vadgaonsheri would be shifted to the centre, but patients from other wards would also be shifted there as per the requirements, he said. Rajendra Muthe, the deputy commissioner at PMC, said the administration was in the process of increasing the overall bed capacity by 6,000 by the end of the month. Recently, an 800-bed facility was set up at the Agriculture college. The PMC is commencing bigger centres of more than 300 beds, he added. The civic administration has also initiated steps to ramp up ICU and oxygen bed facilities in PMC-run hospitals. Rubal Agarwal, the additional municipal commissioner at PMC, said 10 ICU beds and 40 isolation beds were being made operational at Dalvi hospital, besides 25 oxygen beds at Khedekar hospital in the next two days. The required manpower had been deployed. A review of other hospitals was also underway on enhancement of oxygen beds, Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-sets-up-2-8k-capacity-ncov-hub-in-vimannagar/articleshow/77044770.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Sound limiters to keep violators in check: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: The state government’s environment department claims to have initiated an action plan to limit noise in the capital by using sound limiters, which will be mandatory for any public address system or audio system. The department, in a report submitted to the National Green Tribunal, said a system has been devised where the district administration and Delhi Police have been empowered to initiate fines against individuals not making use of sound limiters, or violating noise norms. Sound limiters are devices that reduce the range of the sound being emitted, as well as its intensity, making them fairly effective in neighbourhood events. “Under the aforesaid notification, no audio system or public address system will be let out/installed without being fitted with a sound limiter. Delhi government has also authorised the district magistrate/commissioner of police or any other officer, not below the rank of deputy superintendent of police and similarly placed officers in the urban local bodies to take necessary action,” the submission before the green tribunal claimed. The department said that in order to raise awareness about noise pollution, thematic plays and events in schools, colleges and eco-clubs were being held, while pamphlets are being given to all deputy directors of education to distribute them among students and parents. The environment department claimed with a wider noise monitoring network, which now includes 26 noise monitoring stations under DPCC, more violators can be fined under the Noise Rules, 2000. The Central Pollution Control Board had recently come up with their own suggestions for noise-related violations, with fines ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1 lakh, depending on the number of violations. CPCB informed NGT that the use of loudspeakers/public address systems exceeding the noise limit can be fined Rs 10,000, while DG sets can be fined Rs 10,000 to 1 lakh, depending on the size. Construction sites, meanwhile, can be fined Rs 50,000 for violating noise norms. A senior environment department official said for any public event, the local district administration and the police will be required to ensure sound emitters are in place, failing to which can result in a fine immediately. “They have been empowered and action can be initiated on the individual. The devices will ensure noise norms are not violated,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sound-limiters-to-keep-violators-in-check-govt/articleshow/77044777.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Local body plans to recharge all wells||KOCHI: Amballur panchayat in Ernakulam, which has completed a comprehensive digital mapping of all water resources and quality testing as part of a project to ensure water security, is now planning to recharge all wells in the local body. “The project, which began with a survey in November, was prompted by a peculiar situation in the local body,” said Amballur panchayat planning committee vice-chairman Mukundan K A. “Every ward in the local body had at least one hotspot which experienced drinking water shortage. We also had concerns on the quality of water since the number of kidney patients in the panchayat was found to be high,” he said. The panchayat has identified a total of 4,206 wells and has also mapped its physical characteristics like whether it has a side wall, the distance from the septic tank, and whether the water source is covered by net and has attached pump sets. They also collected information on whether the well water has any peculiar taste or smell. The entire exercise was carried out with help of Kerala rural water supply and sanitation agency (KRWSA), ToC H Engineering College, Arakkunnam, Cusat and quality control division of Kerala water authority. “The entire survey was done using mobile phones. In January we began testing the water samples collected from the sources,” says Mukundan. They collected close to 3,300 water samples and the printed test results were delivered to households. “In several samples we found the presence of coliform bacteria. We did not inform them of the specific count but created awareness regarding water safety, need to keep septic tanks away from wells and ways to disinfect the well water,” he said. “In the third phase, we are planning to recharge wells in the panchayat using funds from employment guarantee scheme and assistance from KRWSA. We are targeting at least 2,000 wells,” said Mukundan. While BPL families can install recharging systems using rainwater harvesting by paying 5% of the cost, APL families would have to pay only 10%,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/local-body-plans-to-recharge-all-wells/articleshow/77043274.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Money lenders in rural areas await gold loan borrowers||Nagpur: Much against their expectations, private money lenders of the region say there is no distress borrowing in the rural areas despite the economic impact of Covid. In villages people go to private lenders not only for emergency funds but also to get small amounts to meet their regular expenses. Jewellers also lend against gold. Farmers each year pledge gold for short-term loans running anywhere between Rs5,000-Rs25,000, and release it in a year’s time. The cycle continues. The lenders TOI talked to said the pandemic has reduced the scale of activities in rural areas also. This in turn appears to have brought down the need for money. “Paying school fees was a major expense for which farmers used to depend on gold loans. But schools have not reopened. Late payment for cotton purchases has left enough liquidity in hands of farmers, and loan waiver too has helped,” said the lenders. Lenders in the rural areas had expected a rush of borrowers when shops opened after the lockdown. The trend has been opposite, they say. Sanjeev Kumar Daga, who has a jewellery cum money lending business in Achalpur town, said that this is the time when the borrowing begins and continues till the harvest. “This year the borrowers got their ornaments released as the shops opened after the lockdown. It appears because there is no expenses to be taken care of because of activities coming to a standstill. Earlier, the locals used to pledge gold for loans of a few thousands,” he said. Vatsal Bangare, president of Maharashtra Swarnakar Samaj (rural), said that business has come down to 25% of the earlier level. “Money lenders used to be approached for quick loans to meet expenses for school fees and medical emergency. This year even the general medical expenses appear to be on the lower side. This is the trend everywhere in the region,” he said. According to a source in Buldhana Urban Cooperative Society, which is a major player in loan against gold business in the cooperative sector, lending is down by 20%. “Our loan book stands at Rs250 crore this year which is a reduction of 20% or so,” said a source in the bank’s management. Girish Rathi, a jeweller at Deoli in Wardha, said that his business was down to 10%. The lenders are regulated by the state’s department of cooperatives. A source in the department at Wardha said the monthly returns filed by lenders show lean business. Activists have a different view. Amitabh Pawde, an activist having a farm at Narkhed, said this indicates that there is hardly any gold left with the farmers to pledge. “What was offered earlier could not be released due to repeated tough seasons,” he said. Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swvalamban Mission (VNSSM), a state government agency on agriculture, said this can be because the lenders themselves are reluctant to provide loans due to the overall volatile situation of the economy. “The lenders too may be short of funds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/money-lenders-in-rural-areas-await-gold-loan-borrowers/articleshow/77044201.cms||Shishir Arya
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Guv tells Covid recovered to donate plasma||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has appealed to all those who have recovered from coronavirus to donate their plasma and help in the treatment of other Covid-19 patients. “All those who recovered from Covid-19 and those who are having adequate antibodies should donate the plasma to save the lives of seriously-affected patients of Covid-19,” Soundararajan said. She was addressing mediapersons at the ESI Medical College at Sanathnagar during a visit to the Covid-19 plasma blood bank on Saturday. The governor urged people not to have misconceptions about plasma donation. The governor appreciated the facilities and services being rendered at the ESI Medical College and its initiative in establishing the plasma bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-tells-covid-recovered-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77044197.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||2 dead in separate incidents||New Delhi: Two people, including an 8-year-old boy, died in the wake of the overnight downpour in Delhi on Sunday. In the afternoon, Mohammad Mateen went to the Jaitpur police station to file a missing person report for his son who couldn’t be found since the morning. He was later found unconscious by neighbours at the Chhath ghat in Saurabh Vihar and was declared dead on arrival at a nearby hospital. “His mother said her son had gone out to enjoy the shower, but did not return,” said R P Meena, DCP (South-East). In Sriniwaspuri, a 28-year-old youth died after he fell in water. After receiving a call around 10am, police went to the spot and found Jalil unconscious. He was declared brought dead at AIIMS. “Due to heavy rain, the area was filled with water up to three feet. Jalil was standing outside his rag-picking shop in Gandhi Camp when he suddenly fell,” said Meena. The cause of death is not clear, he added. A postmortem will be conducted at AIIMS. On Saturday, a 24-year-old man, Atul, drowned after falling into a baoli at Mehrauli. His body was found on Sunday. He was a lab technician at AIIMS and went for a swim with his friends, said Atul Thakur, DCP (South).A 12-year-old boy and his friend who went missing from northeast Delhi on Saturday feared to have drowned in the Yamuna near Signature Bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-dead-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/77056425.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||11 people rescued in rain-related accidents in U’khand||Dehradun: The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams claimed to have rescued 11 people during rescue operations conducted in the districts of Uttarkashi, Tehri, and Bageshwar districts. The search for a truck driver who has gone missing is still ongoing. These accidents took place due to rainfall or landslides. In the first accident, a four-wheeler with three people on-board skidded off road due to rainfall and fell into a 30-metre-deep gorge in Bhatwadi area of Uttarkashi district in the late night hours of Friday. On getting the information, an SDRF team rushed to the spot and safely brought out the three persons seated in the vehicle. The three passengers were rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. In the second accident, the SDRF team was informed that a tractor-trolley had skidded off road due to rain spell in Gaijna village of Tehri district. Eight people, who were rescued in the operation, included four minors. Seven out of the eight injured are residents of Patagali village of the district whereas the driver is from Sahaspur area of Dehradun. The injured were identified as Kareena Singh (14), Suman Singh (16), Aarti Singh (18), Neetu Singh (20) Pooja Singh (14), Anjali Singh (16), Vimla Singh (20), and driver Navneet Tyagi (25). In yet another accident, a truck driver lost control of the wheels after the vehicle was hit by landslides triggered due to rainfall in Bhairav Ghati area of Uttarkashi district. Initially, it was reported that five people were on-board the vehicle. However, later it was confirmed that the driver had dropped all the daily wagers before the vehicle was hit by the landslide. According to SDRF, two teams have been formed to find the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/11-people-rescued-in-rain-related-accidents-in-ukhand/articleshow/77042566.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 19, 2020||Nashik||GMCH to reach out to 125 recovered patients for plasma donation||Aurangabad: A committee of doctors and social workers has been formed at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) which has set an aim to reach out to 125 recovered Covid-19 patients in the city under ‘the plasma donor outreach programme’ within a month. The members of the committee will convince recovered patients to donate plasma and counsel them that they will not face any health complication if they donate 400ml of plasma. President of the committee and senior faculty at the GMCH Shivaji Sukre said, “So far, seven people have donated plasma at the GMCH centre. We have got a list of 781 prospective donors, including 650 from the municipal limits of Aurangabad and 131 from the GMCH administration.’’ The committee is reaching out to only those who have completed 28 days after treatment. Sukre said that the GMCH laone had treated around 2,000 Covid-19 patients. Sukre said the committee had a meeting on Friday with dean Kananbala Yelikar and other experts to discuss the course of action involving the collection of plasma. “We have already started counselling the recovered patients who had mild to moderate symptoms of Covid-19 and didn’t have any comorbidity. We will collect plasma primarily from male patients who are fit and less than 55 years of age. Female donors should be unmarried or as of now, shouldn’t have children,” said Sukre. All these people can donate plasma again after a fortnight. “The plasma will be administered to patients with permission of the physician or the intensivist. Once the plasma is collected, we will inform the concerned authorities and take the next course of action following their instructions,” Sukre told TOI. Prabhakar Jirwankar, Suresh Harbade, Bharat Sonwane, PratimaKulkarni, Swapna Ambekar, Pallavi Chavan, Laxmikant Shingote and Narendra Bhaler are among the other members of the committee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gmch-to-reach-out-to-125-recovered-patients-for-plasma-donation/articleshow/77044219.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||Citizens help shoulder heavy burden of last rites||Pune: A 23-year old man from Hadapsar struggled to help his father regain his health after he was detected positive for Covid-19 but a fortnight later he lost his father. Conducting the last rites was also not easy in such a situation until a group of Muslim professionals stepped forward to bury the body at a nearby burial ground. Two weeks later, the group had to bury the body of the same youth at the burial ground. Anjum Inamdar, who runs a transport business in Bopodi, said that his group has buried bodies of several Covid-19 deceased since March, but this particular death was distressing.The 12-member group of professionals, Mul Niwasi Muslim Manch, includes interior designers, garment shop owners, car dealers and civil contractors, who are helping community members bury Covid-19 deceased at designated burial grounds.On some days, the group helps to bury two to three bodies, while some days go by when there are no calls from the civic body. Sabir Shaikh, an interior designer, said the group responded to the municipal commissioner’s appeal when the first Covid-19 death took place in the city.“In the early days of the outbreak, we saw that family members of the deceased were reluctant to come for burial. So we formed a group and we coordinate among ourselves to reach burial grounds as per information provided by the civic body,” said Shaikh.There are designated burial grounds for Covid-19 deceased in different parts of the city. Once the information is received from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the group is told where the body will be taken for burial. Accordingly, Inamdar assigns 4-5 members to reach the burial ground.I T Shaikh, who owns a garment shop on JM Road, said, “At the burial ground, we wear PPE kits and begin the burial process. We remove the body from the ambulance following all protocols and bury it. A few family members of the deceased attend the last rites but they stand far away.”The team members too were scared in the initial days and their families were reluctant. But time has helped gain confidence and maintaining precaution remains crucial.Shriniwas Kandul, head of Covid-19 cremation and burial grounds in PMC, said, “The group is intimated by the hospital staff or a PMC team whenever a death takes place. We provide them with the safety gear. The volunteers are proving to be a major support to the PMC with their relentless efforts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-help-shoulder-heavy-burden-of-last-rites/articleshow/77044775.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||New corpse carrier to be launched soon in Hyd||HYDERABAD: The forensic corpse carrier by Hyderabad police has been shifting at least ten dead bodies including decomposed bodies to mortuaries every month since the lockdown. Police say another FCC vehicle will soon be launched in the city. The forensic corpse carrier (FCC) was launched by Hyderabad police in 2016 to pick up bodies from crime scenes i.e. suspicious deaths, murder, burning, drowning, suicide and accident cases to mortuaries. The vehicle is stationed at traffic complex and is available round-the-clock. In the past two years, as many as 1,033 bodies have been shifted by the FCC team in the city. “A new FCC vehicle will soon be added in the city. The vehicle will have two air-conditioned cabins for decomposed bodies, to preserve it in case of delay,” said Dr N Venkanna, scientific officer, in-charge clues team. According to the officer, the existing vehicle has been facing engine problems. “The vehicle is being used for over three years and has been facing issues. Once the new vehicle is modified ,the team will start using the new vehicle within a month,” he added. During the pandemic spread, the vehicle has been picking up at least ten non-Covid dead bodies every month, much lesser than what the team usually transfer. “We wear masks, gloves and other safety gears while handling dead bodies. The bodies are put inside a zip-lock cover before putting inside the vehicle. The vehicle is sanitised soon after the body is shifted to the mortuary,” said Abdul Nayeem, a 39-year-old retired army constable who now manages the FCC vehicle. “We are using the old vehicle less and have instead have tied-up with social workers and NGOs to transfer the bodies. We are providing required bags used to cover the body, masks and gloves to handle it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-corpse-carrier-to-be-launched-soon-in-hyd/articleshow/77044272.cms||Aditi Mallick
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||Husband of zila panchayat member booked for extortion in Rishikesh||Haridwar: A case has been registered against the husband of local zila panchayat member identified as Pooran Pundir under section 385 (putting a person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the Indian Penal Code on Saturday. SHO Muni-ki-Reti police station RK Saklani told TOI, “The matter related to mining from private land and owner of the land Jot Prasad resident of Sector-17 of Faridabad had given a written complaint against the accused who asked to give extortion money from each truck and relaxation from royalty on each truck.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/husband-of-zila-panchayat-member-booked-for-extortion-in-rishikesh/articleshow/77042574.cms||MS Nawaz
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||‘Summer power usage should have been base for average bills’||One of the biggest issues rocking the state at present is that of the astronomical bills issued to consumers by MSEDCL and other power companies. Over 50% consumers have not paid their bills as they feel that they are being fleeced. AP Ganguly, former senior MSEDCL officer, feels that the mess could have been avoided had top officials of discom changed the methodology of calculating average bills. TOI talked to him about what went wrong. Excerpts from an interview... Q. There is tremendous discontent among consumers over high power bills. Is MSEDCL issuing inflated power bills? A. It isn’t. The bills are not inflated but are an accumulation of three months’ consumption. MSEDCL committed a blunder by calculating the summer average bills on the basis of winter consumption. It should done the estimation on the basis of past summer bills. MSEDCL issued bills for March, April and May on the basis of average consumption in December, January and February. The consumption in winter months for domestic consumers is the minimum. Say the average consumption of the three months was 200 units. In March, the consumption increased to say 350 units due to use of fans and coolers. In April and May the usage was 500 units due to use of air-conditioners and coolers. So the total summer consumption was 1,350 units. However, MSEDCL issued bills for only 200 units, that is 600 units for summer. This means 750 units was not billed and got accumulated. When the reading was taken in June, the month’s reading plus accumulated 750 units took the total to above 1,000 units and people got bill above Rs15,000. Naturally, the consumers are shocked and feel cheated. Had average bills been issued on basis of 2019 summer consumption, there would have been no or very little accumulated units and hence no bill shock. Q. Many consumers feel that MSEDCL should have taken readings during lockdown period. This would have avoided the whole mess. Your take on the issue. A. When the lockdown was announced in March, the atmosphere was not conducive for taking readings. People would not have allowed meter readers to enter their premises. Q. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) is saying that the tariff has reduced from April 1 while energy minister Nitin Raut claims that it has increased. What is the truth? A. Tariff has increased for lower end domestic consumers but reduced for those who consume around 1,000 units. MERC has increased fixed charges, which has affected every consumer. Q. Have solar roof top consumers suffered due to MSEDCL’s mismanagement? A. MSEDCL has just taken readings of net meters. The reconciliation for 2019-20 will be done on the basis of this reading. We will soon know whether MSEDCL has done its job properly. Q. What is the best possible solution to end this mess? A. MSEDCL should give six interest free instalments to consumers. MERC should suo motu allow MSEDCL to take a working capital loan from the market for meeting the loss due to delay in payment of bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/summer-power-usage-should-have-been-base-for-average-bills/articleshow/77044253.cms||Ashish Roy
July 19, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu to go for pooled testing soon for early diagnosis||CHENNAI: The health department on Saturday permitted pooled testing in some districts to reduce turnaround time for results after Tamil Nadu reported 88 more Covid-19 deaths, including 32 in Chennai and 14 in the three adjoining districts. The uptick in deaths took the cumulative toll for the viral infection to 2,403, while the case tally touched 1,65,714 after 4,807 people tested positive on Saturday. While all 37 districts in the state recorded cases, deaths were reported from 23. Six people who died had no comorbidities, three were brought dead. “While we have streamlined death reporting to ensure accuracy, we are also working towards early diagnosis and treatment,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “With the number of samples going up across the state, the turnaround time for results is up to six days in some districts. We are now pushing for pooled testing,” he said. Pooled testing, screening of small groups or pools of samples using only one test, will be used in 21 districts that have a test positivity rate (positive samples over total samples) between 2% and 5%. Instead of testing one person at a time, samples from five individuals would be tested as one. If the test comes back negative, everyone is in the clear. If positive, each member is then tested individually. “When we do this we can test more people faster, using fewer tests. Patients can be isolated and treatment can begin faster. We will be able to stop the spread,” he said. Director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam in a circular on Friday asked nodal officers of RT-PCR labs to use pooled testing for frontline workers, screening vendors at market places, interstate passengers or those coming from abroad, factory workers and offices. It is also cost efficient, he says. The state health department, which now pays Rs 1,500 to private labs for testing samples, will pay Rs 1,000 if samples are pooled. State health insurance card holders can also use services at private labs at the same cost, he said. On Saturday, while the city reported 1,219 new cases, the southern districts reported 1,418 cases and western had 358 cases. At least 3,049 were discharged from home/hospital isolation and 49,452 are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-to-go-for-pooled-testing-soon-for-early-diagnosis/articleshow/77043277.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||Few takers for no-cost govt treatment scheme||Pune: Only 2,000 people have availed themselves of free treatment under the state government’s health scheme in the past two months — just under 10% of those who recovered from Covid-19. Experts and activists have blamed this on the poor awareness about the health scheme. The state government had said all citizens, irrespective of financial standing, would be eligible for free treatment for Covid-19 under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). Till July 9, a total of 21,411 infected patients were discharged from different hospitals in Pune Metropolitan Region after they recovered from the contagion. The PMR is the worst-affected region in Maharashtra with nearly 50,000 confirmed cases. Experts and health activists have urged state and civic authorities to popularize the scheme’s free treatment benefits using mass media tools and empanelling more hospitals. Twenty-three private hospitals including prominent trust facilities in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have been authorized by the state government to offer free treatment to moderate and severely ill patients. “About 1,600 of the 2,000 beneficiaries of this scheme are the residents of Pune municipal limits. The rest are from Pimpri Chinchwad and the rural areas,” Amol Maske, a functionary of MJPJAY scheme, told TOI. On May 1, state health minister Rajesh Tope had announced that all citizens would be covered under MJPJAY, and rules were amended during the lockdown to include all ration-card holders. “Looking at the number of beneficiaries, the scheme has not been used to its fullest potential. There is almost no rider — anyone can avail themselves of the benefit irrespective of the income slab. Producing documents like ration card of any colour and Aadhaar card at the time of admission is also not mandatory. The documents can be furnished after seeking hospitalization,” Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/few-takers-for-no-cost-govt-treatment-scheme/articleshow/77044779.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||HC seeks report on US-341 chilli seeds||Hyderabad: Telangana HC has ordered district agricultural officers of Mulugu to collect US-341 variety of chilli seeds from farmers and send them to lab for testing to verify whether they are spurious. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy heard farmer Cherukuri Sathish Kumar of Chokkala village in Mulugu and several other farmers of Venkatapuram mandal who complained that they had suffered heavy losses on account of using this variety of seeds. The bench directed state government to furnish a report from the lab along with its findings by July 27. Farmers said that as many as 4,000 acres of chilli crop was damaged due to spurious variety. Though state government and agriculture scientists are supposed to test the seeds before approving them and allowing them to be sold in the market, it was not done in the case of this US-341 variety. Following complaints from farmers, the revenue officials issued notices to local seed traders and seed company, but nothing concrete has emerged from this exercise. Petitioners expressed doubts whether official inquiry and notices were an eyewash to pacify the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-report-on-us-341-chilli-seeds/articleshow/77044267.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Tigress found dead in Melghat||Nagpur: A sub-adult tigress was found dead in the Chaurakund forest range under Sipna wildlife division of Melghat on Saturday. This is the 11th death in Maharashtra in the last seven months and 57th in the country since January 1, 2020. According to deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) Piyusha Jagtap, first a paw of the tigress was found in compartment number 579 by the patrolling team. “We deployed sniffer dogs from Akot and around 100 metres away from the spot where the paw was found, we noticed the dismantled skull and front legs of the tigress and a wild boar, perhaps hunted by the big cat,” she said. “There were many canine marks on the neck of the tigress, indicating it was killed by some carnivore. The carcass seems to be 4 days old and veterinary doctors’ prima facie suspect it must be a case of territorial fight,” Jagtap said. “As it was getting dark, the post-mortem will be conducted on Sunday as per the NTCA protocol. No foul play is suspected as the body parts were intact though the carcass was found apart,” claimed APCCF and Melghat field director MS Reddy. Farmer killed in tiger attack Meanwhile, in Chandrapur, a farmer was killed in a tiger attack in village jvala in Nagbhid tehsil on Saturday evening. Victim jagdish Mohurle was busy in farm work when suddenly the tiger pounced and killer him. Sources claimed that Muhurle had deployed a tractor in his farm and was having a look at it when the attack took place. There were people who witnessed the incident. Later, after getting information, officials of the Nagbhid forest range reached the spot and took the body for post mortem. This is 19th incident of human kill in predator attacks in Chandrapur in the last six months. Tigers have killed 18, while one victim died due to an attack by a leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-found-dead-in-melghat/articleshow/77044278.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad traders fume as antigen tests made mandatory||Aurangabad: The civic administration’s decision to allow traders to ply their businesses only after undergoing the civic body’s antigen tests has faced objection from the trading community in Aurangabad city. Questioning the reliability of the antigen tests, the traders wondered what would happen if they were found negative in the morning, but contracted the disease in the evening. “What purpose would the test serve in such a case?” asked Ajay Shah, the former president of the Aurangabad Vyapari Mahasangh. He said this decision has sparked panic among the trading community and led to crowding at the testing facility in the Mondha area — where social distancing rules were ignored. Shah said the civic body should first test its own staff and then go after others. “We have already suffered a lot. It seems every authority is experimenting on citizens, adding to the chaos. We have already adopted measures like maintaining distance, using sanitizers and avoiding crowds. What more does the administration want us to do?” he asked. Meanwhile, Jagannath Kale, the current president of the Vyapari Mahasangh, said: “Though there is some confusion, we have requested the authorities concerned to do away with the odd/even arrangement after the markets open on Sunday after the end of the strict lockdown on Saturday. The municipal authorities have promised to look into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-traders-fume-as-antigen-tests-made-mandatory/articleshow/77044244.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||‘Man-eater’ leopard shot dead in Almora||Dehradun: A leopard that is believed to have killed a one-year-old child and a 60-year-old woman in the first week of July in Almora was shot dead by shooters engaged by the forest department on Thursday night. Shooters Harish Dhami from Nainital and Saifi Asif from Bijnor were deployed to knock down the feline. Ever since July 9, a "red alert" was sounded in the village due to the fear of leopard attack while permission to trap or kill the big cat was given on July 10. Last week, another leopard that was declared a ‘man-eater’ had been shot dead in Chamoli. About 20 people have been killed in man-animal conflicts in the state, so far. Confirming it, the DFO of Almora, Mahatim Yadav, said, "Yes, the leopard has been eliminated after a rigorous search operation for almost a week. We still urge the people to avoid cattle grazing in dense forest alone and also, move in groups." A forest department source said that this is the fourth man-eater leopard that has been knocked down this year. And, 13 people since January have died from leopard attacks in the state. Last week, another leopard that was declared a ‘man-eater’ had been shot dead in Chamoli. Meanwhile, on Friday, a teenager while making chapati in the front yard of her house, was also attacked by another leopard in Pauri Garhwal district, but her family managed to rescue her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-eater-leopard-shot-dead-in-almora/articleshow/77042592.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Last date of registration for Delhi University entry now July 31||NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s admission registration process has been extended till July 31. This extension is for the undergraduate, postgraduate and MPhil/PhD admissions. The registration deadline for St Stephen’s College is also getting an extension along with the university. This is the second time this year the university has given an extension in the registration process. A university official said that the extension is being provided as many boards are yet to declare their results. “Even those whose results have been declared are yet to give out marksheets, which have to be uploaded.” A case is also going in Delhi high court over admissions in extracurricular activities quota. Two aspirants had moved the court after DU decided to not conduct admissions under the ECA quota this year, other than in NSS and NCC categories. The university has also announced that it is allowing edit option in the form only for certain categories in the application. “No editing shall be allowed for the registered email ID, category and gender. No editing shall be allowed in the number of courses an applicant has chosen for entrance test in the UG courses. All other fields will be allowed to be edited by the applicant during the time period announced on the DU,” said the university’s circular. “The facility for editing, as mentioned above, will be allowed only to the applicants who would have registered on the admission portal till the last date”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/last-date-of-registration-for-du-entry-now-july-31/articleshow/77044780.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM urges people to not go Haridwar on occasion of Somwati Amawasya||DEHRADUN: In the wake of a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttarakhand, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has requested people to not go to Haridwar for taking a dip in Ganga river on the occasion of Somwati Amawasya on July 20. Every year, lakhs of devotees come to Haridwar on the occasion. “Devotees in large numbers want to come to Haridwar and take a dip in Ganga river at Har-ki-Pauri but the ongoing crisis doesn’t permit so,” said the CM. On the day, CM Rawat also conducted a video conference session with all the district magistrates. He directed them to ensure prompt response in matters relating to Covid-19 positive cases and tracing their contacts. He advised them to interact with public representatives, social, and trade organisations to seek their support in the matter. Besides, CM Rawat also directed DMs to speak to the religious heads to ensure that people do not gather at one place during any religious event or festival. The CM told the state officials to make people aware about dengue infection and conduct awareness campaigns in their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-urges-people-to-not-go-haridwar-on-occasion-of-somwati-amawasya/articleshow/77042603.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Alumni association donates 200 tablets to students||KOCHI: In an attempt to ensure that poor students have access to online education, the alumni association of Model Engineering College (MEC), Thrikkakara, xMEC has delivered tablets to 200 financially backward students. These students were selected through an eligibility survey held at 15 technical schools under the aegis of Institute of Human Resources Development (IHRD) and selected government/aided schools in Kerala apart from the students of MEC. All the tabs are customized with pre-installed study materials that suits the class, course and age group of each student. Also, they will be having one-year free internet connectivity, which will help the students continue their online education. The devices were purchased through the coordinated efforts of the members of xMEC Social Assist (Xsa) Trust, which is part of the alumni association that dedicatedly works for social activities. Most of the beneficiary students belong to Class X and XII. “The decision to distribute tab was taken after noticing the struggle by many students to buy digital devices. Around Rs.25 lakh was spent for the initiative. We have been doing social activities like giving student scholarship, medical assistance, flood relief, etc.,” said Xsa managing trustee George C Kuriakose. The tabs were sent to the respective students via postal courier, avoiding a public function, due to the Covid-19 situation. “As per the directives of the general education department regarding such social activities, the name and details of the beneficiaries cannot be published, said M V Rajesh, secretary of Xsa trust and a faculty of MEC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/alumni-association-donates-200-tablets-to-students/articleshow/77043493.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||History-sheeter among 3 arrested ‘middlemen’||Kochi: Commissionerate of Customs Preventive (CCP) probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case made three more arrests on Saturday, and the accused are middlemen who were involved in finding financiers and buyers for the racket. The arrested have been identified as Jifsal C V son of Usman Koya C V of Vattakinar, Kozhikode, Abdu P T son of Moosa P T of Pattathodi House, Kozhichena, Malappuram, and Muhammed Abdu Shameem son of Ussain K V of Kaivelikkal House, Koduvally, Kozhikode. One among the arrested persons is a history sheeter. “Just like financiers and buyers, middlemen who find them are also an important part of a smuggling syndicate. They work on commission basis and such middlemen are quite active in areas like Koduvally and Kondotty. In this case, the middlemen were associated with the racket through Ramees and Anwar, one of the financiers of the racket,” said an official. According to Customs sleuths, the accused were offered around Rs 3 lakh as commission for finding financiers. “They were told that the commission would be handed over to them after successful completion of five smuggling operations. They had acted as middlemen for smuggling gold in at least two operations before but were yet to be paid,” said a customs official, adding that Jifsal was a history sheeter who was caught by DRI with 1.5kg gold in July 2019. The antecedents of the other accused are yet to be ascertained, he said. Meanwhile, according to sources, one among the arrested persons Muhammed was a member of a group of persons who runs a jewellery store in Kozhikode. Efforts are on to trace the rest of the partners, sources said. “It was Shameem who used to find buyers to distribute the smuggled gold as he had good contacts among jewellers in Kozhikode and Malappuram. It is suspected that many end-buyers received gold through him. Abdu and Jifsal used to find financiers,” an official said. Meanwhile, on Saturday, a letter of charge d’Affairs at the UAE consulate, authorizing accused Faisal Fareed in UAE to handover a cargo on his behalf to Emirates sky cargo, surfaced. The letter authorizes Faisal to hand over the items on behalf of the charge d’Affairs Rashed Khamis Ali Musaiqri Alshemelli. Customs sources said that this angle is also under investigation and further details cannot be divulged now. Faisal’s name first appeared in the remand report of Sarith P S soon after his arrest and the report said that as per the statements of the accused, he used to place orders to Faisal who runs a provision store in UAE for supplying packing and forwarding the diplomatic cargo as instructed by Sarith, which is not the legal practice of forwarding diplomatic cargo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/history-sheeter-among-3-arrested-middlemen/articleshow/77043318.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chennai||Mathematics artist no more||CHENNAI: Renowned mathematician and Padma Bhushan awardee Conjeevaram Srirangachari Seshadri, who founded Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI), died in the city on Saturday. He was 88. A carnatic music aficionado who was known for his passion for music in the classical music circle in Chennai, Seshadri’s area of interest in mathematics was algebraic geometry and algebraic groups. He worked to broaden the scope of the subject and also brought in the practice of researchers teaching undergraduates in the country, back in the 1980s. He also worked to ensure that science students were exposed to other streams like humanities. Born on February 29, 1932, in Kancheepuram, Seshadri did his BA in mathematics from Loyola College. He started his career at Tata Institute in Bombay after his PhD, but moved to Chennai in the mid-1980s. CMI was his great contribution to maths. Rajeeva Laxman Karandikar, director of the institute, said Seshadri was a great mathematician whose contribution to institution building was huge. “He also had an entrepreneurial skill. His single-minded pursuit of that skill led to the establishment of the Chennai Mathematical Institute. It was he who brought this idea of undergraduates to be taught by researchers, prevalent abroad.” Mathematicians are often cut off from the world, but Seshadri was good at picking people and delegating them work. “He would discuss ideas but would tell us that it is our responsibility,” said Karandikar, explaining how researchers would be given space to experiment. Seshadri stepped down as director of CMI around 10 years ago but he was a regular at the institute, working till his last days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mathematics-artist-no-more/articleshow/77043317.cms||V Ayyappan
July 19, 2020||Aurangabad||No entry-exit in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: With barely a day left for the week-long lockdown starting from Monday, district collector Daulat Desai on Saturday said that entry and exit points of the district will remain shut, except for essential and emergency services. He issued detailed guidelines for the same on Saturday. In a letter directed to collectors and superintendent of police of all districts in the state, Desai requested them not to grant e-passes for people wanting to travel to Kolhapur during the said week. The guidelines issued by Desai state that movement of people, except emergency and essential purposes, will be barred till July 26. In addition, petrol and diesel for private cars and other vehicles will not be available at petrol pumps. Only government and emergency services vehicles will be permitted to enter petrol pumps during the said period. Besides, all industries in towns and cities across Kolhapur will remain shut while those located in rural areas will operate with no more than 25% of employee strength. The distribution of newspapers and milk must be carried out by 9 am, the directives state. Also, collection of milk from farmers must be carried out between the specified time in the guidelines rulebook. Markets, including grocery stores, will remain shut. However, home delivery of cooking gas cylinders is permitted. Citizens can only step out of their house between 6 am and 9 am for essential purposes such as purchasing milk or medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-entry-exit-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/77044293.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chemical analysis confirms cobra venom in body||Kollam: The chemical analysis report on examination of internal organs of Uthra of Vellisseril, Eram, Anchal, who died of snake bite has confirmed the presence of cobra’s venom inside the body. The report has been handed over to the investigation team. The report has endorsed first accused Sooraj’s confession that he made the cobra bite Uthra to death. Besides, the examination report of Uthra’s internal organs has said that it had presence of sleeping pills. Sooraj, Uthra husband, had recently made a public confession that he used a snaked to kill her.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chemical-analysis-confirms-cobra-venom-in-body/articleshow/77043361.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Aurangabad||More autonomy sought for banks||Aurangabad: The bank employees and officers’ unions have demanded more autonomy and asked the government to rework on its recovery laws so that the banks are vested with more powers during the recovery of dues from defaulters. Devidas Tuljapurkar, a former director of the Bank of Maharashtra, came out with a statement in this regard on the eve of Bank Nationalization Day on Saturday. Tuljapurkar, who is also the general secretary of Maharashtra State Bank Employees Federation, asserted the need for appointing board of directors, managing director, CEO as well as executive director of banks purely on merit without any political intervention by putting accountability on these officials for non-performing assets in big businesses. He pointed out that on one hand, the government had floated Jan Dhan Yojana, Mudra, Social Sector Insurance schemes, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Make in India, Start-up India and other popular schemes through public sector banks. On the other hand, it was taking steps to privatise the banking system. Tuljapurkar asserted that the banks should be given more autonomy in the larger interest of the country and that the government should not resort to popular measures at the cost of the banking sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/more-autonomy-sought-for-banks/articleshow/77044321.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After 16-months wait, work starts on Mukarba Chowk-Panipat stretch||NEW DELHI: Work for widening of Mukarba Chowk-Panipat stretch of NH-1 has resumed after a gap of nearly 16 months. The NHAI has set October 2021 as deadline for Welspun Group, which has taken over the project, to complete the 8-laning of this 70-km stretch which connects Delhi with Chandigarh, Amritsar and Jammu. The Essel Group, which had earlier bagged the project, could not complete the work. Sources said the widening work had come to a standstill from February 2019 till June this year. NHAI had issued the appointed date in October 2016 to the Essel Group to start work. Originally, the project deadline was April, 2019. Sources while there were issues including delay in getting permission for tree felling from Delhi government, the earlier concessionaire had also failed to carry out the widening work even on the remaining portion of the project corridor. Finally, Welspun Group acquired the project from Essel Group in May. This week, highways minister Nitin Gadkari had said the solution to this stranded project was found after a lot of difficulties and the work is now in full swing. “The new concessionaire has started work since June and the current progress of the project is nearly 45%. We are confident of the project meeting the fresh deadline. Since the project is being executed on Build-Operate-Transfer (Toll) mode, there is no increase in the cost and the concession period allowing the concessionaire to collect toll has not been extended,” a source said. This stretch has been a pain for lakhs of commuters as they continue to pay toll charges to NHAI for despite not getting the promised service and facilities. The concessionaire will be allowed to collect toll only after completing the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-16-mth-wait-work-starts-on-mukarba-chowk-panipat-stretch/articleshow/77044802.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 19, 2020||Chennai||Have spent over Rs 400 crore on Covid fight: GCC commissioner||Chennai: Greater Chennai Corporation has spent more than Rs 400 crore on Covid-19 measures till now, commissioner G Prakash said on Saturday. Of this, Rs 200 crore went into conducting tests, he said. “We have tested more than five lakh people. It involves a huge amount of manpower and infrastructure,” he said. Initially, the corporation tested 4,000-5,000 samples everyday and after the chief minister’s instruction it was ramped up to 12,000 tests a day. “On Saturday, the number is going to be 13,000,” Prakash said. The other major expenses was hiring 150 MTC buses to transport corporation workers, which cost Rs 14 crore. Creating and maintaining more than 20,000 Covid care centres (CCC) beds had also cost significantly, Prakash said. Add to this Rs 30 crore on providing food and other facilities for conservancy workers and door-to-door survey workers, he said. Talking about the slowdown of Covid-19 cases in the city, Prakash said the doubling time of the cases in the city has increased to around 47 days. This was at a time when the national average of doubling time was 21 days, Prakash said. “ICMR and WHO say above 14 days is a good trend. This means we are doing really well,” he said. The doubling time of hotspot zones like Royapuram, Tondiarpet and Thiru-vi-ka Nagar was around 90 days. This was a result of high testing, fever camps and other interventions like a slum focussed programme wherein volunteers visited around 2,000 slum areas everyday to spread awareness. Prakash said the test positivity rate (percentage of people who test positive) of Covid-19 in Chennai was around 10%-12%. “Our aim is to bring it down to 5%, as per the advice of ICMR and WHO. We are confident of achieving it,” he said. Responding to a question on lockdown, Prakash said Chennai was now in a phase of unlocking. “We need to revive the economy for the benefit of poor people. For that we have to create systems and be ready. Everyday there is a review of mechanism and it is being tightened,” he said, detailing about the home quarantine monitoring system under which 8.5 lakh people had been put in the quarantine in the past 35 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/have-spent-over-rs-400-crore-on-covid-fight-gcc-commissioner/articleshow/77043358.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||174 new Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 174 fresh cases reported in the state, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 4,276 on Saturday. Among the positive cases, 10 were Army personnel and eight were healthcare professionals. Also, a 52-year-old Covid-19 patient died at AIIMS Rishikesh on the day, taking the toll of the virus to 52 in Uttarakhand. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that a maximum of 50 cases were reported from the state capital, followed by 36 cases in Nainital, and 27 in Haridwar. “Seven new cases were reported from Almora and three cases each from Uttarkashi, Tehri, and Pithoragarh districts,” said Tripathi. “A 52-year-old man died at AIIMS Rishikesh on Saturday. As per the death summary provided by the hospital, the deceased was tested positive for Covid-19 on July 15. The cause of death is cardiac arrest due to respiratory failure,” he added. Meanwhile, after treating the only active case, Rudraprayag has again become a Covid-19 free district on Saturday. With 60 patients getting recovered on July 18, the number of patients recovered from the infection across the state is now 3,081. Also, the state managed to test 1,01,613 samples on July 18 while the total samples collected here are 1,16,694. Reports of 8,197 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/174-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/77042616.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: CMO office shut again after employee tests Covid +ve||LUCKNOW: The office of the chief medical officer (CMO) had to be closed for the second time in seven days for sanitization after another staff member was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Saturday. The patient, a computer operator at the CMO office, got himself tested at the Red Cross Society Centre after developing influenza-like symptoms on Thursday. He received his report on Saturday which came out to be positive. He is the third employee of the CMO office to have tested positive in a week. The office has been closed for 48 hours for sanitization. All employees will work from home. Earlier, the office was closed on July 11 when an accountant tested positive after which 16 employees who had come in touch with him were home-quarantined and tested. The reports released on July 14 found one of them, a woman accountant, positive. CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “Testing was done as per the government’s infection control protocol. Those who were in proximity to the employees diagnosed with the disease were tested while others were given option to undergo test but nobody came forward. We will test close contacts of the patient found positive on Saturday. Others may get themselves tested if they want to.” He said those not wearing masks in the office would be fined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cmo-office-shut-again-after-employee-tests-ve/articleshow/77044798.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 19, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Rs 1,000 fine if you cover Khalapur-Urse eway stretch in less than 36 minutes||PUNE: Take at least 36 minutes to cover the 55km stretch between Khalapur and Urse toll plazas on Pune-Mumbai Expressway from August 1, or you will face action for speed norms violation. “Starting from August 1, those covering the distance in less than 36 minutes will be booked for over-speeding. A fine of Rs 1,000 would be collected from each offender,” Pritam Yavalkar, deputy superintendent of police, Highway Safety Patrol (HSP), told TOI. The Union ministry of road transport and highways has set a maximum speed limit of 100kmph for expressways and 50kmph in ghat sections for cars and light motor vehicles. TimesViewThe initiative of the Highway Safety Patrol to set a minimum time of 36 minutes to cover the 55km stretch between Khalapur and Urse toll plazas on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway is a welcome move. It will help prevent accidents and loss of lives. Still, the patrol team will have to maintain a close vigil on the expressway because some unscrupulous drivers may resort to speeding in some parts of the corridor and then drive slowly to cover the remaining distance in the stipulated time.Yavalkar said, “If we travel from the Khalapur to the Urse toll plaza adhering to these maximum speed limits, it takes 36 minutes for the journey. We conducted couple of tests on the route with the help of officials from the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The driver followed the maximum speed limits, including that for ghat sections of the expressway, on both the occasions and took 36 minutes to reach Urse from Khalapur. The benchmark time has been calculated after taking all these factors into account.” He said, “It is easier for us to keep a tab on over-speeding during the daytime by deploying speed guns and intercepting vehicles, but the same is fraught with risk at night because the speed gun-mounted vehicles will occupy a part of the e-way and in most night-time accidents, vehicles end up straying into the shoulder lane. Hence, the authorities feel that all vehicle users must scrupulously follow the calculated benchmark time for their own safety during night travel.” He said, “The HSP has two interceptor vehicles with modern speed guns. One is posted at Khandala and the other at Vadgaon on the expressway. They can easily catch the over-speeding drivers on the expressway in the daytime.” Yavalkar said, “The HSP and the MSRDC are working on the project to curb over-speeding on the expressway. Staffers at every toll plaza issue receipts or the vehicle drivers receive text messages on their cell phones specifying the time of crossing it. We can consider these timings to check whether a car or an LMV exceeded the speed limit. If the driver has taken less time to cover the distance, it means s/he has crossed the maximum permitted speed limit on the expressway.” He said, “The teams of HSP officials will remain posted at the toll plazas in the night-time and they will check the receipts and text messages of the drivers to verify their travel time between the two toll plazas. Action of speed violation will be taken against the drivers completing the journey in 35 minutes or less than that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-1k-fine-if-you-cover-khalapur-urse-eway-stretch-in-less-than-36-mins/articleshow/77044799.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Distribution of textbooks begins||Hyderabad: Schools for academic year 2020-21 are yet to begin in Telangana due to the Covid-19 situation but textbooks will be distributed to students of government schools and Zilla Parishad schools. The distribution began in Adilabad with newly appointed director of school education A Devasena distributing the free textbooks to students of a government school at the camp-office of the collector. On Saturday, Srinivas Goud flagged off a TSRTC bus at R&B guest house at Mahbubnagar which will go to various mandals in districts and deliver textbooks. Textbooks for residential schools have already been supplied. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/distribution-of-textbooks-begins/articleshow/77044324.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||Two arrested for mobile phone loot||Rajkot: Two men were arrested on Saturday for robbing a person of his cellphone at Kalawa Chowk in Junagadh on June 29. Police said the accused, Raju Ghumadia (24) and Rahul Ghumadia (21), had rammed their motorcycle with that of the complainant, while driving on the wrong side of the road. After causing the accident, the accused asked for compensation from the complainant. When the complainant refused to pay up, Raju allegedly snatched his cellphone, and then both of them sped away. “We arrested the accused on the basis of the registration number of their bike that was captured in the CCTV footage,” said an official from Junagadh B division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-arrested-for-mobile-phone-loot/articleshow/77043367.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||NTA app delivers 30 lakh practice lessons in 55 days||NEW DELHI: The National Test Abhyas App, launched during the Covid-19 lockdown by the National Testing Authority (NTA), on Sunday touched a new milestone of delivering 30 lakh free online practice sessions to JEE and NEE-UG aspirants in just 55 days. The App was launched after the ‘brick and mortar’ test practice centres (TPCs) of NTA were rendered dysfunctional due to the lockdown. Sources in the ministry of human resource development said schools and colleges could adopt this model for summative assessment in case the institutional lockdown gets extended. According to data accessed by TOI, as of July 12, close to 25 lakh JEE and NEET-UG aspirants appeared for either of the real-time free practice tests online. The App has been delivering 54,558 sessions every day since its launch on May 19. A total of 30,00,713 sessions have been delivered via this App and candidates have spent over 34 lakh hours solving the papers. The TPCs were set up to offer an opportunity to the underprivileged categories who could not afford or have no access to private coaching. A candidate has to book a slot at the centre and come for the computer-based practice test. In comparison to the Abhyas App, TPCs have delivered 64 lakh sessions (11,530 sessions per day), which ran for 558 days before the lockdown. The NTA, however, is now planning to introduce test papers of other exams it conducts on this App. “The shift from brick and mortar to online mode has been well accepted by the student population. Now there is a demand for other tests, which we are now planning to come up with in the next 15-20 days,” said Vineet Joshi, director general, NTA. The HRD ministry is now looking into the possibility of leveraging the platform for schools. According to a senior ministry official, “Learning from this can be used by the school system as well for online delivery for remediation, diagnostic tests and formative assessment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nta-app-delivers-30-lakh-practice-lessons-in-55-days/articleshow/77045103.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
July 19, 2020||Pune||Citizens deliver ready meals to seniors at home in Pune||PUNE: Several senior citizens, dependent on tiffin services or food cooked by their domestic helps, have been able to enjoy fresh, home-cooked meals during the lockdown as families from their neighbourhoods have shouldered the responsibility of delivering the meals to them. According to Aakash Shah, who runs Action of Pune Development, several persons got in touch with him to seek help in delivery of food to their elderly parents living alone in different parts of the city. “During the first lockdown, my organization had volunteered to provide essentials and medicines to senior citizens in need. When the total lockdown was announced suddenly, those running tiffin services informed the seniors that they will not be able to deliver. Their children, living in different countries, panicked and contacted us. We are delivering food to 35 families during the lockdown,” he explained. Bina Goklaney, a resident of Model Colony, has been providing tiffins to two couples and an elderly lady since the lockdown began. “I bought sufficient groceries before the lockdown to be able to provide for my family and them. My mother and I cook, while I deliver the food twice a day. We will continue to deliver meals until the lockdown ends,” she said. Shah added, “Travel permissions are difficult to obtain during this lockdown so we have tried to contact families living in the same residential society as the senior citizens to deliver meals.” A resident of Bhandarkar Road Advay Sardesai said, “I am not providing cooked meals but just before the lockdown, I delivered essentials and groceries to a septuagenarian couple living in the area. They could not step out and they got in touch with us for a delivery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-deliver-ready-meals-to-seniors-at-home/articleshow/77044803.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 19, 2020||Nashik||MBBS student fears losing year||Aurangabad: With barely any progress in a telephishing case that took place over a month ago, a woman MBBS student from Latur who lost Rs 4.51 lakh in the incident fears losing an year of the degree due to her inability to pay fees. The woman’s family had obtained an education loan of Rs 10 lakh for her; however, she and her brother ended up losing the amount to some online racketeers. Udgir rural police station had registered an offence in this regard on June 16, however, even a month later, there is barely any development in terms of recovery of the lost money or nabbing of the suspects involved in the crime. The victim’s family has claimed that even frequent follow-ups with the police have failed to evoke response as well as results. On the contrary, Aurangabad city as well as rural police, in similar cases, have not only blocked the bank accounts in which the suspects had transferred the stolen money by duping gullible people, but also ensured that they money is retrieved within hours of receiving the complaint. When contacted, Latur superintendent of police Rajendra Mane said that the probe is under way while assuring speedy probe. Echoing him, investigation officer and Udgir rural police station inspector Dilipkumar Waghmare said that already written communications have been sent out to different authorities and agencies asking them to block the bank accounts in which the amounts were transferred by the fraudsters. In a statement, the student said, “The money we lost in the telephishing attack was meant for paying my medical education fees. If the police fails to recover the money, my family cannot afford the fees and I fear that it may take a toll on my education.” She said that her family had obtained the education loan from Maulana Azad Minorities Financial Development Corporation and were waiting for the lockdown to get over for paying a portion of her medical education fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mbbs-student-fears-losing-year/articleshow/77044325.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Rapid antigen tests in Ichalkaranji soon||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district administration’s health department has started testing Covid-19 suspects using rapid antigen tests, for which, 25,000 kits have already been procured. Of the total number of kits, the department has received 1,500 kits in the first batch. Of these, 500 have been sent to Ichalkaranji for testing close and high-risk elderly contacts of Covid positive patients. Officials said that these kits will be made available at other locations as per requirement. According to officials, if a symptomatic Covid suspect tests negative during the antigen test, his/her swab samples are collected and sent to RT-PCR laboratories for testing. However, if an asymptomatic person tests negative, his/her samples are not sent for further testing. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “If a person tests negative and is showing Covid-like symptoms, his/her samples are sent for testing at RT-PCR laboratories. Since, the number of rapid test kits are limited now, we are using them wisely. For positive cases, there is no need for confirmation.” According to officials, these rapid tests generate results in just about 30 minutes. The local health staff are given all the required training to handle and manage the tests. The tests are carried out only after a patient is isolated and brought to the quarantine centres. Officials said that once more kits are made available, they will reach out to Covis suspect’s houses and that of their close contacts or high-risk contacts and carry out the tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rapid-antigen-tests-in-ichalkaranji-soon/articleshow/77044338.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||Futile bid to steal cash from ATM||Pune: A person attempted to break open and steal cash from the ATM of a private bank in Kharadi on Friday midnight. Police said the ATM located at Sweet India Chowk was closed when the thief opened the shutter and used an axe to break the machine. Investigating officer Ravindra Rokade from Chandannagar police said, “The suspect took to heels after the emergency alarm started ringing and relayed a message to the bank’s control room in Mumbai.” Rokade said, “The control room relayed the message to its patrolling staff and bank manager for taking action. The manager then tipped off the police, following which a team rushed to the spot. A security guard from the patrolling team reached the spot and found the machine damaged and the axe. The guard also saw a man seated in a car in a suspicious manner.” Senior inspector Shankar Khatke from Chandannagar police said, “A CCTV camera installed inside the the ATM kiosk has captured images of the car.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/futile-bid-to-steal-cash-from-atm/articleshow/77044805.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Lucknow||Amethi immolation: Congress, AIMIM netas booked||LUCKNOW: A day after a woman and her daughter from Amethi tried to set themselves ablaze in front of Lok Bhavan, alleging inaction on a complaint of sexual harassment, Lucknow police on Saturday accused AIMIM’s Amethi unit chief Kadir Khan and Congress leader Anoop Patel of instigating the two women to attempt self-immolation. Four cops with Hazratganj police station have been suspended for failing to stop the immolation. Khan and two relatives of the women, Asma and Sultan, have been arrested for abetting the suicide attempt. “We are trying to track Patel,” said joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora. The mother-daughter duo, aged 50 and 28, from Jamon area in Amethi, tried to immolate themselves on Friday, claiming they lodged a complaint of sexual harassment against four persons on May 9, but no action was taken. Medical superintendent of Civil Hospital Dr Ashutosh Dubey said, the woman and her daughter suffered 90% and 15% burns, respectively. Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey said investigations revealed Amethi unit president of the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) Kadir Khan and Congress leader Anoop Patel provoked the two women to take the extreme step. Pandey said involvement of two relatives of the women had also surfaced. “All four persons have been booked under charges of abetment to suicide and conspiracy,” he said. “The women approached Khan in Amethi and told him about police inaction. They later told police from the hospital bed that Khan asked them to stage self-immolation outside Lok Bhawan to draw attention of authorities,” Pandey said. He said the women also met Anoop Patel at UP Congress Committee office on July 4, who gave them a similar advice and asked journalists to cover it. Pandey said four cops with Hazratganj police station — sub-inspector Vijay Kumar, head constable Indrajeet and women constables Vandana and Yashoda — were suspended for failing to stop the women from immolating themselves. SP, Amethi, Khyati Garg told TOI that a 28-year-old woman had lodged an FIR against four persons identified as Arjun, Sunil, Raj Karan and Ram Milan. “The complainant claimed she was sexually assaulted by them following a dispute over drain. Her FIR was immediately lodged. A cross-FIR was filed by Arjun who accused her of attacking him,” she added. The SP said on May 13, the local pradhan tried to mediate and both the parties were issued notices and bound down. “We repeatedly asked the woman to get her statement recorded in front of the magistrate for probe but she did not pay heed,” added Garg. She gave her statement on July 15 after which all the four accused were arrested, Garg said and added police or local intelligence unit did not have any information that the women were going to Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/immolation-cong-aimim-netas-booked/articleshow/77044806.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Spike in corona cases: Traffic cops force autos off roads||Nagpur: Traffic police on Saturday stopped the plying of autorickshaws and also intensified the drive against double seaters on two-wheelers. Though no fresh orders have been issued, DCP (traffic) Vikram Sali told TOI that the ban on plying of autorickshaws was re-imposed from Saturday. He claimed that the decision was taken by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. On June 5, the NMC, after 75 days of the lockdown, had allowed reopening of markets and other commercial activities and autorickshaw and cab drivers, too, resumed business to earn a living. Autorickshaws were allowed to operate with some guidelines like ferrying only two passengers, but most of them violated the norms. TOI too had highlighted how autorickshaws were plying with excess passengers. Regardless of the seriousness of the Covid scenario, traffic police chose to ignore violators, said an NMC official. Though traffic police woke up from its deep slumber now, DCP (Zone-II) Vinita Sahu kept police personnel from Ambazari and Sadar police stations on their toes to act against people wandering outside without any valid reason. Her focus was especially on gathering of youngsters at Futala Lake and at Walkers’ Street near Japanese Garden. Sahu and the team from city police booked 28 persons. DCP Sali said personnel have been instructed to ensure that taxis and autorickshaws do not ply on roads. On Saturday, traffic police started making rounds on main roads from 11am onwards. They concentrated on busy intersections like Rani Jhansi Square, Variety Square, Ravi Nagar Chowk, Futala Chowk, Gandhibagh garden (on Central Avenue), near Munje Chowk, Sakkaradara Chowk, LIC Square. They were appealing to autorickshaw drivers not to ply until further orders. They were also using public address systems. Meanwhile, autorickshaw drivers staged a protest outside Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s headquarters. “Both central and state governments have not heard our demands of providing financial assistance of Rs10,000 to every autorickshaw driver besides waiver of interest on EMI loans and now re-imposition of lockdown will force many of us to end our lives,” said Vidarbha Autorickshaw Chalak Federation president Vilas Bhalekar. “No social distancing norms are being followed in markets, thereby exposing the NMC’s inability to curb Covid,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/spike-in-corona-cases-traffic-cops-force-autos-off-roads/articleshow/77044349.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Karad witnesses rise in Covid cases||Kolhapur: Karad town in Satara district is witnessing a gradual rise in Covid-19 cases as 20 fresh cases were reported in the last fortnight, putting the local administration on high alert. These new cases include shopkeepers and a doctor couple. Local administration has undertaken massive contact tracing after traders and doctors tested positive for the contagion. While more than 30 villages in Karad tehsil reported a large number of coronavirus patients, the town was considered quite safe a few days ago. Howeverm recently, there has been a spike in new cases. The first Covid-19 patient from Karad was reported on June 30. Thereafter, there was a steady rise in the number of cases. The recent cases are reported from areas like Karvi naka, Rukmini Vihar colony Gajanan Society, Mangalwar peth, Shaniwar peth, Ranjit tower and Banpurikar colony. Family members of positive patients have been advised to stay in home quarantine. Malkapur, adjacent to Karad town, has also witnessed more than 100 patients at the initial stage. Karad and Malkapur are dependent on each other for all kind of activities. Several villages in Karad tehsil like Tulsan, Vanwasmachi, Vanarwadi, Tarukh and Maharugwadi were considered as Covid hotspots in the last month. However, the number of patients in these villages has gradually come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/karad-witnesses-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/77044346.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Construction of new sectt likely to begin in August||HYDERABAD: Tenders for construction of the new secretariat complex will be invited by month-end and construction works at the ground level are likely to commence in August. Though the target given earlier was 12 months, now chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the officials to ensure that the construction is completed within 10 months from the date of contract being awarded. Oscar G Concessao of Oscar and Ponni Architects, whose design of the new secretariat complex was selected by CM KCR, told TOI that they have a meeting with the chief minister next week to finalise the interiors and other details. “We are waiting for a date of confirmation to fly into Hyderabad,” he said and refused to divulge details. Sources said the CM’s office is being planned on the sixth-storey, the top floor of the proposed complex. Six is also the lucky number of K Chandrasekhar Rao and it will have bullet-proof exteriors wherever required. The new complex will also have a huge conference hall to accommodate at least 350 delegates. A fire and water-proof room is planned to store files. The complex will also have a creche for children of employees. The R&B department will complete demolition of old secretariat in next seven days. “A private agency has been hired to shift building debris which would be disposed off scientifically,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/construction-of-new-sectt-likely-to-begin-in-august/articleshow/77044345.cms||Roushan Ali
July 19, 2020||Pune||2 Ugandan women run prostitution racket; held||Pune: Two women of Ugandan origin were arrested on Friday night on the charge of running a prostitution racket following a police raid at a flat in a residential society in Padwalnagar, Thergaon. The Wakad police said the two women , aged 25 and 40, were using a social networking platform and a messaging app to share photographs and details. They were staying in India illegally as their visas lapsed in 2018. Senior inspector Vivek Muglikar of the Wakad police said, “They had come to India for higher studies after obtaining students’ visa. The two were running the racket for the past few months and it is not known if they had started it during the lockdown to sustain themselves.” Provisions of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act have been invoked against them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-ugandan-women-run-prostitution-racket-held/articleshow/77044808.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: From Minto Road to Zakhira, firemen kept on their toes||NEW DELHI: As the Sunday rain flooded the capital, the fire department got busy with rescue operations across Delhi. With calls pouring in about several submerged vehicles and affected areas, the department rescued 10 people, including a DTC bus driver and a conductor. Between 7.42am and 8.42am, the fire control room was busy attending to rescue calls. The first call was received from the Minto Bridge underpass where two autos and even a DTC bus almost went fully under water. Fire officials had to climb onto the overhead bridge and lower a ladder to rescue three people. Six more people were rescued from the Zakhira underpass where a bus and a few other vehicles got stuck. A man in his late 30s was also rescued from the Lawrence Road area after his vehicle got stuck due to waterlogging and he couldn’t come out on his own. Nitin Lochab, the 31-year-old station officer at Connaught Place who was leading the rescue operations, said only the roof of the bus was visible at the Minto Bridge underpass. “We returned after handling a major fire in Rohini around 5am. We reached the underpass and saw three people, two on the roof of the bus and only legs of a third person out of a submerged vehicle. We could not even see his vehicle,” said Lochab. The firemen climbed onto the overbridge through muddy patches on the sides and lowered the ladder till the roof of the bus. Lochab went down and helped bus driver Ajit and the conductor go up. “The third person was in a state of panic, but was communicating. We managed to extend the ladder to him. On seeing that he would be safe now, the man managed to climb it,” Lochab said. According to Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Service, the rescue operation at the Zakhira underpass was the most difficult as the vehicles could not be accessed with a ladder. “Firemen tried to reach out with a rope and a ladder, but the buses and the tempo were stationed right at the centre. So we decided to physically move the trapped people. Firemen took turns to go into water and carried people to safety on their shoulders,” said Garg. The department also went to a slum in ITO’s Anna Nagar after a few houses collapsed following a road cave-in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-minto-road-to-zakhira-firemen-kept-on-their-toes/articleshow/77056513.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Shetti calls for agitation on July 21||Kolhapur: Former Lok Sabha member and chief of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) Raju Shetti said that an agitation would be staged on July 21 to draw the attention of the government towards the difficulties faced by the dairy sector. Shetti, however, appealed to farmers not to destroy milk during the agitation. In a message posted on social media on Friday, Shetti said that the dairies and the milk farmers were facing serious difficulties due to the lockdown. He said the demand for milk had come down significantly. Of the 119 lakh litre of milk produced in the state everyday, only 52 lakh litre was being used up. Shetti demanded the government to sanction Rs 5 as subsidy for every litre of milk and reduce GST on milk products. Shetti has warned that the SSS would stop milk supply if the government did not honour the demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shetti-calls-for-agitation-on-july-21/articleshow/77044354.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||East Delhi gets its first e-vehicle charging station||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday inaugurated a smart public charging station in east Delhi’s Patparganj. The station will be the first of many such smart charging stations that will be installed all around the capital by BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) and EV Motors India Pvt Ltd (EVM). This is also east Delhi’s first public charging electric vehicle station. The station will be able to charge four vehicles simultaneously for 45 to 90 minutes, including heavy-duty vehicles like SUVs. The deputy CM said that electric vehicles are the future of transport. “However, people who have purchased EVs face charging issues. This EV charging station will solve that problem. Just like we see petrol pumps everywhere, now soon we will also see EV charging stations all around us,” said Sisodia. Located at the heart of I P Extension, the smart EV charging station branded as ‘PlugNgo’ is enabled with a state-of-the-art Central Management System that will help in overseeing operations of the EV charger. “It will also provide information on preventive maintenance for the vehicle as and when required. Depending on the make, an e-vehicle can be fully charged between 45 and 90 minutes. The charging stations can cater to 15 to 18 cars every day,” said a BSES official, adding that the station had been equipped with two types of charges — DC 50 kW and 30 kW, depending on the size of the vehicle. The initial charge for this EV charging facility will be Rs 10.5 per unit for a limited period, the lowest rate for the public in NCR at present. Advance booking options are also available on the PlugNgo app on Google Play Store. P R Kumar, BYPL CEO said, “BYPL is gearing up to play a major role in the emerging EV sector. We plan to install more such smart public EV charging stations in the months ahead.” Vinit Bansal, managing director, EV Motors India, also said mobility is undergoing a global transformation as we seek solutions to reduce fossil fuel dependence and help in improving air quality. “We look forward to transforming the mobility landscape in the capital, thereby accelerating the adoption of electric vehicles,” said Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/east-delhi-gets-its-first-e-vehicle-charging-stn/articleshow/77044816.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath launches umbrella job scheme for SC/ST||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched the new umbrella scheme for employment to benefit SC/ST families. A subsidy amount of Rs 17 crore was also transferred into the accounts of 3,484 BPL families under the Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Self Employment Scheme. Stressing on the need for ensuring financial security, the CM said that economic parity is the basis for social parity. “If a section of society is strong and another weak, then we cannot have a self-reliant society. For this, it is necessary to have balance not just at a social level but also at an economic level. If the SC/ST community can be uplifted economically to join mainstream society, nobody will try and discriminate against them,” he said. Under the New Employment Umbrella Scheme, funds were transferred to 1,77,491 beneficiaries. During the programme, the CM spoke to beneficiaries from Rae Bareli, Gorakhpur, Basti, Meerut, Azamgarh and Moradabad and was told that they would be using the funds for setting up grocery shops, cyber cafes, laundry and dry cleaning, tailoring shops, tent house and purchasing generator sets, etc. “We have a target of benefitting 7.5 lakh families under the Umbrella scheme in 2020-2021 but so far have managed to link only 1,77,491 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There is a big task before the social welfare department to connect more than 6 lakh families by the end of this year. In fact, I would say that you should try and link 10 lakh families with this scheme before the year end,” he said. The CM also asked banks to provide loans to people to help them become financially strong. He said there are about 18,000 bank branches in UP and if each of them were to given loans to just two people, there would be 36,000 beneficiaries straight away. Addressing the beneficiaries, the CM said that the entire world is suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Not only has it impacted the economic situation but has also had an impact on society, he said. In such a situation, the government was giving people financial assistance to people to help them become self-reliant. “During the lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi started several schemes to help the needy. Free grains were given by both the Centre and the state and in a month, food was given twice to the poor. Free gas was given to 1.9 crore beneficiaries for six months. Funds were released under the kisan samman nidhi while 3.5 crore families received Rs 500 a month in their jan dhan accounts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-launches-umbrella-job-scheme-for-sc/st/articleshow/77044812.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||22-year-old helps F1 visa students plan classes||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old is among the many people of Telugu origin who stood up against a recent US decision to deport F1 visa holders taking only online classes. Sumana K started a Google sheet to help affected students swap classes which got one million clicks. “The American dream is very well marketed,” said Sumana, who has struggled with the immigration system herself. She grew up a H4 dependent, a child of Kadapa parents on a temporary work visa. Her younger brother, meanwhile, was born a US citizen. This meant she was excluded from many opportunities that others got. “I was not able to apply for work when I was 16, unlike many friends. I could not train in roller skating at an international level in spite of being very good at it,” said Suman.. “I had to mark myself as an international student. Switch to an F1 visa and forego several scholarships I got,” she said. After graduating from UCLA in bioengineering, Sumana still has a long way to go to become a citizen. When she starts work, she will have to get an H-1B visa like all Indians. “I will have to wait decades to get a green card to live in the only place I know to be home,” she says. When the US had declared last month that students on a F1 visa, who would pursue a completely online course this fall, would be deported, Sumana felt their pain. The order has since then been rescinded, but experts are wary of new policy changes. She began a Google sheet that took down details of students for class swapping. Basically, this would allow international students swap classes with their local counterparts helping them achieve the caveat of having taken some classes in person. The Google sheet was viewed over one million times, 600 people filled the sheet with their details. When she launched a website ‘Support Our International Students’ (www.sois.us) last Thursday, the site saw 26,000 visitors in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/22-yr-old-helps-f1-visa-students-plan-classes/articleshow/77044359.cms||Uttara Varma
July 19, 2020||India||Govt lists norms for donation to national disaster relief fund||NEW DELHI: The central government has laid out the modalities for receipt of contributions or grants from any person or institution into the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for the purpose of disaster management. Such contribution or grants into NDRF by individuals and institutions — allowed by Section 46(1)(b) of the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005 — can be made through multiple modes. The first is through physical instruments drawn in favour of “PAO (Secretariat), MHA” at New Delhi. Contributions can also be made through RTGS, NEFT or UPI transfers to the receipt SBI account no 10314382194, IFSC code SBIN0000625. Alternatively, payments can be made by individuals and institutions through Bharatkosh portal, through modes like net banking, debit cards, credit cards or UPI. NDRF is made available to the National Executive Committee set up under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to be applied towards meeting the expenses for emergency response, relief and rehabilitation in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the central government in consultation with the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-lists-norms-for-donation-to-national-disaster-relief-fund/articleshow/77045111.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||1,500 to participate in virtual marathon||Pune: As many as 1,500 people, including city-based doctors and foreign nationals, will participate in a ‘virtual marathon’ on Sunday to create awareness about ‘avoidable blindness’. The marathon, jointly organized by the National Institute of Ophthalmology (NIO) and Run Buddies, will see participation from 16 foreign countries, including the United States of America. “The message we want to propagate here is regular exercise can keep our eyes healthy, just like any other body part,” Aditya Kelkar, founder of NIO Vision Marathon, said. Participants can choose to run any distance — 5km, 21km, and 42km. They will run at their locations and will share their data virtually with NIO and Run Buddies. “We will award certificates to the participants upon completion of run,” Kelkar said. For citizens of Pune, organizers have extended the deadline till August 15 as participants won’t be able to run on the streets due to the current lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1500-to-participate-in-virtual-marathon/articleshow/77044818.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara registers 69 patients, 4 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara district registered 69 fresh Covid-19 cases since late Friday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 2,213. Of the total cases, 908 are currently active. The district also reported four casualties, taking the death toll to 80. Officials of the district administration’s health department said that Punwadi, a remote village in Jawli tehsil, has now emerged as a new Covid hotspot with 22 cases being reported since Friday. The village has registered around 75 positive patients till date. The new confirmed cases from Punwadi include 13 men, 8 women and an 11-year-old girl. Punwadi village is home to around 600 people. The first Covid-19 patient from Punwadi tested positive for the contagion in the last week of June when the said patient’s family came to the village from Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-69-patients-4-deaths/articleshow/77044368.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two Covid hospitals to get doctors studying PG courses in August||NEW DELHI: Under the Delhi government’s plan to deploy final-year postgraduate students of medical colleges in its Covid hospitals, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in East Delhi has given appointment letters to 35 such students. They will be assisting the existing teams of doctors in the fight against the novel coronavirus. The interviews of the final-year students of University College of Medical Sciences, a medical college affiliated with Delhi University and associated with Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, were conducted recently. “The examinations of the University College of Medical Science are currently going on. All the 35 students who qualify the exams would be deployed. Usually, all the students qualify the exams and subsequently get themselves registered. All of them should start working in the hospital from early next month,” said an official. Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi’s largest Covid hospital with 2,000 beds capacity, has also started interview of 100 PG qualified students for deployment as senior residents. By the last week of this month, it is likely to give appointment letters to those who qualify the interview. They may be deployed in the hospital from early next month. “The move by the two hospitals will reduce the pressure on the existing doctors in the hospitals,” added another official. The health professionals in all the Covid hospitals have been handling far more pressure than usual since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-covid-hosps-to-get-doctors-studying-pg-courses-in-aug/articleshow/77044819.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Asaduddin Owaisi treads cautious path on mosque issue||HYDERABAD: AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi has managed to stay afloat despite BJP and some Muslim organisations tried to corner him on the demolition of two mosques in the secretariat complex. He asserted that development and communal harmony were of paramount importance and the TRS government was doing just that. While terming the mosques being razed as an unfortunate incident, Asaduddin said he was convinced by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s promise of getting a larger mosque built on the same premises along with the new secretariat complex. “Maintaining peace is the constitutional duty of the government and the TRS regime is discharging it well,” he told STOI. He said the government was striking a balance between carrying out developmental works and maintaining communal harmony. He emphasised that there have been no major communal incidents in last six years. “For any development to take place, peace and communal harmony are a necessity. Apart from the CM, the AIMIM should also be given due credit for ensuring harmony since the state was formed,” he said. Asaduddin, who is likely to meet the CM along with religious scholars on the proposed mosque, would also put forth demands like removal of Mohammed Saleem as Waqf Board chairman and filing a criminal case and arresting the contractor for failing to protect the two mosques, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-treads-cautious-path-on-mosque-issue/articleshow/77044376.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Massive Covid care infra boost for worst-hit Ganjam||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Saturday announced massive expansion of infrastructure, more use of telemedicine and sustained awareness campaign in worst-hit Ganjam district, days after the Union health ministry wrote to the state asking for renewed strategy for high-case load districts. A high-level meeting chaired by additional chief secretary (health) decided to reopen the OPD of MKCG Medical College and Hospital and make its emergency wing functional round the clock. The hospital will have an additional superintendent exclusively for aiding Covid care. The government decided to add 400 more beds in three locations for Covid patients within the next two to three days. A 100-bed Covid care centre (CCC) will function in the children’s ward of MKCG under the supervision of the district collector. Similarly, two other CCCs of 150 beds each will function at Bidyutpur and on the premises of Sishu Mandir to be run by the Berhampur Municipal Corporation. The government asked the community health centres and CCCs to reserve 10% beds for patients with lower oxygen level. Similarly, a group of professionals led by a psychiatrist will provide tele-counselling to Covid positive persons to address their emotional concerns. Cured Covid patients will work as Covid Monitors, each giving advice to at least 10 patients. They will receive Rs 1000 assistance for the same. The government also asked the Ganjam district administration to requisition hotels in Berhampur and Gopalpur for doctors and government employees involved in Covid care. Notably, the government has deployed around 130 additional doctors, including ayurvedic and homoeopathic practitioners in the district in the past one week. Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the ministry of health, has written to health secretaries of Odisha besides Bihar, West Bengal and Assam. Pointing out that Odisha is the tenth most-affected state in the country with Ganjam reporting approximately 37% of the state’s active case load, Agarwal suggested the need to focus on emerging hotspots such as Nabarangpur, Sambalpur and Keonjhar. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Mohapatra said the ongoing lockdown in Ganjam, Khurda, Cuttack, Jajpur and Rourkela is part of the renewed government measures to contain the pandemic. On Nabarangpur, Sambalpur and Keonjhar, Mohapatra said, “As per our analysis, these districts do not come under that category.” While Ganjam with 5,280 positive cases and 52 deaths is worst affected in the state, Keonjhar has reported 389 positive cases while Sambalpur and Nabarangpur have reported 156 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/massive-covid-care-infra-boost-for-worst-hit-ganjam/articleshow/77043403.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fireman rides 70km to catch train to Mumbai||PUNE: The 10-day total lockdown has spelt trouble for Talegaon resident Ravindra Raut (52), a fireman at a state government office in Mumbai’s Mazgaon. With hardly any public transport option, he is forced to ride a distance of 70km on his two-wheeler to Karjat and then catch a local train to Mumbai. Though his work currently requires him to be present in office only twice a week, it is anything but easy. Raut has to clock 24 hours to complete an entire day’s work. Of late, he has been reaching office a day earlier so as not to miss out on attendance and get enough rest. “Before the lockdown was imposed in March, I used to board a train from Talegaon to Mumbai. Once the lockdown started, closure of public transport options forced me to look for alternatives. I started asking for lifts from transport vehicles like tempos and trucks in exchange for money,” he said. However, reaching office on time was a major problem. “Therefore, I decided to reach office a day earlier,” he said. So, if his duty falls on a Thursday, he reaches office by Wednesday evening, spends the night there, works for 24 hours and sets out for home by Friday afternoon. “I can reach Mumbai faster by road rather than drive all the way to Karjat and then wait for a train. But the 10-day lockdown is on and there are hardly any vehicles. It is difficult to get lifts now as people are wary of Covid-19. So, I am forced to ride my two-wheeler to Karjat and then catch a train from there. The ghat section witnesses heavy rain and driving is a major risk,” he said. Raut said that his family members remain very worried about him. “But I cannot leave my work and sit at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fireman-rides-70km-to-catch-train-to-mumbai/articleshow/77044817.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Just 30% work done, Jhotwara flyover to miss Dec deadline||JAIPUR: With no planning to rehabilitate 604 affected people whose houses fall in the path of Jhotwara elevated road, work continues to move at a slow pace. Out of the 2.3 km corridor, construction in nearly 1km stretch has not been touched even two years after the inception of the project. The JDA had earlier earmarked land to rehabilitate affected shop owners of Jhotwara on government land in Jhotwara Industrial Area, Niwaru and Ninder. However, none of the lands has been finalised and decision has been pending. An official source said, “Notices to raze the houses can only be issued once consent is provided by the affected house owners. Dialogues between owners were initiated, but they failed as many demanded to be rehabilitated on land near Roshan farm, Gandhi Path. This land was earmarked earlier.” As only 30% work has been completed, the JDA will not be able to meet the December 2020 deadline. The work progress was revealed when officials were apprising the new JDC Gaurav Goyal. “The JDA had shifted the slums on the route this year. However, the civic body is facing a challenge in distributing compensation among affected house owners of the project proposed between Panchayat Bhawan and Ambabari crossroad. High-level meetings are required to take speedy decision to redress the issues,” added the source. The road is proposed to ease traffic in one of the most congested areas of the city and provide relief to more than 6 lakh residents. The project is crucial as the narrow flyover has become a major bottleneck. As no land is available on either side, the JDA is left with no option but to construct an elevated road. Sources further said delay in project was expected to escalate cost and more problems might crop up. “In the budget of 2016-2017, the BJP government had announced the construction of elevated road to give relief to commuters travelling in Phalna’s Jhotwara. Not only project cost will increase, the affected owners could increase their demands that could create problem,” said source||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/just-30-work-done-jhotwara-flyover-to-miss-dec-deadline/articleshow/77044371.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nashik||Youth ends life after mom tests positive||Nashik: A 23-year-old youth from the city died by suicide on Thursday night after meeting his mother who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a hospital. A case of accidental death has been registered at Upnagar police station. According to police, the deceased, Aakash Machchhindra Jadhav, is a resident of Devlaligaon in the Nashik Road area. Akash’s mother was feeling unwell, following which, she was admitted to a local hospital where she tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. After visiting his mother at the hospital, Akash returned home. According to police, Akash took the drastic step on Thursday night when he was alone at home. His sister, who resided nearby, went to his house to discuss their mother’s health and to check whether he was taking the necessary precautionary measures. When Akash did not respond to her calls, she took the help of the locals who broke open the door and found Akash hanging from the ceiling. He was rushed to a hospital but had already died by then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youth-ends-life-after-mom-tests-positive/articleshow/77042655.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||48 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths emerge from Sangli||Kolhapur: The administration had to tighten security at vital points and seal many areas from where positive cases have been reported after 38 new Covid-19 cases emerged in Sangli city on Saturday. The jurisdiction of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal corporation currently has 292 patients.  Police force has been deployed at more than ten crucial points to monitor all activities and movements. The rural areas of Sangli district reported 10 new cases and three deaths on Saturday. As per official communication, 18 patients in Sangli district were critical on Saturday night. Meanwhile, guardian minister for Sangli district Jayant Patil ruled out the possibility of a lockdown. Patil’s clarification comes a day after certain messages started making rounds on social media that quoted him as well as district collector Abhijit Chaudhari of imposing a lockdown in Sangli. The rumours came to the fore against the backdrop of the lockdown that was announced in Kolhapur district and the ones that are already in place in Satara and Solapur. Refuting claims of a lockdown, Patil categorically hinted that a lockdown would be imposed if people were found flouting norms and not observing social distancing. Expressing concern over the increasing number of patients in the district, Patil said that he had instructed the administration to initiate legal action against those violating safety norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/48-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-emerge-from-sangli/articleshow/77044365.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||4 dead, 172 new cases; Kolhapur dist Covid tally is 2,092||Kolhapur: The district reported four deaths and added 172 new cases to the Covid tally on Saturday. So far, there have been 2,092 Covid-19 cases in the Kolhapur district. Of them, 1,062 are active cases, As many as 46 patients have succumbed to the infection. Ichalkaranji town alone reported 28 cases. The town’s case tally is 306 now. One person also succumbed here, taking the death toll to 18 here. Meanwhile, Kolhapur city reported eight new cases, taking its tally to 233 with five deaths so far. District health officer Yogesh Sale said: “We are adding more beds in various hospitals. Private hospitals are being taken on board to make isolation and ICU beds available. Our aim is to reduce the death rate. At 2.40%, we have one of the lowest death rates in the state. By isolating the high-risk persons and testing them, we will keep the death rate under control.” Meanwhile, the door-to-door survey of suspected Covid patients in Kolhapur city entered the fifth round. The survey will be continued even during a week-long lockdown starting on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-dead-172-new-cases-kolhapur-dist-covid-tally-is-2092/articleshow/77044373.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||No entry-exit in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: With barely a day left for the week-long lockdown starting from Monday, district collector Daulat Desai on Saturday said that entry and exit points of the district will remain shut, except for essential and emergency services. He issued detailed guidelines for the same on Saturday. In a letter directed to collectors and superintendent of police of all districts in the state, Desai requested them not to grant e-passes for people wanting to travel to Kolhapur during the said week. The guidelines issued by Desai state that movement of people, except emergency and essential purposes, will be barred till July 26. In addition, petrol and diesel for private cars and other vehicles will not be available at petrol pumps. Only government and emergency services vehicles will be permitted to enter petrol pumps during the said period. Besides, all industries in towns and cities across Kolhapur will remain shut while those located in rural areas will operate with no more than 25% of employee strength. The distribution of newspapers and milk must be carried out by 9 am, the directives state. Also, collection of milk from farmers must be carried out between the specified time in the guidelines rulebook. Markets, including grocery stores, will remain shut. However, home delivery of cooking gas cylinders is permitted. Citizens can only step out of their house between 6 am and 9 am for essential purposes such as purchasing milk or medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-entry-exit-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/77044380.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Pune||Electric cables worth Rs 3.5L stolen||Pune: The Faraskhana police on Friday arrested two men and booked their two accomplices for stealing electricity cables worth Rs3.5 lakh from a shop in Kasba Peth on Thursday. The police arrested the suspects — Kirankumar Sarmalji Shah (42) of Bhosari and Mahavir Nathalal Jain (34) of Salisbury Park, both natives of Gujarat — and seized the cables after receiving a tip-off they were present in Katraj. Police are searching for two other accomplices who were involved in the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/electric-cables-worth-rs-3-5l-stolen/articleshow/77044820.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Citizens in Kolhapur don’t risk leaving last-minute lockdown shopping for Sunday||KOLHAPUR: Couple of days before the complete lockdown starts in Kolhapur on Monday, long queues were observed in front of LPG agencies, grinding mills, retail stores as well as alcohol shops. District guardian minister Satej Patil had announced the lockdown on Friday evening and had said the citizens had two days to stock up on essentials required for the one-week lockdown. However, most citizens rushed to the markets on Saturday, not leaving last-minute shopping for Sunday, when many services may remain shut. Ramesh Jadhav, a resident of the Tarabai Park area, was in the queue to buy vegetables from a vendor in the Kasba Bawda market. Though the vendor said that he would get fresh stocks on Sunday, Jadhav and others in the queue insisted on buying whatever was available. “On Sundays, as per Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, the mandis remain shut. Also, there would be a rush everywhere. Therefore, I decided to buy vegetables on Saturday,” said Jadhav. It was the same concern among those standing in lines in front of LPG dealerships. The gas agency operators said they usually shut their shops on Sunday and no cylinder booking are made on that day. “However, if the administration asks us to keep the agency open and make cylinders available on Sunday, we will do so. We have not received any order so far regarding this and also about whether to continue with home deliveries of the gas cylinders booked online,” said Sagar Patil, the administrative head of Thorat Gas Agency. Another reason people were stocking up is that though the lockdown has been announced for seven days, given past experiences, they feel it may be extended by three days to one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/citizens-in-kolhapur-dont-risk-leaving-last-min-lockdown-shopping-for-sunday/articleshow/77044377.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Lack of safety gear leaves six dead||AHMEDABAD: Two workers died and one is critical after an accident at Shree Shakti chemical factory in Phase I of the GIDC estate in Vatva. One of the workers was made to enter a dye-making vessel and ended up inhaling noxious fumes, while the two others were exposed to the fumes as they tried to get him out. Two of them died while one is at LG Hospital in a critical condition. Vatva GIDC police registered an offence under Sections 284, 304 (A) and 114 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Raju Patel, Navin Babaria, and Himmat Bhuva. Patel is the supervisor at the factory while Navin Babaria and Himmat Bhuva own the company. According to the FIR lodged by Rahul Meena, when Nandlal Meena, 21; Vishal Meena, 20; and Devilal Meena, 22; were working on Friday, Raju Patel directed them to put materials into a dye-making vessel. A bag containing a certain chemical slipped out of Vishal’s hands and into the vessel. He was made to get into the vessel to retrieve it but fell unconscious as soon as he entered it. Nandlal and Devilal then got into the vessel to get Vishal out, but they too fell unconscious. The complainant alleged that he and other workers had asked for safety gear, but it was not given to them. He stated that he and other workers later got the three out and took them to LG Hospital, where doctors declared Vishal and Nandlal dead and Devilal was admitted to the ICU. Senior police said they called in forensic experts. “They have taken samples of the chemicals and will give us the report in a day or two,” a senior police official said. Inspector D R Gohil of Vatva GIDC police station said they detained the supervisor and sent him for a pre-arrest test. The two owners have not yet been held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lack-of-safety-gear-leaves-six-dead/articleshow/77044395.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||80-yr-old woman cured in 10 days||Balangir: An 80-year-old woman got cured of Covid-19 in just 10 days of her admission to the hospital. The woman, Pana Budhi, is from Laxmijore para, the town’s first containment zone from where more than 80 positive cases were reported. She was admitted to Balangir Covid Hospital and was administered only vitamin doses as she was asymptomatic. She was completely cured of the disease and discharged on July 17 along with 25 other patients, said Dr Bhima Sahu, chief district medical officer, Balangir. On Saturday, the number of Covid-19 cases touched 282 with nine fresh cases being reported. Altogether 246 patients have recovered while 36 active cases are still being treated in different Covid hospitals. A journalist is among the new positive cases. Also, the Balangir municipality has declared two more localities as containment zones to check further spread of the disease and collect swab samples, said Sahu. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/80-yr-old-woman-cured-in-10-days/articleshow/77043420.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt warns hosps denying admission to patients||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Saturday threatened to take serious action against hospitals denying treatment to any patient. This comes amid reports that some hospitals were not admitting non-Covid patients from hotspot districts. A 77-year-old businessman from Berhampur in Ganjam district, who suffered a brain stroke, reached Bhubaneswar for treatment on July 13. Three big private hospitals here did not admit the patient as he was from Covid hotspot Ganjam. The patient died in a vehicle without treatment. Social activists criticised the state government and private hospitals for their ‘inhuman and unethical’ attitude towards emergency patients from hotspot districts. Some hospitals are not allowing patients from non-hotspot districts either. Activist Prafulla Samantara has requested the Odisha Human Rights Commission (OHRC) to intervene in the matter. Chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy on Saturday tweeted, “Patients needing medical care at hospitals/clinics need urgent attention. Instances have come up of some private hospitals being reluctant to admit patients from hotspots districts. It is ethically wrong and illegal. Be informed that government action against wrongdoers will be serious.” Police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangi said, “Please dial 100 if any hospital refuses admission to a critical patient from outside Bhubaneswar. Our Dial 100 operators have been asked to provide assistance.” On July 13, the health and family welfare department had issued new instructions for non-Covid hospitals to take care of patients coming to them during the pandemic. It had urged the hospitals to follow the instructions to save each life. According to the instructions, no patient shall be denied health service and no life-saving emergency procedures/treatment shall be deferred on the ground of suspicion of Covid. Every facility shall establish a separate fever clinic, away from the main working area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-warns-hosps-denying-admission-to-patients/articleshow/77043408.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 19, 2020||Mumbai||Bizman booked for cheating firm of Rs6cr land||Mumbai: City economic offences wing (EOW) has booked a Malabar Hill businessman for cheating a firm where he was a director. The 53-year-old accused did not return agricultural land to the company worth more than Rs 6 crore, which was purchased by the firm. An EOW officer said Bhavik Bhimjiyani (40) lodged a complaint with Marine Drive police against the accused for cheating and breach of trust. The case was transferred to EOW. The complainant’s firm, Titan Agro Developers Pvt Ltd, deals in properties. The accused was appointed a director in the firm, which in 2008 bought 42 acres agricultural land in Pune in the name of the firm and accused. The money was paid by the company. “Later, the accused was told to transfer the property to other directors but he kept delaying. When the company learnt he was looking for buyers they filed a case against him,” said the officer. “The accused will be summoned. We are going through the documents and will take action,” he added. The officer said the accused was a relative of the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bizman-booked-for-cheating-firm-of-rs6cr-land/articleshow/77044356.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Eight-member panel for Covid management at MKCG hosp||Berhampur: The government has constituted an eight-member coordination committee to manage the Covid situation at MKCG Medical College and Hospital. The move comes after the hospital had closed down the OPD after some of the hospital staff tested positive for the virus, leading to non-Covid patients facing problem in getting treatment. The committee will have the dean and principal of the medical college, Diptimayee Tripathy, as its chairperson with other senior doctors, including superintendent S K Mishra, as members. “The committee will look after the isolation of suspected patients, deployment of manpower, management of Covid and non-Covid patients, coordination of testing activities and some other Covid-related activities,” said an order issued by the health and family welfare department. The district administration had closed the OPD from July 8. Only emergency patients are allowed for treatment. “We have launched tele-medicine service for patients,” said the superintendent. He said the service has intensified after the closure of the OPD. “While earlier we used to receive five to seven calls, now we get around 150 calls daily after the closure of the OPD,” Mishra claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/eight-member-panel-for-covid-management-at-mkcg-hosp/articleshow/77043429.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||9 test Covid-19 positive in Wardha||Wardha: Nine persons were diagnosed with Covid-19 infection on Saturday. Four persons in the district were discharged from the hospital on Saturday after recovering from the disease. Three women from Wardha, Arvi and Hinganghat, respectively tested positive. The women are close contacts of earlier patients. A 65-year-old woman from family of Hind Nagar patient, 50-year-old wife of Arvi sub-district hospital employee, and 27-year-old woman who came to Hinganghat from Chennai have tested positive. Another six persons from Kakada village in Karanja taluka tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday evening. It includes four men and two women. Four people from a house in Kakada village were infected with coronavirus and a rapid antigen test was conducted on the neighbors of the affected family by the Karanja Rural Hospital in the village. In tests of 20 people, six people were diagnosed with coronavirus. The total number of patients in the district has increased to 77. After 42 recoveries, 32 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/9-test-covid-19-positive-in-wardha/articleshow/77044151.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Lucknow||4% 'healthy' blood donors in Lucknow found with Covid antibodies||LUCKNOW: A study on 'antibodies among blood donors', conducted by the Transfusion Medicine department of the King George's Medical University (KGMU) has revealed that a section of the people in the city contracted the novel coronavirus infection but recovered without even knowing they were carrying the virus. The tests done during the study found that 46 (3.7%) out of the total 1,235 'healthy' persons who donated blood in the department in the past two weeks, had antibodies against novel coronavirus. This means that these people were infected at some point of time in the past but remained asymptomatic throughout the period of the disease and got cured by developing antibodies that fight against the pathogen, said doctors involved in the research. These blood donors, said researchers, could not recall having any Covid-19 symptoms in the past and had not undergone any test for Covid-19 diagnosis. Such cases have been reported elsewhere in the world, but evidence of it has been found in Lucknow for the first time, they added. The department can now extract plasma from the blood donated by these donors for convalescent plasma therapy of Covid-19 patients. "All the 1,235 blood donors were examined and found healthy. All of them when asked about Covid-19 history told us that they neither had any symptoms of the disease in the past, nor undergone tests for the novel coronavirus infection. The blood samples of all the donors tested in the antibody machine which can track immunoglobulin G-IgG - a protective antibody that develops in most patients at around two weeks after infection and remains in the blood even after recovery for sometime. Of total, 46 were found to be having IgG,” explained Prof Tulika Chandra, head of Transfusion Medicine department. She also said that the research is at the initial stage, hence nothing can be said with certainty about the population developing herd immunity, for which around 50%-60% population should have antibodies. Prof Chandra admitted that as the said 46 people were unaware about their infection status, they may have transmitted infection to others. “However, these people can now make up by donating plasma. We have already extracted plasma from the blood donated by them. Now we will counsel them to donate more for the bank we have created to provide convalescent plasma therapy to needy patients, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-healthy-blood-donors-in-city-found-with-covid-antibodies/articleshow/77044828.cms||Yusra Husain
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Two deaths, 50 plus spike in positive cases||Amravati: Posting a 50-plus spike for the sixth consecutive day, the district took its covid count to 1662 on Saturday with 54 new cases. Two deaths took the district’s covid toll three shy of fifty to 47. With 32 getting discharged on Saturday, the number of recovered patients reached 1098. This has left 517 active cases, including 14 getting treated in Nagpur. A report from the civil surgeon’s office stated that a 62-year-old man from Shegaon-Rahatgaon road near Deshmukh Lawns, who tested positive on July 22, breathed his last along with a 54-year-old male from Sonal Colony, who tested positive on July 23. Both died at the covid hospital while undergoing treatment. The rural count of the district touched the 300 mark with 17 new cases. While Paratwada contributed eight of these 17 to take its own tally to 15, Anjangaon Surji had two to complete its quarter century. Morshi too posted two cases to take the tehsil's count to 31 while Warud, Daryapur, Achalpur, Chandur Railway and Bhatkuli reported a case each to take their tally to 13, 23, 14, 13 and 19 respectively. In the city, Shegaon-Rahatgaon Road reported four cases to take its count to six which now includes one death. Two cases each came from Santoshinagar, Itwara Bazar, Tapovan premises, Budhwara, Nawathenagar, Badnera and Shriram colony that took their count to five, four, ten, five, six, 154 and two respectively. Kanwarnagar, Mahajanpura and Hamalpura posted a case each to take their count to 22, 10 and 12 respectively. A case each from Chhayanagar and Rajapeth took their count to seven each while Sindhunagar and Gawande Layout extended their tally to five each. Saraswatinagar, Jamil Colony, Sainagar and Zenith Hospital reported their third case while Rathinagar and Vijay colony on VMV road reported their second. Tarkheda reported its tenth case today. Bapatwadi, Bhat Colony, Ramjyotnagar, Amle Plot, Ram Laxman Apartment reported their first case today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-deaths-50-plus-spike-in-positive-cases/articleshow/77172581.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hubballi||Revenue dept officials accused of siphoning funds meant for drought and flood relief||Haveri: Close on the heels of a scam being uncovered wherein Rs 18-20 crore that was to be paid to those who lost their homes and property to the devastating floods being siphoned off by officials of the revenue department, allegations of funds to be paid to farmers who lost their harvest owing to drought being misappropriated have now surfaced. In the former case, money that could have helped victims of floods rebuild damaged houses was distributed to friends and relatives of revenue department officials. The transfer of funds was carried out without the survey numbers of those being credited the money being mentioned in official documents. However, the scam involving crores of rupees and the fate of scores of flood victims is yet to be taken seriously by the state government. On the other hand, Rs 7 crore earmarked for compensation to farmers who bore the brunt of drought in 2018-19 too has not reached the rightful victims. Accountants in villages are among those who have been accused of approving disbursal of funds to beneficiaries without following protocol or without verifying the authenticity of their claims. Staff in the revenue department have been accused of diverting funds to those making spurious claims. Data from the Bhoomi Online-Parihar portal indicates that funds meant for farmers has been credited to more than 1,000 beneficiaries, all of whom have made dubious claims. Each of these purported beneficiaries has received a sum of Rs 26,728. Furthermore, funds have been credited to beneficiaries, claiming compensation using one survey number, twice or thrice. Goutam Loday, a farmer, is among those who has been cheated of his rightful compensation. He said that, he had not been compensated for the losses he incurred owing to floods and drought. “My agricultural land falls within the purview of the Haveri city limits. When I approached the officials seeking recompense, I was informed that two people – Manjunath Nandemmanavar and Ramappa Annigeri – had sought and received funds using my survey number,” Loday said. Former MLA and former president of the BJP’s Haveri unit Shivaraj Sajjanar is among those who has been cheated of his compensation. “Staff in the revenue department have credited the sum that was rightfully mine to someone else, who used my survey number. The Haveri district administration must initiate legal action against those involved in this scam,” Sajjanar urged. Haveri deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai said that he was not aware of misappropriation of funds. “But I will look into these allegations, and order a probe at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/revenue-dept-officials-accused-of-siphoning-funds-meant-for-drought-and-flood-relief/articleshow/77044623.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||HC moved to ensure nutrition of infants, pregnant women||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has sought a response from the state government on a PIL seeking its intervention in ensuring the nutritional requirement of infants and pregnant mothers in 12 districts during the Covid-19 pandemic. Social activist Prafulla Samantara filed the PIL contending that these districts have a high prevalence of stunting, child wasting and underweight children due to malnutrition. The 12 districts are Bargarh, Balangir, Boudh, Kalahandi, Kandhamal, Keonjhar, Koraput, Malkangiri, Mayurbhanj, Nabarangpur, Nuapada and Rayagada. These districts need immediate attention to mitigate the suffering of children and pregnant mothers, which, if not attended to, will further aggravate during the pandemic, Samantara said. Immediate intervention into the nutritional requirements of children and pregnant mothers in these districts will alleviate hunger and related deformities, the social activist said in his petition. Lawyer Iswar Mohanty argued the case for Samantara when his petition was taken up for hearing through video conference on Friday. The division bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Biswanath Rath issued notices to the state government. The petition has sought the court’s direction to the state government to submit the action taken report with regard to the steps taken to ensure mid-day meals for children during the lockdown. Owing to the lockdown and subsequent closure of government schools and hostels, it is important to assess the situation of the delivery of mid-day meals to the children, which were being provided through the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), the petition said. The petition also sought direction to provide food security to the vulnerable and poorer sections of the society, including non-ration card holders in the state. The court ordered for hearing of the petition along with another pending PIL for relief to the people who do not have ration cards and are in distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-moved-to-ensure-nutrition-of-infants-pregnant-women/articleshow/77043455.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Four asphyxiate at Dholka denim unit||AHMEDABAD: Four workers asphyxiated at around 1pm on Saturday when they entered an effluent treatment tank to clean it, without any safety gear, at the Vishal Denims factory of Chiripal Group near Dholi village in Dholka taluka of Ahmedabad district. “One of the labourers entered inside the tank first. He began to feel suffocated and fainted inside the tank, which had sludge and toxic chemicals in it. Three other workers then entered the tank to try and save him but all of them fell unconscious,” said Hardik Damor, the mamlatdar of Dholka. Damor said that other workers called the local police and the four were then extricated. They were taken to a private hospital in Dholka town where they were declared brought dead. The deceased were identified as Prabhu Jamod, 35, and Vijay Barad, 20, of Mankol village; Pravin Rathod, 36, a resident of Kesargadh village; and Mayur Barad, 25, a resident of Sanand. “They were made to enter the tank, which has a very constricted entrance and exit point and were not given safety gear or masks,” said a cop from Koth police station, where a case of accidental death was registered. The cop said the incident caused shock and fear among the workers and one eyewitness fled to Ahmedabad city. The bodies were sent to the Koth primary health centre for postmortems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-asphyxiate-at-dholka-denim-unit/articleshow/77044404.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Ashram school in Gadchiroli district excels in HSC exam||NAGPUR: In the remotest taluka of Naxal-infested Gadchiroli district, an ashram school continues to ensure quality education for its students. Students of the Lok Biradari Ashram school, located in the Hemalkasa village of Bhamragarh taluka, excelled in the HSC exam with a pass percentage of 97.61%. This is a residential school catering mostly to tribal children who come from far corners of the district. Some are from villages where the only way to reach is by foot, and that too after crossing a tough terrain. Lok Biradari Prakalp, on whose campus the school is run, was founded by Magsaysay awardee Dr Prakash Amte and his wife Dr Manda. Arun Veladi topped the school with 79.07%. An official statement released by the school management stated that 42 students appeared for the exam of which only one could not clear all subjects. Veladi’s top score in the school was followed Bharti Madavi’s 78.61%, Ganesh Narote (78.15%), Avinash Majji (76.46%) and Dhiraj Gota’s 76.46%. In all, 24 students passed in first division. Aniket Amte, director of the school, gave the credit of this success to students and teachers. Samiksha Amte, school management head, hailed principal Vilas Talewekar, students and staff on this achievement. Psychologist at Lok Biradari project Manisha Pawar helped students during revisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ashram-school-in-gadchiroli-district-excels-in-hsc-exam/articleshow/77044401.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam distributes 10k vials of immunity-booster pills to Covid-19 warriors||Berhampur: The Ganjam district administration has distributed around 10,000 vials of immunity-booster homeopathic medicines to its frontline Covid-19 warriors. The vials have been prepared by the government-run Biju Patnaik Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital here on the request of chief district medical officer (Ganjam). “We have already distributed the vials to the frontline workers in the first phase,” said CDMO (Ganjam) Uma Shankar Mishra. The government has recommended the Arsenicum Album 30C as a preventive medicine to boost immunity that has been approved by the Centre. The move comes as the district reels under the surge in Covid-19 cases that has already crossed the 5000-mark. Among them are over 500 frontline workers. Vijayalaxmi Bisoi, principal of the homeopathic college and hospital said the medicine was supplied by the government for distribution. “We have prepared and supplied over 10,000 vials to the CDMO on his request,” she said. More vials of this medicine is with the medical college and hospital after supplying it to the district administration. “We are now planning to write to the commissioner, BeMC, for distribution of these medicines in public,” she said. The OPD which was functioning in the medical college and hospital was shut as the district administration set up the Covid Care and Covid Health Centre on the college premises. She has not received any request from any other districts of southern Odisha for supply of homeopathic medicine so far. Former principal of the homeopathic college and a homeopathic practitioner P K Paty said there is huge demand from the people for the medicine after the central government recommended it as a preventive medicine. The government needs to supply more quantities of the medicine to be distribute among the people he said. Earlier some state governments, including Kerala, Maharashtra, and Gujarat, had distributed the homeopathic medicines as a preventive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ganjam-distributes-10k-vials-of-immunity-booster-pills-to-covid-19-warriors/articleshow/77043439.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 19, 2020||Hubballi||Patient dies after pvt hospitals refuse to treat him||Hubballi: A-35-year old who had fever and breathing issues died on Friday evening after two private hospitals refused to treat him, his family members have alleged. The deceased, a small trader, in Islampur area of the city, developed fever two days ago, said his uncle M Abdul Rehman. His family took him to a private hospital somewhere between Hubballi and Dharwad but the hospital said that they do not that have beds and referred him to another private hospital where they insisted that they produce a Covid test report, he alleged. With no option available, the family then took him to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences but his condition had already deteriorated, doctors at KIMS said adding their best efforts to save him failed. DC Nitesh Patil said that he will look into the matter and if the relatives give a complaint against the hospitals, he would take action based on it. He said it was an unfortunate incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/patient-dies-after-pvt-hospitals-refuse-to-treat-him/articleshow/77044361.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hubballi||Covid patients at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences want to return home at the earliest||Belagavi: The situation at the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) makes for a perfect study in contrast: On the one hand, the hospital is struggling to cope with the sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 patients being admitted, those already receiving treatment are getting increasingly upset with the poor facilities and are eager to get discharged as early as possible. In fact, many videos and tweets have been doing the round on social media portals, wherein patients are airing their grievances about the lack of hygiene and sanitation at BIMS, and requesting the authorities to do all they can to ensure they were discharged at the earliest. One of the patients has pointed to the lack of sanitisers near beds, adding that cleanliness too had been given the short shrift at the institution. An exhausted BIMS employee said that she could shift the patients to other beds, but ruled out any possibility of prematurely discharging patients. One patient tagged deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi in his tweet, seeking his intervention to have him shifted to a hospital in Athani. “Water is not supplied regularly at BIMS, and the lavatories, owing to neglect of the personnel, have become filthy. There is no water in the cisterns in the toilets,” the patient, admitted to BIMS on Tuesday, told STOI. “Doctors visit us very irregularly, and food is also not being provided to us on time,” he added. Worse still, the ceiling of a Covid-19 ward at BIMS is leaking, said a few patients. Consequently, many of them are compelled to shift around to avoid getting wet. “Asymptomatic patients who need no treatment must be sent home. Otherwise, those in need of medical attention may die,” said another patient. Patient admitted to hospital tests -ve If the litany of grievances that the patients have was not enough, there was more trouble for BIMS, where a man from Rajasthan, who had come to Belagavi from Bengaluru on June 10, was admitted before tests confirmed that he was positive for novel coronavirus. “On July 14, an ambulance came to my home and I was taken to the hospital. A nurse informed me that tests conducted on a swab sample had indicated I was positive for the infection. But three days later, the same nurse informed me that there had been a mistake, and that I was not infected,” the man said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-patients-at-belagavi-institute-of-medical-sciences-want-to-return-home-at-the-earliest/articleshow/77041583.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Vadodara||Sleek towers replace conventional HT lines||Vadodara: Sleek, lean and cost-effective transmission towers are replacing overhead extra high tension (EHT) lines in Gujarat to make way for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) Corridor popularly known as bullet train project. According to officials of the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which is implementing the bullet train project, more than one-third of relocation work and 80% of foundation work, for the electrical transmission lines have already been completed. NHSRCL is relocating more than 1,600 electrical transmission lines out of which 164 are overhead EHT lines that are infringing with the MAHSR in Gujarat from where around 75% of alignment will pass through. The challenge before the engineers was the height of the transmission lines which is usually in the range of 6-9 m from ground level. In the case of national highway crossings, it is in the range of 8-11 m and for railway crossings it is 14-19 m. But since the bullet train itself will run at a height of 8-12 m from ground level, the transmission lines crossing the corridor are required to be raised at a height of more than 30 m. “To accommodate the height of towers and sustain weight, a broader foundation is required,” said an NHSRCL official. After a lot of brainstorming, engineers from NHSRCL and the Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation Limited (GETCO) improvised the design of the towers. “Special narrow base tower design has been adopted which requires 80% less land for tower foundations. This has reduced requirement of concrete to one-third and steel reinforcement by one-sixth without compromising on safety and strength of the lines,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sleek-towers-replace-conventional-ht-lines/articleshow/77042969.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||A record 32 test positive in a day in Chandrapur||Chandrapur: A record number of 32 new patients were detected within 24 hours surging the Covid-19 total to 260 in the district. While reports of 15 positive patients came in at midnight on Friday, 17 new cases were detected on Saturday. Health officials claimed that so far 148 patients have been cured and discharged, while 112 are undergoing treated. The 15 positive patients found among the late night results include one person each from Chandrapur city, Naleshwar in Sindewahi tehsil and Dabgaon in Mul tehsil. The remaining 12 are rice mill workers from Mul who returned from Bihar. Officials claimed that these 12 workers arrived on July 12 and were put in institutional quarantine. The 17 new patients found on Saturday include five SRPF jawans who came to the city from Pune. Apart from these, a 17-year-old girl from Urjanagar, too, was found positive. There are four positive patients from Chandrapur city. They include a 46-year-old Christian Colony resident, a 32-year-old who lives at Tukdoji Maharaj Chowk in the city, a 31-year-old Aazad chowk Tukum resident and another 32-year-old city resident. Three from Ballarpur town, including a 37-year-old woman, a 25-year-old WCL Colony resident and a 38-year-old resident of Balaji ward. The three others are from Bhadrawati town, including a 26-year-old businessman, a 29-year-old electrician and a 23-year-old youngster. A resident of Patna in Bihar serving institutional quarantine, too, has been found positive. District collector claimed that they have intensified testing across the district and have also started antigen tests which is helping in detection of more patients. He claimed that doubling rate of patients in Chandrapur is 14 days and efforts are under way to extend the span. From Friday, a 10-day lockdown has been clamped in Chandrapur city along with Urjangar and Durgapur villages which are on the outskirts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-record-32-test-positive-in-a-day-in-chandrapur/articleshow/77044124.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Dumped fetus was minor’s, doctor and paramour held||AHMEDABAD: Maninagar police on Saturday morning arrested a Dr Chetan Shah, a resident of Rambaug, for dumping an aborted fetus in some garbage near Aavkar Hall in Maninagar on July 6. Police said the doctor will be bailed out from the police station, but they detained a 19-year-old youth, Sunil Sargara, for rape and violation of the POCSO Act, as he had impregnated a 15-year-old girl and the fetus found was from this liaison. One week ago, Gomtipur police booked an 18-year-old girl for abandoning a newborn baby. “Her lover had got her pregnant and fled to Uttar Pradesh. The girl abandoned the child in a garbage dump where it was eaten by scavengers. Police are investigating two more cases for newborns abandoned in the last 20 days, at Amraiwadi and Odhav,” said a senior police official. Maninagar police inspector S M Patel said a surveillance team had received a tip-off that the fetus had been dumped from a certain white car and the informer provided its registration number. Inspector Patel said they kept watch and intercepted the car near Rambaug. “It belonged to Dr Chetan Shah, who runs Keval Medical Centre, at the Vatva GIDC. During his interrogation he confessed that on July 6, a minor who was 5-months pregnant had come to his clinic. He aborted the fetus and threw it near Aavkar Hall. The girl then told us that Sunil Sargara had made her pregnant. He has been sent for a pre-arrest Covid test,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dumped-fetus-was-minors-doctor-and-paramour-held/articleshow/77044417.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||1st comet of 21st century to be visible in sky till month-end||BHUBANESWAR: Residents of the city can have a glimpse of a once-in-a-time celestial phenomena of viewing a comet with naked eyes with scientists here confirming its sight in the skies till July 30. The NEOWISE (Near Earth Object Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer) space telescope of NASA discovered the rare comet, a distant and inconspicuous object first in March this year, which was then around 312 million kilometres from the Sun. Scientists said a better viewing angle of the comet will be available in the evening sky when it will appear low in the northwest sky about 20 degrees from the horizon for around 20 minutes in the evening. “The comet will rapidly climb higher in the sky and will be visible for a longer period. Around July 30, it can be seen near Ursha Major, Saptarshi Mandal and will be visible for as long as an hour,” Subhendu Pattnaik, deputy director of Pathani Samanta Planetarium said. He added that after July-end, the comet will fade away fast and will not be visible to the unaided eye. “People can watch the comet in the northwest sky with naked eyeS. A pair of binoculars or a small telescope can enhance its visibility,” Pattnaik said. Pattnaik further said it will be the first comet of the 21st century to be visible after ‘Hale Bupp’, which was the last comet to be clearly visible to the naked eye in 1997. “It is after 23 years that we are getting a chance to see a comet with naked eye in this century,” he said. It must be noted here that comets are cosmic snowballs of frozen gases, rock and dust that orbit the Sun in a highly elliptical path. When they are frozen, they come to a size of a few hundred kilometres, almost the size of a small town. “When a comet’s orbit brings it close to the Sun, it heats up and melts and releases dust and gases into a giant glowing head larger than most planets. The dust and gases form a tail that stretches away from the Sun for millions of kilometres in the opposite direction,” he explained. “Comet NEOWISE, as it is called, has survived its closest approach to the Sun and raised hopes that it will become a tantalizing object for sky-gazers after two medium-sized comets passed near the sun early this year,” the planetarium officials said. People, however, are hopeful of a clear sky to watch the phenomena. “The celestial activities are a treat to watch. I hope that the overcast situation improves and we will be able to see the comet with naked eyes,” Gitanjali Rout, a science lover said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/1st-comet-of-21st-century-to-be-visible-in-sky-till-month-end/articleshow/77043463.cms||Sandip Mishra
July 19, 2020||Bhopal||Indore: Covid-19 pandemic throws Kanya Vivah Yojana off track||INDORE: Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah Evan Nikah Yojana, the flagship scheme of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan — who pronounces himself as ‘mama (uncle)’ of children in Madhya Pradesh — might be of little help to his nieces wishing to get married and availing its benefits this fiscal due to Covid-19 pandemic. The situation has also hurt those, who registered under the scheme and got married. Thousands of girls, including around 1,000 in Indore, are still waiting to get cash benefits of Rs 51,000 each under the scheme from last 12 months. According to official sources, around 50,000 poor girls used to get married under the scheme run by social justice department every calendar year and get cash benefits, also called ‘Kanyadaan Rashi’, as financial assistance to start a new married life. Earlier, BJP government paid Rs 28,000, which was raised to Rs 51,000 after the Congress came to power in December, 2018. According to senior officials at social justice department, state government has released a calendar for 2020 to organize mass marriage functions under Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah Evan Nikah Yojana, but a ban in organizing any gathering is presently prohibited and the situation is likely to continue at least for next six months. “We have released a calendar of 2020 to conduct mass marriage programmes under Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah Evan Nikah Yojana. A girl can avail the cash benefit (Rs 51,000) only if she gets married in a mass marriage programme organized under the scheme,” principal secretary Prateek Hajela told TOI. He added that it totally depends on district collector to organize mass marriage functions under the scheme if administration finds it suitable. Given the Covid-19 scenario, organizing mass marriage events that result in gathering of thousands of people is unlikely to be held in the financial calendar year. Amidst clouds of uncertainty over the same, thousands of girls, who got married under mass marriage functions organized under the scheme in the last one year, are running pillar to post to get the cash benefits. In Indore, there are around 960 girls, who got married under the scheme in 2019-20 and have not been paid the financial assistance of total around Rs 5 crore citing funds crunch. Similarly, thousands of beneficiaries, maximum number in Bhopal, Dhar, Burhanpur and Dewas, have also not been provided with the amount of ‘Kanyadaan’ from last 12 months. “We have sent a demand to state government to clear the amount of financial assistance to girls who get married under ‘Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah Evan Nikah Yojana’ in 2019-20. The payment is likely to be made soon,” Indore social justice department joint director Suchita Tirkey Beck told TOI. Principal secretary said that clearing payment to eligible girls under the said scheme is a responsibility of state government. “Due to Covid-19 menace, payment has got delayed. We will soon provide the promised financial assistance to eligible girls,” Hajela said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-pandemic-throws-kanya-vivah-yojana-off-track/articleshow/77043479.cms||Sagar Choukse
July 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Where’s the preschool? In a box at your door!||CHENNAI: You’ve had pasta delivered home, petunias as well. And now, with a pandemic raging in the world outside, preschool is the latest package to come to your doorstep, in some cases, neatly parcelled, for convenience. At the home of Sriram Sekhar, learning hasn’t stopped during lockdown, especially since school arrives home on the first of every month. "My daughter was going to playschool until Covid-19 hit," says Sekhar, who works at a consulting firm in Chennai. "The school continued with online classes but since my wife and I work, we found it was difficult to manage school timings. With a home-delivered preschool kit, we get activities for each day of the month, along with all the material required. With her regular playschool we would struggle to get art and craft supplies to complete the activities." It makes business sense too, say those in the space. Chennai-based Flinto Learning Solutions, for instance, which focuses on early childhood education, has reportedly raised $7 million in funding to expand Flintoclass@Home, its preschool-in-a-box. "We kickstarted the model 20 days into lockdown," says Arunprasad Durairaj, CEO and co-founder of Flinto. They’ve already had 3,000 enrolments for their online-offline blended learning model, and are growing at 250% every month. The pricing too works in their favour as it is less than half of a preschool’s fee. While the sector in India is fragmented, globally, the early childhood learning market is expected to reach $2.9 billion by 2022. Viswanathan Ramakrishnan, founder of Magic Crate, says since lockdown they have been growing at three times their pace. "We were prepared for the usual summer spike but the number of lockdown subscriptions is much more than we anticipated," he says Ramakrishnan. At city-based Geekz Microschool, Sridhar Gopalaswamy has a ‘school at your own pace’ system, with lesson plans tailored to a child’s interest and skill. "Our entire curriculum is on a learning platform, which children can access whenever they want. We complement it with live virtual sessions with a teacher thrice a week so children get to interact with others," he says. "We are now getting enrolments from other countries because parents like the fluid online-offline structure of the curriculum we have developed." Now, while Sekhar likes the preschool-in-a-box that allows him to pace his daughter’s learning, the drawback, he says, is that it is not as interactive as an actual classroom session. "The online lessons too are pre-recorded so it is not customized to a child’s needs." In a rating that the organisation Early Childhood Association did of the different ways that preschool and kindergarten classes are being conducted during lockdown, online blended learning with synchronous classroom sessions and asynchronous activities for the child scored the highest as it was safe and offered scope for both social and cognitive development. "Home schooling and preschool-in-a-box concepts come a close second, losing out in terms of social development," says Swati Popat, president of ECA. "Preschool teachers do more than facilitate arts and craft projects through the day. They help children understand themselves. These are skills taught to teachers as part of their degree, and come with experience." Parents can teach children at home, if they have the time and patience, says Popat. "But at present, parents are working from home and are undergoing excessive stress due to job loss, salary deferment and so on. In such a scenario parents would not have the time to maintain a routine, or the patience to plan educational activities," she says. An ECA survey during lockdown found more than 50% of parents saying managing online learning a challenge. Some parents have opted out of schooling for the year, but Popat believes missing school would mean a loss in brain development, language stimulation, socio-emotional development and cognitive nurturing for children aged between 3 and 6, if not supported by quality interactions at home by parents. "Teachers know how to balance onscreen and offscreen time, connect socially, how to give instructions with a purpose to get children to understand emotion, fine and gross motor development," says Popat. So, while a box is great, parents need to think outside of it as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wheres-the-preschool-in-a-box-at-your-door/articleshow/77043477.cms||Kamini Mathai
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Man gets life sentence for raping teen daughter||KOTA: A POCSO court in Baran district on Friday convicted a 63-year-old man to life in jail for raping his 13-year-old daughter in his house over two-and-a-half years ago. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 on the convict. Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Court-1 of Baran district on Friday convicted Bhagwan Lal Galav, resident of Mamli village under Nahargarh police station, to life term in jail till natural death for raping his teen daughter, public prosecutor (PP), POCSO Court–1 Ghansilal Verma said. The convict, on the night of December 1, 2017, raped his daughter, a student of class 7, while she was asleep with him in a room in his house and other members of the family being in next room, the PP said. The minor survivor narrated her ordeal to her mother the next day following which the daughter –mother duo approached Nahargarh police station and lodged a case of rape against the father under section 376 of IPC and Section of POCSO Act, he said. The special judge of POCSO court – 1, Rakesh Katara, following the trial, held Bhagwan Lal guilty of rape under Section 376 of IPC and section of POCSO Act and convicted him to life term in jail till natural death, Verma said. The crime of rape with minor daughter reflected distorted mentality and moral degradation and also hurts the self respect of woman and if the accused of such crime escapes punishment it would invite distrust of people upon the law and legal system, the special judge of POCSO court observed while delivering the verdict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/man-gets-life-sentence-for-raping-teen-daughter/articleshow/77046929.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot meets governor with MLAs’ list||JAIPU: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot met governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday evening to submit a list of MLAs supporting him, raising the possibility of a brief assembly session next week for the government to seek a trust vote against the backdrop of the revolt by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators. The meeting at Raj Bhavan lasted 45 minutes, during which Gehlot is understood to have proposed convening an assembly session by Wednesday. Congress insiders wouldn’t give numbers, but said the CM was confident of winning the trial of strength. “The assembly session will pave the way for stern action against Pilot and his band of rebel MLAs,” a senior party office-bearer said. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal confirmed to TOI that Gehlot submitted a list of MLAs to the governor and that the figure was well above the majority mark of 101 in the 200-member assembly. Congress has 107 MLAs, 19 of whom constitute the rival Pilot camp. On whether Gehlot himself requested an assembly session to prove his government’s majority, Dhariwal said, “The CM meeting the governor does not mean it is for an assembly session.” The minister, however, didn’t contest the buzz that a floor test is just a few days away. “If the government clears the trust vote now, the law does not permit another one for six months,” he said. Sources said the Gehlot government was more than eager to get a floor test out of the way because proving its majority would help it counter the Pilot camp’s plea in the Rajasthan high court that a party whip is not binding on MLAs when the House isn’t in session. Speaker CP Joshi had issued defection notices to Pilot and 18 of his supporters on the basis of a complaint that they had defied a party whip and skipped consecutive CLP meetings. If an assembly session is called in the next few days, Pilot and the MLAs supporting him would have to return to Jaipur or face disqualification under the anti-defection law for defying a fresh party whip, sources said. New PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said the party was sure to get support from at least a couple of the MLAs being “held” in a resort in Haryana’s Manesar. Ailing social justice minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal has been in hospital since May 13 and is, therefore, unlikely to participate in a floor test should the governor ask for one. Congress will then be left with 87 MLAs on Gehlot's side. Meanwhile, the Gehlot government got a fillip when the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has two MLAs, returned to its fold. The Gujarat-based party had been previously supporting the state government, but chose to stay neutral when the political crisis triggered by Pilot’s revolt intensified last week. Besides the two BTP MLAs, Congress has the support of one RLD legislator in Subhash Garg, who is the minister of state for health. The two CPM MLAs in the House had been supporting the government prior to the crisis. “Our party has not taken any stand so far on supporting the Congress government if there is a floor test, but we will not support BJP and those helping it,” CPM state secretary Amra Ram told TOI on Saturday. The support of independent legislators would be crucial for the government to survive. Of the 13 independent MLAs who were with the Congress prior to the crisis, three were in Manesar until they were whisked away to an undisclosed location when an SOG team reached there on Friday evening. Congress has been claiming the support of the remaining 10 independent MLAs who are currently corralled with its MLAs in a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gehlot-meets-guv-with-mlas-list/articleshow/77045786.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot meets governor with MLAs’ list||JAIPU: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot met governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday evening to submit a list of MLAs supporting him, raising the possibility of a brief assembly session next week for the government to seek a trust vote against the backdrop of the revolt by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators. The meeting at Raj Bhavan lasted 45 minutes, during which Gehlot is understood to have proposed convening an assembly session by Wednesday. Congress insiders wouldn’t give numbers, but said the CM was confident of winning the trial of strength. “The assembly session will pave the way for stern action against Pilot and his band of rebel MLAs,” a senior party office-bearer said. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal confirmed to TOI that Gehlot submitted a list of MLAs to the governor and that the figure was well above the majority mark of 101 in the 200-member assembly. Congress has 107 MLAs, 19 of whom constitute the rival Pilot camp. On whether Gehlot himself requested an assembly session to prove his government’s majority, Dhariwal said, “The CM meeting the governor does not mean it is for an assembly session.” The minister, however, didn’t contest the buzz that a floor test is just a few days away. “If the government clears the trust vote now, the law does not permit another one for six months,” he said. Sources said the Gehlot government was more than eager to get a floor test out of the way because proving its majority would help it counter the Pilot camp’s plea in the Rajasthan high court that a party whip is not binding on MLAs when the House isn’t in session. Speaker CP Joshi had issued defection notices to Pilot and 18 of his supporters on the basis of a complaint that they had defied a party whip and skipped consecutive CLP meetings. If an assembly session is called in the next few days, Pilot and the MLAs supporting him would have to return to Jaipur or face disqualification under the anti-defection law for defying a fresh party whip, sources said. New PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said the party was sure to get support from at least a couple of the MLAs being “held” in a resort in Haryana’s Manesar. Ailing social justice minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal has been in hospital since May 13 and is, therefore, unlikely to participate in a floor test should the governor ask for one. Congress will then be left with 87 MLAs on Gehlot's side. Meanwhile, the Gehlot government got a fillip when the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has two MLAs, returned to its fold. The Gujarat-based party had been previously supporting the state government, but chose to stay neutral when the political crisis triggered by Pilot’s revolt intensified last week. Besides the two BTP MLAs, Congress has the support of one RLD legislator in Subhash Garg, who is the minister of state for health. The two CPM MLAs in the House had been supporting the government prior to the crisis. “Our party has not taken any stand so far on supporting the Congress government if there is a floor test, but we will not support BJP and those helping it,” CPM state secretary Amra Ram told TOI on Saturday. The support of independent legislators would be crucial for the government to survive. Of the 13 independent MLAs who were with the Congress prior to the crisis, three were in Manesar until they were whisked away to an undisclosed location when an SOG team reached there on Friday evening. Congress has been claiming the support of the remaining 10 independent MLAs who are currently corralled with its MLAs in a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gehlot-meets-guv-with-mlas-list/articleshow/77045787.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||BSF constable collapses in weight loss workshop, dies||JAISALMER: A BSF constable, who had come to participate in a weight loss workshop at STC of BSF in Jodhpur, collapsed while taking a walk on Saturday. He was taken to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. BSF DG S S Deshwal is running a campaign for weight loss at various training centres, wherein various workshops and programmes are being organised, which are being attended by overweight BSF jawans and officers deployed at the borders. The incident is said to be a setback to the campaign. This is the second phase of the campaign. Earlier in the first phase, total 25 officers including four from Rajasthan took part. BSF senior officer, confirming the incident, said that constable Vinod Singh (45) of 114th battalion in Khaujuwala area in Bikaner sector, a resident of Delhi, was taking part in the workshop organised at Jodhpur to reduce weight. On Saturday, under the prescribed activities, he was walking and after covering more than a kilometre, he suddenly collapsed and was immediately taken to the hospital, where he was declared dead. His weight was reportedly around 150kg. It is to be mentioned that Deshwal last month had issued an order, directing overweight jawans and officers to reduce weight. In May, Deshwal had come to Shahgarh Bulj border area in Jaisalmer and walked 50km to boost the morale of the jawans and officers deployed on duty amid the pandemic. It is said that many officers could not walk with him for long and Deshwal did not like this. He then issued directions with regard to reducing weight of jawans. The first phase was organized from June 8 to June 30 in which 24 DIG commandants were selected and were sent to Tekanpur in Gwalior and three officers also took part in it. In the next phase, many DIG commandants were sent to Tekanpur to reduce weight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bsf-constable-collapses-in-weight-loss-workshop-dies/articleshow/77047183.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||BSF constable collapses in weight loss workshop, dies||JAISALMER: A BSF constable, who had come to participate in a weight loss workshop at STC of BSF in Jodhpur, collapsed while taking a walk on Saturday. He was taken to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. BSF DG S S Deshwal is running a campaign for weight loss at various training centres, wherein various workshops and programmes are being organised, which are being attended by overweight BSF jawans and officers deployed at the borders. The incident is said to be a setback to the campaign. This is the second phase of the campaign. Earlier in the first phase, total 25 officers including four from Rajasthan took part. BSF senior officer, confirming the incident, said that constable Vinod Singh (45) of 114th battalion in Khaujuwala area in Bikaner sector, a resident of Delhi, was taking part in the workshop organised at Jodhpur to reduce weight. On Saturday, under the prescribed activities, he was walking and after covering more than a kilometre, he suddenly collapsed and was immediately taken to the hospital, where he was declared dead. His weight was reportedly around 150kg. It is to be mentioned that Deshwal last month had issued an order, directing overweight jawans and officers to reduce weight. In May, Deshwal had come to Shahgarh Bulj border area in Jaisalmer and walked 50km to boost the morale of the jawans and officers deployed on duty amid the pandemic. It is said that many officers could not walk with him for long and Deshwal did not like this. He then issued directions with regard to reducing weight of jawans. The first phase was organized from June 8 to June 30 in which 24 DIG commandants were selected and were sent to Tekanpur in Gwalior and three officers also took part in it. In the next phase, many DIG commandants were sent to Tekanpur to reduce weight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-constable-collapses-in-weight-loss-workshop-dies/articleshow/77044426.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Proposed: Energy park at Koradi, Buddhist theme park at Futala||Nagpur: Guardian minister Nitin Raut has proposed to develop two tourism hubs in the district — Buddhist Theme Park costing around Rs1,000 crore at Futala lake and an energy park costing around Rs125 crore with 121 feet statue of Lord Hanuman at Koradi. Architect Ashok Mokha made presentations about two projects at a meeting held on Saturday. Union minister Nitin Gadkari, home minister Anil Deshmukh and others were present. Raut, also energy minister, plans to showcase all types of power projects in the energy park which will come up adjacent to the Koradi temple. The park will have interpretation centre, miniature model of Koradi power station, solar energy garden, wind energy garden, biomass energy garden, small hydro energy garden, vocational training centre and outdoor games. Koradi temple has already been developed into a major pilgrimage centre in the last three years and new projects will transform it into a tourism hub. Raut said that Buddhist Theme Park will be developed in such a manner that it will also attract international tourists. It will come up on the lake. A presentation of the central business district along with the new Yashwant stadium, which was earlier proposed by Gadkari, was also made in the meeting. Raut said he will seek funds from CM Uddhav Thackeray, The ministers also took review of proposed redevelopment of Deshpande Hall, Nag Bhavan, collector office and wholesale flower market planned on APMC land opposite ST bus stand at Ganeshpeth. Shiv Sena MP Krupal Tumane, legislators Vikas Thakre (Congress) and Prakash Gajbhiye (NCP) were also present. None of the eight BJP legislators and mayor Sandip Joshi were reportedly invited for the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/proposed-energy-park-at-koradi-buddhist-theme-park-at-futala/articleshow/77044431.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot meets governor with MLAs’ list||JAIPU: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot met governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday evening to submit a list of MLAs supporting him, raising the possibility of a brief assembly session next week for the government to seek a trust vote against the backdrop of the revolt by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators. The meeting at Raj Bhavan lasted 45 minutes, during which Gehlot is understood to have proposed convening an assembly session by Wednesday. Congress insiders wouldn’t give numbers, but said the CM was confident of winning the trial of strength. “The assembly session will pave the way for stern action against Pilot and his band of rebel MLAs,” a senior party office-bearer said. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal confirmed to TOI that Gehlot submitted a list of MLAs to the governor and that the figure was well above the majority mark of 101 in the 200-member assembly. Congress has 107 MLAs, 19 of whom constitute the rival Pilot camp. On whether Gehlot himself requested an assembly session to prove his government’s majority, Dhariwal said, “The CM meeting the governor does not mean it is for an assembly session.” The minister, however, didn’t contest the buzz that a floor test is just a few days away. “If the government clears the trust vote now, the law does not permit another one for six months,” he said. Sources said the Gehlot government was more than eager to get a floor test out of the way because proving its majority would help it counter the Pilot camp’s plea in the Rajasthan high court that a party whip is not binding on MLAs when the House isn’t in session. Speaker CP Joshi had issued defection notices to Pilot and 18 of his supporters on the basis of a complaint that they had defied a party whip and skipped consecutive CLP meetings. If an assembly session is called in the next few days, Pilot and the MLAs supporting him would have to return to Jaipur or face disqualification under the anti-defection law for defying a fresh party whip, sources said. New PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said the party was sure to get support from at least a couple of the MLAs being “held” in a resort in Haryana’s Manesar. Ailing social justice minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal has been in hospital since May 13 and is, therefore, unlikely to participate in a floor test should the governor ask for one. Congress will then be left with 87 MLAs on Gehlot's side. Meanwhile, the Gehlot government got a fillip when the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has two MLAs, returned to its fold. The Gujarat-based party had been previously supporting the state government, but chose to stay neutral when the political crisis triggered by Pilot’s revolt intensified last week. Besides the two BTP MLAs, Congress has the support of one RLD legislator in Subhash Garg, who is the minister of state for health. The two CPM MLAs in the House had been supporting the government prior to the crisis. “Our party has not taken any stand so far on supporting the Congress government if there is a floor test, but we will not support BJP and those helping it,” CPM state secretary Amra Ram told TOI on Saturday. The support of independent legislators would be crucial for the government to survive. Of the 13 independent MLAs who were with the Congress prior to the crisis, three were in Manesar until they were whisked away to an undisclosed location when an SOG team reached there on Friday evening. Congress has been claiming the support of the remaining 10 independent MLAs who are currently corralled with its MLAs in a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gehlot-meets-guv-with-mlas-list/articleshow/77045789.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot meets governor with MLAs’ list||JAIPU: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot met governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday evening to submit a list of MLAs supporting him, raising the possibility of a brief assembly session next week for the government to seek a trust vote against the backdrop of the revolt by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators. The meeting at Raj Bhavan lasted 45 minutes, during which Gehlot is understood to have proposed convening an assembly session by Wednesday. Congress insiders wouldn’t give numbers, but said the CM was confident of winning the trial of strength. “The assembly session will pave the way for stern action against Pilot and his band of rebel MLAs,” a senior party office-bearer said. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal confirmed to TOI that Gehlot submitted a list of MLAs to the governor and that the figure was well above the majority mark of 101 in the 200-member assembly. Congress has 107 MLAs, 19 of whom constitute the rival Pilot camp. On whether Gehlot himself requested an assembly session to prove his government’s majority, Dhariwal said, “The CM meeting the governor does not mean it is for an assembly session.” The minister, however, didn’t contest the buzz that a floor test is just a few days away. “If the government clears the trust vote now, the law does not permit another one for six months,” he said. Sources said the Gehlot government was more than eager to get a floor test out of the way because proving its majority would help it counter the Pilot camp’s plea in the Rajasthan high court that a party whip is not binding on MLAs when the House isn’t in session. Speaker CP Joshi had issued defection notices to Pilot and 18 of his supporters on the basis of a complaint that they had defied a party whip and skipped consecutive CLP meetings. If an assembly session is called in the next few days, Pilot and the MLAs supporting him would have to return to Jaipur or face disqualification under the anti-defection law for defying a fresh party whip, sources said. New PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said the party was sure to get support from at least a couple of the MLAs being “held” in a resort in Haryana’s Manesar. Ailing social justice minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal has been in hospital since May 13 and is, therefore, unlikely to participate in a floor test should the governor ask for one. Congress will then be left with 87 MLAs on Gehlot's side. Meanwhile, the Gehlot government got a fillip when the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has two MLAs, returned to its fold. The Gujarat-based party had been previously supporting the state government, but chose to stay neutral when the political crisis triggered by Pilot’s revolt intensified last week. Besides the two BTP MLAs, Congress has the support of one RLD legislator in Subhash Garg, who is the minister of state for health. The two CPM MLAs in the House had been supporting the government prior to the crisis. “Our party has not taken any stand so far on supporting the Congress government if there is a floor test, but we will not support BJP and those helping it,” CPM state secretary Amra Ram told TOI on Saturday. The support of independent legislators would be crucial for the government to survive. Of the 13 independent MLAs who were with the Congress prior to the crisis, three were in Manesar until they were whisked away to an undisclosed location when an SOG team reached there on Friday evening. Congress has been claiming the support of the remaining 10 independent MLAs who are currently corralled with its MLAs in a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-meets-guv-with-mlas-list/articleshow/77044833.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man gets life sentence for raping teen daughter||KOTA: A POCSO court in Baran district on Friday convicted a 63-year-old man to life in jail for raping his 13-year-old daughter in his house over two-and-a-half years ago. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 on the convict. Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Court-1 of Baran district on Friday convicted Bhagwan Lal Galav, resident of Mamli village under Nahargarh police station, to life term in jail till natural death for raping his teen daughter, public prosecutor (PP), POCSO Court–1 Ghansilal Verma said. The convict, on the night of December 1, 2017, raped his daughter, a student of class 7, while she was asleep with him in a room in his house and other members of the family being in next room, the PP said. The minor survivor narrated her ordeal to her mother the next day following which the daughter –mother duo approached Nahargarh police station and lodged a case of rape against the father under section 376 of IPC and Section of POCSO Act, he said. The special judge of POCSO court – 1, Rakesh Katara, following the trial, held Bhagwan Lal guilty of rape under Section 376 of IPC and section of POCSO Act and convicted him to life term in jail till natural death, Verma said. The crime of rape with minor daughter reflected distorted mentality and moral degradation and also hurts the self respect of woman and if the accused of such crime escapes punishment it would invite distrust of people upon the law and legal system, the special judge of POCSO court observed while delivering the verdict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-gets-life-sentence-for-raping-teen-daughter/articleshow/77044434.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||NREGA: 14 Rajasthan districts fare poorly in personday generation by SC/STs||JAIPUR: As against the sensitivity index vision of 52.7%, the state’s performance has been 87.1% (i.e., 45.9% of the total target of 52.7%), which is rated as poor so far as generating persondays by the SCs and STs is concerned. Of the 33 districts, the performances of 14 districts have been rated as poor with respect to the target given to them. With the deep-rooted caste factor in the state, the tendency to capture works in the rural areas by those belonging to upper caste is quite widespread, say officials. “Social exclusion of SCs and STs takes place when they are not given work despite having work in a village (or gram panchayat). They are often told that there aren’t sufficient number of works under the scheme in that village. It is being done to exclude those belonging to SC and ST categories (in a village where people belonging to upper caste are dominant),” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “As per the target set for the districts, 95 to 100 per cent target is realistic and quite doable. Anything between 95 and 90 per cent is average and anything below 90 per cent achievement is rated as poor performance. Separate targets have been set for different districts,” he said. Among the districts that have achieved a target of 100 per cent and above (against the vision) are: Ganganagar, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Dungarpur, Karauli, Baran and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-14-dists-fare-poorly-in-personday-generation-by-sc/sts/articleshow/77044439.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||NREGA: 14 Rajasthan districts fare poorly in personday generation by SC/STs||JAIPUR: As against the sensitivity index vision of 52.7%, the state’s performance has been 87.1% (i.e., 45.9% of the total target of 52.7%), which is rated as poor so far as generating persondays by the SCs and STs is concerned. Of the 33 districts, the performances of 14 districts have been rated as poor with respect to the target given to them. With the deep-rooted caste factor in the state, the tendency to capture works in the rural areas by those belonging to upper caste is quite widespread, say officials. “Social exclusion of SCs and STs takes place when they are not given work despite having work in a village (or gram panchayat). They are often told that there aren’t sufficient number of works under the scheme in that village. It is being done to exclude those belonging to SC and ST categories (in a village where people belonging to upper caste are dominant),” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “As per the target set for the districts, 95 to 100 per cent target is realistic and quite doable. Anything between 95 and 90 per cent is average and anything below 90 per cent achievement is rated as poor performance. Separate targets have been set for different districts,” he said. Among the districts that have achieved a target of 100 per cent and above (against the vision) are: Ganganagar, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Dungarpur, Karauli, Baran and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/nrega-14-dists-fare-poorly-in-personday-generation-by-sc/sts/articleshow/77046211.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha excludes biometric Aadhaar verification from PDS||BHUBANESWAR: Biometric Aadhaar authentication using fingerprint and iris scanner will no longer be needed while distributing PDS commodities through e-POS devices. Food supplies and consumer welfare secretary V V Yadav issued instructions to this effect to all collectors. They have been asked to issue the necessary instructions to field-level functionaries. Instructions have also been issued to ensure social distancing while distribution of PDS commodities. The decision has been taken keeping in mind the rise of Covid cases in the state, said a senior government official. The government has provided advance ration of three months (April-June) at one go to nearly 94 lakh households covered under the national and state food security schemes. Financial assistance of Rs 1,000 was also given to the beneficiaries. Similarly, under the Under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, food security beneficiaries have been receiving 5 kg rice per head for three months and 1 kg dal per family for three months free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-excludes-biometric-aadhaar-verification-from-pds/articleshow/77043494.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||NREGA: 14 Rajasthan districts fare poorly in personday generation by SC/STs||JAIPUR: As against the sensitivity index vision of 52.7%, the state’s performance has been 87.1% (i.e., 45.9% of the total target of 52.7%), which is rated as poor so far as generating persondays by the SCs and STs is concerned. Of the 33 districts, the performances of 14 districts have been rated as poor with respect to the target given to them. With the deep-rooted caste factor in the state, the tendency to capture works in the rural areas by those belonging to upper caste is quite widespread, say officials. “Social exclusion of SCs and STs takes place when they are not given work despite having work in a village (or gram panchayat). They are often told that there aren’t sufficient number of works under the scheme in that village. It is being done to exclude those belonging to SC and ST categories (in a village where people belonging to upper caste are dominant),” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “As per the target set for the districts, 95 to 100 per cent target is realistic and quite doable. Anything between 95 and 90 per cent is average and anything below 90 per cent achievement is rated as poor performance. Separate targets have been set for different districts,” he said. Among the districts that have achieved a target of 100 per cent and above (against the vision) are: Ganganagar, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Dungarpur, Karauli, Baran and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/nrega-14-dists-fare-poorly-in-personday-generation-by-sc/sts/articleshow/77046212.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 19, 2020||Goa||Bengaluru tourist at Calangute tests +ve, Goa adds 180 new cases||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 count shot up to 1,425 on Saturday after the detection of 180 new positive cases. The state’s total number of recoveries, meanwhile, crossed the 2,000 mark, after 92 patients were cured and discharged. Among the day’s new cases was a Bengaluru tourist staying in Calangute with her husband. Two doctors at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, also tested positive, as did one of the hospital’s cleaning staff. Dean Dr S M Bandekar said that the doctors probably caught the infection from their patients. Also, refuting allegations that the hospital discriminates against patients from Vasco, he said that the doctors have no option but to examine patients coming from the port town with caution, but that none were turned down. “Over the past few days, all patients coming from Vasco have tested positive,” Bandekar said. “We have to take precautions while treating them so as to prevent the infection from spreading to the hospital.” The dean’s comments came after allegations from a hospital employee, a resident of Vasco, who said in a video that went viral that his wife, a patient, was discriminated against when they went to the hospital. Bandekar said that the staffer’s wife was examined by GMC doctors, and yet he made allegations against the hospital which are completely baseless. He also said that an orthopedic doctor contracted the virus after he treated a patient from Vasco who came with a fracture. Meanwhile, the health department on Saturday modified its format of releasing Covid data. From sharing the break-up of active cases localtion-wise, it has started publishing data from individual primary, urban and community health centres. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said that the change was made because local authorities told the health department that in the bulletin, the description of the area or village is not accurate. “The health officers on the ground know exactly which areas have positive cases,” she said. Panaji saw its Covid-19 tally rise to eight, which includes employees of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). To contain any possible spread, swabs of over 100 people from St Inez, the city market and adjoining areas were collected on Saturday. Test reports are expected in two days. Meanwhile, areas that reported a rise in cases, besides Vasco, are Colvale, Corlim, Chimbel, Margao, Cortalim, Loutolim, Shiroda, Porvorim, Dharbandora and Navelim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bengaluru-tourist-at-calangute-tests-ve-state-adds-180-new-cases/articleshow/77044707.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||NREGA: 14 Rajasthan districts fare poorly in personday generation by SC/STs||JAIPUR: As against the sensitivity index vision of 52.7%, the state’s performance has been 87.1% (i.e., 45.9% of the total target of 52.7%), which is rated as poor so far as generating persondays by the SCs and STs is concerned. Of the 33 districts, the performances of 14 districts have been rated as poor with respect to the target given to them. With the deep-rooted caste factor in the state, the tendency to capture works in the rural areas by those belonging to upper caste is quite widespread, say officials. “Social exclusion of SCs and STs takes place when they are not given work despite having work in a village (or gram panchayat). They are often told that there aren’t sufficient number of works under the scheme in that village. It is being done to exclude those belonging to SC and ST categories (in a village where people belonging to upper caste are dominant),” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “As per the target set for the districts, 95 to 100 per cent target is realistic and quite doable. Anything between 95 and 90 per cent is average and anything below 90 per cent achievement is rated as poor performance. Separate targets have been set for different districts,” he said. Among the districts that have achieved a target of 100 per cent and above (against the vision) are: Ganganagar, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Dungarpur, Karauli, Baran and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/nrega-14-dists-fare-poorly-in-personday-generation-by-sc/sts/articleshow/77046213.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 19, 2020||Chennai||Welcome to the cloud club||CHENNAI: In a rainy Sunday evening a few weeks ago, Geetha Natarajan drew up the blinds, switched on warm lights, logged on to Instagram for DJ Prashanth Amir’s set. It was the party she’d been waiting for months into the lockdown. Before Covid-19, Geetha, who works with an e-tail company in Chennai, would have rewarded herself for a productive week by dancing till dawn at the city’s choicest dance floors. Now, for revellers like her, the club has moved to the cloud, as DJs and bars host livestreams of popular sets for partygoers to celebrate in the comfort of their homes. "I know much of this could be done anytime — on YouTube or Spotify. But the knowledge that you’re listening to a live gig is exciting, and you can place requests too," says Geetha. Days into lockdown, several independent musicians and DJs began finding creative ways to produce and present work online, while trying to keep their own spirits up. But as the internet began exploding with content, and hotels and bars shut doors, the creatives have been going the extra mile to monetise their work as well as get educated on a new market of internet partiers. DJs Arjun Nair and Nishanth Naidu from ANSWER Music did this through ‘Safe and Sound’, a social distancing party experiment in association with Bengaluru’s co-working and co-living space The Hub and The Unscripted, in June. The duo brought together 15 people — mostly quarantined residents of The Hub — masked, and at a distance of six feet from each other, and played a 45-minute set for them. This was livestreamed by The Park, Chennai, Vh1 Supersonic and many others on their social media pages. "Our research showed the risk of transmission was negligible within a group, separated by six feet in an open space. We ensured that their health status was cleared on the Aarogya Setu app," says Arjun. "We wanted to create a model of clubbing that could be followed and would instil confidence in people that a well-regulated space like this was safe to visit." Arjun and Nishanth are looking at ways to monetise the second edition of ‘Safe and Sound,’ tying up with ancillary brands on the lookout for fresh content and a pay-as-you-wish format. Even as those like Sunburn offer virtual festivals for `99 per head, bigger artists like Nucleya do Virtual Reality concerts, and talks of drive-in gigs make the rounds, smaller artists have to stay technologically adept and marketable. Prashanth, in-house DJ at Hyatt Regency’s 365 AS, joined hands with visual artists Akil T3k and NME to provide whimsical background art for the gigs he recorded and live streamed from home. "Artist management companies and clubs too want to stay afloat and a little novelty in production goes a long way in getting them to see you," says Prashanth, who has also been doing 90-minute sets for corporate virtual parties. Prashanth, along with entrepreneur Arasu Dennis and a few others, has started a company that provides end-to-end solutions, including sanitisation of space, audio equipment and lights for house parties during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/welcome-to-the-cloud-club/articleshow/77043489.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nashik||3, including Mumbai cop on leave, drown in Valdevi dam||Nashik: Three people, from a group of 4 picnickers, drowned in the Valdevi dam water on Saturday afternoon. One of the deceased was a constable in Mumbai police, who had come home on leave. The deceased have been identified as Mangesh Bagul (33), a resident of Pathardi Phata, Vaibhav Pawar(26), a resident of Uttam Nagar Cidco and Mangesh Lalge (33), a resident of Pawan Nagar. Bagul was a constable in Mumbai Police. The survivor is Ganesh Jadhav, a 32-year-old marketing firm employee. The dam falls within the jurisdiction of Wadivarhe police. Inspector Vishwajeet Jadhav said the four individuals had gone to the dam for a picnic. None of them knew how to swim and, therefore, initially, stayed close to the edge of the waterbody, said the survivor. However, one of the three soon ventured deeper into the water and started drowning. The other two men tried to help, but also started drowning. Ganesh Jadhav, who had stayed on the banks, shouted for help and people from the neighbourhood rushed to the rescue. But it was too late, said the police. The bodies have been taken to the civil hospital for post-mortem, the police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-including-mumbai-cop-on-leave-drown-in-valdevi-dam/articleshow/77042766.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nashik||Temporary suspension of 43 bus driver-cum-conductors||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has temporarily suspended the services of its 43 driver-cum-conductors posted in Nashik district after most of their buses have not been put to use ever since the lockdown began in March. These conductors were recruited in the MSRTC’s drive in 2019. The decision to suspend the services of these conductors came after the central office of the MSRTC said that their bus sevices were cancelled across the state since March 24 due to the lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19 outbreak.According to MSRTC officials, none of the buses across the state had plied since the lockdown began even as some services – a very thin number – resumed during the unlock period. “The number of buses restarting services was too small as compared to the staff. Also, the buses were allowed to ply only in green zones located outside the taluka and the district headquarters. In addition, shopping complexes, entertainment and education institutions are closed cutting down the need to travel and, hence, the number of travelers is also very thin,” an MSRTC officer said. There are around 3,100 drivers working the the MSRTC, of which, less than 300 are back on duty on alternate basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/temporary-suspension-of-43-bus-driver-cum-conductors/articleshow/77042773.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||Sachin Pilot stifling SOG probe with BJP support in Haryana: Govind Singh Dotasra||JAIPUR: Newly appointed Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday attacked his predecessor Sachin Pilot for allegedly colluding with the BJP government in Haryana to stifle the SOG probe in the horse trading of MLAs. The Congress state president said, “BJP central leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, should answer if BJP is not involved in the horse trading of MLAs then why did the BJP government in Haryana stop Rajasthan SOG from recording statements of accused MLAs.” He alleged the Haryana government used its police to whisk away the MLAs from a hotel in Manesar on Friday. Stressing that SOG was a body that can go anywhere to nab criminals, Dotasra said, “If state cops do not cooperate against criminals or if the local governments create hinders in probes, then there will be no rule of law in the country; there will be anarchy.” Dotasra said, “We expect other countries to deport our fugitives like Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi and here one state agency is restraining the other from questioning the accused.” The PCC chief referred to BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s press briefing on audio clips related to alleged buying of legislators and said, “BJP central leadership is indirectly acknowledging the horse trading of MLAs when Patra says ‘yes we stole, committed dacoity but how could you record it on camera’.” “Except for BJP, not a single of the 19 Congress MLAs, including MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, have said their phones were being tapped,” Patra said. Cabinet ministers Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Raghu Sharma too attacked Pilot for allegedly conspiring with the BJP to topple the state government. “I am sad Pilot held two posts—PCC chief and Dy CM—and still he left like this. He should have raised issues at the party forum instead of suddenly revolting. We will die but never join hands with the BJP that we opposed and defeated. We cannot cheat people who voted for us,” said Khachariyawas, the transport minister. Health minister Sharma said, “Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi are your (Pilot) counsels in the Rajasthan high court (for plea challenging Speaker’s defection notices). Who are they, don’t people know? You could have at least found lawyers of Congress ideology.” Sharma added, “The ITC hotel in Manesar has become a permanent den for toppling governments. The 22 MLAs from Madhya Pradesh were also held in this hotel (before change of Kamal Nath government). Rajasthan’s three independent MLAs (in Manesar) are being handled directly by the BJP, while the 19 Congress MLAs are being handled by Haryana’s Khattar government. However hard they may try but we will prove our majority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/pilot-stifling-sog-probe-with-bjp-support-in-hry-dotasra/articleshow/77045868.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot stifling SOG probe with BJP support in Haryana: Govind Singh Dotasra||JAIPUR: Newly appointed Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday attacked his predecessor Sachin Pilot for allegedly colluding with the BJP government in Haryana to stifle the SOG probe in the horse trading of MLAs. The Congress state president said, “BJP central leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, should answer if BJP is not involved in the horse trading of MLAs then why did the BJP government in Haryana stop Rajasthan SOG from recording statements of accused MLAs.” He alleged the Haryana government used its police to whisk away the MLAs from a hotel in Manesar on Friday. Stressing that SOG was a body that can go anywhere to nab criminals, Dotasra said, “If state cops do not cooperate against criminals or if the local governments create hinders in probes, then there will be no rule of law in the country; there will be anarchy.” Dotasra said, “We expect other countries to deport our fugitives like Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi and here one state agency is restraining the other from questioning the accused.” The PCC chief referred to BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s press briefing on audio clips related to alleged buying of legislators and said, “BJP central leadership is indirectly acknowledging the horse trading of MLAs when Patra says ‘yes we stole, committed dacoity but how could you record it on camera’.” “Except for BJP, not a single of the 19 Congress MLAs, including MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, have said their phones were being tapped,” Patra said. Cabinet ministers Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Raghu Sharma too attacked Pilot for allegedly conspiring with the BJP to topple the state government. “I am sad Pilot held two posts—PCC chief and Dy CM—and still he left like this. He should have raised issues at the party forum instead of suddenly revolting. We will die but never join hands with the BJP that we opposed and defeated. We cannot cheat people who voted for us,” said Khachariyawas, the transport minister. Health minister Sharma said, “Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi are your (Pilot) counsels in the Rajasthan high court (for plea challenging Speaker’s defection notices). Who are they, don’t people know? You could have at least found lawyers of Congress ideology.” Sharma added, “The ITC hotel in Manesar has become a permanent den for toppling governments. The 22 MLAs from Madhya Pradesh were also held in this hotel (before change of Kamal Nath government). Rajasthan’s three independent MLAs (in Manesar) are being handled directly by the BJP, while the 19 Congress MLAs are being handled by Haryana’s Khattar government. However hard they may try but we will prove our majority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-stifling-sog-probe-with-bjp-support-in-hry-dotasra/articleshow/77044835.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||Sachin Pilot stifling SOG probe with BJP support in Haryana: Govind Singh Dotasra||JAIPUR: Newly appointed Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday attacked his predecessor Sachin Pilot for allegedly colluding with the BJP government in Haryana to stifle the SOG probe in the horse trading of MLAs. The Congress state president said, “BJP central leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, should answer if BJP is not involved in the horse trading of MLAs then why did the BJP government in Haryana stop Rajasthan SOG from recording statements of accused MLAs.” He alleged the Haryana government used its police to whisk away the MLAs from a hotel in Manesar on Friday. Stressing that SOG was a body that can go anywhere to nab criminals, Dotasra said, “If state cops do not cooperate against criminals or if the local governments create hinders in probes, then there will be no rule of law in the country; there will be anarchy.” Dotasra said, “We expect other countries to deport our fugitives like Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi and here one state agency is restraining the other from questioning the accused.” The PCC chief referred to BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s press briefing on audio clips related to alleged buying of legislators and said, “BJP central leadership is indirectly acknowledging the horse trading of MLAs when Patra says ‘yes we stole, committed dacoity but how could you record it on camera’.” “Except for BJP, not a single of the 19 Congress MLAs, including MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, have said their phones were being tapped,” Patra said. Cabinet ministers Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Raghu Sharma too attacked Pilot for allegedly conspiring with the BJP to topple the state government. “I am sad Pilot held two posts—PCC chief and Dy CM—and still he left like this. He should have raised issues at the party forum instead of suddenly revolting. We will die but never join hands with the BJP that we opposed and defeated. We cannot cheat people who voted for us,” said Khachariyawas, the transport minister. Health minister Sharma said, “Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi are your (Pilot) counsels in the Rajasthan high court (for plea challenging Speaker’s defection notices). Who are they, don’t people know? You could have at least found lawyers of Congress ideology.” Sharma added, “The ITC hotel in Manesar has become a permanent den for toppling governments. The 22 MLAs from Madhya Pradesh were also held in this hotel (before change of Kamal Nath government). Rajasthan’s three independent MLAs (in Manesar) are being handled directly by the BJP, while the 19 Congress MLAs are being handled by Haryana’s Khattar government. However hard they may try but we will prove our majority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/pilot-stifling-sog-probe-with-bjp-support-in-hry-dotasra/articleshow/77045867.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid vaccine trial in Odisha to begin early next week||BHUBANESWAR: Human trials of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine (BBV152 Covid Vaccine) will begin in IMS and SUM Hospital here early next week. Trials have already started in some of the other designated centres in the country. “We will inaugurate the preventive and therapeutic vaccine trial centre in the hospital on Monday. All the arrangements are in place. The actual trial will start within a day or two of the inauguration of the centre,” said E Venkat Rao, professor of community medicine and principal investigator of the trial at SUM. The hospital will display the contact details of the centre on its website, so that prospective volunteers can contact it. The trial centre will record the details of those who volunteer to be part of the trial and get in touch them for further requirements, he said. After screening, the hospital will select suitable volunteers — healthy adults with no co-morbidities — after physical and laboratory examination based on the ICMR protocol. Once the subjects fulfil the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the trial centre will counsel them about the potential risks and obtain their consent before going ahead with the trial. The hospital will then work out suitable dates and times for the vaccination, Rao said. Those getting the vaccine will have to stay in the trial centre for around two hours for observation to rule out any possible complications. “Some volunteers have already contacted the institute but we can’t disclose their numbers and other details at this stage,” Rao said. The selected volunteers will get the vaccine in two doses with a 14-days gap in between. While some people will get the BBV152 Covid Vaccine or the test vaccine, others will get a control vaccine (an existing vaccine) as part of the experiment. This is the first indigenous vaccine developed by India and is derived from a strain of the SARS-CoV-2 isolated by ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune. The ICMR and Bharat Biotech are jointly working on the preclinical and clinical development of this vaccine. The SUM, a 1,600-bed teaching hospital, is among 13 medical institutes in the country, and the only one from Odisha, identified by the ICMR to take up the clinical trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-vaccine-trial-in-state-to-begin-early-next-week/articleshow/77043515.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Three blind students clear USS exam||KOCHI: In a major achievement for the School for the Blind, Aluva, three blind students have qualified for the state government’s Upper Secondary Scholarship (USS) as part of the Gifted Children programme. Manoj R, AIbin C Thomas and Govind T R, all Class VIII students, passed the exam scoring 72, 71 and 68 marks respectively out of 90. It is the first time a student from Aluva blind school qualifies the exam and all the three who have written the exam passed. These kids will be given financial support for their education and training will be imparted by the government as part of Gifted Children programme. “Even though our students had appeared for USS and LSS exams, none of them had qualified earlier. Though the exams are based on the syllabus they have studied till Class VII, the objective questions are tough and most students fail to qualify it. This time we had given special training to our kids. As they are blind and braille medium of exam is not allowed, the exams were written with the help of scribes, who are the students of other schools,” said headmistress Gigy Varghese. The training was given to the students from the beginning of 2019 academic year. The lessons were taught to them using audio lectures by experts. Though guidebooks are available it was not of much help to them. So the teachers read out and explained the textbooks and the recorded audio clips were provided to them. All the three students are active in extracurricular activities and have secured prizes in special kids’ youth fests. Aibin and Manoj have already got into headlines earlier when they swam across the Periyar overcoming their physical disabilities. The Kerala LSS and USS exams were conducted in February. The results of USS exams were announced by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday. These scholarship exams enable the students of Kerala state lower primary schools get financial support for their higher studies in school. The Gifted Child programme is in accordance with the international recommendations in science curriculum and evaluation standards for school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/three-blind-students-clear-uss-exam/articleshow/77043519.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Sachin Pilot stifling SOG probe with BJP support in Haryana: Govind Singh Dotasra||JAIPUR: Newly appointed Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday attacked his predecessor Sachin Pilot for allegedly colluding with the BJP government in Haryana to stifle the SOG probe in the horse trading of MLAs. The Congress state president said, “BJP central leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, should answer if BJP is not involved in the horse trading of MLAs then why did the BJP government in Haryana stop Rajasthan SOG from recording statements of accused MLAs.” He alleged the Haryana government used its police to whisk away the MLAs from a hotel in Manesar on Friday. Stressing that SOG was a body that can go anywhere to nab criminals, Dotasra said, “If state cops do not cooperate against criminals or if the local governments create hinders in probes, then there will be no rule of law in the country; there will be anarchy.” Dotasra said, “We expect other countries to deport our fugitives like Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi and here one state agency is restraining the other from questioning the accused.” The PCC chief referred to BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s press briefing on audio clips related to alleged buying of legislators and said, “BJP central leadership is indirectly acknowledging the horse trading of MLAs when Patra says ‘yes we stole, committed dacoity but how could you record it on camera’.” “Except for BJP, not a single of the 19 Congress MLAs, including MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, have said their phones were being tapped,” Patra said. Cabinet ministers Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Raghu Sharma too attacked Pilot for allegedly conspiring with the BJP to topple the state government. “I am sad Pilot held two posts—PCC chief and Dy CM—and still he left like this. He should have raised issues at the party forum instead of suddenly revolting. We will die but never join hands with the BJP that we opposed and defeated. We cannot cheat people who voted for us,” said Khachariyawas, the transport minister. Health minister Sharma said, “Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi are your (Pilot) counsels in the Rajasthan high court (for plea challenging Speaker’s defection notices). Who are they, don’t people know? You could have at least found lawyers of Congress ideology.” Sharma added, “The ITC hotel in Manesar has become a permanent den for toppling governments. The 22 MLAs from Madhya Pradesh were also held in this hotel (before change of Kamal Nath government). Rajasthan’s three independent MLAs (in Manesar) are being handled directly by the BJP, while the 19 Congress MLAs are being handled by Haryana’s Khattar government. However hard they may try but we will prove our majority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pilot-stifling-sog-probe-with-bjp-support-in-hry-dotasra/articleshow/77045866.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man found hanging from tree in Kanota||JAIPUR: A 30-year-old man was found hanging from a tree in Kanota police station area on Saturday. Though it appeared to be suicide, cops were yet to confirm it. A bag was found lying next to the body containing his mobile phone and laptop. The deceased was identified as Subodh Kumar Sharma. “The deceased was found hanging from a tree and had some injury marks on his feet which could have been due to climbing a wall following which he hung himself. The exact cause of the death will be confirmed after we receive the post-mortem report,” said an official of Kanota police station. According to officials, Sharma’s body was found close to a rented accommodation which he had vacated recently. The official said, “We also found a bag which had his mobile phone, laptop and few other things but there was no suicide note.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-found-hanging-from-tree-in-kanota/articleshow/77044444.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19 in Kerala: Household transmission, a concern in coastal clusters||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When it comes to dealing with coastal clusters, containment and complete lockdown are crucial but may only serve the purpose at the periphery as there are intricate and delicate aspects to be addressed among the coastal population. Going by the transmission trend at Poonthura cluster, the largest community cluster in the district, the health team had noted that there was significant household transmission rate within the family and among neighbourhood mostly through housewives. While drivers, fish merchants and people associated with auction contracted infection initially, the next level of transmission happened within the family and a good percentage of joint families in the coastal community added to the challenge. In the first week of huge spike in cases, especially from Poonthura cluster, 18% of positive cases reported in the district were children and the elderly people – from a four-month-old baby to an 85-year-old woman. And 95 of the 521 cases in first seven days of the outbreak, specifically in coastal areas, were kids or elderly who were usually confined to households. Although internal and external movements are largely restricted by lockdown to check secondary transmission, the progression of disease within the community happened mainly due to household transmission and interactions among closely-knit families, said health officials. "It results in a situation where cases that should be 1 or 2 would become 4 or 6. The nature of the community is that they are mostly large families in a densely-populated area, factors which are more or less similar along the coastal belt. It is difficult to ensure isolation in such a setting or to ask families that they ought to stay away from their family members because they may be ill. It’s more a sociological and emotional factor than disease control. We are not sure how to address this problem," a health official said. Poonthura had acted as a trigger for district authorities to bring the entire coastal belt under lockdown, but simultaneous emergence of cases at Pulluvila remained off radar for five days. Even as Poonthura cluster was presenting numerous cases, new cases were emerging from Pulluvila, Kottapuram, Perumathura and Venganoor. The timing of reporting has also been similar between Pulluvial and Poonthura, but focus was more on Poonthura in the first week of July. Even after 12-14 days and amid strict containment, cases are coming up from Poonthura showing wide prevalence of infection within the community. It is assessed that the present number of cases from Poonthura, even after a week of peak phase, would have been exposed between July 1-5 and they have now started presenting themselves. The health team hopes that Poonthura cluster would come down by July 20 and if that doesn’t happen, it would only mean that transmission chain couldn’t be broken even after two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/household-transmission-a-concern-in-coastal-clusters/articleshow/77042798.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Lockdown may further affect state's revenue||BHUBANESWAR: The 14-day lockdown in four major districts – Ganjam, Khurda, Cuttack and Jajpur as well as Rourkela Municipal Corporation—till end of the month is likely to impact the state’s revenue collection that has already recorded 23 per cent fall in the first three months (April-June) of the current fiscal. With movement of people restricted in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Berhampur, Rourkela and Jajpur as part of lockdown restrictions, experts feel it will hit the collection of taxes – mainly GST as commercial establishments are closed and VAT because of fall in sale of petrol and diesel. The state government earns a significant amount of revenue from both GST and VAT. Sanjay Lath, general secretary of Utkal Petroleum Dealers’ Association, said, “There will be around 65% fall in the sale of petrol and diesel in urban areas because of restrictions in movement of people in the major cities. This will definitely hit the collection of VAT from petrol and diesel.” As most of the commercial establishments are located in the four major cities, officials anticipate a nearly 40 per cent fall in GST collection. “Though the GST collection was affected in April and May, there was some improvement in June after the Centre announced Unlock-1. We expect a fall in collection of GST in July because of the current 14-day lockdown,” said a finance department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-may-further-affect-state-revenue/articleshow/77043503.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Education officer again fails to inform parents about webinar with district collector||NAGPUR: Nagpur education officer (primary) Chintaman Vanjari, it seems, is hell-bent on not learning from his past mistakes. The crucial Friday’s webinar with schools and parents had to be cancelled just because the officer did not inform parents about the meet. Yet again on Saturday, the officer did not publicly inform parents about the second crucial webinar with district collector Ravindra Thakare, causing only a handful of parents’ presence at the meet as “sole representatives” of thousand others. This webinar between parents, schools and district collector was organized in the backdrop of Vanjari’s open threat to file FIR against schools. The collector offered to mediate between all stakeholders after the complaints against Vanjari’s conduct filed with chief ministers office (CMO) and Thakare. Even though meeting was rescheduled today, education officer Vanjari failed to issue a public statement informing parents at large about the webinar. TOI sought a comment from Vanjari regarding modalities of selecting parents for the webinar, but he did not respond. A participant of the webinar said Vanjari’s FIR threats were due to schools conducting online classes till Std II, which the state government had disallowed in its June 15 circular. “Back then too, we told him that the June 15 circular is advisory in nature, not mandatory. But Vanjari was not in a mood to listen. Even Bombay high court has put a stay on coercive action against schools who hold online classes,” he said. At the meeting, it was clarified that online education for any class cannot be stopped, as demanded by some people. “The collector clarified that online classes can’t be mandatory either. A parent can opt out if he/she so wishes. About fee, the collector said that parents have to pay, albeit in instalments and schools cannot force that,” said the participant. RTE activist Shahid Sharif said issues related to RTE students could not be discussed at all. “There are schools demanding money from RTE students for online classes. That’s not allowed. But because of the education officer not informing us at all about the webinar, these things could not be discussed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/education-officer-again-fails-to-inform-parents-about-webinar-with-district-collector/articleshow/77044443.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid delays installation of radars at Jaipur airport||JAIPUR: The outbreak of Covid-19 has affected everything and Jaipur airport is no exception. The installation and civil work related to two radars, Monopulse Secondary Surveillance Radar (MSSR) and Approach Surveillance Radar (ASR), got delayed due to the pandemic. The work was supposed to begin from March and end by June. Now, the work has started in July as tender process is over. The authorities claimed that it would be fully operational by December 2020. “We intended to get it completed by June. However, no work has been done for the last four months. We are able to start work and hopeful to get it completed by December 2020,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur airport. Two high-tech radars, which are presently installed at the Delhi and Kolkata airport, would enable the Jaipur airport authorities like air traffic controller (ATC). Flights handling capacity would also be increased. “With these high-tech radars, we would be able to handle landing of at least 30 flights in an hour. Also the ATC would be able to enhance the navigation which will further facilitate them in more landing and taking off even during peak hours,” Balhara added. Elaborating more on the radars, he said, “In rush hour, we have to keep some flights on hold as presently we can handle 11 flights per hour. But with these radars, this problem would be solved as we would be able to handle more flights.” Authorities claimed that the ATC of Jaipur airport which is also planning to have two airports to handle international and domestic operations would be better off with these two radars. “In near future, we are intending to keep Terminal 2 for the domestic operations and Sanganer airport for the international flights. So, with these radars, our work would be easier,” said a senior officer of ATC, Jaipur airport. Presently Jaipur airport is dependent on Delhi airport for navigation as Jaipur gets regular updates and intimation from the Delhi airport. “Firstly, we would have ASR and in next couple of months MSSR would also be installed. The radars would be able to locate and help in navigation for the aircrafts flying at a height of 15,000 feet near Jaipur airport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-delays-installation-of-radars-at-jaipur-airport/articleshow/77044449.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||No Covid-19 test for outpatients at private hospitals, labs in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Private hospitals and laboratories in the state will not be allowed to test outpatients for Covid-19. The state government has said corona tests would be conducted in all private hospitals and laboratories only for patients who are admitted. Patients having Covid symptoms but not willing to go to government clinical establishments are finding it difficult to get tests done as private hospitals are now asking them to get admitted following the state government’s order. Taking extra precaution for the safety of their healthcare staff, some private hospitals are conducting Covid tests on patients who arrive for treatment of cancer, surgeries, dialysis and other procedures. Even government-run SMS Hospital is conducting Covid tests of patients admitted for surgeries. The state government has learnt that at the OPDs of some private hospitals, patients are forced to get Covid tests done. Besides, if a patient gets tested for the virus at the OPD, it becomes difficult for the health authorities to locate the person. The Centre had issued directions to the state government on April 28 stating that doctors should not insist patients to get tests done at OPD of private hospitals before treating them. Moreover, ICMR guidelines also clarified that only symptomatic patients and those who were in close contact with Covid patients should get tested. A health department official said, “Unnecessary tests were done in OPD of private hospitals, which is why the decision was taken not to allow Covid testing in OPD of private hospitals.” Besides, the health department has also directed private hospitals that if a patient is tested positive, the facility will not deny him treatment and it should not force the patient to shift to a government hospital. In the state, 27 laboratories are authorised for Covid testing. In the recent past, there were instances in which the state government took help from private hospitals and laboratories to clear the backlog of samples collected for Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/no-covid-19-test-for-outpatientsat-private-hospitals-labs-in-state/articleshow/77047772.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||No Covid-19 test for outpatients at private hospitals, labs in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Private hospitals and laboratories in the state will not be allowed to test outpatients for Covid-19. The state government has said corona tests would be conducted in all private hospitals and laboratories only for patients who are admitted. Patients having Covid symptoms but not willing to go to government clinical establishments are finding it difficult to get tests done as private hospitals are now asking them to get admitted following the state government’s order. Taking extra precaution for the safety of their healthcare staff, some private hospitals are conducting Covid tests on patients who arrive for treatment of cancer, surgeries, dialysis and other procedures. Even government-run SMS Hospital is conducting Covid tests of patients admitted for surgeries. The state government has learnt that at the OPDs of some private hospitals, patients are forced to get Covid tests done. Besides, if a patient gets tested for the virus at the OPD, it becomes difficult for the health authorities to locate the person. The Centre had issued directions to the state government on April 28 stating that doctors should not insist patients to get tests done at OPD of private hospitals before treating them. Moreover, ICMR guidelines also clarified that only symptomatic patients and those who were in close contact with Covid patients should get tested. A health department official said, “Unnecessary tests were done in OPD of private hospitals, which is why the decision was taken not to allow Covid testing in OPD of private hospitals.” Besides, the health department has also directed private hospitals that if a patient is tested positive, the facility will not deny him treatment and it should not force the patient to shift to a government hospital. In the state, 27 laboratories are authorised for Covid testing. In the recent past, there were instances in which the state government took help from private hospitals and laboratories to clear the backlog of samples collected for Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/no-covid-19-test-for-outpatientsat-private-hospitals-labs-in-state/articleshow/77047773.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||No Covid-19 test for outpatients at private hospitals, labs in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Private hospitals and laboratories in the state will not be allowed to test outpatients for Covid-19. The state government has said corona tests would be conducted in all private hospitals and laboratories only for patients who are admitted. Patients having Covid symptoms but not willing to go to government clinical establishments are finding it difficult to get tests done as private hospitals are now asking them to get admitted following the state government’s order. Taking extra precaution for the safety of their healthcare staff, some private hospitals are conducting Covid tests on patients who arrive for treatment of cancer, surgeries, dialysis and other procedures. Even government-run SMS Hospital is conducting Covid tests of patients admitted for surgeries. The state government has learnt that at the OPDs of some private hospitals, patients are forced to get Covid tests done. Besides, if a patient gets tested for the virus at the OPD, it becomes difficult for the health authorities to locate the person. The Centre had issued directions to the state government on April 28 stating that doctors should not insist patients to get tests done at OPD of private hospitals before treating them. Moreover, ICMR guidelines also clarified that only symptomatic patients and those who were in close contact with Covid patients should get tested. A health department official said, “Unnecessary tests were done in OPD of private hospitals, which is why the decision was taken not to allow Covid testing in OPD of private hospitals.” Besides, the health department has also directed private hospitals that if a patient is tested positive, the facility will not deny him treatment and it should not force the patient to shift to a government hospital. In the state, 27 laboratories are authorised for Covid testing. In the recent past, there were instances in which the state government took help from private hospitals and laboratories to clear the backlog of samples collected for Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/no-covid-19-test-for-outpatientsat-private-hospitals-labs-in-state/articleshow/77047775.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Infection of medical staff to put strain on health system||KOCHI: With more healthcare workers getting infected with Covid-19 in the state, experts are forecasting the chances of the healthcare system coming under a huge strain. While the government has taken safety precautions for staff in medical colleges and Covid treatment centres, such measures are not in place in other government hospitals as well as private hospitals. At least 14 doctors under directorate of health services (DHS) have tested positive for coronavirus. As of now, around 5,000 doctors, along with other healthcare staff with the health department, are caring for Covid-19 patients. “The rising number of cases among doctors and healthcare staff is a cause for concern. Besides the doctors working with hospitals under DHS, some doctors in medical colleges also have been infected. We don’t have the number of other healthcare staff who have contracted the disease. The number of persons testing positive has been increasing by day. We require more doctors and healthcare staff to deal with the situation. Chances of more healthcare staff contracting the disease in proportion with the growing number of positive cases among the public are high,” said Dr G P Vijayakrishnan, general secretary, Kerala Government Medical Officers Association. “This may lead to a crisis in the health sector,” he said. Indian Medical Association (IMA) office bearers in the state, have warned that the situation in Kerala is going to worsen. “When we started conducting tests, a few months ago, our testing rate was at 300 tests per million population. Now, it has increased to more than 9,000 tests per million population. So, the number of cases is also going up. Many doctors have been engaged in Covid treatment for the past six months. They may not be able to maintain constant vigil,” said Dr Abraham Varghese, state president, IMA. “No proper measures are in place in hospitals in the periphery,” a doctor with the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/infection-of-medical-staff-to-put-strain-on-health-system/articleshow/77042806.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Strictly enforce lockdown, show zero tolerance to cyber crimes: HM to cops||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday reviewed the law and order situation in the city. He urged cops to strictly enforce lockdown norms to ensure Covid distancing, use of masks and proper implementation of alternate day system for shops, especially in markets. The minister’s instructions regarding shops came in view of crowding at markets like Sitabuldi and Gokulpeth. Deshmukh, now camping in the city, has also asked cyber cops to show zero tolerance against objectionable posts on women and communally sensitive ones. He has also asked them to keep a tab on corona-related rumours and misinformation on social media. The home minister, in a first, has asked cops to slap preventive actions under section 107 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to keep a check on cyber violators and also engage services of IT experts to ensure quick and prompt actions. City police’s addl CP Nilesh Bharne apprised Deshmukh of warning issued to 400 people, 11 arrests in 12 offences and notices served to nine persons for various types of cyber offences during the lockdown. The HM urged senior government officials including collector and civic body chief to motivate plasma donors and encourage anti-body tests to reduce the mortality rate. The civic body officials were told to contemplate curtailing shop timing by two hours. Currently, shops are allowed to remain open from 9am to 7pm. After guardian minister Nitin Raut expressed disappointment over police going soft on violators, Deshmukh asked them to pull up their socks and act tough against violators. He also instructed the police department to ensure a peaceful festive season while following lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/strictly-enforce-lockdown-show-zero-tolerance-to-cyber-crimes-hm-to-cops/articleshow/77044455.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||No Covid-19 test for outpatients at private hospitals, labs in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Private hospitals and laboratories in the state will not be allowed to test outpatients for Covid-19. The state government has said corona tests would be conducted in all private hospitals and laboratories only for patients who are admitted. Patients having Covid symptoms but not willing to go to government clinical establishments are finding it difficult to get tests done as private hospitals are now asking them to get admitted following the state government’s order. Taking extra precaution for the safety of their healthcare staff, some private hospitals are conducting Covid tests on patients who arrive for treatment of cancer, surgeries, dialysis and other procedures. Even government-run SMS Hospital is conducting Covid tests of patients admitted for surgeries. The state government has learnt that at the OPDs of some private hospitals, patients are forced to get Covid tests done. Besides, if a patient gets tested for the virus at the OPD, it becomes difficult for the health authorities to locate the person. The Centre had issued directions to the state government on April 28 stating that doctors should not insist patients to get tests done at OPD of private hospitals before treating them. Moreover, ICMR guidelines also clarified that only symptomatic patients and those who were in close contact with Covid patients should get tested. A health department official said, “Unnecessary tests were done in OPD of private hospitals, which is why the decision was taken not to allow Covid testing in OPD of private hospitals.” Besides, the health department has also directed private hospitals that if a patient is tested positive, the facility will not deny him treatment and it should not force the patient to shift to a government hospital. In the state, 27 laboratories are authorised for Covid testing. In the recent past, there were instances in which the state government took help from private hospitals and laboratories to clear the backlog of samples collected for Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-covid-19-test-for-outpatientsat-private-hospitals-labs-in-state/articleshow/77044839.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BJD, BJP welcome ECI’s poll feedback move||BHUBANESWAR: The BJD has welcomed the Election Commission of India (ECI) move seeing views and suggestions from political parties on conduct of election campaign during Covid-19. “Election is an inseparable part of the democracy. But the world is going through an unprecedented situation because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ECI’s decision to seek suggestion of political parties is a welcome step. Our president and chief minister Naveen Patnaik will surely give constructive suggestions to the poll panel,” said senior BJD leader and former minister Shashi Bhusan Behera. Senior BJP leader and leader of opposition in the state assembly, Pradipta Kumar Naik also welcomed the move. “The poll panel has taken the right decision in seeking suggestions from all political parties to take a call on conducting elections,” said Naik. Senior Congress leader Taraprasad Bahinipati said the ECI should convene an all-party meeting to discuss the strategies to conduct elections during the pandemic. Bahinipati said also said elections should be conducted by adhering to Covid guidelines. The ECI’s move assumes significance as by-elections are pending in two assembly seats following the death of two sitting MLAs – BJP’s Madan Mohan Dutta (Balasore Sadar) and BJD’s Bishnu Das (Tirtol). Even as schedule for the by-election is yet to be announced, the three major political parties have started preliminary groundwork and candidate selection process. While both the BJD and BJP would try to retain their respective seats, the Congress is eyeing for some gains. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bjd-bjp-welcome-ecis-poll-feedback-move/articleshow/77043523.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nashik||Youth kills wife in Phule Nagar||Nashik: A youth has been arrested for allegedly murdering his wife at his residence in the Phule Nagar area of the city around 3.30am on Saturday. The supect, Sagar Pardhi (23) was produced in a local court, which remanded him in police custody till Monday. The Panchavati police said the suspect allegedly strangulated his wife, Aarti (19) before smashing her head with a tradition stone grinder. According to police, Sagar had married the woman, his maternal cousin, on July 1 and soon started harassing her over various issues. He also allegedly suspected Aarti’s fidelity. Neighbours rushed to their house upon hearing the commotion and alerted police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youth-kills-wife-in-phule-nagar/articleshow/77042782.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG to install 300 streetlights on 6-km stretch||Gurgaon: To light up dark stretch between Atul Kataria Chowk and Krishna Chowk, the municipal corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) is going to install 300 streetlights on the 6-km-long road. The civic body has started work and foundation of 36 poles has already been laid. "We have another 150 poles with us, which were left after road widening work, so we will utilise that at well. Work has already started on the Krishna Chowk side," said Raman Yadav, executive engineer of electrical wing, MCG, adding that the work will be completed in another 15 days. Yadav said that the stretch already has around 50 poles. "However, that was not enough for such a long road. So we will install an additional 180 poles to light up the entire stretch," he said. The residents have been demanding more lights on the stretch for a long time. Ravinder Yadav, councillor of ward number 3, said that there was a proposal a few years ago to install streetlights on the stretch, but it was stuck for some reason or the other. "Commuters going towards Udyog Vihar have been facing a lot of difficulties in the past and there were chances of accidents and thefts. Now that the MCG is going to install streetlights, it would be a relief for them," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-to-install-300-streetlights-on-6-km-stretch/articleshow/77044843.cms||Vishakha Chaman
July 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kin get crash victims’ bodies after delay over Covid-19||MUMBAI: Two persons who had died in a house collapse at Malwani on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19 but handing over of their remains to their families got delayed following an argument between forensic doctors and police on conducting autopsies. The three-storeyed chawl collapse killed Faizal Wahid (18) and Anjum Shaikh (23). The protocol now followed at hospitals in case of a death is to first take swabs of the deceased and carry out a Covid-19 test. Only if the test comes negative is an autopsy carried out. A government circular stated that autopsies were not required for positive patients. But as the house collapse is an ongoing police investigation, finding out the “cause of death” of Wahid and Shaikh was necessary for police. “The doctors refused to perform autopsies after finding out that Wahid and Shaikh were positive. We tried to explain that they were victims of a collapse and were not like other Covid patients, which made autopsies necessary,” said a police officer. The families of Wahid and Shaikh were agitated about the delay. After lengthy arguments with police, doctors performed the autopsies and the bodies were handed over to the families on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kin-get-crash-victims-bodies-after-delay-over-covid/articleshow/77044363.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown hurdle to state Plus II results in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: The fresh lockdown in the four districts of Khurda, Ganjam, Cuttack and Jajpur till July 31 may further delay the publication of higher secondary (plus two) results. As many as 35 major evaluation centres are in these four districts and the restriction on movement of people is likely to affect the evaluation process. The government has left it to the district collectors whether teachers should be allowed to commute to the evaluation centres or not. “We are not sure when we would be able to announce the plus two results. The evaluation is not yet over and the lockdown has added to the problem,” said school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das. The evaluation process has already been affected due to lockdown restrictions and weekend shutdown in at least 20 districts due to rise in corona cases. The school and mass education department has already requested the government to allow teachers to work during weekend shutdowns. Sources said absenteeism among teachers for the evaluation process has become a major headache for the government and a reason for the delay in publication of results. The national boards like CBSE and ICSE have already announced the Class XII results while the delay in evaluation by the Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE) has increased the anxiety among students and parents. “If other boards can get the evaluations done by sending the answer sheets to the homes of teachers or by other means, the CHSE must have done the same. It should be held responsible for delay in publishing the results,” said Pradyumna Rout, a parent. Over 3.5 lakh students have appeared for the higher secondary examinations in science, commerce and humanities. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-hurdle-to-state-plus-ii-results/articleshow/77043527.cms||Minati Singha
July 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Wine shop’s stolen 100kg iron vault retrieved from lake bottom; one held||MUMBAI: A fortnight after a gang of burglars broke into a liquor shop, scooped out cash from a 100kg iron vault and sunk it into a brimming lake, a persistent team of policemen and divers retrieved it on Friday. The vault contained seven original shop licence documents which could be salvaged as they had been laminated. One of the burglars has been arrested. It turns out that he had been released from prison, along with many other offenders, when Covid-19 struck. The break-in was reported at Chandreshwar Wines near Kandivali West railway station on July 2. Around midnight, three men dressed in raincoats arrived in an auto and broke open the grills and shutter to barge inside. CCTVs outside the shop captured their activity. “It took the trio around half an hour to yank the vault from its hinges but they still couldn't break it open. They then carried the vault into their getaway vehicle with a lot of difficulty as it was very heavy,” said an officer. But the burglars also made sure they stole digital video recorders (DVR) of the electronic surveillance system inside the shop. The loot was worth Rs 5.19 lakh collectively. After a police complaint was lodged, sleuths started to scrutinise CCTV footage. “None of their activities inside could be viewed as they had stolen the DVRs. But from the footage outside the shop, we could make out what they were wearing and their overall appearance,” said the officer. The police then poured through their files on burglars who had previously operated in the area and had a similar modus operandi. They were able to identify one of the culprits-- Harun Sardar, 35. Sardar, who lives in Malwani and has been married thrice, was quizzed but wouldnt confess. Eventually, he admitted that he and his associates had broken open the vault, scooped out cash and sunk the vault into a lake at Malwani. On July 15, a team of policemen reached the lake and got divers to conduct a search. “The lake was brimming and the vault had sunk to the bottom. It was very tough to look for it. After three days, we finally found the vault. There were seven liquor shop licence documents inside besides computer parts. The liquor shop owner also ran four other establishments and had kept all shop licences together. The shop licences could be salvaged but the computer parts couldnt,” said sub inspector Suryakant Pawar. Sardar told the police that he gambled away his share of the loot. The police could only recover Rs 5000 in cash from him. The police are looking for the other culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wine-shops-stolen-100kg-iron-vault-retrieved-from-lake-bottom-1-held/articleshow/77044358.cms||Nitasha Natu
July 19, 2020||India||Disclose impact of global hack on India, Centre tells Twitter||NEW DELHI: The government has issued notice to Twitter over the recent hacking of accounts of its global high-profile users and “any possible impact” of the breach in India. The notice was sent by CERT-In, the country’s nodal cyber security agency, which asked Twitter for full details of the hacking incident. CERT-In swung into action after reports revealed that hackers had gained access to Twitter’s systems to sneak into the accounts of many global corporate leaders, politicians, celebrities and businesses. CERT-In has also asked Twitter for information on the number of users from India who have clicked on the malicious tweets and links, and whether the affected users have been informed by the micro-blogging site about the “unauthorised access” to their accounts. The government has also demanded information on the “vulnerability” exploited by the attackers and the modus operandi of the intrusion. It has also sought details of remedial actions taken by Twitter. Twitter has not yet commented on any possible attack in India. However, in a blog post, it mentioned the steps it had taken against the ‘incident’. “The most important question for people who use Twitter is likely — did the attackers see any of my private information? For the vast majority of people, we believe the answer is, no,” it said. Twitter said the attackers were not able to view previous account passwords, as those are not stored in plain text or available through the tools used in the attack. It, however, added that the attackers “were able to view personal information, including email addresses and phone numbers... In cases where an account was taken over by the attacker, they may have been able to view additional information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disclose-impact-of-global-hack-on-india-centre-tells-twitter/articleshow/77045140.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Post lockdown, temple burglaries on the rise||KOZHIKODE: While devotees are generally staying away from temples after lockdown, these places of worship have become easy targets for thieves. There have been over a dozen thefts at temples in Malabar districts over the past two months. In the latest theft, burglars decamped with gold ornaments from the Ayyappa idol of Padiyottuchal Ayyappa temple near Cherupuzha in Kannur on Thursday. The burglars had also robbed money from the offering boxes at the temple. This happened just days after thieves had decamped with panchaloha idol of the deity at Mallikarjuna temple in Chittari near Kanhangad on Tuesday. Concerned over rising incidents of temple thefts, Malabar Devaswom Board (MDB) issued a directive to all temples to open offering boxes, count and take receipt of the money. Temple thefts were reported from six other temples in Kannur including Thiruvangad Sree Rama temple near Thalassery on June 16, Kaithapram Kailasanatha Shiva temple near Pilathara, Peringoth Alappadampa Devi temple, among others, in June. In Kozhikode too, there were temple thefts including the attempts at Palakkurumba temple and nearby Kollarakkal Bhagavathy temple at Olavanna last month. Police had arrested five persons, including three juveniles, in connection with the thefts. Similar thefts were reported from three temples near Perinthalmanna in Malappuram. “As temple activities and number of visitors are less now following Covid restrictions, thieves are taking it as an opportunity to strike. Now many temples don’t have anyone around after 7pm and even public presence on roads is minimal. Also executive officers cannot go to the temples at many places due to absence of bus services. All these are making temples easy target for thieves,” said MDB commissioner and secretary K Murali. He said that though temples were opened to the public after lockdown, the number of devotees is less. “Though money collected in offering boxes would be less after lockdown, we have directed temples to open them and take receipt of the cash and other offerings,” he added. “There are many temples in Malabar which have panchaloha idols and gold ornaments worth lakhs but they don’t have means to employ even a security guard. The absence of a common scheme and common fund for temples in Malabar despite the 1994 HC order has led to temples in the C and D category – which account for over 1000 of the 1,353 temples under the board – struggling for proper upkeep and payment of salaries,” said convener Kerala State Temple Employees Coordination Committee VV Sreenivasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/post-lockdown-temple-burglaries-on-the-rise/articleshow/77046051.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Lockdown misery for street vendors||BHUBANESWAR: The economic woes of vendors are unlikely to end soon as parts of the state, including the capital city, entered another 14-day lockdown. The vendors, who earn their living by selling a variety of things on the footpath, street corners and in markets in urban centres, said the lockdown had rung the death knell for their business, which was showing signs of recovering even though the number of cases was rising. “When the first lockdown started in March, we were caught unawares. In the following three months, everything remained closed and we used up our savings. When the lockdown was lifted in June, I took a loan and re-started my business, although the returns were poor. With yet-another lockdown, how will I feed my children and repay the interest of the loan?” asked Nityananda Patra, who sells ready-made clothes in Unit-1 market. Patra migrated to Bhubaneswar from Aska in Ganjam district about 10 years ago. He can’t go back to the district as it is the worst affected in the state. This new lockdown and the earlier weekend shutdowns in urban centres badly affected thousands of street vendors like Patra. “Around 90% of the street vendors sell things that the government considers inessential. Only 10% sell vegetables and fruits. The vendors have not yet received the loan announced by the Centre for them,” said Pratap Sahu, state secretary of National Hawkers’ Federation. He said the PM Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi, a special micro-credit programme announced for street vendors that can get them loans of up to Rs 10,000, had not yet been implemented in the state. There are over 30,000 street vendors in Bhubaneswar alone. Other urban centres like Cuttack, Berhampur and Jajpur, where the lockdown will continue till July 31, have nearly 50,000 vendors who sell a wide range of products from clothes and utensils to plastic items, artificial jewellery and spices. “I have tried selling fruits, then corn, then face masks and sanitisers to make a living during the pandemic. With roads empty and people indoors, who will buy our things?” said Rama Khamari, 31, a native of Boudh district. Khamari lost his job as a salesman in a cloth store during the lockdown. Sahu said the National Hawkers’ Federation had submitted a memorandum to the state government seeking release of the loan announced by the Centre for street vendors. “We also want the government to bear the education fees of the children of the vendors and provide the workers with insurance,” said Sahu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-misery-for-street-vendors/articleshow/77043535.cms||Minati Singha
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two online classes of 45 minutes each? Schools want more||NEW DELHI: With the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) releasing guidelines on online learning, schools are recalibrating their schedule. However, sticking to the screen-time suggestion for classes VI to VIII is proving to be difficult, prompting many principals to seek changes to the guidelines. As schools are shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, MHRD has recommended two sessions of 30-45 minutes for classes I to VIII in its ‘Pragyata’ guidelines for online learning. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, said they were already following the screen-time suggested for nursery to Class II. “Parents have also told us that it is difficult for them to keep these young children in front of the screen for long. We have two 30-minute classes with a break,” she said. But the time suggested for classes VI to VIII is difficult to stick to, Arora pointed out. “Now the learning is more project-based but teachers also need time to explain. There are six subjects. We are also conducting extracurricular online classes.” Some parents of junior class students feel schools are not taking enough classes. “A few parents landed up at school and said the school is only conducting 1/3rd of the classes compared to classroom teaching. I sent an email with the Pragyata guidelines to them,” said Arora. Another principal said, “For children of classes VI to VIII, we had a schedule of three to four classes a day. Now we are thinking about tweaking it a little though the guidelines are recommendatory.” At The Indian School, most parents want limited classes for pre-primary students. “From the beginning, we were holding only three to four classes of 35 to 40 minutes. I keep on regularly holding meetings with the parents as there cannot be a one-size-fit-all schedule for all students,” said principal Tania Joshi. The guidelines also talk about dividing students into three groups — students with all infrastructure are in online mode, those with laptops/smartphones but no regular connectivity in partial online mode, and those with no infrastructure in offline mode. Most of the schools have hardly one or two students in the offline mode, mostly children belonging to the economically weaker section category. A case has been filed in Delhi high court demanding laptops/smartphones from the school or the government for these students. There are some in the partial online group.“Till the lockdown, it was fine as both parents were home. Now as they have started going to work, some made a request to send the materials on email. The child is with the grandparents who cannot use gadgets. So, we have been sending the concepts, video story on emails,” said Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-online-classes-of-45-mins-each-schools-want-more/articleshow/77044473.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Post lockdown, temple burglaries on the rise||KOZHIKODE: While devotees are generally staying away from temples after lockdown, these places of worship have become easy targets for thieves. There have been over a dozen thefts at temples in Malabar districts over the past two months. In the latest theft, burglars decamped with gold ornaments from the Ayyappa idol of Padiyottuchal Ayyappa temple near Cherupuzha in Kannur on Thursday. The burglars had also robbed money from the offering boxes at the temple. This happened just days after thieves had decamped with panchaloha idol of the deity at Mallikarjuna temple in Chittari near Kanhangad on Tuesday. Concerned over rising incidents of temple thefts, Malabar Devaswom Board (MDB) issued a directive to all temples to open offering boxes, count and take receipt of the money. Temple thefts were reported from six other temples in Kannur including Thiruvangad Sree Rama temple near Thalassery on June 16, Kaithapram Kailasanatha Shiva temple near Pilathara, Peringoth Alappadampa Devi temple, among others, in June. In Kozhikode too, there were temple thefts including the attempts at Palakkurumba temple and nearby Kollarakkal Bhagavathy temple at Olavanna last month. Police had arrested five persons, including three juveniles, in connection with the thefts. Similar thefts were reported from three temples near Perinthalmanna in Malappuram. “As temple activities and number of visitors are less now following Covid restrictions, thieves are taking it as an opportunity to strike. Now many temples don’t have anyone around after 7pm and even public presence on roads is minimal. Also executive officers cannot go to the temples at many places due to absence of bus services. All these are making temples easy target for thieves,” said MDB commissioner and secretary K Murali. He said that though temples were opened to the public after lockdown, the number of devotees is less. “Though money collected in offering boxes would be less after lockdown, we have directed temples to open them and take receipt of the cash and other offerings,” he added. “There are many temples in Malabar which have panchaloha idols and gold ornaments worth lakhs but they don’t have means to employ even a security guard. The absence of a common scheme and common fund for temples in Malabar despite the 1994 HC order has led to temples in the C and D category – which account for over 1000 of the 1,353 temples under the board – struggling for proper upkeep and payment of salaries,” said convener Kerala State Temple Employees Coordination Committee VV Sreenivasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/post-lockdown-temple-burglaries-on-the-rise/articleshow/77042820.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nashik||Monitoring in containment zones through QR codes||Nashik: In order to step up vigilance in containment zone, the city police have asked its beat marshals to inspect buildings in those zones and scan the QR code s that will be set up. The QR codes have to be scanned by the beat marshals, who will keep a check on the movement of people in buildings, to mark their visit. According to deputy commissioner of police Amol Tambe, the police have intensified the patrolling in and around containment zones to restrict the movement of the people to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The purpose is to ensure that the residents of the building do not come out of the building or there are no visitors in and around the area. The police personnel visiting the buildings will scan the QR code put up there to mark their visit,” Tambe said. “From Sunday, we will put up the QR code on all the scattered containment zone buildings which will be monitored by our people at regular intervals,” the officer said. In a meeting held on Friday, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had asked to intensify the measures to keep a check on the movement of people in containment zones. In case of the larger containment zones, the police have barricaded the lanes and bylanes to minimise the traffic movement in and outside the containment zones. In areas other than the containment zones, police will continue to take action against people moving around without valid reasons. “The police will continue crack down on the movement of the people and take action against those not wearing the masks in the city,” Tambe added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/monitoring-in-containment-zones-through-qr-codes/articleshow/77042818.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Cuttack||Civil society experts worried over dumping of excavated shoals and sand in river bed||CUTTACK: Civil society organizations in Cuttack city have expressed concern at the manner in which an Orissa high court order is being given the go-by and vast tracts of the Mahanadi riverbed here are being filled up with shoal and sand being removed from the Mahanadi Barrage pond. The organizations said the dumping of the excavated shoal and sand over a large stretch of the riverbed, extending to some kilometres upstream of the barrage, would make Cuttack vulnerable to floods during high tide in the Mahanadi. On February 27, 2012, the Orissa high court had issued a set of directives while allowing the drawing of water from the Mahanadi here for supply to the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL)’s refinery in Paradip. One of the directives mandated removal of shoal in the barrage pond and a thorough dredging of the reservoir at the cost of the IOCL. Work on the project began months ago and is expected to be completed by June 2021. Mahanagar Nagarika Mancha convener Chittaranjan Mohanty said huge stretches of the riverbed had been filled up with the excavated shoal and sand in violation of the high court order. “While giving the directive, the high court had specified that the usable earth from the dredging should be used for strengthening and widening the embankment (ring) road along the right bank of the river, upstream of the barrage at Jobra. The unusable earth was to be also used to fill up low-lying areas nearby,” Mohanty said. Sampurna Kranti Abhijan (Odisha) president Sisir Das said the dredging of the barrage reservoir was aimed to increase its water retention capacity. “Dumping of the removed shoal and sand in the riverbed upstream would make the exercise futile. It will decrease the water retention capacity of the barrage,” Das said. Mahanadi barrage division officials, however, said the dredging of the reservoir and removal of shoal and sand from the pond were being undertaken as per the bathometric survey done through IIT Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/civil-society-experts-worried-over-dumping-of-excavated-shoals-and-sand-in-river-bed/articleshow/77043554.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Delayed admissions leave parents of EWS kids worried||NEW DELHI: In February, Santosh Pathak’s six-year-old daughter was allotted a seat in Class I at a private school in south Delhi under the economically weaker section (EWS) category. When he went for the admission in March, he was asked to make minor changes in his documents. A few days after he submitted the documents afresh, the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown began. Four months since then, Pathak has been running around to get his daughter admitted. “Since the lockdown was lifted, I went to the school five times but in vain. Last time, they told me to come back on August 4. But my child is missing out on learning. For others, they are conducting admissions and the office remains open till 11am every day,” said Pathak who works as an office assistant in Noida. His daughter was selected at MG Public School, Saurabh Vihar. Pathak is not the only one facing this situation. Mohammad Mehtab, who lives in Kirari, is also struggling with his son’s admission under the EWS category. “The school has been turning me away every time I go. They told me to come only when I receive an SMS. I have already got the selection SMS. Now, I don’t know what to do,” said Mehtab. His son was selected for admission at PSM Senior Secondary School. The authorities at both the schools did not respond to calls on the matter. General category students were admitted to nursery classes in February itself. According to Ekramul Haque of Mission Taaleem, an organisation, which helps parents secure admission under the category, says this is a problem across the city. “We have been regularly getting complaints of schools turning the parents of children, who had secured admission under the first list, away. Authorities need to be more proactive to ensure compliance of RTE norms,” said Haque. There are over 40,000 seats under the EWS category in more than 1,600 private schools. The draw of lots for admissions in nursery, KG and Class I has been completed. “Not only these classes, the admission in other classes under this category is also at a stall. If the general category and EWS category admissions were taking place together, the schools could not have turned away the parents,” said Khagesh Jha, an advocate who has been working for the implementation of RTE. Director, Directorate of Education, Binay Bhushan said they were aware of the problems and orders would be issued soon. “Out of the 40,000 draws of lots, around 11,000 admissions have taken place. As school offices are open now, orders will be issued,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delayed-admissions-leave-parents-of-ews-kids-worried/articleshow/77044537.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 19, 2020||Vadodara||Safety ambassadors to help women in distress||VADODARA: In the backdrop of a Youtuber hurling abuses against a female comedian, city-based youth platform Chhatra Sansad has launched its newest project – women’s safety division. The youth platform has more than 800 women from across the city registered to be safety ambassadors and support those seeking help, direct them to the authorities concerned and help in coordination. “The division will work as an intermediary between victim and authorities, provide safety and make sure that justice is secured in a timely manner,” said Aditi Tiwari, who has mentored Chhatra Sansad since its inception and is member of the women empowerment committee. “Our efforts are to curb online harassment of women, advocate for women-centric cyber laws to combat harassment and violence of any and every kind against women,” she said. The platform will also provide help in terms of access to lawyers, counsellors to help them cope with their tragedies and also access to proper healthcare for any health and physical problems. “Also, through different mediums, we will help women in general and victims in particular understand the police procedures and the judicial system like filing FIR, setting court dates, finding proper legal representation among others,” Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/safety-ambassadors-to-help-women-in-distress/articleshow/77042946.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Laptops for sisters after 2-year battle||Idukki: Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan has come to rescue of two sisters whose plea for laptops to continue studies were allegedly disregarded by the Nedumkandam panchayat despite a High Court order urging them to support the students. Anakha Sabu and her sister Ardra had first applied for laptops in 2018 and they did a follow up a year later before moving the HC, which ordered the panchayat to arrange the gadgets in five weeks. It is alleged that the panchayat officials scolded the family for taking legal measures and have also not acted upon another application for house construction. "In the wake of lockdown, the production of laptops blocked in Keltron. I will arrange a laptop through sponsorship so that the sisters can continue their studies. Besides, I will also interfere in their house construction application," said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan. The sisters have said they are reliant on their friends' old laptops for online classes. Nedumkandam Panchayat secretary A V Ajikumar said there was no lapse on their part. "The Panchayat has already placed an order with Keltorn for the laptops and the delay is from their part. When we get the laptop from Keltron we will distribute it," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/laptops-for-sisters-after-2-year-battle/articleshow/77042851.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Gurgaon||In a first, GMDA to provide treated water to housing societies||GURUGRAM: Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will provide treated water to housing societies as well for non-drinking purposes for the first time. So far, the metropolitan authority has been providing treated water for horticulture, agricultural and industrial purposes. According to the GMDA officials, the authority has drawn up a plan to bring down the usage of groundwater in the city as Gurugram falls in a black zone with groundwater table depleting at a very high rate and the project is in line with the same goal. The per capita water consumption is around 150 litres of which 20 litres is for potable use and the rest is for non-potable use such as horticulture and flushing. GMDA plans to cover most of the non-potable water usage with the treated water. “We are already providing treated water for horticultural and other purposes. With this project, we will now be targeting residential societies along the Southern Peripheral Road. The treated water can be used for non-drinking purposes thereby bringing down the usage of groundwater,” said a GMDA official. He added that they have begun the tendering process and once the tenders are allotted, the work for laying down of the pipelines will start. As soon as the pipelines are laid, they will start supplying water. “We are hopeful that we will be able to lay down the pipelines in the area over a period of next six months so that we can begin the supply of treated water in the next year,” said the official. The scheme will not only help bring down the use of potable water and groundwater exploitation, but it will also help reduce the volume of sewage water going into the Najafgarh drain and thereby the Yamuna river. There are currently two sewage treatment plants (STP), one at Behrampur and another at Dhanwapur. While the one at Dhanwapur feeds the irrigation channel supplying for micro-irrigation purposes, the other one is being used to supply wastewater for other purposes. GMDA is also providing 200 MLD of treated sewage water for micro-irrigation to 13 villages in the Jhajjar district. The project, which was conceived in 2018, is now functional and seeing its success. The metropolitan authority has been asked to augment the capacity to 500 MLD. It has developed a 26.8-km-long irrigation channel between Dhanwapur and Jhajjar which carries the treated water to these villages where it is used for micro-irrigation purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-a-first-gmda-to-provide-treated-water-to-housing-societies/articleshow/77044854.cms||Shubhra Pant
July 19, 2020||Nashik||NMC creates Rs 8.6cr Covid-fighting corpus||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has created a corpus of Rs 8.6 crore to fight the Covid-19 outbreak in the city. The money is to be spent on creating infrastructure, installing beds, procuring medicines and other medical equipment. The civic body has already spent more than Rs 1 crore. It has also received help under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) schemes. “We have created a corpus. An administrative approval has already been taken to create it,” said the NMC officials. “The fund will help us set up the infrastructure for the Covid hospitals and Covid care centres. It will also be used to procure various medicines and equipment,” the civic officials added. The NMC is also developing the new Bytco hospital building into a dedicated Covid hospital with up to 500 beds in phases. “We have already created the infrastructure there. The NMC will provide all infrastructure and medical equipment to the agency concerned, which will operate and maintain the hospital,” said officials said. The NMC has also increased the number of beds at the Zakir Hussain hospital to 150. “This hospital has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital. We have created Covid care centres at various locations in the city,” said NMC officials. “Moreover, we are procuring kits for the rapid testing of suspected patients. We are already conducting antigen tests for early detection of the patients and provide immediate treatment to those who are tested Covid-19 positive,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-creates-rs-8-6cr-covid-fighting-corpus/articleshow/77042834.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Active cases only 14%, 3 of 4 beds free in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi crossed the one lakh mark on Saturday with 1,973 more people recovering from the infection in the past 24 hours. With this, the recovery rate in Delhi has touched 83%, which is 20% more than the national average, according to official data. New cases have also come down significantly in the city. On Saturday, the city recorded 1,475 fresh cases. This is the eighth consecutive day when new cases have been reported in the range of 1,000 to 2,000. With this, the total number of cases has crossed 1.2 lakh. Twenty-six fresh fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state to 3,597.  While 1 lakh people out of 1.2 lakh have recovered, the number of active cases has reduced to 16,711, which is only about 14% of the total cases. The effect of reduction in active cases is visible at the Covid facilities, especially the hospitals where nearly three out of four beds earmarked for Covid-19 were lying vacant on Saturday. 77% of beds empty, but ICU slots with ventilators still in demandDelhi has a total of 15,745 Covid beds in hospitals. Of this, data shows, only 3,635 (23%) were occupied on Saturday. The occupancy rate of Covid care centres and Covid health centres, which have basic facilities for quarantining persons suffering from asymptomatic or mild symptoms, has reduced to 25% and 31%, respectively. Nearly 9,000 novel coronavirus patients in the national capital are under home isolation. “Till last month, we used to get 110 to 120 Covid-19 patients daily. Now, this number has reduced to less than 50. Deaths due to the infection have also reduced significantly,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the state government-run Lok Nayak Hospital. The hospital has reserved 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients. Of them, 1,539 (77%) were lying vacant on Saturday. “If the current trend of reduction in new cases holds till July-end, we may be in a very good position. It can then be said that the worst is over,” said Dr Kumar. He, however, added that the SARS CoV2 virus, which causes Covid-19, is new and unpredictable. “While we hope for the best, we have to be prepared for the worst,” he added. Major private hospitals in the city like Indraprastha Apollo, Max Smart Super Specialty Hospital, Saket, and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital had 80%, 57% and 68% vacant Covid beds, respectively, showed the realtime updates on Saturday. “The ICU beds with ventilator support at our hospital are still near full. But there is a significant reduction in demand for general beds. It shows that new infections are falling and even those being diagnosed positive for the disease are able to recover well at home,” said a senior doctor at one of the top private hospitals. He added that they don’t intend to put the vacant beds to any other use until the government issues any such direction. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that while reduction in new cases is a positive sign, there is no scope for complacency. The state government has let it be known that regardless of the occupancy rate, it was not in a hurry to free up the beds earmarked for novel coronavirus patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/active-cases-only-14-3-of-4-beds-free-in-delhi/articleshow/77045143.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government hospitals on Covid duty, corporation facilities battle rush||NEW DELHI: With Delhi government hospitals being turned into Covid-19 facilities, it is the smaller municipality-run healthcare centres, especially those that handle maternity cases, attached to them that are bearing the onus of increased workloads despite not having adequate staff, resources, not to mention the financial crunch that has delayed salary payments. Doctors at Swami Dayanand Hospital in east Delhi, a secondary care hospital attached to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, claimed on Saturday that its maternity department is handling up to 41 deliveries daily, including Caesarean sections, in a single labour room with three tables compared with around 20 earlier. A doctor there said, “We have 120 beds in the maternity ward, mostly for postnatal care. But we have had to install extra beds, place them even in corridors, to accommodate the additional patients. And instead of discharging them after 48 hours, we are letting them go after 44.” The 400-bedded hospital has an intensive care unit, but no neonatal ICU, coronary care unit or dialysis facilities. With GTB Hospital declared a Covid facility in June, patients suffering from all ailments are being diverted to Swami Dayanand. “In the general ward, against a normal 150 cases, now 250-300 arrive each day and doctors are involved in up to 45 medico-legal cases every day,” a doctor said. “The staff is overburdened and yet also has to manage social distancing and high hygiene.” Kasturba Hospital is going through the same trying experience. “We are short of doctors in the paediatric department by a third, and residents who are going to complete their tenure aren’t applying for extension,” sighed Dr Sunil Kumar, president of the hospital’s Resident Doctors’ Association. “They are applying to other medical colleges because of work pressure and the constant fight for timely salaries. Despite the Supreme Court’s direction, the municipal corporation has no money to pay us.” Extra cases are being referred to the hospital, but it doesn’t even have an ICU facility. “In emergency cases, we are forced to refer the patient to Hindu Rao and other hospitals,” said Kumar. There are times when patients are forced two to a bed for lack of accommodation. A spokesperson of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation confirmed it was focusing on shifting maternity cases from Hindu Rao to Kasturba, but said work pressure on doctors would be reduced by roping in junior doctors. “Similarly, the OPD is being organised in two shifts and patients in the maternity ward being accommodated in vacated beds in other wards,” he said North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash too conceded there was excess pressure, delayed salaries and other problems. “I got a call from doctors in Kasturba Hospital regarding shortage of resources and also had to placate protesting nurses,” Prakash said. “But we are doing our best. On Saturday, I met chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and requested him to release our share of grants. Also, we are going to make some concrete decisions in this regard next week because there is a plan to shift all maternity cases from Hindu Rao to Kasturba Hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-hospitals-on-covid-duty-corpn-facilities-battle-rush/articleshow/77044519.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown with curfew for 15 days likely in city from July end||Nagpur: A 15-day full lockdown with total curfew is likely to be in force in the city from the last week of July. Expressing disappointment over violations of Covid-19 guidelines and spike in positive cases and deaths, guardian minister Nitin Raut and home minister Anil Deshmukh have given their consent for it. In rural areas the existing guidelines will continue to remain in place. Deshmukh and Raut on Saturday held a review meeting on the pandemic, and law and order situation in the city, at the divisional commissioner’s office. Raut told TOI, “Directives have been given to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and police department to hold meetings and finalize date and plan for effective implementation of a full lockdown with curfew. People will be informed 4-5 days in advance so that they store essential goods.” According to Raut, the step will help control the spike in Covid-19 cases. “The motive is also to make people realize the importance of Covid distancing, wearing masks, following respiratory etiquette, avoiding spitting in public etc,” he said. Raut also directed police department to effectively implement the guidelines. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said even essential shops like grocery and vegetables will not open. At a meeting held with representatives of shopkeepers’ associations and Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce, the civic chief said all should make combined efforts to make city Covid-free by Independence Day. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre said there was lack of coordination between the officials of NMC and police department. Thakre, who is also Congress city president, and NCP MLC Prakash Gajbhiye too endorsed full lockdown with curfew. Deshmukh and Raut said the administration should take public representatives and people into confidence while notifying containment zones. “Notify small containment zones and allow residents some time for purchasing essential goods. These things will avoid opposition to containment measures,” the ministers said. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar gave details about how all government agencies in the district are coordinating to deal with the pandemic. The ministers appreciated the efforts taken by the administration and police department for keeping cases in the district low as compared to other parts of the state. Deshmukh directed the police to implement state government guidelines for Bakri Eid and Ganesh festival. Ramtek MP Krupal Tumane and collector Ravindra Thakare reportedly said there was no need for full lockdown in rural areas as the cases are few in number. Raut said police should not create problems for farmers coming to the city for purchasing fertilizers, pesticides etc. “Cases in rural areas have increased after lockdown was eased. There should be stricter implementation of guidelines in all parts of Nagpur rural,” he said. DCP Nilesh Bharne gave details about action taken by police against lockdown violators. Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who was present during an review meeting held prior to this, did not participate. BJP MP Dr Vikas Mahatme, eight legislators of BJP and mayor Sandip Joshi were reportedly not invited for the meeting. Mundhe has directed NMC officials to plan for food supply to needy people during full lockdown. He also held a meeting with NMC doctors and directed them to ensure Covid-19 testing of all patients coming to private, NMC and government hospitals. In the meeting with traders, Mundhe informed them about increase in fine from Rs1,000 to Rs5,000 for first violation, Rs8,000 for second and Rs10,000 for third. He also urged traders to follow alternate day system, 9am and 7pm timing, allow only five customers at a time and other guidelines. Traders assured Mundhe about appointing Covid ambassadors and teams to ensure compliance of guidelines and awareness among customers. WHY FULL LOCKDOWN * Spike in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths after easing of lockdown norms * Crowding in markets, violation of Covid distancing norms observed at shops * Police department allegedly going soft on lockdown violators * Breach of containment zone guidelines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-with-curfew-for-15-days-likely-in-city-from-july-end/articleshow/77044568.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 19, 2020||Nashik||200 plaints lodged against private hospitals in 8 days||Nashik: The civic body has received more than 200 complaints against private hospitals — including 12 complaints regarding admission refusals and five complaints of overcharging by some private hospitals — in the past eight days through its helpline. Officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said they have resolved most of the complaints.Most of the complaints have been of private hospitals not taking swabs, not receiving calls, non-availability of beds etc. NMC is also verifying the complaints related to overcharging. After verification, private hospitals found overcharging patients are to be issued notices. The state government has fixed the rates for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals. The NMC has already directed the private hospitals to charge as per the government guidelines. “We have received over 200 complaints against private hospitals. We have resolved most of them. In some cases, admissions were refused by the private hospitals as the patients were asymptomatic. Such patients need to be admitted to NMC’s Covid care centres,” said the officials.“Apart from the complaints, we have also received around 225 calls seeking information on Covid-19, isolation and quarantine,” they added.The civic body has also displayed boards/banners of rates at all the private hospitals in the city providing Covid-19 treatment. NMC has provided the helpline (9607601133) below the rate card. This helpline is operational 24x7.The NMC has appealed to people and families of suspected and confirmed patients to approach the civic body on this helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/200-plaints-lodged-against-private-hospitals-in-8-days/articleshow/77042846.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Death under Minto Bridge: AAP and BJP differ over root cause||NEW DELHI: A war of words broke out between Aam Aadmi Party and BJP after a man drowned in the waterlogged railway underpass at Minto Road on Sunday. While BJP alleged that the water stagnated at the underpass was not pumped out by Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD) in time, AAP claimed that the drainage was damaged due to the construction of BJP’s headquarters nearby. Stressing that this was not the time to indulge in political blame game, DJB vice-chairman and AAP’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “As soon as the news of waterlogging came to our notice, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia started monitoring the situation.” “Even I could have said that the area comes under NDMC, which is under the BJP-led Centre. I could have also said that drains were blocked because of the construction at BJP’s office. All stormwater drains are maintained by the corporations, which are headed by BJP. However, at this time of crisis, AAP government does not believe in such a blame game. We accept that because of Covid-19 there could have been delays in cleaning of the drains,” said Chadha. Saying that AAP believed in all agencies working together and finishing the pending cleaning work no such incident took place again, Chadha added, “If BJP believes that abusing AAP and the CM will help clean the drains, so be it.” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, however, said that no death would have taken place if DJB and PWD had taken the right steps in time. “This incident has highlighted the irresponsible attitude and negligence of the Kejriwal government. Waterlogging has exposed the claims of PWD, which had earlier said that cleaning work of the large drains was complete,” he added. He added that the sumpwell installed at Minto Bridge to pump out water was not commissioned on time. “The water from the sumpwell is lifted and thrown into a DJB line, which was not cleaned leading to waterlogging. We had requested the government several times to clean the large drains, but it did not consider it necessary,” Gupta claimed. North East Delhi MP and former Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said that Delhi government should immediately come out with a plan to tackle waterlogging and other disruptions during the monsoon. “The government has been caught off-guard. It failed to prepare for the first spell of monsoon,” he added. He also asked when was the last time that Kejriwal had convened a meeting with officials of PWD and flood and irrigation department, the two agencies responsible for most of the stormwater drains in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/death-under-minto-bridge-aap-and-bjp-differ-over-root-cause/articleshow/77056685.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Gandhibagh zone accounts for 45% of Nagpur’s Covid-19 deaths||NAGPUR: The city registered three more Covid-19 deaths on Saturday. All were residents of Mominpura in Gandhibagh Zone. The number of deaths from this zone increased to 13. The zone accounts for 45% of total deaths (29) registered in the city. The total number of deaths from Mominpura is now 10. A 26-year-old woman from Panaipet area was admitted with fever and cough on Thursday. She was diagnosed with tuberculosis around 20 days ago. She died on Friday. The second death is that of a 65-year-old man from Chandralok building who was admitted in a serious condition on Friday. A 72-year-old man from Timki who was admitted on June 29 and tested positive a day later. All three were admitted to IGGMCH and the first two tested positive after death. Earlier, seven deaths were registered from Mominpura including parts of Golibar Chowk and Hansapuri. Remaining three deaths from Gandhibagh zone are from Gandhi Putla, Juni Mangalwari and Boipura-Bajeria. The number of cases is high in Gandhibagh Zone even though it is smaller in area compared to other nine zones. The zone covers major parts of Central Nagpur and is very congested. Satranjipura and Dhantoli zones have 4 deaths each. They are followed by two each from Lakadganj, Laxmi Nagar and Dharampeth zones. Mangalwari and Ashi Nagar zones have 1 death each. No deaths have taken place in Hanuman Nagar and Nehru Nagar. 17 of the deaths were registered in 18 days of July and the remaining 12 over April, May and June. However, the city’s mortality rate of 1.33% is lesser than other urban areas in the state as well as the state rate of 4% and country’s 2.60%. On earlier occasions, the government and experts had said that Nagpur’s fewer deaths is due to the various innovative measures taken by NMC. As per an NMC analysis, of the 22 deaths registered till July 15, 36.4% deaths are in age group of 51-60 years followed by 18.2% in 21-40 and 61-70, 13.6% in 41-50, 9.1% in 71-80 and 4.1% in above 81 years. 77% of the deceased are male and the remaining female. 41% of Covid deaths were from the business community, 18% each among unemployed and housewives, 5% each students, retired and government service and 4% each in medical and private jobs. According to the NMC analysis, out of total deaths, “32% cases had reported 6 to 9 days time period since onset of symptom to death, 22% cases reported within 2 days after onset of symptoms and death”. “This is a critical fact and needs to correlate with clinical findings. It shows there is urgent need for early identification of cases and putting them on treatment to save causalities,” it said. Another alarming finding is that only 23% cases reported history of contact with Covid-19 positive patients. Of total deaths, 9% cases were asymptomatic and 59% were suffering from breathlessness, fever and cough. 9% each were with chest pain and gastric symptoms and remaining 14% were having different types of symptoms. 86% of deceased had comorbidities and highest death reported was with comorbid condition of hypertension and cardiovascular disease. The second killer disease was diabetes. The analysis concluded that there is a need for continuous monitoring of deaths. “Demographic, clinical, laboratory, radiological as well as treatment details must be recorded in detail. Comparative analysis can be done in future so that early diagnosis and appropriate treatment can be started early, which would reduce morbidity and mortality. “Since Covid-19 is a new disease, a lot of new treatment protocols are being tried at the individual patient level. Few clinical trials are also being initiated. It is recommended that review should be taken periodically to update protocols so that the benefit of successful treatments protocols can be scaled up in larger public interest,” the report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gandhibagh-zone-accounts-for-45-of-citys-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/77044584.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Son dupes industrialist of cash, jewellery & properties||GURUGRAM: An 81-year-old industrialist was allegedly duped by his youngest son of Rs 1.75 crore worth of cash and jewellery as well as residential and commercial properties worth crores of rupees. GL Batra said Mukul had became co-owner of the house in DLF Phase-1 and co-owner of the savings account through fraudlant means and also siphoned off with huge sums of money without his knowledge. Mukul forged his father’s signature to withdraw the money. The industrialist lives on the ground floor while his son lives on the first floor of the same house. “I request the police to take immediate action against him and give me protection,” said Batra, who has four children. “Mukul also threatened and forced me to get his name in the sale deed of the house when I sold my share in my erstwhile Raj Pur Road property and purchased a house in DLF Phase-1,” alleged Batra, adding that his son misused his trust. The father alleged that Mukul also transferred his manufacturing unit in Badli industrial area to his name. In 2016, Batra sold his property in Delhi and purchased the Gurugram house. He also took Mukul’s help in opening a bank account in Gurugram. “At that time, I had no idea that he was planning to cheat me,” the father said. Mukul had entered his mobile number and email instead of mine while filling the bank form, he alleged. He discovered the fraud recently and changed the details in the bank. “My son forced me to purchase the Gurugram house in his name and emotionally blackmailed me saying he was the only son living with me and my wife,” said Batra. The father also accused his son of torturing him and his wife. A case has been registered at DLF Phase-1 police station under section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC. “Probe is under way,” said police spokesperson Subhash Boken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/son-dupes-industrialist-of-cash-jewellery-properties/articleshow/77044862.cms||Bagish Jha
July 19, 2020||Nashik||Civic body to appoint 6 coordinators||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to appoint six coordinators to help the civic body improve the city’s rating in Swachh Survekshan ranking. NMC has already floated an advertisement for the eligible professionals who will help NMC chalk out proper plans and measures for the Swachh Survekshan (SS). The civic body has taken serious cognizance to city’s rating that has come down from three stars to one star in the garbage-free cities under SS 2020. It has also been observed that ratings of some cities have improved after hiring consulting agencies. “The city coordinators will supervise the works carried out by the civic body to prepare reports, as per the directives of the central government,” said NMC officials. The officials, said, “They will be responsible for making action plans for open defecation city, garbage-free city etc. They will also upload monthly work reports on the government portal and attend government workshops related to SS.” Last year, the city had got three stars rating and had prepared a lot to get five stars. But the result was disappointing. The officials are expecting better ratings this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-appoint-6-coordinators/articleshow/77042856.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 19, 2020||India||Google refuses to name ‘designated officers’||NEW DELHI: Google has told the Delhi HC that names and identities of its designated officers in India cannot be disclosed publicly as they had been appointed to coordinate with government authorities on removal of illegal content as per law or disclosure of user information. The search engine giant said disclosing names and identity of the designated officers would defeat the purpose of appointing them as they would be “distracted and encumbered” by public dealing which in turn would “diminish” their ability to timely and effectively respond to urgent government requests. Its submission came on a PIL by former RSS idealogue KN Govindacharya seeking directions to Google, Facebook and Twitter to disclose information about their designated officers in India as required under the Information Technology Rules. The petition has claimed that in the absence of details of designated officers, there is “no clear mechanism to enfoce justice”. Govindacharya has also sought directions to the Centre to ensure removal of fake news and hate speech circulated on the three social media and online platforms. Google has maintained that neither the IT Act nor the rules framed under it direct notifying designated officers but only provide that such designated officers be appointed for better coordination with government authorities. It said for addressing grievances of users it has appointed a separate grievance officer whose details are publicly available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/google-refuses-to-name-designated-officers/articleshow/77045144.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Murder accused kills self at Delhi's Tihar Jail||NEW DELHI: A man, who was arrested for the murder of his mother-in-law in Mohan Garden on Thursday, allegedly killed himself at Tihar Jail on Saturday morning. The man was found hanging in his cell at jail number-4 by the staffers. Earlier, the man, Ravi was sent to judicial custody after being produced before a magistrate on Friday. Jail officers said that he was also counselled by the jail superintendent and sent into an isolation ward as per the social distancing protocol. “Ravi’s behaviour was not unusual and he remained in his cell through the day. Since he had spent an earlier stint at the jail in a POCSO case, he was aware of the protocols and had followed them without being instructed. In the wee hours, he used his bedsheet to form a noose and hung himself from the grilles of the window. The suicide was discovered by other inmates who alerted the jail staff members,” an officer said. The body was sent to the jail hospital from where it was later taken to the DDU hospital for an autopsy. Ravi was arrested on Thursday, while he was fleeing after murdering his mother-in-law and injuring her neighbours. He had accused the elderly woman of trying to keep his wife and daughter away from him ever since he was released on bail in the POCSO case. Police suspect that he might have been suffering from depression due to these incidents. A probe revealed that he was an alcoholic and had cases of attempt to murder, culpable homicide registered against him. An enquiry has been initiated to find out whether he was harassed by someone during his earlier stint at the jail. This is the fourth such incident in Tihar Jail this year. In May, a woman, who was arrested along with her husband for the murder of her in-laws, allegedly killed herself after blaming her husband for framing her. On April 28, a 35-year-old woman, facing murder charges, had allegedly ended her life by hanging herself on the jail premises. Earlier in February, there were two incidents of death by suicide in the jail. On February 1, a man convicted of raping a boy had committed suicide, while on February 7, an undertrial prisoner was found hanging from the grilles of a window inside the toilet. Tihar authorities, meanwhile, said that they had started a counselling programme for inmates last year. “Doctors from reputed mental health institutes are called in to counsel inmates and warders,” said an officer at Tihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/murder-accused-kills-self-at-tihar/articleshow/77044604.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 9,448 Covid infections in 15 days as active cases continue to spiral||JAIPUR: Covid active cases touched a new high of 6,803 on Saturday as the state reported 711 new infections taking the tally to 28,500. The state had reported 6,617 active cases on Friday and 6,666 on Thursday. The virus also claimed seven lives taking the state’s toll to 553. Three deaths were reported in Barmer, Pali (1), Jodhpur (1), Bharatpur (1), Rajsamand (1) and Jodhpur (1). Jodhpur reported highest number of active cases at 1186, followed by Alwar (885), Bikaner (824), Jaipur (778) and Pali (441). Out of 33 districts, 28 reported new infections with seven districts reporting more than 50 cases. In the past 15 days, the state has reported 9,448 new infections with an average of 629 cases per day. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (116), Pali (96), Jodhpur (94), Bikaner (67), Jaipur (61), Bharatpur (56), Kota (54), Ajmer (39), Barmer (31), Rajsamand (20), Churu (13), Udaipur (12), Nagaur (9), Bhilwara (7), Jaisalmer (6), Sikar (5), Dausa (4), Jhalawar (3), Hanumangarh (3), Tonk (3), Pratapgarh (2), Dungarpur (2), Sriganganagar (2), Banswara (2), Bundi (1), Karauli (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and one from other state. In Jaipur, 61 new cases were detected from 34 different places. The areas which reported new cases are Sanganer (10), Shastri Nagar (4), Jhotwara (4), Raja Park (3), Vaishali Nagar (3), Malviya Nagar (3), Jagatpura (3), Shahpura (2), SMS hospital (2), Murlipura (2), while one case each was reported from Govindgarh, Sikar Road, Bapu Nagar, Hasanpura, Ajmer Road, Tonk Phatak, Amber, Jaisinghpura Khor, Ramgarh Mod, Virat Nagar, Tonk Road, Phagi, Dudu, Jhalana, Durgapura, Mahesh Nagar, Manak Chowk, Bhrampuri, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Bani Park, Johri Bazaar, Galta Gate, Jamdoli, migrant, and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/9448-infections-in-15-days-as-active-cases-continue-to-spiral/articleshow/77046266.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 9,448 Covid infections in 15 days as active cases continue to spiral||JAIPUR: Covid active cases touched a new high of 6,803 on Saturday as the state reported 711 new infections taking the tally to 28,500. The state had reported 6,617 active cases on Friday and 6,666 on Thursday. The virus also claimed seven lives taking the state’s toll to 553. Three deaths were reported in Barmer, Pali (1), Jodhpur (1), Bharatpur (1), Rajsamand (1) and Jodhpur (1). Jodhpur reported highest number of active cases at 1186, followed by Alwar (885), Bikaner (824), Jaipur (778) and Pali (441). Out of 33 districts, 28 reported new infections with seven districts reporting more than 50 cases. In the past 15 days, the state has reported 9,448 new infections with an average of 629 cases per day. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (116), Pali (96), Jodhpur (94), Bikaner (67), Jaipur (61), Bharatpur (56), Kota (54), Ajmer (39), Barmer (31), Rajsamand (20), Churu (13), Udaipur (12), Nagaur (9), Bhilwara (7), Jaisalmer (6), Sikar (5), Dausa (4), Jhalawar (3), Hanumangarh (3), Tonk (3), Pratapgarh (2), Dungarpur (2), Sriganganagar (2), Banswara (2), Bundi (1), Karauli (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and one from other state. In Jaipur, 61 new cases were detected from 34 different places. The areas which reported new cases are Sanganer (10), Shastri Nagar (4), Jhotwara (4), Raja Park (3), Vaishali Nagar (3), Malviya Nagar (3), Jagatpura (3), Shahpura (2), SMS hospital (2), Murlipura (2), while one case each was reported from Govindgarh, Sikar Road, Bapu Nagar, Hasanpura, Ajmer Road, Tonk Phatak, Amber, Jaisinghpura Khor, Ramgarh Mod, Virat Nagar, Tonk Road, Phagi, Dudu, Jhalana, Durgapura, Mahesh Nagar, Manak Chowk, Bhrampuri, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Bani Park, Johri Bazaar, Galta Gate, Jamdoli, migrant, and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9448-infections-in-15-days-as-active-cases-continue-to-spiral/articleshow/77044588.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district reports 339 new cases & 12 deaths; 316 patients discharged||Nashik: The district recorded 339 new Covid-19 patients, in the past 24 hours, including 170 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 9,021The death toll rose to 383 after 12 deaths due to Covid-19 were recorded on Saturday. Of the 12 deaths, eight were reported from the city alone.As many as 316 patients were discharged on Saturday, including 209 patients from Nashik city.The district has 2,599 active cases, of which 1,634 active cases are from the city. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-district-reports-339-new-cases-12-deaths-316-patients-discharged/articleshow/77042862.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 9,448 Covid infections in 15 days as active cases continue to spiral||JAIPUR: Covid active cases touched a new high of 6,803 on Saturday as the state reported 711 new infections taking the tally to 28,500. The state had reported 6,617 active cases on Friday and 6,666 on Thursday. The virus also claimed seven lives taking the state’s toll to 553. Three deaths were reported in Barmer, Pali (1), Jodhpur (1), Bharatpur (1), Rajsamand (1) and Jodhpur (1). Jodhpur reported highest number of active cases at 1186, followed by Alwar (885), Bikaner (824), Jaipur (778) and Pali (441). Out of 33 districts, 28 reported new infections with seven districts reporting more than 50 cases. In the past 15 days, the state has reported 9,448 new infections with an average of 629 cases per day. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (116), Pali (96), Jodhpur (94), Bikaner (67), Jaipur (61), Bharatpur (56), Kota (54), Ajmer (39), Barmer (31), Rajsamand (20), Churu (13), Udaipur (12), Nagaur (9), Bhilwara (7), Jaisalmer (6), Sikar (5), Dausa (4), Jhalawar (3), Hanumangarh (3), Tonk (3), Pratapgarh (2), Dungarpur (2), Sriganganagar (2), Banswara (2), Bundi (1), Karauli (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and one from other state. In Jaipur, 61 new cases were detected from 34 different places. The areas which reported new cases are Sanganer (10), Shastri Nagar (4), Jhotwara (4), Raja Park (3), Vaishali Nagar (3), Malviya Nagar (3), Jagatpura (3), Shahpura (2), SMS hospital (2), Murlipura (2), while one case each was reported from Govindgarh, Sikar Road, Bapu Nagar, Hasanpura, Ajmer Road, Tonk Phatak, Amber, Jaisinghpura Khor, Ramgarh Mod, Virat Nagar, Tonk Road, Phagi, Dudu, Jhalana, Durgapura, Mahesh Nagar, Manak Chowk, Bhrampuri, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Bani Park, Johri Bazaar, Galta Gate, Jamdoli, migrant, and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/9448-infections-in-15-days-as-active-cases-continue-to-spiral/articleshow/77046267.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 9,448 Covid infections in 15 days as active cases continue to spiral||JAIPUR: Covid active cases touched a new high of 6,803 on Saturday as the state reported 711 new infections taking the tally to 28,500. The state had reported 6,617 active cases on Friday and 6,666 on Thursday. The virus also claimed seven lives taking the state’s toll to 553. Three deaths were reported in Barmer, Pali (1), Jodhpur (1), Bharatpur (1), Rajsamand (1) and Jodhpur (1). Jodhpur reported highest number of active cases at 1186, followed by Alwar (885), Bikaner (824), Jaipur (778) and Pali (441). Out of 33 districts, 28 reported new infections with seven districts reporting more than 50 cases. In the past 15 days, the state has reported 9,448 new infections with an average of 629 cases per day. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (116), Pali (96), Jodhpur (94), Bikaner (67), Jaipur (61), Bharatpur (56), Kota (54), Ajmer (39), Barmer (31), Rajsamand (20), Churu (13), Udaipur (12), Nagaur (9), Bhilwara (7), Jaisalmer (6), Sikar (5), Dausa (4), Jhalawar (3), Hanumangarh (3), Tonk (3), Pratapgarh (2), Dungarpur (2), Sriganganagar (2), Banswara (2), Bundi (1), Karauli (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and one from other state. In Jaipur, 61 new cases were detected from 34 different places. The areas which reported new cases are Sanganer (10), Shastri Nagar (4), Jhotwara (4), Raja Park (3), Vaishali Nagar (3), Malviya Nagar (3), Jagatpura (3), Shahpura (2), SMS hospital (2), Murlipura (2), while one case each was reported from Govindgarh, Sikar Road, Bapu Nagar, Hasanpura, Ajmer Road, Tonk Phatak, Amber, Jaisinghpura Khor, Ramgarh Mod, Virat Nagar, Tonk Road, Phagi, Dudu, Jhalana, Durgapura, Mahesh Nagar, Manak Chowk, Bhrampuri, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Bani Park, Johri Bazaar, Galta Gate, Jamdoli, migrant, and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/9448-infections-in-15-days-as-active-cases-continue-to-spiral/articleshow/77046269.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS to start human trial of desi vaccine||NEW DELHI: The AIIMS Ethics Committee on Saturday gave its nod for starting human clinical trial of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine — Covaxin. The premier hospital is likely to begin the trials by enrolling healthy volunteers from Monday. AIIMS-Delhi is among the 12 health facilities selected by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting the first two phases of the human trials for Covaxin. “The AIIMS Ethics Committee gave its approval for starting human clinical trial of the indigenously developed Covaxin today. Healthy volunteers having no comorbid conditions and without a history of Covid-19, aged more than 18 years and less than 55 years, would be eligible to participate in the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial,” Dr Sanjay Rai, professor at the centre for community medicine at AIIMS, said. Anybody willing to participate in the trial can send an email to ctaiims.covid19@gmail.com or can call or test on 7428847499. The institute will also put up these contact details on its website. Covaxin has been developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, along with ICMR and National Institute of Virology. Watch Covid-19: AIIMS to start human trial of desi vaccine in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-to-start-human-trial-of-desi-vaccine/articleshow/77044586.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chennai||One in jail, another in school but together they won Class XII exams||CHENNAI: Incidents like a parent and his child appearing for Class 10 exams together have given interesting twists for movie scripts. But here’s a rare case in which a father, a life convict for murder, and his son, a student of St Mary’s school in Papanasam, tasted victory together in Class XII exams recently. K Sukumar, the father, scored 320 marks, and his son, Suresh, secured 431 marks. However, the father and son couldn’t celebrate the victory together due to the pandemic-imposed restrictions at the Palayamkottai Central Prison in Tirunelveli where the father is undergoing his life imprisonment since 2004. “I am happy for my father who also passed Class XII. I am a bit upset that I am unable to share our victory together. I will soon visit him with a packet of laddu,” said Suresh who wants to pursue diploma in electrical engineering. Suresh knew his father was appearing for Class XII exams as he had passed Class 10 exam two years ago. “When I met him last, he told me to study well. I also told him to do the same. We wished each other. We both wanted to pass the exam during our first appearance itself. I am happy that we could do that,” he added. Interestingly, Suresh’s sister Meena had passed the Class 10 exam recently. The children of incarcerated parents always suffer a lot. “Suresh scored a good mark. And it was expected because he was a brilliant student. We will let him pursue higher studies with the help of sponsors,” said K R Raja, psychiatric counselor and co-founder of Global Network for Equality (GNE), an NGO based in Tirunelveli that works for the welfare of the children of incarcerated parents. Sukumar was sentenced to life imprisonment after he murdered a relative due to a family dispute in 2004. When he was on parole in 2014, another disaster took place. His wife committed suicide due to depression. Upset over the incident, Sukumar sent his two children to his mother’s house. Raja said when he informed Sukumar about his son’s achievement, he was happy. “He (Sukumar) asked us whether his son would be pursuing his higher studies. We assured him that we would take care of it,” said Raja, who has been taking care of the studies of the two children since 2015. (Names have been changed) EOM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/one-in-jail-another-in-school-but-together-they-won-class-xii-exams/articleshow/77043595.cms||M T Saju
July 19, 2020||Nashik||Special flight to Mumbai on July 22||Nashik: Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, will run a special Mumbai-Nashik-Mumbai flight on July 22, as a trial flight to check the passenger load in this sector. Alliance Air sources said if they receive good response, the airline might start a regular flight to Mumbai in future. On July 22, the flight will take off from Mumbai airport at 4.30 pm and land at Nashik the airport at 5.15 pm. The flight will depart from Nashik at 6.15 pm and land in Mumbai at 7 pm. Alliance Air has already started taking bookings for its special flight of July 22. The airfare is Rs 3,000. “Alliance Air is keen on operating in the Nashik-Mumbai sector. We will start Mumbai-Nashik-Mumbai flight if we get good passenger load in this sector” said the sources from the airline. “At present, the scenario is not so good because of the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country. We also have plans to connect Nashik to Delhi, but we are yet to take a call on when to start flight in this sector,” said the sources. Alliance Air is currently operating in Nashik-Ahmedabad, Nashik-Hyderabad and Nashik-Pune sectors. Apart from this, a private airline Trujet also operates in the Nashik-Ahmedabad sector, but it has been stopped due to some technical reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/special-flight-to-mumbai-on-july-22/articleshow/77042872.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 19, 2020||Nashik||29 Nashik paramedics catch Covid infection in 1.5 months||Nashik: In the past one-and-a-half months, 29 paramedics working in government establishments have been infected by Covid-19, taking the tally of medical staff who have contracted the viral infection to 36 here. The IMA has suggested total lockdown as the best option at this moment Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said that since May, there has been a huge leap in the number of paramedics getting infected. Barring three, all other paramedics have recovered from the infection. Doctors from the government establishments said if the infection continued to spread among the medical workers the way it was spreading currently, it would put a lot of burden on the medical resources in the future. The health workers engaged in Covid-19 management work continuously for 14 days after which, they have to undergo a 14-day quarantine period before they return home for a break. Besides, the paramedics who are infected have to compulsorily be out of duty for 15 days, after which they are assigned duties in non-Covid wards. Those aged above 55 years or those with comorbidities are exempted from Covid duties. “Considering the complications and the projected rise in Covid-19 patients in the city as well as district, we feel the doctors and health workers will face a serious challenge in treating infected patients in the future. The best option at this point of time is a total lockdown,” said IMA president Sameer Chandratre. On June 15, the IMA had presented a memorandum to district collector Suraj Mandhare requesting for a total lockdown in Nashik. “When we asked for a lockdown, 39 of the 129 deaths in the district were from Nashik alone. Of the 628 active cases, 440 were from the city. Now, the death toll in the city has already reached 202 while the active case count stands at 1,634 of the total 2,599 active cases in the district,” said Chandratre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/29-nashik-paramedics-catch-covid-infection-in-1-5-months/articleshow/77042878.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Talent pool, thrust on infra make Kerala attractive: Consultancy co||KOCHI: With easy availability of talent and the Kerala government’s thrust on infrastructure development, the real estate sector -- especially in the town-based office space segment -- is in a healthy state, says global consultancy JLL. “The Kerala government has already built large-scale commercial hubs -- Thiruvananthapuram (Technopark), Kochi (Infopark) and Kozhikode (Cyber Park) -- and also invested in physical infrastructure like national highways, airports, ports and Metro rail. Government’s focus on construction, manufacturing, as well as transportation continues and is evident from budgetary allocations,” said Rahul Arora, managing director for the company’s Bengaluru operations. “The talent here is skilled and most cities are highly urbanized. This, coupled with the good quality grade A space availability, makes Kochi a suitable city for occupiers from highly dense neighbouring cities to evaluate it as a secondary office space destination. Currently, with 12 million sqft+ of office space and just 26% vacancy, Kerala presents a great opportunity for such firms to set up an office immediately. Also, availability of developable land offers them the opportunity to set up large-scale campuses at competitive rates,” Arora said. There is also scope for alternative residential market categories such as student housing and senior living, he said. “Over 6 lakh enrolments in 2018-19 across 900+ institutes and 36,000+ colleges clearly point towards the need for affordable student housing. Similarly, a large ageing population will require community living for seniors.” “Furthermore, online delivery continues to stay robust, and this is having a positive impact on demand for warehousing and storage spaces. Kerala is attracting warehousing for agriculture produce, cold storage, supply chain solutions, etc. Many firms are being forced to re-evaluate their supply chain models, which would result in additional regional demand for such facilities. Usage of automation and robotics in warehousing is expected to get a push. This will drive changes in specifications leading to further demand. A number of national and local players are targeting prominent cities across Kerala,” Arora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/talent-pool-thrust-on-infra-make-kerala-attractive-consultancy-co/articleshow/77043632.cms||Shenoy Karun
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Two banks shut in Jaisalmer after officers test positive||JAISALMER: The spike in corona cases in Bikaner, Jodhpur and Barmer districts is having a direct impact on Jaisalmer. People travelling to these districts have been found positive in Jaisalmer. Jaisalmer reported six positive cases on Saturday including a sweet seller, officers of two nationalized banks and their family members. After the officers tested positive, both banks had to be closed and the district administration had to impose curfew in few wards due to which general public faced problems. Two days ago, municipal council chairman’s wife and health department deputy CMHO were tested positive after which the municipal council office was closed for two days. A large number of people heaved a sigh of relief after being tested negative as the municipal council chairman took part in many programmes in the last 2-3 days. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi said that city’s leading sweet seller had gone to Jodhpur for some work and officers of two nationalized banks including a bank officer’s wife and two children had gone to nearby districts for work. On their arrival to Jaisalmer, they were sent to quarantine so chances of infection are less. Advisory has been issued to maintain social distancing in the markets. Meanwhile, additional district collector O P Vishnoi and additional SP Rakesh Bairwa visited many markets of the city and made people aware of the advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-banks-shut-in-jaisalmer-after-officers-test-positive/articleshow/77044596.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala’s first film projector to become a museum piece in city||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, Kazhakuttom, will now house a rare piece of Malayalam cinema history. State’s first film projector was brought from Thrissur, where it first gave visual experience of cinema to Pooram aficionados, and was handed over to Centre for International Film Research and Archives (CIFRA), being set up by Kerala Chalachitra Academy at Kinfra Film and Video Park, on Friday. The over 80-year-old film projector was the first one to be owned by Kattookkaran Varunni, who is in the annals of state’s film history as the first film projectionist in Kerala. All these years, the super simplex projector was an exhibit at Thrissur Swapna Theatre, which was founded by Kattookkaran’s grandson K D Paul. Natural calamities in the recent years and the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the related restrictions forced the present owner of the theatre to close down the establishment. When it came to his notice, Chalachithra academy chairman Kamal contacted K D Paul’s son Mohan Paul, requesting to donate the projector to the collection of CIFRA. Mohan Paul then handed over the projector to Chalachitra academy. Swapna Theatre in Thrissur was earlier known as Rama Varma Theatre, which was established 81 years ago. Through the super simplex projector, films such as Nalla Thanka and Snapaka Yohannan were first screened in Thrissur. Super simplex is the enhanced version of the simplex projector invented by the classical film The Great Train Robbery’s director Edwin S Porter in 1909. This type of projector become popular in England in 1930s and subsequently it found its way to India as well. Kattookkaran Varunni Joseph was the first to make a bioscope projection in front of Pooram audience in 1907. It was said to be the first film projection in Kerala. He travelled across the length and breadth of south India with his show under the name Jose Bioscope. In 1913, Jose Bioscope became Jose Electrical Bioscope. Later, he screened films such as Raja Harichandram Kaliyamardanam and King of Circus under a tent erected on Thekkinkad ground. He later set up Jose Theatre, the first permanent cinema theatre in Kerala. His children K J Devassi and K D Paul had been active in theatre industry. Academy programme manager K J Rijoy, documentation assistant Sivakumar P S and projectionist John Kurien received the projector on behalf of CIRFA at Kinfra Film and Video Park, Kazhakuttom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/keralas-first-film-projector-to-become-a-museum-piece-in-city/articleshow/77042880.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab elderly suffering with NCDS have trouble remembering: Study||Chandigarh: A large number of the elderly suffering from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in Punjab also suffer cognitive impairment, says a joint study conducted by All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. Cognitive impairment refers to a medical condition in which an individual has trouble remembering. The ailment has a wide range of long-term consequences like dementia, depression, and Alzheimer’s disease. Patients undergoing treatment for type two diabetes and hypertension at community health centres at Khera and Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib district were examined to evaluate the prevalence and correlation of cognitive impairment among elderly patients living with NCDs. A total of 297 patients with average age of 64.9 (minimum 60 and maximum 86) participated. They either had type two diabetes or hypertension or both for an average of about 10.34 years. Of these, 191 lived in rural areas while 25 were from urban areas. Health experts attributed NCDs to unhealthy diet, lack of physical activity and ageing. They said NCDs are among the leading causes of premature mortality and Punjab has a high prevalence of such diseases. The study found that 27.3% participants had trouble remembering. This was significantly higher in the younger elderly and those with a higher education status, who were living with hypertension as compared to those with type two diabetes. In terms of psychiatric symptoms, 40.4% participants had depression, 41.4% had anxiety disorder, 25.9% reported vulnerability to abuse and 42.8% of the elderly reported loneliness. The study recognised hypertension as an established risk factor for cognitive impairment, especially when it started in mid-life. Researchers said timely management of the condition could prevent vascular dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. Findings of the study— conducted by Dr Madhur Verma of AIIMS, Dr Sandeep Grover, Dr Tarundeep Singh, Dr Neha Dahiya, Dr Ritu Nehra, all from PGIMER, — have been published in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry. “Older adults living with non-communicable diseases are at a higher risk of cognitive impairment. Physicians should educate their family members regarding the precautions and management options available to halt the progress of cognitive impairment,” said Dr Verma. He added that the elderly living with this medical condition demand more care and time from their family to maintain their quality of life. Patient Profile Age Group 60-69 | 157 Above 70 | 59 Gender Male | 93 Female | 123 Education Illiterate | 103 Up to primary | 61 High school and above | 52 Employment Status Unemployed | 101 Employed | 115 Type of family Nuclear | 54 Joint | 243 Locality Urban | 25 Rural | 191 Comorbid NCD | Number Diabetes | 84 Hypertension | 155 Both | 58||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-elderly-suffering-with-ncds-have-trouble-remembering-study/articleshow/77044595.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi in grip of corona, street food vendors find little on their plates||NEW DELHI: The joke doing the round nowadays is of a woman going to her favourite golgappa stall, gulp down a couple and exclaiming, “But it’s tasting different”, to which the vendor, holding up his gloved, sanitised hands, sheepishly replies, “Ma’am, the taste of bare hands is gone.” Covid-19 had led to the creation of numerous memes like this — and they reflect the fact that street food as we knew it no longer exists. Delhi has speciality snack joints in almost all colonies and streets. There’s chhole bhature in Paharganj, dosas, kadhi chawal and milk shakes in Connaught Place, bread pakora, samosa and aloo tikki in Lajpat Nagar and Karol Bagh, and, of course, kulfi in Fatehpuri. Alongside the usual offering of momos, bhelpuri, poori aloo and bhalla papdi, the city has no dearth of options for snackers. But the novel coronavirus hasn’t been kind to the people who prepared and sold these street edibles. Sangeeta Singh of NASVI (National Association of Street Vendors of India) estimated that there were two lakh roadside food stall owners in Delhi before the Covid lockdown. She said it was likely that only a third of these vends have reopened. And while NASVI has trained vendors online on hygiene and social distancing protocols, more assistance needs to be given to these micro business people to resume operations. For many workers in Delhi Gate, their daily meal options were the chhole kulche and other stuff Ramesh Chand sold at this stall. When the lockdown closed his stall, Chand left for home in Hazaribagh, Jharkhand. Speaking to TOI from his hometown, Chand explained that he learnt to make chhole kulche, gulab jamun and kulfi from the small Punjabi population in Hazaribagh. He travelled to Delhi and opened a stall from where he handed these out for almost 15 years. He had around 20 people from in and around his village working for him, but they too have returned home because there is no prospect of earnings for the food stall. Dal Chand Kashyap, who has been selling aloo tikki and papdi chaat for 25 years in Mayur Vihar Phase I, reopened his stall a month ago. But Kashyap, who has even featured in documentaries and online videos, is surviving more on hope and prayers than on his earnings. “We earned for our families and employees with respect. Our food was always meant to be enjoyed without fear. But till there is a vaccine, not many will come to eat at a street stall,” he remarked. Things are worse for Anil Sharma of the popular Kuremal Kulfi in Sita Ram Bazaar. Since the lockdown, he has not sold a single of his legendary fruit-flavoured kulfis that were a huge draw not only at his shop but also in parties and celebrations. He said there was no incentive to restart sales while fear loomed over the city. “Parties in Delhi have snacks, rolls, parantha, chaat or kulfi stalls, but with no events being planned, we are suffering a lot,” said a gloomy Sharma. Manish Baheti of South Asian Association of Gastronomy has started a campaign #savestreetfood because he feels it is important to save local culinary craft as well as livelihoods in the times of the pandemic. Baheti said there was immense loss of income for the sellers, while affecting all the daily wagers for whom these food vends meant daily sustenance. “The closure of street vends is also a loss to culture and heritage, with street food contributing so much to a city’s ambience,” Baheti said, adding that the need right now was an effort to not only get these vendors back on their feet, but also to help them navigate a more hygienic post-Covid world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-in-grip-of-corona-street-food-vendors-find-little-on-their-plates/articleshow/77044592.cms||Amin Ali
July 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Not taking an inch of forest land for Mattewara industrial park: Amarinder||Chandigarh: Rejecting reports to the contrary, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday declared that not a single tree would be uprooted, nor would an inch of forest land be taken by the government for development of the industrial park at Mattewara in Ludhiana. There was no question of destroying the Mattewara forest, said Amarinder during his #AskCaptain Facebook Live session. Statements made by certain people suggesting that the forest would be destroyed “are simply not true,” he said. The CM added that the government has taken 955 acres of land of animal husbandry, horticulture department and gram panchayat but the acquired land does not include an inch of the 2,300 acres of the Mattewara forest. The chief minister said last year, the government, with public support, planted 75 lakh saplings to commemorate the 550th Prakash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev. He said he himself wanted to make Punjab clean and green. Amarinder also allayed apprehensions that waste from the industrial park would be discharged into the Satluj river and said a modern common effluent treatment plant would be set up in accordance with the latest norms of the Government of India. He said the planned industrial park is aimed at creating a vibrant industrial estate where people of Ludhiana and nearby areas can get jobs. On the Covid-19 pandemic, he reiterated his appeal to take due precautions and wear masks to check spread of the disease. Citing experts, he said wearing a mask can reduce the chance of infection by 75% and added that 10 lakh reusable masks had been sent to deputy commissioners for distribution. In response to a question, he said anyone coming into the state through any border would be thoroughly checked. Ravinder Bagga from Ludhiana had expressed concern over labourers being brought and dropped in trucks at the Shambhu border, from where they were entering the state on foot. He also promised to look into the request to bring middle class families into the cover of blue cards. Box: ‘Bargari probe will be completed soon’ Replying to another question by Faridkot’s Gagandeep Singh, he said two SITs were investigating the Bargari case and he was hopeful of the probe being completed soon. “We will get to the bottom of the matter and no guilty person will be spared,” he asserted. Box: Justifies Covid treatment rates Terming the rates for Covid treatment fixed for private hospitals as too high, Sewak Singh of Ludhiana said it was beyond the common man’s reach. The chief minister pointed out that the rates being charged by private hospitals so far were exorbitant and that Rs 18,000 per day was for critical patients only. He said government hospitals had all the facilities which they were providing at affordable costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-taking-an-inch-of-forest-land-for-mattewara-industrial-park-amarinder/articleshow/77044606.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||After slow start, ILBS gets more plasma donors in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi, who represents Kalkaji constituency, on Saturday donated plasma at the government’s first plasma bank opened earlier this month at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. Akshay Marathe, an AAP spokesperson, also donated his plasma. Abhinandita Mathur, who is an adviser to the Delhi government, went to the bank but could not donate plasma due to her white blood cells count being low. All three were infected with the novel coronavirus around a month ago and had recovered in home isolation. “Donated plasma at the ILBS plasma Bank today. Would like to urge all recovered Covid-19 patients to come forward and donate their plasma. It is very rare that one gets an opportunity to save someone’s life; and plasma can do just that!” the AAP MLA from Kalkaji tweeted after the donation. Marathe described his experience as delightful. “Delightful experience today donating plasma at Delhi government plasma bank. One can’t imagine just how hassle-free the entire process is. I am happy to have been able to contribute to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s mission to save as many lives as possible,” Marathe said. Last month, AAP MLA from Karol Bagh, Vishesh Ravi had donated plasma after fully recovering from the infection. Several AAP workers have also donated plasma till now. Kejriwal has been appealing to one and all, who have recovered from Covid-19 and are eligible to donate plasma, to come forward and donate it to save precious lives. The number of donors at ILBS, which was low during the initial days, has improved as more donors are coming forward. The second plasma bank opened at Lok Nayak Hospital has also started drawing donors. In a couple of days only, 11 persons have come forward to donate plasma. “Many of the willing donors could not donate plasma because they did not have enough antibodies,” said a source. The state government-run hospital is planning to organise a special camp next week to allow jawans from Delhi Police and paramilitary forces to donate plasma. Watch ILBS gets more plasma donors in Delhi, after slow start||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-initial-slow-run-plasma-donors-at-ilbs-rising/articleshow/77044601.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Muskan teaches dance to support family, bags 76.9% in HSC||NAGPUR: Just like her name, Muskan, she has ‘smiled’ her way through all the obstacles that life placed before her and scored 76.90% in HSC’s science stream. From supporting her family financially straight after Std X, to a daily two-hour commute to work and still attending college full-time, Muskan has seen it all so early in life. Muskan’s father Govind Vishwakarma is a blacksmith. The Koradi-based family of four survived on his meagre and unstable income of hardly Rs10,000 per month. “During school itself my mother Pratibha encouraged me to train in classical dance. I also learn modern dance like hip hop,” said Muskan. This art became a major source of income for her family after she cleared her STD X exam. “I started teaching dance at an academy in Nagpur and that helps me earn around Rs8,000 per month,” said Muskan. Muskan’s daily schedule has been a grinding one for the last two years. She would reach Bhadant Dhammakirti Science and Commerce College in Jaripatka sharp by 7am, all the way from Koradi. “College ended at 12 noon after which I would straight head home. At 3pm, I would again leave for Nagpur and reach the dance academy located near Sant Gadge Nagar an hour later. I would teach dance from 4pm till 8pm to various batches,” said Muskan. After finally reaching home by 9.30pm, she is left with energy only to eat dinner. And the next day, back up again at 5am to prepare for another gruelling day. “I studied hard during college hours only because there was no other time slot available for it,” said Muskan who did not have the option of stopping work due to financial crisis at home. There were some months when she would get lucky with wedding events. “There would be sangeet ceremonies and I would go to teach dance there. In a very good month I have earned as high as Rs25,000 from doing so,” said Muskan. Due to lockdown she has been completely deprived of her income and hopes that good times return soon. “Dancing is my passion but my interest is in engineering. I wish to pursue software development as a career,” said Muskan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muskan-teaches-dance-to-support-family-bags-76-9-in-hsc/articleshow/77044610.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Badly hit traders seek permission to open shops||Thiruvananthapuram: Merchants in the city have sought government’s permission to open shops at least for limited hours, even as the two-week lockdown nears its end. They alleged that while the benefits of the lockdown are not at all clear, the economic losses inflicted on them were huge. Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi representatives held a meeting via video conference on Saturday to discuss the crisis. They decided to raise the demand amidst reports that restrictions would continue in city after the conclusion of the second week of the lockdown on Sunday. Later in the day, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan confirmed the rumours and said that restrictions would continue in the city. “Though the lockdown was imposed in the city, the government has admitted that cases of community spread are increasing. Community spread cannot be controlled only by closing shops. It can be controlled only if people become cautious and take precautions,” said Kamalalayam Suku, state senior vice president, Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi. Till that happens, shutdowns are not going to help, he pointed out. They said that in line with many cities across the world that have found lockdown to be ineffective, the state government should also grant permission to open the shops. “While the city, district and state borders still remain open, we demand that the government explain the benefits of lockdown by closing shops,” added Suku. Pointing out their grievances, the traders said they have to pay rent and salaries to their staff though they are suffering an income squeeze. S S Manoj, who owns an optical shop, and rents out furniture, said that there had been no business for more than two months. “As weddings and other programmes are scheduled during these months, I had bought some new furniture on loan to rent out for functions. I have not even unpacked the goods. There had been no business as no functions are permitted now. The optical shop also cannot be opened as it is located in the city limits. I have to pay Rs 25,000 rent and also salary to four employees. It is a difficult time for traders and the government should at least convene a meeting with us, before enforcing another lockdown,” said Manoj. Aryasala Suresh, who owns a household article shop at Chalai, said it is his only source of revenue. “I am struggling to pay the wages of the staff. The authorities should permit us to open the shops for at least a few hours daily,” said Suresh. Two days ago, members of Kerala Hotel and Restaurants Association had sought permission to resume parcel service in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/badly-hit-traders-seek-permission-to-open-shops/articleshow/77042902.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Amul brand’s turnover zooms 16% to Rs 52,000 crore||VADODARA: Home-grown dairy giant Amul has achieved over Rs 52,000 crore turnover for 2019-20, a 16% increase over the previous year. In 2018-19, its turnover was Rs 45,000 crore. The group turnover of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF), which owns the brand Amul, and its member unions has crossed US$ 7 billion. Results of the sales turnover of GCMMF were declared on Saturday at the 46th annual general meeting of the federation. GCMMF itself has registered a turnover of Rs 38,542 crore in the financial year 2019-20 ending March 31. The sales turnover achieved by it is 16% higher than the previous financial year. “Our aim now is to achieve group business turnover of Rs 1 lakh crore in the next five years (by 2024-25),” said R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF. “We want to emerge as one of the top three dairy organizations in the world,” he said. Amul was ranked 18th globally in 2011. Currently, it is ranked the world’s 9th largest dairy organization. GCMMF’s chairman Ramsinh Parmar said that during the last 10 years, Amul’s milk procurement has increased by 138%. From 90.93 lakh litres per day (LLPD) in 2009-10, the milk procurement increased to 215.96 LLPD in 2019-20. “This growth is due to high milk procurement price paid to our farmer-members,” he said, adding that milk procurement price which was Rs 337 per kg fat in 2009-10 has increased to Rs 765 per kg fat in 2019-20, up 127%. He stressed that during the pandemic, Amul cooperatives have converted crisis into an opportunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-brands-turnover-zooms-16-to-rs-52000cr/articleshow/77042990.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Hubballi||Patient’s kin wait to perform last rites||Belagavi: The last rites of the body of an elderly Covid-19 patient is yet to be done, even as his family waited for hours to catch its last glimpse at the BIMS on Saturday. The patient had died on Friday, hours after falling from the bed, and withering in pain with no one to attend to him. A video of the incident went viral on social media platforms, triggering outrage and raising several questions on the handling of patients at the hospital. The development also prompted DC M G Hiremath to initiate a probe into the incident. However with the last rites still pending, the alleged apathy on the part of the authorities continues to haunt the bereaved family. The family members, who arrived in a private vehicle from Athani at 4pm on Saturday, are now requesting the authorities to allow them to see the body for one last time. The grandson of the deceased told STOI: “We came in a vehicle by paying Rs 3,500 to carry the body back. But now we are told that the bodies of Covid positive patients will not be handed over to relatives.” He further said that he wants authorities to give them the Covid test report. “We have been waiting at the mortuary since evening. We will wait until we get to see the face of our grandfather,” he said. The grandson also said it is the moral responsibility of the authorities to provide them the details of treatment. “I need every detail about the nature of treatment and medication given to my grandfather. I will leave the hospital only after getting it.” The district health officer said there may be delay due to procedures that need to be followed before the last rites are done. “The family members can take part in the last rites, which are performed as per their rituals. But the authorities will handle the entire process as the patient has died due to Covid,” the DHO added. DC Hiremath said an inquiry committee from BIMS has been asked to probe the incident and submit a report on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/patients-kin-wait-to-perform-last-rites/articleshow/77043665.cms||Shreyas HS
July 19, 2020||Mysuru||Vehicles set ablaze near containment zone in Shivamogga||SHIVAMOGGA: Vehicles were set ablaze near the containment zone of Sigehatti in Shivamogga in the early hours of Friday. Rural development and panchayat raj minister K S Eshwarappa blamed the police for the incident, and said that it showed their inefficiency. Shivamogga has been under partial lockdown since Wednesday. Eshwarappa visited the spot on Friday morning. People of Sigehatti complained about illegal activities taking place in their area during the night. They also said that ganja peddlers were active in the area. Sigehatti comes under Doddapete police station limits. The Doddapete police are investigating the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vehicles-set-ablaze-near-containment-zone/articleshow/77026687.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Moneylender arrested in Solapur suicide case||Kolhapur: The Solapur police arrested a private moneylender in connection with the suicide of Amol Jagtap, the restaurateur who had killed his wife and two sons before ending his life on Monday. Police suspect the involvement of more private moneylenders, who allegedly used to threaten Jagtap while demanding the return of money. Faujdar Chawdi police on Friday arrested moneylender Vyankatesh Papayya Bandangiri (40) from his house on the Hyderabad road. Bandangiri allegedly used to threaten Jagtap, police investigation has revealed. He was arrested after the police obtained some vital clues from documents and call data record of Jagtap’s cellphone. The investigation has revealed that Jagtap had taken big loans from private moneylenders, which he was unable to return as his bar was closed during the lockdown. Police said Jagtap had taken Rs 6 lakh from Bandangiri. Jagtap had even got his establishment in Bandangiri’s name as he was unable to return the money. Police are checking if Jagtap had taken money from people and was being harassed. They have taken statements from Jagtap’s relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/moneylender-arrested-in-solapur-suicide-case/articleshow/77042895.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lieutenant governor’s ‘constant intervention’ irks AAP||NEW DELHI: With lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and Delhi government caught in a tussle over the appointment of special public prosecutors to represent the state government in cases related to the communal riots in northeast Delhi in February, the Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday strongly objected to what it called “constant intervention of LG in subverting the judicial process in cases pertaining to Delhi riots and anti-CAA protests and in the appointment of special public prosecutors for cases related to these”. In response, the LG’s office said that senior lawyers were required to argue the cases and stressed that there was no reason to think special public prosecutors wouldn’t act in an impartial manner. Member of Parliament Sanjay Singh said, “AAP government is committed to the strictest possible punishment for all those involved in the riots. But for that to happen, independent investigation by police and a free and fair trial are a must. The LG and the central government are insisting on appointment of SPPs chosen by the Centre.” Singh added, “This is happening at a time when there are very serious allegations about the response of Delhi Police to these riots as well as the investigation process. It is, therefore, extremely important that the SPPs for these cases are independent. If they are appointed by the central government and Delhi Police, their independence will be questioned.” The LG’s office reacted to the controversy for the first time on Saturday. It said the riot cases required careful handling because of the impact they could have on social amity and so senior advocates needed to be appointed as SPPS. “There is no reason to imagine that the public prosecutors appointed won’t perform their duty fearlessly and impartially. We have full faith in the judicial process, and are committed to strictest punishment under the law for the guilty in the riot cases,” a statement said. Justifying the need for senior lawyers, the LG’s statement said the cases were of highly sensitive nature and numerous, therefore, requiring constant monitoring and coordination across different courts. Since April, LG Anil Baijal and AAP government are fighting about the panel of public prosecutors for the trials in the lower courts and Delhi high court. The appointment of 11 lawyers for arguing the cases in the lower courts proposed by Delhi Police was also followed by intense disagreement between the LG and state government. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said that the Criminal Procedures Code makes the public prosecutor a representative of the state, not the police. “This principle was upheld by Delhi high court in 2016 and the Supreme Court division bench in 2017,” pointed out Chadha. “The power to appoint public prosecutors has been granted solely to Delhi government. Delhi Police, being the investigating agency, should have no role in deciding the lawyers.” Under the Constitution, the LG has special powers to overturn any decision of the elected government. “The SC has made it clear that this power has to be used in the rarest of rare cases,” noted Chadha. “Last month, Baijal used these extraordinary powers to appoint 11 central government lawyers to represent Delhi in the riot cases in the lower courts. Now, the LG wants to appoint central government lawyers in the high court and Supreme Court too.” Chadha revealed that Baijal had written to CM Arvind Kejriwal on Friday after deputy CM Manish Sisodia strongly objected to the proposed appointment of the Centre’s panel of lawyers. Baijal apparently conveyed his disagreement with Sisodia’s view and directed Delhi’s council of ministers to consider this matter and give its new recommendation within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lgs-constant-intervention-irks-aap/articleshow/77044618.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 19, 2020||Trichy||Trichy pvt hospitals full as many insist on admission||Trichy: As Trichy continues to report a large number of cases, most of the approved private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment have run out of reserved beds as symptomatic and asymptomatic patients have been making a beeline to these hospitals. The district had a total of 2,126 positive cases with the addition of 124 new cases on Saturday. In all, 10 private hospitals have been listed for Covid-19 treatment according to the official website of the health department. Of these, four have showed zero vacancy of the normal beds and oxygen supported beds while three hospitals had beds below 10. The website shows a private medical college hospital as having 151 beds including nearly 80 oxygen-supported beds. Similarly, the available beds were shown as 30 in a private hospital in the city. However, when TOI contacted them, a representative of the hospital the website was not updated and they had very limited number of beds. A major private hospital also had no beds on Saturday, but an employee said the patient can book in advance for admission and he will be taken once cured patients are discharged. A doctor at a private hospital said they won’t entertain asymptomatic patients despite patients insisting on admission. “We take senior citizens with comorbidities for treatment. Some asymptomatic patients also request for admission but we advise them to be in home quarantine,” said a doctor. A private hospital doctor said they send the swabs to their lab in Chennai but admit the patients even before the results come if the Computed Tomography (CT) scan shows ground-glass opacity (GGO) in the lung. “A majority of the patients with GGO test positive for Covid-19,” he said. The duration of treatment at private hospitals is seven to ten days. The hospitals claim that their billing is in line with the tariff of the state government. Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) had 408 patients out of the 729 active cases admitted, the remaining being admitted to private hospitals or government hospitals in other districts. MGMGH had the capacity of 600 beds. Trichy district administration also has put 118 asymptomatic patients at the covid care centre (CCC) on Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University in Trichy as of Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-pvt-hospitals-full-as-many-insist-on-admission/articleshow/77044593.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 19, 2020||Trichy||Three kids drown in stagnant wild stream in Trichy||TRICHY: Three children including two girls drowned in a stagnant wild stream at Siruganur on the outskirts of Trichy on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as M Haseera Banu, 11, her brother M Mohammed Asil, 8, and their relative A Rizwana, 10, of Siruganur. The three children were playing near the wild stream, which has turned into a pond behind Selli Amman kovil in the village. Their grandmother was grazing goats nearby. The children stepped into the pond to take bath. As they moved in they slipped, stuck in the mud and drowned in the pond. They were unable to get themselves out of the mud. The incident took place at 4 pm on Saturday. The grandmother noticed the incident and screamed for help. The villagers jumped into the pond to their rescue, but they could fish out their dead bodies only. Siruganur police took up the investigation and registered a case. The bodies were sent to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-kids-drown-in-stagnant-wild-stream/articleshow/77044597.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Lower courts heard 7.3 lakh cases online: Ravi Shankar Prasad||NEW DELHI: Law, communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday said the digital infrastructure in the country has helped provide a variety of e-governance and direct transfer services during the Covid-19 pandemic, with subordinate courts too handling over 7.3 lakh cases virtually. In addition, more that 1.7 lakh cases have been heard virtually by high courts and another 7,800 cases have been handled by the Supreme Court in this fashion, Prasad said in his keynote address at the Late Thakur Prasad Centenary Memorial Lecture. “Digital India goes beyond what Indian IT companies, such as Wipro and Infosys, have done to empower ordinary Indians and bridge the digital divide,” he said through a video link. Thakur Prasad, a noted lawyer and one of the prominent figures in BJP who served as a minister in Bihar was Prasad’s father. Over the last five-and-a-half years, nearly Rs 11 lakh crore have gone into bank accounts of the poor, which are linked to Aadhaar, and helped prevent leakages of around Rs 1.7 lakh crore, which were earlier pocketed by middlemen, he added. “Digital governance leads to good governance,” he said. While these transactions have resulted in the generation of billions of data on individuals, Prasad made it clear that the government was going to ensure that this data was protected. “Data is an asset, a critical and strategic asset. Who owns this data? Data of Indians, belongs to India… We shall not compromise on data sovereignty. We will not tolerate data imperialism. I am very happy that this is finding global support,” Prasad, who is piloting the Data Protection Bill, said. He also said there was a need to strike a balance between privacy and disclosure of data of those who were trying to destabilise the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lower-courts-heard-7-3-lakh-cases-online-ravi-shankar-prasad/articleshow/77045152.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Trichy||Traders at Trichy's G Corner market yet to be screened for Covid-19||TRICHY: Even after many vegetable vendors with travel history to G Corner wholesale market in Trichy city tested positive for Covid-19, Trichy Corporation is hesitant to conduct mass screening at the market. Since a majority of retailers procure vegetables from the market, residents and vendors who recovered from Covid-19 have expressed concern over the market becoming a cluster. “It is surprising to note the hesitation to test the vendors. Situation is not the same as it was during May. There is a widespread infection,” R Kathan, a retired health inspector said. Acknowledging lapses, city police personnel, who supervise the market said that loadmen wear masks only after seeing the patrolling team. Vendors from hotspots including Madurai are arriving at the market. “We have no plans to test G Corner market again. Penalties are being levied on the traders and loadmen failing to wear masks,” a senior corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-at-g-corner-mkt-yet-to-be-screened/articleshow/77044607.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||No food for under-60 homeless at NMC shelters||NAGPUR: A day after TOI highlighted plight of the homeless living on roads, it has come to fore that Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) shelter homes had asked their inmates under 60 years of age to fend for themselves after the lockdown. Assistant commissioner Subhash Jaidev told TOI that the orders to stop the free food to inmates came from the government. “Only those above 60 years of age are entitled for food as per the central government scheme. During lockdown, NMC used to feed the inmates with help of various NGOs. They have stopped after easing of restrictions,” he said. TOI highlighted the plight of homeless persons living after a young social worker Shashank Gattewar clicked pictures of how they were lying in utter neglect on footpaths across the city. The fact came to light after TOI sought explanation from civic officials and shelter home caretakers on neglecting scores of homeless persons. Caretaker at the Tekdi Ganesh shelter home, Vasant Rangari, also stated they had received grants for only those above 60 years of age. Others were being charged Rs 50 for lunch and dinner and that too was difficult to provide as NGOs had stopped helping them and there’s no government scheme for the homeless. “They keep staring at us when we serve food to senior citizens. They blame us for bringing them in shelter homes and not even providing food. They taunt us that they were better at roadside or near religious places, where people gave them food or money,” he told TOI, adding that most of them were back to their respective places after being in shelter home for nearly three months during lockdown. Jaidev clarified Rangari was not an NMC official but a private person appointed to take care of shelter home. “Most of the persons clicked by Gattewar are mentally unstable and we don’t have any policy to accommodate them at our shelters. They need to be sent to the rehabilitation centres with the help of police. We can’t bring them in homes.” Stating that NMC shelters didn’t have beds to accommodate new inmates, he said they were not taking risk of crowding these centres. “We are ensuring Covid distancing is maintained at these homes. One of our shelters at Hansapuri was sealed after a positive patient was found there. Since then, it hasn’t reopened, thus reducing our capacity to house homeless persons,” Jaidev clarified adding that inmates below 60 years could sleep at night in shelters but no meals would be provided to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-food-for-under-60-homeless-at-nmc-shelters/articleshow/77044631.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Decide on lawyers: Lieutenant governor to Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has asked chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to take a decision within a week on the panel of special public prosecutors to represent the state in the Delhi high court cases related to February’s communal riots. On July 10, Delhi Police sought the approval of Delhi government on the appointment of six lawyers, among them Tushar Mehta and Aman Lekhi, to represent the prosecution in Delhi high court in the 85 cases pertaining to communal rioting and anti-CAA protests. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who handles the home portfolio, rejected the proposal on the ground that Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra and his team were “capable” of representing the state and new appointments were not required. Baijal pointed out in his letter to Kejriwal on Saturday that he had requested Sisodia to reconsider the decision and clear the Delhi Police proposal. Since AAP government was adamant on its own set of lawyers, the LG on Friday countered by rejecting the state government’s chosen panel. A meeting between the LG and deputy CM was held on Friday through videoconferencing on the issue. In the letter, the LG requested the CM to “expeditiously refer the matter to the council of ministers under Rule 49 of TBR of GNCTD, 1992 with Section 45 (c) of the Government of NCT Act, 1991”, asking Kejriwal to take a decision within seven days. A source added that Baijal may refer the matter to the President under Article 293AA of the Constitution if the Delhi cabinet did not comply with the request of Delhi Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/decide-on-lawyers-lg-to-cm/articleshow/77044630.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Moose Wala has gone way beyond with his new song’||Patiala: Latest song by controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala titled ‘Sanju’ has not gone down well with the state intelligentsia. While former Olympian and superintendent of police (SP) Avneet Kaur Hundal has said ‘the singer has gone way beyond’, Karnataka Professor Pandit Rao Dharennavar, on whose plea the Punjab and Haryana high court had banned recording of such songs in September last year, has filed a complaint with the cyber cell. Moose Wala in his latest song ‘Sanju’ wears the two cases registered against him at Sangrur and Barnala as ‘Badges of Honour’. Reacting strongly to the song, Hundal has commented “With excessive pride comes blindness”. In a post on social media the cop said, “No doubt this young man has made tremendous success in his field and has a huge fan following, but this time he has gone way beyond.” In her post she has also raised questions, “Is this what you are giving to the youth? Is this your message to society? If yes, then this singer really needs to brush up his knowledge and read about real men.” In the song Moose Wala has claimed that ‘criminal cases are only registered against real men’. Former principal of Government Medical College Patiala, Dr BS Sidhu also reacted sharply against the new song released by the singer. He said it was totally wrong to promote a criminal attitude and the message that he was giving to the younger generation was evil and should be nipped in the bud. Dr Naina Sharma, senior professor of psychology at Punjabi University, Patiala, said, such songs pushed the vulnerable youth of Punjab towards risk-taking behaviour and singers should realise their social responsibility and promote the Punjabi culture and not guns, women, drugs and violence. “The manner in which the singer is celebrating crime and comparing himself with Sanjay Dutt is totally uncalled for,” she said. Pandit Rao Dharennavar said the Punjab and Haryana high court, in an order issued in September last year, had banned recording of all songs promoting drugs, violence and weapons. Despite this several singers came up with songs that were in contempt of these orders.  “I have already filed contempt petition in the HC against several singers and will move another application before the court on Monday against Sidhu Moose Wala for his latest song Sanju,” Pandit Rao said, claiming that he had already filed a complaint with the cyber cell of the state police in this regard. It has been learnt that the song has allegedly been leaked on social media while the singer is expected to release the video of the song on July 26. Rao said he would request the court to order a ban on release of any such song by Moose Wala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/moose-wala-has-gone-way-beyond-with-his-new-song/articleshow/77044624.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||Locust swarms enter US Nagar, damage crops||Rudrapur: A day after entering Udham Singh Nagar district from adjoining Pilibhit district of Uttar Pradesh, locust swarms swept into different towns of the district on Friday, causing damage to crops. The swarms were spotted in Sitarganj, Khatima, Kichha, Shakti farm, Manwa Patti and other areas of the district. People in these areas were seen beating drums, utensils, and bursting crackers to scare the locusts and distract them. District’s chief agricultural officer Abhay Saxena told TOI that the locust swarms which entered Khatima have now split into two groups. “The larger swarm has moved towards Barhaini in Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, the smaller swarm attacked crops of maize, paddy, and sugarcane in Sitarganj. However, as the farmers and agriculture department officials were on alert, huge losses were averted. We are using fire tenders and other machines to spray chemicals on these locusts and keeping them at bay,” he said. Saxena further informed that the head of the entomology department of GB Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, SN Tiwari, is heading the committee formed to track the locusts’ movement. The committee is also informing the villagers about the ways to handle the crisis. “The district administration was already on alert and fire tenders were pressed to spray chemicals to battle the locusts. The swarm was in full strength when it attacked Majhola village in Khatima but we managed to handle the situation. The locusts travel during daytime and the swarms stop at night. The information has been passed to all villages and the department is also keeping vigil on their movement,” said assistant district horticulture officer Jagat Chand. Karamjeet Singh, a farmer from Kichha, said that locusts have invaded the rural areas of Kichha. “The swarm has settled in the villages of Darau, Sainjna, and Ratanpur. The agriculture department has provided chemicals to the farmers to spray on locusts, and we are hoping it will have an effect,” Singh said. Vichitra Singh, an elderly farmer, said that this is the biggest locust attack in the past 50 years. “The farmers from Uttar Pradesh keep us updated on phones over the movement of locust swarms and it helped us a lot in minimising the crop losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locust-swarms-enter-us-nagar-damage-crops/articleshow/77042082.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||Hospital in Doon shuts down citing losses due to Covid||Dehradun: In possibly the first instance of a hospital closing down due to the Covid-induced crisis in Uttarakhand, the Sakya Hospital in the Rajpur area of Dehradun, has shut down due to what its management claimed was losses incurred during the pandemic. The services of 30 employees, including doctors and nurses, have been terminated by the hospital with immediate effect. “Due to financial conditions in the past which further deteriorated due to Covid-19, we cannot meet expenses and, hence, have decided to close,” the hospital management board said. The hospital was run by the Sakya Centre, the seat of the Sakya Order of Tibetan Buddhism in India which is headquartered in Dehradun. The hospital was set up in 2000, offering allopathic and palliative care, and received about 80-100 patients a day. General secretary of the trust, Sonam Chogyal, told TOI that “the hospital had been incurring losses over the past few years but when Covid-19 hit, no patients came in at all.” “That was why we had to close the hospital,” he added. Employees, meanwhile, did not agree with the management’s logic for shutting the hospital down. Till March, employees told TOI, the hospital was in a “no profit, no loss” situation and was continuing to take in patients even during the lockdown. “The stated aim of the hospital was not to be a profitable venture but to be of help to the community. The decision to close it down — especially in the middle of a pandemic — when health services are more essential than ever, has come as a shock,” said a nursing staffer at the hospital. Another employee, an assistant, said he was the only earning member in his family and “the sudden manner in which the announcement of the hospital’s closure was made, came as a jolt.” “We even paid for our PPE kits out of our own pockets. We contributed to the hospital’s Covid-19 fund. What we got was a sad reward for our dedication,” he said. Chogyal meanwhile said the hospital was trying to assist its employees on their way out. “We have compensated them with a month’s pay, settled their gratuity and every other due in keeping with labour laws. We have also allowed staffers from outside the state to stay at the hospital for a month so they can plan their next move,” he added. Employees however have registered a formal complaint with the state labour department. Assistant labour commissioner Anil Petwal told TOI a team has been set up to look into what happened. “We cannot stop any institution from shutting but we will ensure that all employees get their dues.” In the meantime, patients living in the vicinity of the hospital — in areas like Rajpur Road, Canal Road and Jakhan — said the closure of the hospital would cut off access to affordable treatment. “From OPD charges to hospital bed costs, everything in the hospital was less than half of what we paid in other private hospitals. It is sad that it had to shut,” said Savitri Devi, who lives near a slum on Rajpur Road. Her husband works as a daily wage labourer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hospital-in-doon-shuts-down-citing-losses-due-to-covid/articleshow/77042095.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lockdown to continue in city as 173 fresh cases on Saturday||Thiruvananthapuram: The district reported 173 Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Coastal clusters accounted for major percentage of positive cases with many cases being reported from Pulluvila, Poonthura, Vizhinjam, Kottukal and Anchuthengu. City wards such as Kadakampally, Medical College and Anayara reported fresh cases on Saturday. Three people who were undergoing treatment at Medical College were also confirmed with the disease on Saturday. The district now has large community clusters along coastal areas. Other cases have also been reported from Parassala where limited clusters were reported in the last few days. No fresh cases were reported from Aryanadu and Poovachal clusters on Saturday. The lockdown in corporation area will complete two weeks on Sunday. On Saturday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the lockdown will continue as the situation remains serious in the city. He said there were cases with unknown source of contact in several parts of the city, including Petta and Statue. Sources said restrictions for bus will continue. Shops other than those selling essential commodities will remain shut. A new timetable for shops selling grocery and vegetables is being planned. Instead of current schedule of 7am to 12 noon and 4pm to 6pm schedule, essential goods’ shop may function on a single shift of 10 hours from 7am. The night curfew will also strictly be implemented. There is no decision yet on the demand by hotels to at least allow parcel service in the city from Monday. As many as 900 persons were brought under disease surveillance in the district on Saturday. As many as 1,038 persons completed observation period without showing any symptoms. As many as 17,180 persons are under surveillance in houses and 1,592 persons are under observation in institutional quarantine centres in the district. A total of 942 persons were admitted to hospitals in the district with disease symptoms on Saturday. As many as 63 persons were discharged and 1,895 persons are under observation in hospitals in the district. A total of 664 samples were sent for testing and results of 534 samples were received on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lockdown-to-continue-in-city-as-173-fresh-cases-on-saturday/articleshow/77042941.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Trichy||Priests: No rituals on auspicious days||Trichy: Srirangam priests’ association has come forward to refrain from hosting rituals on the auspicious days of the ongoing Tamil month Aadi. The association has put up a flex banner at the Amma Mandapam ghats on Cauvery banks mentioning the dates and days they will not perform the rituals so as to bring down the footfall of devotees. People usually throng Srirangam to perform rituals for their ancestors on Aadi Amavasya and Aadi perukku, a thanksgiving event to river Cauvery. However, with Covid-19 positive cases increasing on a daily basis in the district, the association has decided not to perform the rituals for Aadi Amavasya on July 20 and Aadi Perukku on August 2. “As complete lockdown has been imposed on all Sundays, we will not perform any rituals on the next two Sundays. We cannot manage the crowd and maintaining the social distancing will be difficult,” S V Ragunathan, member of the priests’ association told TOI. The priests will not perform any rituals on Aadi 28, falling on August 12. On all other days, 14 out of 80 priests will perform the rituals on a rotational basis between 6 am and 10 am at the Amma mandapam ghats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/priests-no-rituals-on-auspicious-days/articleshow/77044615.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Kurukshetra University may shift rare manuscripts||KURUKSHETRA: Kurukshetra University (KU) working vice-chancellor (VC) Nita Khanna has constituted a committee to explore the possibility of sharing rare manuscripts from the varsity’s Jawaharlal Nehru Library (JNL) with a private institution founded by Swami Gyananand, who is associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS). The private institute, Gita Gyan Sansthanam (GGS), is located on Salarpur Road, Kurukshetra. According to KU data, there are 15,324 rare manuscripts in the library, with some of them being 200-500 years old. A few years ago, about 90% of these were digitised with the help of Chandigarh-based NGO The Nanakshahi Trust. As per KU website, the trust digitised whole of the collection of Sharda, Persian, Bangla, Gurmukhi and Oriya scripts and there are manuscripts in Sanskrit language too. The move has irked students, scholars and varsity officials, who said the manuscripts are heritage of KU and they cannot be shifted out of the library to any private institution. As per information, in recent past, GGS sent a proposal to KU to share rare manuscripts from the varsity’s library for showcasing them at a museum, which is under construction on GGS premises. In 2015 and 2016, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Haryana gave about eight acres of land on Salarpur Road to GGS to develop a Gita Research Centre and the land was given on annual lease of Rs 5 lakh per acre for 99 years, through Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB), reveals the official record. As per sources, the committee is headed by KU dean academic affairs Manjula Chaudhary, dean research and development Anil Vohra, Government of India entity National Manuscript Mission (NMM) Kurukshetra-based convener SM Mishra, and JNL librarian Manoj Joshi. The committee has been formed about 10-15 days ago and its first meeting is going to take place tentatively on July 21. When contacted, Manjula said, “About 10-15 days ago, a committee was formed to explore possibilities after they (GGS) requested of knowledge sharing with regards to manuscripts present at varsity library. Whether we will share the manuscripts with them or not will depend on the outcome after meeting of the committee, as these are covered as KU heritage under NMM. Therefore, the rules of NMM will be applicable to these manuscripts. About 90% of manuscripts at KU are digitized and in case, if someone requires them they can be provided digital access. Shifting or moving the manuscripts to some other place can lead to their damage as they are very old. Soon, the committee will hold a meeting in this regard by next week. Everything will have to be passed through executive council and academic council meetings of KU.” A professor in KU requesting anonymity said, “These manuscripts are regularly accessed by scholars and students who study ancient Indian history, and shifting them from library to any private institution can lead to their damage. KU already has all the infrastructure at JNL, where NMM teams also perform restoration of these manuscripts. Who will take responsibility for their preservation and safety? If somebody wants to do research, the same can be done in coordination with the varsity too. Why move them to another place?” Notably, GGS is developing a museum where it wants to showcase the rare manuscripts present at KU. KU also has a museum, Dharohar Museum, on campus, but officials say manuscripts are safest at the library. KDB honorary secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “As per my knowledge, a museum is being developed at GGS and the manuscripts at KU are confined, nobody sees them and neither does the university have its provision. So, I think the GGS must have some plan to showcase the manuscripts at the museum. I do not have much information about it.” When contacted, KU director public relations Prof Brajesh Sawhney said, “I will be able to share details by Monday.” GGS officials could not be contacted. Surinder Mohan (SM) Mishra, who is NMM’s Haryana Chapter project coordinator, said a proposal to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between GGS and KU reached him to grant access to rare manuscripts related to Bhagavad Gita present at KU library. “I took it to KU VC and she has formed a committee and we will discuss the matter. The GGS want access, as many national and international people visit their institution and they want to share the knowledge with them, which is good,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ku-mulls-over-proposal-to-shift-manuscripts-to-swami-gyananands-gita-gyan-sansthanam/articleshow/77044633.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Unidentified man bludgeoned to death||NAGPUR: An unidentified man in his late 30s was found dead with his head and face smashed at Sadiqabad Colony on Saturday. He was found near a DP box. Police said the man was bludgeoned to death with a heavy object. He was likely to be rag-picker. Several suspects were rounded up by Mankapur police, who have registered a case of murder. The man’s identity has not bee established yet. Police are clueless regarding the motive behind the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unidentified-man-bludgeoned-to-death/articleshow/77044637.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Norms on care units make RWAs confident||NEW DELHI: Residents’ Welfare Associations have welcomed the Centre’s guidelines giving them liberty to set up Covid care facilities in gated colonies in consultation with the local administration; work in association with the nearest health facilities; and look after availability of masks, pulse oximeters and regular screening of visitors, including house workers. While many RWAs claimed they had already made most of these arrangements, they also said that they would now feel more confident as the system was formalised. “This advisory has strengthened our efforts and uplifted the spirit to work dedicatedly. Unlike in the past when we had to face problems due to objections over screening of visitors and house workers, our efforts have been recognised now,” said Dr Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjiwan Vihar RWA. Makhija added that her RWA is working in close contact with the administration. “We have made an Excel sheet of residents willing to donate plasma. The information is shared with the Rotary bank and district administration when need arises. Two days back, one of our residents went to Shalimar Fortis to donate plasma. We have even arranged for the antigen tests with the help of SDM, Mehrauli,” she added. RWAs said they are screening visitors for the safety of all. “We started the exercise because residents were so fearful. We called meetings to make them aware about the infection. We even arranged for oximeters, cylinders, oxygen concentrators and other facilities when getting admission was a big challenge in the city. Now, things have normalised and infrastructure facilities are beefed up,” said Pankaj Aggarwal of Safdarjung RWA. To make the RWAs even more enterprising, residents had earlier written to the LG and DMs regarding formation of a task force on a pilot basis in certain colonies, which would have local SDMs, recognised doctors, local police, volunteers and the RWA as its members. The advisory issued by the ministry suggests RWAs and residential societies desirous of setting up a Covid care facility to go for it as per the detailed guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. RWAs said the concept is good provided there is proper space and funds. Hardeep Singh Bhalla, president of Western Avenue Resident Welfare Association, Sainik Farms, said they are running two such Covid care facilities at Pushp Vihar Phase-III and Sainik Farms. The RWAs had earlier got the plan approved by the district administration, he added. “Running such a facility needs 24x7 supervision. At Pushp Vihar, we opened the facility at a school provided by a local councillor in May.” “We arranged for regular supply of food, alternative visit of private doctors, 24 hours attendants, RO system, coolers, oximeters, oxygen cylinders, steamer, towel, bedsheets, yoga sessions and other activities. We started with 25 patients and have 15 patients at present,” said Bhalla. As per guidelines, adequate social distancing should also be maintained in common areas like parks. “The advisory will help RWAs deal with people who are not ready to follow norms,” said Sanjay Rana, president of GK-II RWA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/norms-on-care-units-make-rwas-confident/articleshow/77044645.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 19, 2020||India||Global investors have pledged over $20bn in last 3 months: BJP||NEW DELHI: BJP has said global investors have announced investment of over $20 billion in India over the last two-three months acknowledging the country’s investment and the trust in PM Narendra Modi’s leadership. Against the backdrop of the raging coronavirus pandemic several top global companies have invested in Indian firms, a vote of confidence for the country’s growth potential and attractive market. A number of global companies have also announced their intention to move some of the manufacturing from China to India as the world eyes a dependable and secure second supply chain to derisk from Beijing. BJP detailed the list of investment announcements to highlight the country’s attraction for foreign investors. One of the world’s top tech company Google announced plans for an investment of $10 billion over the next few years while global retail giant Walmart has announced investment plans of $1.2 billion in its Indian arm Foxconn, a supplier to Apple, has expressed its intention to invest a billion dollar in India as it eyes manufacturing some of the products in the country. The world’s largest social media company Facebook has invested $5.7 billion in India’s Reliance Jio Platforms. It is Facebook’s biggest single investment in another company, BJP pointed out. Qualcomm Ventures has said it will invest $97 million dollars. Thomson has said it will invest $142.8 million in their operations in India. Office sharing startup WeWork Global has also announced that it will invest $100 million in its India business as it charts new opportunities in the post Covid world, Japanese electronics giant Hitachi plans to put in $15.9 million in its India operations. Korean automaker Kia Motors plans an investment of $54 million as it bets on the Indian market. Hyundai Mobis has expanded its technical centre in India to strengthen software development of future vehicles. Through this expansion, the company aims to strengthen its R&D activities in India, particularly software development for autonomous vehicles. SGS, Amazon’s trusted partner in quality packaging and one of the world’s leading inspection, verification, testing and certification company opened its first accreditation testing lab in India along with labs in other parts of the world which are Cestas in Bordeaux, France and Appleton in the US. Axtria, a global leader in cloud software and data analytics for the life sciences commercial business, has expanded its presence in India and opened its first delivery centre in south India. The big data analytics and cloud software giant is creating new employment opportunities to meet increasing market demand in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/global-investors-have-pledged-over-20bn-in-last-3-months-bjp/articleshow/77045154.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Three end life in separate incidents||NAGPUR: Three persons, including a 20-year-old and a senior citizen, ended their life in separate incidents in the last 24 hours in the city. Police said Purshottam Bhende, 20, a resident of Bangladesh, under the jurisdiction of Pachpaoli police station, ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling. PSI Ashok Gawande said Bhende hails from a poor family. Scare due to coronavirus had rendered Bhende, his widowed mother and elder sister jobless. Despite searching for jobs, the Bhendes were struggling to make ends meet. No suicide note was found from his possession. The police have registered a case of accidental death. In old Jaripatka area, a 75-year-old woman ended her life by setting herself ablaze. PSI Jaishree Girhe said deceased Devkabai Datarkar, who was ailing since a few years, was living with her daughter. Fed up of her ailment, Datarkar poured kerosene and set herself ablaze at around 7.30am on July 17. In the third case, a 55-year-old MSEB employee, Sarojkumar Kapse, ended his life by hanging from the ceiling fan at his quarter at Athwa Mile off Amravati Road. Wadi police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-end-life-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/77044646.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Trichy||Trichy court suspends hearing after staff test Covid +ve||TRICHY: Principal district judge, Trichy district court, K Murali Shankar has suspended physical hearing at the II additional district court on the district court campus and instructed the judge to work from home for six days after a driver of the court tested positive for Covid-19. The driver of II additional district court of Trichy tested positive for Covid-19 on July 16 following which principal district judge (PDJ) K Murali Shankar ordered to prohibit the physical hearing of the II additional court. PDJ also instructed the II additional district judge to work from home through video-conferencing from July 17 to July 22. The court employees have been directed to be in home quarantine for the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/court-suspends-hearing-after-staff-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77044627.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Madurai||2 milk co-op credit society officials held for swindling Rs 6.4 crore||MADURAI: The secretary and accountant of the Madurai Milk Co-Operative Credit Society (Aavin) were arrested by the commercial crime investigation wing (CCIW), Madurai for swindling Rs 6.4 crore belonging to its depositors. The accused have been identified as S Mathalaiyappan,56, from Muduvarpatti, secretary of the society and M Jegadeeswaran, 53, from Palanganatham, accountant. Deputy secretary, R G Gangadaran and president K Pandi have gone underground after police began a search for them. According to police sources, the forgery took place between April 2018 and November 2019. The Rs 6.4 crore amount belongs to 97 employees and retired people of Aavin. The incident came to light when the depositors tried to withdraw the money. The accused checked the deposits without the knowledge of the depositors and swindled the money. An audit conducted by the deputy registrar confirmed swindling of money. The case was registered based on a complaint from the deputy registrar of cooperative society, Sathish Kumar on Thursday. They were booked under various sections of the IPC including 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security or will) and 120 (B) – criminal conspiracy. The accused were produced before a judicial magistrate on Friday. Meanwhile, R Lenin, Madurai district general secretary of cooperative employees association of the Tamil Nadu cooperative society has urged the state government to take stringent action against those involved in the cheating and recover the money swindled by them. He also sought action against officials from the cooperative department for shoddy monitoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-milk-co-op-credit-society-officials-held-for-swindling-rs-6-4cr/articleshow/77044651.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: I-Day launch for new Chandni Chowk stretch?||NEW DELHI: After missing the deadline by a year, the public works department (PWD) may finally open the 300-metre model pedestrian stretch at Chandni Chowk by this Independence Day. PWD had promised to open this stretch under the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project around the same time last year. But the project had hit various hurdles, including construction ban due to pollution. The Covid-19 lockdown just added to the waiting period. A PWD official claimed they were certain to complete the work this time. This will be the first stretch to be opened out of the 1.5km pedestrianised corridor. The entire stretch — the esplanade from the Red Fort intersection to Fatehpuri Masjid — was to be ready this year, but the work may take till early 2021. The opening of the first phase will help lakhs of shoppers at Chandni Chowk. With a number of innovative approaches and amenities, traffic-weary shoppers can now look forward to a leisurely walk down the greenery-enveloped stretch. Till a year ago, one could not even easily access the next lane without encountering heavy traffic. Inspired by the traffic system of Tokyo, one of the most congested urban spaces in the world, PWD plans installation of diagonal zebra lines. Under this, all traffic lights will turn red for 30 seconds at regular intervals, helping pedestrians cross the road in any direction without having to look over their shoulders. A senior PWD official said that more than 90% of the model stretch was ready. Tiles and street furniture have been selected to resemble Mughal motifs, the locality having its prime days during the reign of Emperor Shahjahan and his immediate successors. The construction work has hit local shopkeepers hard. “Many people still visit Chandni Chowk, but not many come this side. Hence, we hardly get any business,” said Ashok Singhal. However, many of them also agree that the construction period may be tough for them but once the area is ready, it will attract a lot of customers and traders will be able to recover the losses. “It’s taking forever to complete this stretch, but I am sure that whatever is being done will be beneficial for us,” said Sagar Singh. For parking, PWD has planned to make arrangements in the vicinity of Chandni Chowk. Visitors can park their vehicles there and walk down to the market. Amenities planned include public toilets, benches at regular intervals, loading/unloading bays for vans ferrying stocks to shops, CCTV monitoring, and a number of Delhi Police and traffic booths for security. Streetlights will also be upgraded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/i-day-launch-for-new-chandni-chowk-stretch/articleshow/77044654.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 19, 2020||Mumbai||2 held for Rs4L bank robbery in Koparkhairane||Navi Mumbai: Koparkhairane police cracked a Rs 4 lakh robbery at Saraswat Bank on Thursday afternoon within 36 hours. Swapnil Sapkal (18) and Bhushan Choudhary (26), both residents of Chembur, were arrested in a late night combing operation in Mumbai. Police recovered Rs68,000, a pistol and knife used in the crime, and the clothes they had worn when committing the robbery, which was captured on CCTV cameras at the bank. DCP (zone I) Pankaj Dahane said, “Despite Covid-19, five police teams were formed to track down the robbers who wore masks. Technical expertise and informers gave us leads about the hideout of the robbers, who were arrested from Govandi and Chembur RCF early on Saturday.” Dahane said both have been sent to police custody till July 23 but their Covid test reports are awaited. If they test positive, they will be shifted to a civic Covid care centre. Senior inspector Suryakant Jagdale said, “The two had visited Saraswat Bank in Sector 20, Koparkhairane on Thursday around 2.30pm on the pretext of availing a bank loan. They met a female staffer, and as there were less than 10 employees, they threatened the woman with a knife while the other pointed a pistol at the security guard and threatened other staff.” The robber inflicted a minor knife injury to the woman’s neck, while forcibly taking her to the cashier. They took away Rs 4 lakh from the cashier’s drawer and escaped, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-held-for-rs4l-bank-robbery-in-koparkhairane/articleshow/77044355.cms||George Mendonca
July 19, 2020||Madurai||Expedite Smart City work: Traders||Madurai: With both sides of South Masi Street having been dug up for the Smart City project, commuters and traders are facing the brunt due to frequent traffic congestion. Madurai Corporation took up construction of drainage and pedestrian path in all the four Masi streets a few months ago. As people hesitate to enter the road worried over getting caught in the traffic, businesses are affected. Traders say that the work could have been taken up one side at a time to bring down the hardship faced by them. Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association said that it has been six months since work started in the West Masi Street. “Work should be carried out in such a way that construction should begin as soon as pit is dug. It is only creating more problems for traders and customers alike,” he said. V Manikandan, a commuter said that crowd movement has increased ever since lockdown was eased. People are not willing to commute through Masi roads due to traffic bottlenecks. But, still the streets are congested. At least slow moving vehicles should be banned to improve the situation, he said. An official from the engineering wing said that work is on full swing in South Masi Street and they are looking to complete it at the earliest. Most of the work on West Masi Street has been completed, whereas work is progressing faster in East Masi Street. Frequent inspections are being conducted and progress is being closely monitored to push the contractor to speed up the work, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/expedite-smart-city-work-traders/articleshow/77044653.cms||V Devanathan
July 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Coastal areas locked down, but no crackdown this time||Thiruvananthapuram: The district administration on Saturday imposed total movement restriction in coastal areas after confirming that community spread of Covid-19 is happening along the coastal belt from Edava to Pozhiyur. A 10-day lockdown would be in effect in all coastal areas in the district starting from July 18 midnight to July 28 midnight. The district disaster management authority declared areas from Edava to Pozhiyoor as critical containment zones and strict lockdown measures will be in force. Learning from the past mistakes like what recently happened at Poonthura, the district administration is giving thrust on ensuring daily supply of essential commodities and specifically added that no arms should be brandished or force should be used against citizens without the written order of the district magistrate. The coastal region has been divided into three zones; Zone 1 (Edava to Perumathura), zone 2 ( Perumathura to Vizhinjam) and zone 3 ( Vizhinjam to Pozhiyoor). A set of officials has been posted as incident commanders who will oversee zone-wise cluster containment and intervention strategies. They will also initiate discussion with community leaders and local governments to ensure convergence. A sudden lock down in Poonthura without any preparations and deployment of force wielding guns had backfired with people breaking containment protocol and raising protest. There were complaints that people were not even allowed to buy essentials and were sent back by police. District collector Navjot Khosa and minister Kadakampally Surendran visited the area only after necessary arrangements were put in place and public anger had abated. Sample collection also had to be halted at Poonthura for two days after a health team assigned for swab collection was mobbed by a section of people. The new order by DDMA specially gives emphasis on confidence building measures among public, welfare of families and societies and arrangement of supply chain, providing necessary services and support. Zonal police office-in-charge has been asked to take instructions of DDMA through incident commander. Essential grocery shops, vegetable shops, meat shops and milk booths will remain open from 7am to 4pm. Civil supplies department will provide 5kg rice and 1kg pulses to all families. Besides Horticorp, KEPCO, Supplyco and Milma are being engaged for ensuring unhindered supply of fruits, vegetables, chicken and milk. A quick response team will also be constituted by tahasildar with officials from revenue, police and health department. The team will work as per the instructions of incident commander.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/coastal-areas-locked-down-but-no-crackdown-this-time/articleshow/77042965.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||60 employees of industrial unit in Haridwar’s SIDCUL test Covid-19-positive||Haridwar: Sixty workers at an industrial unit in Haridwar’s SIDCUL area have tested positive for the coronavirus, resulting in Haridwar district magistrate (DM) C Ravishankar to declare a “large outbreak of Covid-19” in the district. Sources said that the first case in the unit came on July 8. Subsequently, four others also tested positive. Within a week, the number of infected people rose to 20, and the unit was shut down by the DM on Thursday. On Friday, 13 more employees tested positive, as did 27 others on Saturday. The number of infected persons rising to 60 in the same unit within a span of 10 days, soon sent local residents into panic. The district administration has directed the neighbouring units to be sanitised and random testing to be conducted of employees. The infected workers are not only from SIDCUL area but are spread across Rishikesh and Jiapota on Haridwar-Laksar road. Sources at the office of the chief medical officer (CMO) said that several test reports of employees of the unit are awaited, indicating that the number of those infected could go up further. “The number of contact tracing teams has been increased from four to 40. The places where coronavirus patients were detected are being declared containment zones. The patients are being hospitalised. Apart from that, all industrial units have been asked to test at least 10 per cent of their employees for Covid-19,” the DM said, adding, “we are ensuring that the spread of the virus is stopped”. Meanwhile, TOI tried to speak with officials of the industrial unit where the outbreak took place, but they remained unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/60-employees-of-industrial-unit-in-haridwars-sidcul-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77042113.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan's anti-corruption bureau registers FIR in audio clips case||JAIPUR: The state’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has also registered an FIR after complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi with regard to the two audio clips in which the callers could be heard talking about alleged attempts to topple Rajasthan’s present government. On Friday, Joshi had filed a complaint with the ACB following which the FIR was registered, claimed officials. “Joshi had come to us on Friday to give his statement and also gave us the audio clips. After deliberation over the matter, it was decided to register an FIR,” said Alok Tripathi, DG, ACB. The officials claimed that the audio recordings will be sent to FSL for testing and added, “the audio clips will tested to check their authenticity and to determine if they have been fabricated or doctored in any way.” In the complaint, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips—MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh, though it does not specify if it is the voice of the Union minister. Talking about the investigation, Tripathi said, “we will first identify the accused after the audio clips have been authenticated following which the investigation will progress as per the process”. The DG also stated that on June 10, they had received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs and said, “after receiving the complaint, we started a confidential investigation into the matter and the probe is underway”. The FIR was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act. After the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested two businessmen whose phone conversation was intercepted by officials, ACB had also initiated a preliminary inquiry into the involvement of three independent MLAs who were apparently offering money to political leaders on behalf of BJP though they are yet to be questioned in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/acb-registers-fir-in-audio-clips-case/articleshow/77045921.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan's anti-corruption bureau registers FIR in audio clips case||JAIPUR: The state’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has also registered an FIR after complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi with regard to the two audio clips in which the callers could be heard talking about alleged attempts to topple Rajasthan’s present government. On Friday, Joshi had filed a complaint with the ACB following which the FIR was registered, claimed officials. “Joshi had come to us on Friday to give his statement and also gave us the audio clips. After deliberation over the matter, it was decided to register an FIR,” said Alok Tripathi, DG, ACB. The officials claimed that the audio recordings will be sent to FSL for testing and added, “the audio clips will tested to check their authenticity and to determine if they have been fabricated or doctored in any way.” In the complaint, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips—MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh, though it does not specify if it is the voice of the Union minister. Talking about the investigation, Tripathi said, “we will first identify the accused after the audio clips have been authenticated following which the investigation will progress as per the process”. The DG also stated that on June 10, they had received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs and said, “after receiving the complaint, we started a confidential investigation into the matter and the probe is underway”. The FIR was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act. After the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested two businessmen whose phone conversation was intercepted by officials, ACB had also initiated a preliminary inquiry into the involvement of three independent MLAs who were apparently offering money to political leaders on behalf of BJP though they are yet to be questioned in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/acb-registers-fir-in-audio-clips-case/articleshow/77045922.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's anti-corruption bureau registers FIR in audio clips case||JAIPUR: The state’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has also registered an FIR after complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi with regard to the two audio clips in which the callers could be heard talking about alleged attempts to topple Rajasthan’s present government. On Friday, Joshi had filed a complaint with the ACB following which the FIR was registered, claimed officials. “Joshi had come to us on Friday to give his statement and also gave us the audio clips. After deliberation over the matter, it was decided to register an FIR,” said Alok Tripathi, DG, ACB. The officials claimed that the audio recordings will be sent to FSL for testing and added, “the audio clips will tested to check their authenticity and to determine if they have been fabricated or doctored in any way.” In the complaint, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips—MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh, though it does not specify if it is the voice of the Union minister. Talking about the investigation, Tripathi said, “we will first identify the accused after the audio clips have been authenticated following which the investigation will progress as per the process”. The DG also stated that on June 10, they had received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs and said, “after receiving the complaint, we started a confidential investigation into the matter and the probe is underway”. The FIR was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act. After the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested two businessmen whose phone conversation was intercepted by officials, ACB had also initiated a preliminary inquiry into the involvement of three independent MLAs who were apparently offering money to political leaders on behalf of BJP though they are yet to be questioned in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-registers-fir-in-audio-clips-case/articleshow/77044886.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan's anti-corruption bureau registers FIR in audio clips case||JAIPUR: The state’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has also registered an FIR after complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi with regard to the two audio clips in which the callers could be heard talking about alleged attempts to topple Rajasthan’s present government. On Friday, Joshi had filed a complaint with the ACB following which the FIR was registered, claimed officials. “Joshi had come to us on Friday to give his statement and also gave us the audio clips. After deliberation over the matter, it was decided to register an FIR,” said Alok Tripathi, DG, ACB. The officials claimed that the audio recordings will be sent to FSL for testing and added, “the audio clips will tested to check their authenticity and to determine if they have been fabricated or doctored in any way.” In the complaint, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips—MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh, though it does not specify if it is the voice of the Union minister. Talking about the investigation, Tripathi said, “we will first identify the accused after the audio clips have been authenticated following which the investigation will progress as per the process”. The DG also stated that on June 10, they had received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs and said, “after receiving the complaint, we started a confidential investigation into the matter and the probe is underway”. The FIR was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act. After the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested two businessmen whose phone conversation was intercepted by officials, ACB had also initiated a preliminary inquiry into the involvement of three independent MLAs who were apparently offering money to political leaders on behalf of BJP though they are yet to be questioned in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/acb-registers-fir-in-audio-clips-case/articleshow/77045923.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 19, 2020||Madurai||Disabled students clear first of many hurdles||Madurai: With better opportunities and infrastructure available compared to a decade ago, more disabled children, particularly visually and hearing-impaired, are now aiming to be first generation graduates of their families. For them, getting top scores in Class XII board exams is a first step in their journey to pursue higher studies. However, money continues to be a hurdle. With a score of 520/600, V Vignesh, a student of Indian Association for the Blind (IAB), Madurai, aims to study BA Tamil or BA English at a reputed college in Madurai. “My father works at a workshop and has studied only till Class X while my mother is mentally-challenged. I lost my vision in an accident four years ago and wrote Class X state board exams with vision in one eye. Then I came to a blind school. It was difficult but I was able to adapt and do well,” he said. N Deepan Raj, a student of YMCA Kamak higher secondary school for the hearing impaired, scored 318/500 and was the school topper. However, his family’s financial constraints make his dream of being a first generation graduate uncertain. K Sankaralingam, another hearing-impaired student who scored 315/500, also faces a similar situation. “It was only with the support of school teachers that he was able to do well now. We are seeking help from his teachers to try and get support for him to continue higher studies,” said K Mahalakshmi, his mother. Educators at schools for those with learning difficulties said that support from donors and scholarships have helped many among the disabled to independently pursue higher studies. “At least all blind students nowadays are going for UG and even PG. All 26 students in our school are going for higher studies this year. Many of them try for government teaching posts or TNPSC jobs,” said Roshan Fathima, general secretary, IAB Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/disabled-students-clear-first-of-many-hurdles/articleshow/77044661.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 19, 2020||Delhi||There should be no laxity in registering workers for Covid benefits, says Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court told the Aam Aadmi Party government that there should be “no laxity” in registration of workers with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWW) Board so that they can get the ex-gratia of Rs 5,000 during the prevailing novel coronavirus pandemic. The high court also suggested to the BOCWW, which comes under the state government, to consider online verification of applications for registration or renewal to minimise human-to-human contact. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar said since the applications were made online, they could be verified the same way by holding interviews via video call. The Board, on its part, informed the court that it had accepted Delhi State Legal Services Authority’s (DSLSA) offer of 100 lawyers empanelled with it for verification of applications at an honorarium of Rs 1,800 per day. BOCWW said it will work out the modalities regarding the requirement of advocates on a per day basis with DSLSA, keeping in view availability of the office space and number of workers to be verified each day. The bench underlined that the “Board should not lose sight that the exercise is being carried out to expedite the registration of the workers and there should be no laxity” and directed that once the lawyers give their verification report approving registration or renewal, BOCWW should act upon it and not re-verify the same. “There should not be another bottleneck after the verification by lawyers,” it said, while asking the Board to consult DSLSA and prepare a checklist that the advocates would have to follow while scrutinising the applications. The court had on July 14 said that pendency of a large number of applications for registration and renewal before the Board painted “a grim picture” as all those labourers would not be receiving the ex-gratia that they were entitled to “in these trying times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/there-should-be-no-laxity-in-registering-workers-for-covidbenefits-says-hc/articleshow/77044662.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Madurai||Send us pics of those out on streets without mask: Cops||Madurai: Madurai police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha has asked city residents to share pictures and details of people, who refuse to wear masks in public places, through the city police Whatsapp number 83000-21100. He said that action will be taken against those who violate social distancing and not wearing masks in public places. Till Saturday 37,183 people have been taken to task for not wearing masks in Madurai and a fine of Rs56.7 lakh has been collected from them. Prem Anand Sinha told TOI that the initiative was to make sure people follow precautionary measures when they come out in public places. Fine amount of Rs200 will be levied against those found not wearing masks. The commissioner said that people have started sending photographs and videos responding to the information posted on social media. People will be traced and taken to task, he said. He has stated that the information can also be shared with police through the Facebook page of city police. Madurai city police has collected Rs 13.4 lakh as fine from 8,529 people, while Madurai Corporation caught 7,002 people and collected fine to the tune of Rs 9.5 lakh from them. The rest was collected from rural Madurai. Another police officer from the city said that although Covid-19 infection is on the rise, it did not deter people from gathering in public place. While many are wearing masks, most of them pull it down and keep it on their chin. Some remove the masks when they are sneezing. “Masks are available from just Rs 5, still many are not wearing it. Many people, particularly women, use shawls and sari to cover their face, when they come across someone who monitor it,” he said. S P Jeyaprakasam, president of Tamil Nadu Food Grains Merchants Association, said it is a welcome move since many are reluctant to wear mask despite the alarming increase in Covid-19 cases. Stringent possible action should be initiated against people who violate mask rule and social distancing norms. He has instructed all the traders in the association to follow the rules diligently. K Anburaj, a resident of Vandiyur said, “People will be very much willing to take up the issue with police whenever they come across violators, but only concern is that the violator should not turn against those who record it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/send-us-pics-of-those-out-on-streets-without-mask-cops/articleshow/77044660.cms||V Devanathan
July 19, 2020||Dehradun||6 members of Roorkee’s shopkeeper family test Covid-19-positive||Roorkee: Six members of a local shopkeeper’s family were tested Covid-19-positive on Saturday. After the cases came to the fore, the local administration made the New Aadarsh Nagar locality a containment zone to curtail the pandemic. According to sources, the man runs a garment shop in the Civil Lines market area. “The patients do not have any travel history. Probably, someone in the family came in contact with a Covid-19-positive case,” said Dr Sanjay Kansal, chief medical superintendent of Roorkee Civil Hospital. At present, around 15 Covid-19 patients are admitted in different isolation wards of Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/6-members-of-roorkees-shopkeeper-family-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77042119.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 19, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry CM to present budget on Monday||PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy, who also holds the finance portfolio, will present the Union territory’s budget for the financial year 2020-21 when the legislative assembly convenes on Monday. The session will begin with the customary address by lieutenant governor, Kiran Bedi. The CM did not present a full-fledged budget when the assembly convened last time on March 30 amid the nationwide lockdown. He had presented a vote on account for Rs 2,042 crore to meet the expenses for three months until June 30. AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan gave notice to the speaker of the legislative assembly on Saturday seeking an adjournment of the agenda and eliciting the views of the members in preventing the spread of Covid-19 infection in the territory besides outlining efforts to stall the Union government’s proposal to privatize power distribution in the Union territory. Former Lok Sabha MP M Ramadass has urged the CM not to announce schemes without allotting funds, citing the pandemic and non-cooperative attitude of the Centre. In the 30-member assembly, the ruling Congress government has 14 members (after a member was disqualified by the speaker). Congress has the support of three DMK members and a lone independent member from Mahe. On the opposition side, All India NR Congress has seven members and AIADMK four. Three BJP had been nominated as members of the legislative assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-cm-to-present-budget-tomorrow/articleshow/77043733.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||One held for buying gun from firing case accused||Rajkot: Hitesh Zala, one of the three accused arrested for allegedly firing on builder Girish Der in Jamnagar, has confessed to having sold a firearm to one Imran Sandhi. Following this, Jamnagar local crime branch (LCB) arrested Sandhi on Saturday. “Sandhi, a resident of Kalavad, said that he had bought a pistol from Zala at Rs 40,000 a year ago. He said that as his brother Iqbal was jailed in a murder case in 2014, he felt the need of a firearm to protect himself from the enemies, the kin of the murder victim,” said an official from Jamnagar LCB. “During the prison term of Iqbal, Sandhi and Zala came in contact with each other. Sandhi expressed concern over threat to his life and Zala suggested that he buy a pistol from him,” added the official. Zala was arrested along with Sanjay Barad and Pravin Tako. The trio had allegedly fired two rounds at Der (50) in Krishna Park Society near Lalpur bypass on the outskirts of Jamnagar on July 3. However, the bullets had missed the target. In self defence, Der also fired three rounds from his licensed revolver, he also missed the target. In his complaint, Der alleged that a land scam accused Jayesh Ranparia had sent the assailants to kill him. Ranparia, who is believed to have fled to Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-held-for-buying-gun-from-firing-case-accused/articleshow/77043719.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to extract 25MGD additional water from floodplain at Palla||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board will install 200 tubewells to extract 25 million gallons per day (MGD) of additional water from Palla floodplain. This is in addition to the existing 25MGD being extracted from Palla region and tenders for this project have been floated, a senior DJB official said. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha visited the area on Saturday. Officials said the water extraction capacity will be doubled in a sustainable fashion based on the extracted subsoil water that gets recharged automatically during the flood season. The team also visited the automation centre created by DJB to control and monitor the working of tubewells in Palla. The extracted water will be connected to the main supply to augment the distribution of water in north and northwest Delhi. It is estimated that this installation will be completed in two years. Officials also visited the site of Palla floodwater harvesting in the floodplains of Delhi. The project is being executed by Irrigation and Flood Control Department with assistance from DJB. 25 acres of the pond with a depth of 1.7 acres have been excavated and more than 35 piezometers have been installed up to a distance of 2km to study the impact of recharged water during floods. Chadha said, “We are discussing with many technical committees, researchers and scientists about this project having the potential to increase groundwater levels, from which water can be extracted to augment the supply in the capital. Currently, the pilot project is being executed on 25 acres, which will be extrapolated to 1000 acres."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-to-extract-25mgd-additional-water-from-floodplain-at-palla/articleshow/77044669.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Madurai||TN: Lower scores put state board students in a spot||MADURAI: As science stream students in the recently concluded Class XII state board exams scored comparatively less than CBSE students, teachers, students and parents alike are anxious over college admissions. In Madurai district, only one centum was scored by a student in the science stream, that too in chemistry. Teachers said that students have not scored well particularly in physics, which is one of the key subjects for admissions in engineering colleges. “Lack of blueprint, especially when facing the new syllabus which is voluminous played a role in affecting performance of students. It was even more tough as they are the first Class XII batch to have this syllabus,” said Senthilnathan M, president of Private Schools’ Correspondents Confederation. Teachers also pointed out that since many Class XII students were preparing for common entrance exams alongside their board exams, some tend to underperform in board exams. “It is definitely more tough for students this time. Most of my students in biology and maths group have been preparing for Neet exam as well throughout the year. Now, there is uncertainty regarding Neet and their board exam scores are also not so high, so they are extremely worried,” said Shanthi C, a Class XII biology teacher at a government aided school. Parents are also equally anxious and concerned about their children’s college admission. “Already competition is more these days for any college and especially engineering colleges. Even with a score of more than 96%, my daughter is worried about getting a good seat. Despite doing her best, she might not get an engineering seat and is also being prepared to go for a BSc course as well,” said Sudha N, a parent. On the other hand, CBSE students from the science streams put on a better show this time in the board exams, according to teachers. “Normalisation of board exam scores could help bridge the gap for college admissions. Such a system has been seen in Kerala where engineering college admissions are made using common entrance test scores and normalised board exam scores,” said V Jayendran Mani, principal of a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lower-scores-put-state-board-students-in-a-spot/articleshow/77044663.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Bhartiya Tribal Party MLAs extend support to Congress in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Ashok Gehlot camp got a little relief on Saturday when both the MLAs of Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) extended their support to the Congress government. The party said the support was based on the 17-point demands related to tribal welfare that the government has agreed to fulfil. The BTP had been supporting the Congress government in the state earlier also but when the present political crisis emerged with former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot breaking away with 19 MLAs, the BTP withdrew its support and announced that it would remain neutral if there was a floor test in the assembly. BTP MLAs Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad met chief minister Gehlot and submitted the party’s support letter and the 17-point demands. Roat said, “We will continue to support the government from outside.” On the neutral stand that the party announced earlier this week, Roat said, “We found the government lacking in its work but now the CM has assured us of meeting our demands.” PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said BTP had extended issue-based support. Both the MLAs reached the hotel on the city outskirts where the Congress MLAs are staying since Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/btp-mlas-extend-support-to-congress/articleshow/77047633.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||Lizard in driver’s shirt causes fatal accident in Rajkot||RAJKOT: In a bizarre incident, a lizard got inside the shirt of an auto driver, who, in order to shake it off, lost control of the autorickshaw leading it to ram into a 45-year-old man, which caused the latter’s death.Police said the rickshaw driver, Bharat Parmar, did not run away from the spot, and drove the victim, Madansinh Tirva (45), to the Rajkot Civil Hospital where he died soon after admission. Though Parmar told the local media that the lizard inside his shirt had caused the accident, the police said they were yet to confirm it. “We have registered a case of accidental death in this regard. We are yet to record he statement of Parmar,” said R N Hathalia, sub-inspector with Bhaktinagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lizard-in-drivers-shirt-causes-fatal-accident/articleshow/77043730.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Madurai||Communication delay between labs, health dept adds to woes||MADURAI: While patients who give their swab samples for the Covid-19 tests in private labs in Madurai receive their results directly, the district officials are getting the results and following up with patients only two or three days later. However, health officials said that such delays were inevitable. “The current procedure is that private labs, as and when they get the results, first send it to the health officials in Chennai by uploading via an app. All district health officials, not just in Madurai, get it only a day after that. Further, there is a cut-off time for the day wherein any test result that is uploaded after the cut-off time will be sent to officials for following up only the next day. But, there is no undue delay,” said a senior health official. Currently, if a swab sample is taken, it already takes 24 hours to 36 hours just to get results. What makes the delays a concern is that Covid-19 patients are getting the test results before the district officials do. The corporation officials begin locating and shifting Covid-19 patients only after they get the report. When it comes to private labs, similar delays are there for officials who contact patients only after a delayed time. Though health officials said that the delays could not be more than three days, a Covid-19 patient, who recently tested positive after undergoing a test at a private lab, said that he was contacted by corporation officials only after five days. “I got admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital on July 11, after getting my test results. However, I got a call from corporation officials only on July 16 asking about where I was and that I needed to be admitted. When I told them I was already admitted for five days, they said that I still would have to stay in isolation for 10-14 days from July 16 and not July 11. Two others who were with me, who also got tested from private labs faced the same issue,” said the patient, who did not wish to be named. Meanwhile, health officials said that there is no hard and fast rule when it comes to number of days for isolation of a Covid-19 patient. “We are following ICMR guidelines for discharge. Further, there is no harm if a patient has to stay in isolation for a few more days. It is for safety of the patient,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/communication-delay-between-labs-health-dept-adds-to-woes/articleshow/77044664.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||Bhartiya Tribal Party MLAs extend support to Congress in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Ashok Gehlot camp got a little relief on Saturday when both the MLAs of Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) extended their support to the Congress government. The party said the support was based on the 17-point demands related to tribal welfare that the government has agreed to fulfil. The BTP had been supporting the Congress government in the state earlier also but when the present political crisis emerged with former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot breaking away with 19 MLAs, the BTP withdrew its support and announced that it would remain neutral if there was a floor test in the assembly. BTP MLAs Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad met chief minister Gehlot and submitted the party’s support letter and the 17-point demands. Roat said, “We will continue to support the government from outside.” On the neutral stand that the party announced earlier this week, Roat said, “We found the government lacking in its work but now the CM has assured us of meeting our demands.” PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said BTP had extended issue-based support. Both the MLAs reached the hotel on the city outskirts where the Congress MLAs are staying since Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/btp-mlas-extend-support-to-congress/articleshow/77047636.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Madurai||24 deaths, 1,418 cases in south TN; 416 +ve in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 1,418 cases were reported in southern Tamil Nadu on Saturday taking the tally to 27,762. They include 14,077 active cases and 13,339 people who have recovered. Twenty-four more deaths have taken the total deaths in the region to 346. Madurai recorded nine more deaths to take the total to 147. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded its highest single-day spike of 416 cases taking the tally to 6,543 on Saturday. As per the medical bulletin, the death toll was 72 as on Saturday with the region reporting six new deaths – Three in Thanjavur and one each in Trichy, Pudukottai and Karur districts. A 72-year-old woman from Ramanathapuram died at a private hospital in Madurai on July 4 and a 65-year-old man from Madurai died at a private hospital in the city on July 5. The youngest to lose the battle to the virus on Saturday is a 41-year-old woman from Dindigul. A 90-year-old man from Theni with chronic kidney disease is the oldest from the region to die of Covid-19. Others include a 59-year-old man from Theni who was living with HIV and also had diabetes mellitus. Admitted in the Theni Medical College Hospital on July 9, he died on Thursday. Theni and Ramanathapuram reported four deaths each. Madurai (185) recorded the highest number of cases in the region on Saturday. However, this is the lowest for the district on a day since June 23. Madurai has a total of 8,044 cases of which 3,139 are active. Virudhunagar with 3,127 cases became the third district in the South to cross 3,000 with 179 fresh cases on Saturday. Tenkasi (1,019) becomes the last district among the 10 districts in the southern region to cross 1,000 cases with 92 cases on Saturday. As many as eight districts in the region recorded more than 100 cases each on Saturday – Madurai (185), Virudhunagar (179), Sivagangai (176), Tuticorin (161), Tirunelveli (161), Kanyakumari (146), Theni (144) and Dindigul (107). In Theni, more people within the families are testing positive for Covid-19, forming clusters within families. When the disease started in April this year, it was contained to the individual, said Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev. “We are testing contacts three days after the first person tested positive,” she said. The district has 2,600 beds and is planning to increase the strength. In the central region, Thanjavur and Trichy were the major contributors to the case count. While Thanjavur recorded 181 cases, Trichy registered 124 cases on Saturday. The sudden spike in the cases in Thanjavur was attributed to the infection of traders, customers and their contacts at Dharasuram vegetable market in Kumbakonam. Trichy district was on top of the list with 2,126 positive cases and 34 deaths among the eight districts in the region. The latest causality was a 68-year-old man on July 16. The total positive cases of Thanjavur district were 1,131. A 69-year old man from Pudukottai died at the government medical college hospital on July 17. A 55-year-old man from Karur district died at government medical college hospital in Karur on July 17. Covid cases were also reported in Pudukottai (34), Karur (13), Ariyalur (10), Perambalur, (4) Nagapattinam (22), and Tiruvarur (28). The positive patients in Nagapattinam include three police personnel, one mediaperson and a revenue staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/24-deaths-1418-cases-in-south-tn-416-ve-in-central-districts/articleshow/77044670.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Bhartiya Tribal Party MLAs extend support to Congress in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Ashok Gehlot camp got a little relief on Saturday when both the MLAs of Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) extended their support to the Congress government. The party said the support was based on the 17-point demands related to tribal welfare that the government has agreed to fulfil. The BTP had been supporting the Congress government in the state earlier also but when the present political crisis emerged with former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot breaking away with 19 MLAs, the BTP withdrew its support and announced that it would remain neutral if there was a floor test in the assembly. BTP MLAs Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad met chief minister Gehlot and submitted the party’s support letter and the 17-point demands. Roat said, “We will continue to support the government from outside.” On the neutral stand that the party announced earlier this week, Roat said, “We found the government lacking in its work but now the CM has assured us of meeting our demands.” PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said BTP had extended issue-based support. Both the MLAs reached the hotel on the city outskirts where the Congress MLAs are staying since Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-mlas-extend-support-to-congress/articleshow/77044891.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||Bhartiya Tribal Party MLAs extend support to Congress in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Ashok Gehlot camp got a little relief on Saturday when both the MLAs of Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) extended their support to the Congress government. The party said the support was based on the 17-point demands related to tribal welfare that the government has agreed to fulfil. The BTP had been supporting the Congress government in the state earlier also but when the present political crisis emerged with former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot breaking away with 19 MLAs, the BTP withdrew its support and announced that it would remain neutral if there was a floor test in the assembly. BTP MLAs Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad met chief minister Gehlot and submitted the party’s support letter and the 17-point demands. Roat said, “We will continue to support the government from outside.” On the neutral stand that the party announced earlier this week, Roat said, “We found the government lacking in its work but now the CM has assured us of meeting our demands.” PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said BTP had extended issue-based support. Both the MLAs reached the hotel on the city outskirts where the Congress MLAs are staying since Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/btp-mlas-extend-support-to-congress/articleshow/77047634.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Business||My ‘successor’ has been in HDFC for 25 yrs: Puri||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank chief Aditya Puri on Saturday came out openly in support of an internal candidate to succeed him in October this year when he steps down after completing his term. Addressing shareholders at the bank’s annual general meeting, Puri said his potential successor has been with the bank for 25 years and it was now up to the Reserve Bank of India to decide from the names given to them. In April, the country’s largest private bank had recommended three candidates for the top post. Two of them are understood to be internal candidates — Sashidhar Jagdishan, who joined the bank in 1996 and was appointed chief finance officer in 2008, and Kaizad Bharucha, executive director, who was also part of the bank’s startup team. The third is believed to be an outsider: Sunil Garg of Citibank. “My successor has always been in place… at least in my mind,” said Puri. In April, RBI had stalled the appointment of Jagdishan as director until the appointment of a new CEO, lending a fresh twist to the widely-followed succession story. Responding to shareholder queries, Puri said he was leaving behind a strong process-driven bank. He scotched rumours that the bank was seeing an exodus of seniors. “Munish Mittal (former CTO) had expressed a desire to go for further studies to Oxford. A year ago, he had agreed to stay until key milestones are achieved. Abhay Aima had put in 25 years of his life in the bank, and had asked for leave two years ago,” said Puri. HDFC Bank on Saturday reported a net profit of Rs 6,658 crore for the quarter ended June 30, logging an increase of 19.6% over the same quarter last year despite most of the country being under lockdown during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/my-successor-has-been-in-hdfc-for-25-yrs-puri/articleshow/77045160.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Madurai||SHRC questions cops jailed for two custodial deaths||Madurai: DSP Kumar, who has been deputed as inquiry officer by State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) in connection with Sathankulam father-son custodial death case, said on Saturday that he will submit his report to the commission within two days. He conducted inquiries with 10 arrested police personnel at the Madurai central prison on Saturday. He had earlier spoken to the doctors who conducted the post mortem. He reached the central prison at 10.15am and conducted inquiry with the 10 police personnel till 12.15pm. All the police personnel extended their cooperation throughout the investigation, he said, adding that he took written statements from all the ten police officers including suspended inspector Sridhar and SIs Raghuganesh and Balakrishnan When asked, whether the statement given by the doctors and police personnel matched, Kumar said “both matched” without giving details. P Jeyaraj and J Beniks were picked up by the Sathankulam police on June 19. They died a couple of days later after developing health complications at Kovilpatti prison. Kumar has already completed inquiries with the family members of the victims. Kumar said that he will submit the report to SHRC chairperson D Jayachandran through SHRC DGP Sunil Kumar.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shrc-questions-cops-jailed-for-two-custodial-deaths/articleshow/77044672.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Covid-19 cases continue to surge in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Covid-19 continued its bull run in the coastal districts with 346 fresh cases, including 237 in Dakshina Kannada (DK) and 109 in Udupi, being reported on Saturday. Statistically, the day also brought more morose news with seven fatalities in erstwhile undivided DK district, including four in DK and 3 in Udupi, leaving them with 1,848 and 492 active cases, respectively. Udupi crossed the 2,000 positive cases mark with 2,008 total cases. The Dakshina Kannada district administration reserved its judgment on the death of a two-month old infant that tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that the district expert committee will go verify the infant’s case sheet after its parents tested negative. Nonetheless, the authorities followed full Covid protocol in interning the infant at Nandigudda crematorium. If confirmed, it will be the youngest victim of the pandemic. The four patients—three women and a man—aged between 49 and 74, who died in DK since Friday, included three patients from Mangaluru taluk and one from Puttur taluk. All of them had comorbidities, Sindhu said. The district health authorities discharged 109 patient’s after they were treated, taking the total numbers of those discharged to 1,387 in DK. The numbers of patients placed in home isolation and at Covid care centres too is around 600, she said. A total 13 post offices, including the head post office at Pandeshwar and post offices at Hampankatta, Ashoknagar, Gandhinagar, Boloor, Kulur, Konchady, Kavoor, Bejai, Kodailbail, Falnir, Fisheries College and Mangaluru Collectorate will be closed for sanitisation on July 20. Sriharsha N, senior superintendent of post offices, Mangaluru, said the step has been taken after two department staff on cash duty tested positive. Dr Sudhir Chandra Sooda, Udupi district health and family welfare officer, said the three patients who died on the day included a 20-year-old blood cancer patient who tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The other two patients had related comorbidities, he said. The district had recorded two deaths on Friday, Dr Sooda said. The health authorities in the district, as on Saturday, have discharged 1,586 patients, stated DC G Jagadeesha in the district bulletin issued by his office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-cases-continue-to-surge-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/77043021.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 19, 2020||Madurai||Two arrested for killing peahen||Dindigul: Forest officials from the district arrested two people for killing a peahen for its meat on Saturday. The accused were identified as Gnanasekaran, 50, and Paulraj, 34, from Viralipatti near Sanarpatti in the district. Forest officials said that the two killed a peahen that was sitting on a tree on Natham-Dindigul main road in Viralipatti. Passersby who spotted it alerted the forest department. A team led by Sirumalai range forest officer Manoj traced the accused and arrested them. Peahen meat and two country made guns were also seized from them. Forest officials said that the two were preparing to cook the meat when they were traced. A case was registered against the two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-arrested-for-killing-peahen/articleshow/77044671.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Madurai||Patients being tested, treated on time, says TN health minister||MADURAI: Health minister Dr C Vijaya Baskar, who held a review meeting with doctors and medical fraternity in Madurai and Tuticorin district, has said that all steps were being taken to ensure that people who were Covid-19 positive were tested early and treated immediately. As many as 4,534 patients in Madurai had been completely cured and gone home while 2,929 were under treatment. As many as 1,461 beds were available in GRH. The most advanced therapy for Covid-19, high flow oxygen therapy, was being provided throughout the state at a cost of Rs 76 crore and Government Rajaji Hospital had also got the facility. Plasma therapy was being provided in 44 centres across the country and it was being tried at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Chennai and GRH in Madurai. In all, 24 of the 26 patients for whom the therapy was given, had recovered. It had been given to four patients in GRH and all of them had recovered. A Rs 2crore plasma bank was to start functioning at Rajiv Gandhi hospital from July 20. As many as 1,601 pregnant women had tested positive for the disease in the state, including 40 in Madurai and they had been treated successfully. Antenatal mothers were being admitted ten days in advance as a precaution, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/patients-being-tested-treated-on-time-min/articleshow/77044673.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ludhiana||8 micro-containment zones identified||Ludhiana: Under Mission Fateh of Punjab government and to check the spread of Covid-19, eight micro-containment zones have been declared in Ludhiana district. In view of the rising number of positive cases in the district, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that the residents had been advised not to visit the government offices for any work and should instead submit their applications/complaints/memorandums through email/whatsapp/call. He said now eight micro-containment zones had been declared in the district. The micro-containment zones included street no. 18 to Puja Clinic to RK Guleria Vehra in Jeevan Nagar, Focal Point; street no 9 in Kishore Nagar and from house no 3228 to 3300 in EWS Colony, Tajpur Road; Lucky Hairdresser to RS Model School in Navi Abadi Khanna; street no. 37 to 76 in Kidwai Nagar, house no 161 to 209 in Janpath Colony near Ayali; Sohal Building workshop to gas agency in Street No 3 in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Daba Road; street number 3, Focal Point main road to Ram Pardhan Mandir in Rajiv Gandhi Colony in Focal Point Jamalpur; and from Vohra Dental Clinic to Mandir Jwala Mukhi Ji on Rani Jhansi Road. All these areas have been sealed and the concerned departments have been asked to take necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-micro-containment-zones-identified/articleshow/77043732.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Monsoon, hike in oil prices make vegetable prices go up||Ludhiana: In view of the ongoing monsoon across northern Indian, prices of widely consumed vegetables have started witnessing fluctuation and going out of reach of middle class families. One of major reason for this is the hike in prices of diesel and petrol, which have further impacted road transportation, making it more costly. Apart from that, heavy rainfall in several parts of Bihar and Maharashtra has disrupted the supply of vegetable from far-off locations into city markets through road transportation. This monsoon season has adversely affected the prices of tomatoes as the prices have shot up to Rs 80 per kg. Even the prices of lemon and green peas, along with coriander, have increased to a great extent and it becomes difficult for middle class families to purchase it. Vegetable vendors say that there is not easy availability of the vegetables in places where these are grown as heavy rains have damaged the vegetable crop and the scenario will not change much for about a month before the new crop grows. “In between all this, the middlemen or agents are earning huge profits as they have started selling vegetables stored in the cold storage for the past many months,” they said. All this has made the residents, especially women who have to run the kitchen, upset. Buying vegetables likes broccoli and yellow capsicum has become a dream for the people as they have shoot up to above Rs 100 per kg. During a survey of a vegetable market, it was found by TOI that price of green peas along with coriander and cucumber have gone out of bounds for middle class families. Giving information on this, a vegetable vendor, Joginder Yadav, at the busiest vegetable market of the city, said, “Due to increase in prices of petrol and diesel in the past few days, road transportation has got costlier, which has resulted in an increase of 20-30% in vegetable prices as tomato has started selling above Rs 80 per kg since the beginning of July. Speaking to another vegetable vendor, Ramu Sharma at Ghumar mandi, calmed that," at present prices of vegetables are not stable because this year most of the crops of Bihar, Maharastra, Andhra Pradesh have been damaged due to heavy rainfall and floods, up to next crop which will grown in winter season, the vegetable market face the problem of high prices of vegetables. In the meantime, especially the women who have to run their kitchen are worried about the present prevailing conditions of market, Speaking on the same issue, Neetu Verma, told “this year brings lot of challenges for the middle class families as first ginger and garlic, lemon have disturbed the household budget and now the hike in tomato and green peas health vegetables are burning the pocket of common men”.“Center government should bring some policies in this direction to control the rate of the prices of everything related to middle class families”. Anita rana, a home maker of Sarabha Nagar says that “at a time when most of people have lost their job after government enforcement of strict lockdown in view of outbreak of covid-19 pandemic in city and facing several difficulties in managing household expenses but on other hand hike in vegetables prices are broken their back bone and forced them to lead stressful life as there is no option to leave these vegetable in daily preparation of foods item, as of this, we are still purchasing it in small quantity and trying to managing household budge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/monsoon-hike-in-oil-prices-make-vegetable-prices-go-up/articleshow/77043752.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||RMC issues notice to 20 hospitals for dengue breeding||RAJKOT: At a time when Covid pandemic is spreading, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) teams found mosquito-breeding sites in campus of nearly 20 private hospitals and clinics. The special drive has been started to destroy mosquito breeding that can lead to dengue during monsoon. The drive was conducted in all the 18 municipal wards and nearly 150 premises were inspected. Total fine of Rs 35,000 was collected from the sites where rampant breeding was found. The civic body has also issued warning notices to hospitals and construction sites in the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-issues-notice-to-20-hospitals-for-dengue-breeding/articleshow/77043743.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry sees 3 more Covid deaths, toll 28||PUDUCHERRY: The toll due to Covid-19 in Puducherry reached 28 after three more patients died in the 24 hours till 10am on Saturday. Fifty-eight fresh cases were reported taking the total number of reported cases to 1,898. A 36-year-old man from Samipillaithottam, Lawspet, and a 76-year-old man from Kamaraj Nagar, Gorimedu, who were admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute on July 13 and July 5 after testing positive, died on Friday. Both were diabetics with high blood pressure. A 40-year-old man from Kavikuil Nagar, who was brought to Indira Gandhi government general hospital and research institute was declared ‘brought dead’. Samples collected from the deceased tested positive for Covid-19. The positivity rate of the samples (801) tested on Saturday in the UT stood at 7.2%. The fatality rate is 1.5%. There are 804 active cases and 1,066 total recoveries with 52 patients discharged on Saturday. Healthcare authorities have sent 29,851 swab samples for testing of which 27,542 samples tested negative. The test results of 302 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-sees-3-more-covid-deaths-toll-28/articleshow/77043757.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways resume work on Ferozepur-Ludh double track||Ludhiana: After facing delays for almost four months due to Covid-19 outbreak, finally Northern Railway has resumed work on its much needed development project of laying a double track on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur route to cater to the increase in the number of long route, high speed trains. The project which will cost more than Rs 20 crore will be complete by year end. One of the major issues which is being facing by the railway authorities is handling of train rush on the laid down of single track on Ferozepur-Ludhiana station as every train running on that route had got delayed. But after the laying of the double track, the issue of train delay will be resolved to some extent, which might bring major relief to frequent railway passengers on this route. The announcement of development project was made by the previous divisional railway manager of Ferozepur division, Vivek Kumar, after looking at the train rush on the same route. Giving information on this, a railway engineer at the divisional level, said, “Northern Railway had taken the decision laying down the double track due to increase in the rush of trains on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur railway route but due to lockdown, the development work was stopped for two months and there was only 50% staff working in the division.” There are two major development projects — one is laying of double track on Dhuri line and the second is Ferozepur-Ludhiana railway track project. Railways will try to complete this project by the end of this year.” The higher authorities did not disclose the estimated cost of the development projects, officials said. Sources in the railway department said that, “A few days ago some officials of the Northern Railway board visited the Ludhiana-Ferozepur railway track site and gave directions to local officials to resume the work on the same to complete the project at the earliest. Moreover, officials have received the detailed project report and soon they will deploy more manpower.” Speaking to Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “This project is an important development project and has been started after issuing proper guidelines and providing standard safety equipment to all engineer department officials who are working on the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-resume-work-on-ferozepur-ludh-double-track/articleshow/77043737.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Use of family labour rose during lockdown amongst farmrs- PAU Study||Ludhiana, July 17  The nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid 19 coincided with the harvest and marketing of the rabi crop. According to farm economists, farmers witnessed losses due to severe labor shortages, transport bottlenecks and plummeting demand of agricultural produce including vegetables and fruits, besides dairy products. Though agriculture as an essential commodity was exempted from lockdown, but lack of human resources, farm inputs and restrictions on transportation caused a number of challenges. To dwell further into this, an online survey was conducted by Dr. Kiranjot Sidhu, Dr. Sukhdeep Mann and Dr. Ritu Mittal of the Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, PAU, Ludhiana, covering all the 22 districts of Punjab. Out of 502 farmers’ whose response was received, a large number agreed that they are following preventive measures from COVID 19 such as maintaining social distancing, wearing mask, washing hands frequently and sanitizing machinery after each use etc. Results of the survey indicated that farmers faced acute shortage of farm labour due to movement of migrant labourers to their home states and demand of higher wages by local workers. Scarcity of combine harvesters and lack of availability of spare parts were other problems which resulted due to restrictions on transportation. Lockdown and curfew in Punjab resulted in closure of many shops and restaurants leading to losses to perishable food items such as fresh fruits and vegetable and non procurement of milk by the local dairies. Sale of perishable food and milk was limited to local consumption only. Despite all these odds, farmers were able to harvest their wheat crop well in time by involving their family members and using machinery but they were not satisfied with the coupon system introduced by the government for Rabi wheat grain sale. They reported delay in weighing and selling of their crop in Mandis. This inconvenience may have occurred due to shortage of skilled labour in Mandis to handle such operations. Shortage of gunny bags and lack of water facility in the Mandis further added to the farmer’s distress. Few farmers also had to store their crop at home for some time. Highlighting the positive impact of lockdown, farmers reported use of family labour for agricultural activities which may help in better utilization of such human resources and saving of farm input even in future. The practice of sharing large /costly machinery among the farmers was reported as a positive fall out of the lockdown and this can also be one of the ways forward in future too. Even though farmers did face many challenges but timely support of Punjab government and PAU, Ludhiana helped them in overcoming problems during lockdown as well as the ensuing Kharif season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/use-of-family-labour-rose-during-lockdown-amongst-farmrs-pau-study/articleshow/77043768.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhopal||BJP resorting to auction-based politics, says Nath||Bhopal: A day after Congress MLA from Nepanagar seat, Sumitra Devi Kasdekar quit the party and joined BJP, former chief minister Kamal Nath said, “I am not concerned (about MLAs leaving). I knew that there are few more who will leave, so they left.” He was talking to reporters here on Saturday. Kasdekar is the second Congress MLA who left the party within a week. Last Sunday, Bada Malehra MLA Pradyumna Singh Lodhi also quit and joined BJP. In March, 22 Congress MLAs quit following Jyotiraditya Scindia joining BJP. Thereafter, with the exit of Lodhi and Kasdekar, a total 24 Congress MLAs have quit Congress. Speaking on the political crisis in Rajasthan where deputy chief minister and state Congress chief Sachin Pilot has been sacked from the party, Nath said, “There, too, deals are being made. There is no meaning left of the Constitution or democracy. Now, politics is based on auctioning.” Asked about Congress’s future plan of action to deter exodus of leaders from the party, the PCC chief said, “Congress does not have to do anything. People of this country will give a befitting reply.” “The BJP government can only level accusations, give statements and make announcements. Apart from that, they have no work. They think people can be fooled? Every section of the society is distressed and troubled, be it the unemployed youths, small traders, government employees or farmers”, Nath said. Nath alleged that the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh did not get a mandate. “They formed the government through deals. Then they could not constitute a cabinet and thereafter, failed to distribute departments. Now, they cannot run the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-resorting-to-auction-based-politics-says-nath/articleshow/77043763.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Agra||Two Covid-19 deaths in Bareilly, 77 +ve cases in Shahjahanpur district||Bareilly/Agra/Meerut: The number of daily Covid-19 cases in western Uttar Pradesh continued to remain high with at least 77 new cases reported from Shahjahanpur district on Saturday. While, in Bareilly, an employee of the municipal corporation and a 70-year-old woman passed away. With the two deaths in Bareilly, the total toll in the district rose to 28. Following the death of the civic body staff, the municipal commissioner has ordered closure of the campus of the Bareilly Municipal Corporation for three days for sanitization. Besides, Bareilly reported 47 new cases on Saturday, said additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. Moreover, with 77 cases in Shahjahanpur district, the total tally is now 358, including 206 active and one death. At least 16 tested positive in Budaun as well. In Agra district, at least 18 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,486. These include three patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patients of SARI, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Also, 16 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 1,486 cases, 82.7% have been declared "cured and discharged", while 161 are still active. At least 17 people, including health workers and a staff of a private firm, tested positive in Meerut on Saturday, taking the total tally to 1,720, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-covid-19-deaths-in-bareilly-77-ve-cases-in-shahjahanpur-district/articleshow/77043049.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bhopal||Over 700 fresh Covid cases; recovery rate slips to 68%||Bhopal: With 713 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, the tally of positive patients in the state reached 21,763. Saturday was the second consecutive day when more than 700 new positive cases were found. On both Friday and Thursday more than 700 new positive cases were found. In the past 8 days, 5,102 people have tested positive in the state. Of the past 8 days (since July 11) it was only on July 13 when less than 500 positive cases were reported when 431 positive cases were found. Apart from the new cases, 9 casualties were also reported in the state on Saturday. The district where these deaths were reported includes 4 deaths in Indore, and 1 death each in Gwalior, Khandwa, Sagar,Tikamgarh and Sehore districts. Maximum number of positive cases on Saturday was reported from Indore (145) followed by Bhopal (140) and Gwalior (51). Of the total 52 districts fresh cases were reported from 44 districts. In 19 of these 44 districts, new cases were reported in double figures. On the brighter side, 350 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these new patients recovering total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 14864. Thus recovery rate has slipped down to 68%. It was more than 76% on July 1. So far, around 5.8 lakh samples have been tested and 21,763 people have been tested positive. A total of 16.2 lakh samples were tested on Saturday and of those 682 or 4.12 were found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-700-fresh-covid-cases-recovery-rate-slips-to-68/articleshow/77043784.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Big potholes make it a bumpy, dangerous ride for commuters||LUDHIANA: Even as big potholes on certain city roads are making it difficult for commuters to drive around, there are others which have not been constructed due to one or other reasons for the past so many years. People are forced to bear with potholes and bumpy rides on these roads with no immediate relief in sight. During the rains the problem increases all the more. However, the councillors claimed that road work had been approved but due to the rainy season it could not be started. A road portion in ward number 91, from Chander Nagar towards Buddha Nullah, has been in a bad shape for a long time. The road has been washed away in certain portions and it is a challenge to drive on it. A resident of Chander Nagar, TP Gupta, said, “This road is an easy approach if one has to reach Jalandhar bypass from within the city and if we go from Clock Tower side, it takes a lot of time. This stretch needs urgent attention but for a long time nobody has even repaired it once.” He said the potholes were getting bigger with each passing day and during rainfall the situation turned worse. Meanwhile, the councillor of ward number 91, Gurpinder Kaur Sandhu, while giving information claimed that, “Earlier, nobody paid attention towards road construction in this ward but since I represent this area many roads have been constructed. We get limited quota every year and only those much works get approval. Tenders for this road will be floated shortly and hopefully within one month we will be able to start work.” She said she got approval for cemented roads in the ward as these were better than bitumen, so it was taking more time. There is another road from Jawala Singh Chowk to Jassian village, a portion of which falls within MC limits has been completely washed away. Recently, the civic body officials got road gulleys installed in this portion but the remaining road has also got damaged. A resident of Hari Singh Nagar, Kanu Jain, said, “This road connects many localities with the main road and for the past 15 years it had not been constructed even once. There are potholes on the road and during the rainy season the problem aggravates.” She said for two-wheeler riders the situation is more problematic as drivers lose their balance if the tyres get stuck in potholes. She demanded that the road should be constructed as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the councillor from ward number 94, Gurpreet Singh, said, “The construction of this road is approved by the civic body but I am getting some important works done before getting the construction of the road started. The sewerage is being cleaned as it had not been done for a long time and the road gulleys were laid down for drainage of rain water.” He said they were tracing manhole lids which were had been covered during carpeting of the road as the sewerage line would not be cleaned and there would be a problem at the later stage. “We found one sewerage manhole lid at least five feet under the road, so it will be difficult to clean it properly,” he said and added that the road would be constructed shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/big-potholes-make-it-a-bumpy-dangerous-ride-for-commuters/articleshow/77043777.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
July 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Heavy rain on coast||Mangaluru: Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts received copious rain on Saturday. In the last 24 hours till 8.30am of Saturday, the district received an average 60 mm rain, with Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks each receiving 74mm rain. Belthangady and Sullia taluks received 67mm and 47mm rain, respectively. Udupi district received an average 86 mm rain. The highest rain at 204 mm was recorded at Innanje in Udupi taluk in the state. Udupi district received 72% excess amount of rain as against the normal average for the day at 86mm. In DK, it was 25% more for the day and Uttara Kannada received 59 mm rain, which was 51% more than normal. The KSNMDC bulletin stated that high waves in the range of 2.5m - 4.1m were forecast along the coast of Karnataka from Mangaluru to Karwar, warning fishermen not to venture into the sea. KSNMDC also warned that squally weather, with wind speeds reaching 40-50 kmph, is likely to prevail along and off the Karnataka coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/heavy-rain-on-coast/articleshow/77043045.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chennai||CM Palaniswami's ‘no more new districts’ speech unsettles partymen||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who went on a district formation spree in the past one year, is now under pressure from his partymen to form more new districts. His announcement in Erode on Friday that there would not be any more new districts in the state has stunned his partymen in Kumbakonam and Pollachi, where local AIADMK leaders were harping on district formation to strengthen their eroding base. Palaniswami has been using formation of new districts as a political tool to make inroads into certain pockets in the state; it has yielded some positive results too. Tirunelveli, Vellore, Kancheepuram and Villupuram districts were bifurcated and trifurcated to create five new districts. In March, when coronavirus started spreading in the state, Palaniswami announced at a public event in Nagapattinam that the district would be bifurcated to create Mayiladuthurai district, the 38th one in TN. It was a surprise and gave hopes to partymen in other regions too, who raised demands for new districts. Palaniswami does not want to entertain such requests any longer. After a review meeting at Erode collectorate, the CM told mediapersons that reports of bifurcation of Erode district were wrong. He went on to add, “No district will be divided anymore.” The announcement came on a day when some 15,000 traders in far off Kumbakonam, Papanasam and Thiruvidaimarudur taluks downed shutters, demanding a new district. A series of protests were organised in the past three months, two lakh postcards were dispatched from the region to the CM demanding formation of Kumbakonam district. Women had staged ‘kolam’ protests. All parties stand united to get district headquarter status for Kumbakonam. “We are confident that it will happen,” said former AIADMK MLA Rama Ramanathan. Deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman has been campaigning for carving out Pollachi as a separate district. There were some moves along this direction even during Jayalalithaa’s tenure as CM. Change of regime led to the DMK forming Tirupur district by including four taluks from Coimbatore and three from Erode districts. Protests in Udumalpet were ignored. “We want Udumalpet, Madathukulam, Pollachi and Valparai to be part of Pollachi district. It should have been announced earlier. We will continue to represent the CM,” Jayaraman said. Meanwhile, sources in the government said the state might still go and announce a new district before the elections. “Decisions are taken just like that,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-no-more-new-districts-speech-unsettles-partymen/articleshow/77043778.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||Seven ‘non-performing, lax’ cops suspended||PALANPUR: As many as seven policemen were suspended on Saturday on the orders of IG Border Range Bhuj Subhash Trivedi and Banaskantha superintendent of police Tarun Duggal. The cops were suspended for their alleged non-performance and laxity. Five of the suspended cops were from Bhabar police station, while the other two were from Thara police station in Kankrej taluka. SP Duggal told TOI: “The erring cops were found to have failed in taking action against bootleggers, which the LCB had to do.” The five suspended include head constable Prakash Mema and constables — Bharat Vala, Dasrath Ramesh, Ramesh Madha and Paravin Naran. Those suspended in Thara police station were identified as ASI Magan Bhura and constable Rajesh Teja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/7-non-performing-lax-cops-suspended/articleshow/77043773.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Non-resident students withdraw from PU colleges in DK||Mangaluru: The pandemic has forced many parents from other districts and NRIs, whose children aspire to study in PU colleges in Dakshina Kannada, to reconsider their decision. Some children who completed I PU here, are now planning to go back to their hometowns and join colleges there, and those who reserved seats for the I PU with token advance, have reportedly been withdrawing their applications. Though reputed PU colleges in the city had received a good number of queries for I PU, even before the commencement of the SSLC examinations, some educational institutions have been witnessing negative developments since the lockdown was lifted. “A majority of NRIs and students from non-Dakshina Kannada districts, who reserved I PU seats here, have withdrawn their applications. This is because of fear of spread of the disease in hostels when the students stay there and financial issues due to the lockdown and prevailing situation. Some of the colleges are also flooded with queries from II PU students, on how to take a transfer to colleges in their hometowns,” said a senior lecturer. He said seats are reserved for I PU in March itself, even before the SSLC examinations. Every year, 6,000 to 7,000 students of other districts, states and NRIs join PU courses in Dakshina Kannada. Many of the students get enrolled in a handful of reputed colleges in Mangaluru city, Puttur and Moodbdiri. “The number of admissions into PU colleges, which was decreasing due to other reasons, will further decrease this year due to the pandemic, as parents are sceptical to send their children to study in Dakshina Kannada,” the lecturer added. Some sources from reputed colleges said that parents from other districts are withdrawing their children from PU colleges here. “The institutions are okay with it as we completely understand the situation. We expect things to improve after the SSLC examination results are declared,” added a source from a reputed PU college in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/non-resident-students-withdraw-from-pu-colleges-in-dk/articleshow/77039088.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 19, 2020||India||Post-Covid care key: Virus can affect digestion, heart||MUMBAI: It has been two months since doctor Rajesh Prajapati and three of his family members returned home after undergoing Covid-19 treatment in different hospitals in the city. But, the effects of the viral fever seem to be lingering on. “All of us have problems with digestion. Each of us suffers from gastritis,” he said. He isn’t the only one. Seventy-year-old Lok Gupta (name changed), a diabetic who was admitted to Bandra Bhabha Hospital for Covid treatment, said he feels weak even 75 days after discharge. Another patient who was discharged and doesn’t want to be named said he has watery stools four times a day. In BMC’s Sion Hospital, dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal has noticed that recovered patients return to hospital with near-paralysed limbs. “Covid-19 has a thromboembolic (when a clot formed in a blood vessel breaks, causing medical emergency) element and we are getting patients who need post-Covid care,” said Dr Bharmal. Sion Hospital has started offering physiotherapy for post-Covid patients, especially for those who were severely affected by Covid-pneumonia. “In fact, we offer physiotherapy to patients admitted with Covid-19 as well,” he added. More than seven months into the pandemic, experts say Covid-19 not only affects the lungs, but also people’s heart, digestive system, kidneys, neurological system, among other organs. Viruses are, in general, known to cause heart failure or lung fibrosis in a small section of patients; medical literature shows that the H1N1 virus can, in the long term, trigger lung failure in some patients. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, who is also a member of the Maharashtra Covid task force, said, “residual problems” after Covid-19 is a reality. He plans to start a post-Covid recovery OPD in Fortis Hospital, Mulund, where a group of doctors from different specialities will attend to a patient. “When a Covid patient leaves a hospital, his lungs haven’t fully recovered. We need to monitor it to see it completes healing,” said the doctor. And it not just the heart and the lungs that need prolonged care after Covid. “Some people with diabetes who were taking two tablets before Covid-19 may need to upgrade their treatment. Ditto with hypertension patients,” said Dr Pandit. Some patients have mental scars as well, having lost more than one family member to the viral disease. “Patients could develop PTSD (post-trauamatic stress disorder) and need right counselling at the right time,” added Dr Pandit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/post-covid-care-key-virus-can-affect-digestion-heart/articleshow/77045165.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||One more death in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: One more death was reported in Yavatmal on Saturday. The deceased was a 53-year-old man from Dudhe Layout in Pusad tehsil. On Friday, one death was reported from Pusad. The number of deaths in the district is now 19. On Saturday, 30 new positive patients were reported, taking the total to 174. There are 16 men and 14 women among Saturday’s 30 new positive cases. Currently, 127 are in the isolation ward. However, 17 admitted in the GMC’s isolation ward recovered and were discharged on Saturday. The district administration is worried about the unabated spurt in the spread of Covid-19. They are making hectic efforts to contain the spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-death-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77043793.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||Mayawati wants President’s Rule in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: BSP supremo Mayawati on Saturday demanded imposition of President’s Rule in the state. The BSP leader is angry with chief minister Gehlot for poaching on her party’s MLAs. “The governor should take cognizance of the ongoing political deadlock, mutual distrust and governmental instability and recommend imposition of President’s Rule in the state so that there is no more deprivation of democracy in the state.” In another tweet, she said, “Chief minister Gehlot violated the anti-defection law, inducting BSP MLAs into the Congress and illegally tapped phones.” Gehot, who was leading a minority government in 2008, had merged six BSP MLAs into the Congress. He made half of them ministers and the remaining were appointed as parliamentary secretaries equivalent to the rank of ministers. This time too, despite the BSP extending support to the Congress, he managed to lure all the six BSP MLAs to join the Congress much to the chagrin of Mayawati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mayawati-wants-prez-rule-in-raj/articleshow/77044893.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Revoke suspension, IAS officer tells Gujarat government||AHMEDABAD: Suspended IAS officer Gaurav Dahiya urged the state government to revoke his suspension and drop the charges against him, citing the withdrawal of complaints against him and the Delhi police’s ‘clean chit’ to him in the form of an FIR against Leenu Singh, who had accused him of bigamy. Dahiya’s advocate, Hitesh Gupta, in a media briefing on Saturday, claimed that a section of officers in Gandhinagar had conspired against Dahiya and used Singh to get him suspended. Last July, Singh filed a police complaint against Dahiya for allegedly marrying her and fathering a daughter while his first marriage was in subsistence. Gupta pointed to the Delhi high court’s order to register a defamation suit against Singh, her husband Kuldeep Dinkar and major social media platforms for Rs 2.05 crore, as well as instructions given to Google, Twitter and Facebook to take down all material Singh posted, including news clippings, within a week. On July 15, the high court granted Dahiya interim relief and restrained Singh from publishing or disseminating any news relating to the suspended officer in any manner or on any website/newspaper/TV channels including YouTube/Facebook/Instagram till further orders. Dahiya’s advocate also cited a magisterial court order and subsequent FIR registered by Delhi police against Singh and Dinkar, for defrauding Dahiya. He alleged that Singh and her husband were able to play the fraud on Dahiya with the help of certain bureaucrats in the Gujarat government. “I cannot comment on this much, but this is subject to the outcome of investigation by Delhi police. There was definitely support to Leenu Singh from Gandhinagar or else how could she have afforded a luxurious stay in Ahmedabad when she had come to follow up on her complaint and to file a case against my client last year? She stayed at an expensive club at a time when she did not have any money and was pressuring my client to pay. We refused to succumb to the demand of Rs 20 crore and a house in Delhi for her,” the lawyer said. Gupta further said that Singh is in Nepal at present and this information was shared by Delhi police, who are investigating the complaint lodged by Dahiya. Dahiya cited the withdrawal of statements against him by witnesses like Ashok Bishnoi, Bhisham Bishnoi and Shewane Bishnoi as well as withdrawal of a complaint by one Pallavi Rao, which were also the basis for the inquiry conducted by a committee of bureaucrats. For the FIR filed by Singh in Delhi, Dahiya stated that the complaint has now been proved false.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/revoke-suspension-ias-officer-tells-govt/articleshow/77043776.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Rajkot||Police security deployed for Dalits in Dhanera village||PALANPUR: After the arrest of six persons for the alleged murder of a Dalit youth, Pintu Galchar, police deployed security for the members of Dalit community in Ravi village of Dhanera taluka in Banaskantha district on Saturday. Galchar was lynched on the suspicion of being a thief on Friday. According to Dhanera Police Inspector S A Dabhi, the situation in Ravi village is peaceful and normal. “We were very scared as the majority of the population of Ravi consists of upper caste Hindus. There are 1,500 houses of the upper caste Hindus, while Dalits have only 70 houses,” said Sanju Galchar, cousin of the deceased youth. It was Sanju who requested the Banaskantha SP for the deployment of security. Dabhi, however, pointed out that the deceased was a history-sheeter involved in bootlegging. Three cases under Prohibition Act were registered against him at Pantha Vada police station, while one case of physical assault was registered against him in Dhanera police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/police-security-deployed-for-dalits-in-dhanera-village/articleshow/77043796.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Agra||AMC imposes Rs 65k penalty for illegal road cutting||Agra: The Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has issued a fine of Rs 65,000 on Green Gas Pvt Ltd for allegedly illegally cutting a road for the purpose of laying a gas pipeline. Action was taken following complaints of local residents. Ahead of monsoon, AMC has cancelled all permissions for road cutting. Now, fresh permissions will be issued only after August. On Friday, the AMC officials received complaints of the road being dug up in the Baipura area for laying a gas pipeline. A junior engineer reached the spot and seized a 200-metre-long pipeline. He informed his seniors about the damage caused to the road so that proper action could be taken against the company.Executive engineer RK Singh said, “A fine of Rs 65,000 has been imposed on Green Gas Private Limited for illegally cutting the road to lay gas pipeline and a notice has also been sent to them. The damaged road will be repaired very soon. Due to monsoon, no road-cutting will be allowed in the city till August end."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-imposes-rs-65k-penalty-for-illegal-road-cutting/articleshow/77043056.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chennai||Saffron groups instigating Hindus against us, won’t let them make inroads in Tamil Nadu, says DMK||CHENNAI: DMK organisation secretary RS Bharathi on Saturday charged that a group with sinister designs was trying to instigate Hindus against the party. Reacting to Karuppar Koottam, a fringe outfit, making derogatory remarks about Kantha Shashti Kavacham, a song in praise of Lord Muruga, Bharathi said the DMK had no connection with Karuppar Koottam. Someone from the saffron parivar had created a fake Twitter handle to post a message that the DMK would support the outfit in its legal battle. It was aimed at instigating Hindus against the DMK, he charged. Two members of Karuppar Koottam have been arrested for the remarks. “There are more than one crore Hindus in the DMK,” said Bharathi. He said the party would file a petition with Chennai police on Monday demanding action against those who created the fake twitter handle. “The saffron group has no work in Tamil Nadu and the DMK will not allow it to make inroads,” he said. Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan, in a tweet, said nobody can divide Tamil Nadu people in the name of religion. “An intelligent, advanced society is one in which people live in harmony without imposing their beliefs and hurting others. Hate politics and separatism in the name of beliefs is not our identity. No paint can be applied on Tamils by divisive manoeuvres,” Kamal tweeted. It was in response to a Hindu outfit functionary pouring saffron paint on a Periyar statue in Coimbatore on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/saffron-groups-instigating-hindus-against-us-wont-let-them-make-inroads-in-tn-says-dmk/articleshow/77043803.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Agra||'Covid medicine' Remdesivir sold at 8 times its price in Delhi: Agra chemists||AGRA: In the wake of the rising demand for experimental Covid-19 medicine Remdesivir, Agra chemists have alleged that major dealers in Delhi are selling the drug for eight times its price, amid a supply crunch. According to local medicine wholesalers, the antiviral drug, a vial for which costs around Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000, is being sold in the black market in Delhi for around Rs 40,000. They said that the drug is not available anywhere in Uttar Pradesh, due to which, they have to depend on Delhi for its procurement. Puneet Kalra, spokesperson of Agra Pharma Association said, “The demand for Remdesivir has increased significantly in the last 15 days. Many caretakers of Covid-19 patients approach us for the drug. However, we have no option but to turn them away as there is no stock available with the local wholesalers and retailers. Taking advantage of the short supply, some of the major stockists in Delhi are selling it at around Rs 40,000 per vial, which is roughly eight times the MRP.” The demand for Remdesivir has shot up in recent times as it is touted to be the best line for treatment of Covid-19 patients after it was found to help shorten the recovery span in clinical trials. US-based Gilead Sciences, which owns patents to produce the drug in India, has entered into non-exclusive licence agreements with four Indian drug manufacturers to ensure its availability in the country. As Remdesivir is yet to be widely available, there have been numerous complaints about profiteering by major dealers prompting the drug administration to issue a directive to all medicine wholesalers and retailers in the Taj city to maintain a record of sale and purchase of the anti-viral and share daily reports on the same. Senior drug inspector Rajkumar said, “We have received several complaints in the last two weeks about the sale of Remdesivir injection in the black market. The drug is in short supply across the country and only around 2,000 vials are being produced daily at present. Taking advantage of the short supply and sudden spike in demand, some dealers in Delhi are stock-piling and black marketing the drug.” “We even interacted with the area sales manager of the drug manufacturer and found that the medicine is not available in the district. To curb scope for black marketing, we have asked all medicine wholesalers and retailers here to maintain a record of sale and purchase of the drug with all details of the patient and the doctor who prescribed it,” he added. However, pharmacists feel that more needs to be done. Kalra said, “The government should take time-bound action to regulate the price of the drug and ensure adequate supply.” Earlier, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), too, had suggested regulating the price of the drug stating that it can bring down the treatment cost substantially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/remdesivir-sold-at-8-times-its-price-in-delhi-claim-agra-chemists/articleshow/77043052.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 19, 2020||Kochi||More FLCTCs to come up in district||Kochi: With Covid-19 cases going up tremendously, district authorities have decided to set up more first-line Covid treatment centres (FLCTCs) and provide around 10,000 beds to Covid patients in the district. Each local body in the district should set up FLCTCs with at least 100 bed capacity in each facility. As of now, five FLCTCs have already been set up and two of them are functioning. At Chellanam, where the number of cases are going up drastically, a FLCTC will be opened soon. District administration and health department will be focusing on clusters like Chellanam and Aluva. Swab samples will be collected from those with influenza like illness (ILI) in neighbouring Kannamaly and Kumbalangi areas. District administration has made arrangements for distribution of 5kg rice per each cardholder. Rice will be distributed to those undergoing quarantine through volunteers. Panchayat authorities have been asked to provide essential commodities and drugs for those under quarantine. As of now, three RT-PCR machines at Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, are being used for conducting tests. Officials with the health department said they will soon set up one more RT-PCR machine in the MCH. District administration has called for the cooperation of the public in mobilizing facilities required for setting up FLCTCs. Public or various institutions and NGOs can donate portable cots, beds, PPE kits, surgical masks, steel utensils, electric fans, hand sanitizers, chairs, buckets, soap, etc. Ambulances, laundry facilities, refrigerator and fire-fighting equipment also will have to be procured. Accommodation for volunteers is another important facility which is to be arranged by the authorities. Hostels, lodges, parish halls, etc in each locality can be used for the purpose. The district administration has opened a collection centre at Thrikkakara municipality’s community hall at Kakkanad for mobilizing items donated by the public. Collection centres will be opened in taluk headquarters also. On Thursday, 57 Covid positive cases were reported from the district. Of this 51 got infected through contact. A total of 25 persons tested positive from Chellanam cluster while 15 cases were reported from Aluva cluster. Seven patients recovered and 14,788 persons are under quarantine. Meanwhile, district administration has declared ward 12 of Thrikkakara municipality, ward 50 of Tripunithura municipality and ward 21 of Alangad grama panchayat as containment zones. Ward 14 of Tripunithura municipality was removed from the list of containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-flctcs-to-come-up-in-district/articleshow/77043791.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ajmer||People paying heavy price for Congress infighting: Vasundhara Raje||JAIPUR: BJP leader and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Saturday alleged that some people are trying to create confusion on the political developments in the state and also insisted that she stands with her party and its ideology. Raje’s remarks come on the backdrop of the series of tweets made by Hanuman Beniwal, convenor of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party and Nagaur MP, on July 16 accusing her of “influencing” MLAs in Sachin Pilot’s camp to help CM Ashok Gehlot save his government. RLP is BJP’s ally in Rajasthan. Responding to the allegations made by her old foe, Raje on Saturday tweeted: “Some people constantly are trying to create confusion related to the political crises in the state. From the past three decades, I am a dedicated party worker and serving people. I stand with the party and its ideology.” Raje, who had maintained a conspicuous silence till now on the political developments in the state, took to Twitter and said that it is unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan are paying for the discord within the Congress. Congress is trying to shift the blame on the BJP and the BJP leadership, she said. The interest of the people must be paramount for the government, Raje said while asking the Congress to think about the public. “There is no point in trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders' names through the mud. It is the interest of our people that must remain paramount!” she said in a statement posted on Twitter. Raje went on to list the many problems facing the people of Rajasthan. “At a time when Covid19 has claimed more than 500 lives and positive cases are close to 28,000, locust attacking the farmers, crime against women is an all-time high, problem of electricity across the state, there is no point trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders names through the mud… think of the people,” Raje tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/people-paying-heavy-price-for-cong-infighting-raje/articleshow/77046778.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Udaipur||People paying heavy price for Congress infighting: Vasundhara Raje||JAIPUR: BJP leader and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Saturday alleged that some people are trying to create confusion on the political developments in the state and also insisted that she stands with her party and its ideology. Raje’s remarks come on the backdrop of the series of tweets made by Hanuman Beniwal, convenor of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party and Nagaur MP, on July 16 accusing her of “influencing” MLAs in Sachin Pilot’s camp to help CM Ashok Gehlot save his government. RLP is BJP’s ally in Rajasthan. Responding to the allegations made by her old foe, Raje on Saturday tweeted: “Some people constantly are trying to create confusion related to the political crises in the state. From the past three decades, I am a dedicated party worker and serving people. I stand with the party and its ideology.” Raje, who had maintained a conspicuous silence till now on the political developments in the state, took to Twitter and said that it is unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan are paying for the discord within the Congress. Congress is trying to shift the blame on the BJP and the BJP leadership, she said. The interest of the people must be paramount for the government, Raje said while asking the Congress to think about the public. “There is no point in trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders' names through the mud. It is the interest of our people that must remain paramount!” she said in a statement posted on Twitter. Raje went on to list the many problems facing the people of Rajasthan. “At a time when Covid19 has claimed more than 500 lives and positive cases are close to 28,000, locust attacking the farmers, crime against women is an all-time high, problem of electricity across the state, there is no point trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders names through the mud… think of the people,” Raje tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/people-paying-heavy-price-for-cong-infighting-raje/articleshow/77046777.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Patients being brought to DK at last stage a bane for medical administrators||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district’s prowess as a medical hub is fast proving to be its bane during the pandemic. With patients from other districts being referred for medical care in the district, a hub for tertiary care, woes of health administrators – both in the private and government sector—are getting compounded. Making matters worse is the fact that most patients referred here are brought at the last stage. DK centre for tertiary medical care of 7 districts Even prior to the pandemic, Wenlock Hospital, private medical college hospitals and other private hospitals in Dakshina Kannada received a sizeable number of patients from outside the district. Dr Rajesh Shetty, MD, First Neuro, says the district receives patients from Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Hassan and Kodagu as well as from Kasaragod and Kannur in Kerala. This is in addition to local patients who frequent hospitals in this medical hub. Admitting that advancement in terms of medical treatment facilities in some ways is proving to be counterproductive during the pandemic, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that it is distressing to see patients with debilitating health issues seek medical help at the last moment. “We are getting reports of patients even being brought dead to hospitals in the district, and this could have been easily averted, if all concerned were alert to the situation,” she said. Buttressing this argument is the fact that the patients in a dozen Covid-19 linked deaths in the district in the recent past are from Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Hassan, Udupi, Kodagu, Davanagere and Chikkamagaluru districts, Sindhu said. With Kerala sealing its borders with Dakshina Kannada due to a spurt in cases here, no patients are coming from Kasaragod and Kannur at present, she said. On the contrary, the situation should have been the reverse, she said. “Because we have so many hospitals, we should have seen a lot more people being admitted, getting cured and then having gone back. However, with most of them coming to us at the last-minute, thanks to panic that the pandemic has induced in society, we are seeing the converse,” she surmised. Concurring with this, Dr Rajesh said, “Covid-19 is there for some time, but your regular ailments will be there for a lifetime.” “It is appalling to see patients remain confined to their homes or sometimes locking themselves up during a medical emergency. I have witnessed at least half-a-dozen mishaps which happened at home due to the refusal on the part of patients to come to hospital. These were preventable deaths. Another reason for increased mortality rates is delay in establishing a diagnosis. Most of the times we tend to think in terms of Covid-19 and Covid-related illnesses, missing a straightforward diagnosis,” said Dr Padmanabha Kamath, a cardiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/patients-being-brought-to-dk-at-last-stage-a-bane-for-medical-administrators/articleshow/77043067.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 19, 2020||Jaipur||People paying heavy price for Congress infighting: Vasundhara Raje||JAIPUR: BJP leader and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Saturday alleged that some people are trying to create confusion on the political developments in the state and also insisted that she stands with her party and its ideology. Raje’s remarks come on the backdrop of the series of tweets made by Hanuman Beniwal, convenor of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party and Nagaur MP, on July 16 accusing her of “influencing” MLAs in Sachin Pilot’s camp to help CM Ashok Gehlot save his government. RLP is BJP’s ally in Rajasthan. Responding to the allegations made by her old foe, Raje on Saturday tweeted: “Some people constantly are trying to create confusion related to the political crises in the state. From the past three decades, I am a dedicated party worker and serving people. I stand with the party and its ideology.” Raje, who had maintained a conspicuous silence till now on the political developments in the state, took to Twitter and said that it is unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan are paying for the discord within the Congress. Congress is trying to shift the blame on the BJP and the BJP leadership, she said. The interest of the people must be paramount for the government, Raje said while asking the Congress to think about the public. “There is no point in trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders' names through the mud. It is the interest of our people that must remain paramount!” she said in a statement posted on Twitter. Raje went on to list the many problems facing the people of Rajasthan. “At a time when Covid19 has claimed more than 500 lives and positive cases are close to 28,000, locust attacking the farmers, crime against women is an all-time high, problem of electricity across the state, there is no point trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders names through the mud… think of the people,” Raje tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-paying-heavy-price-for-cong-infighting-raje/articleshow/77044895.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Jodhpur||People paying heavy price for Congress infighting: Vasundhara Raje||JAIPUR: BJP leader and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Saturday alleged that some people are trying to create confusion on the political developments in the state and also insisted that she stands with her party and its ideology. Raje’s remarks come on the backdrop of the series of tweets made by Hanuman Beniwal, convenor of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party and Nagaur MP, on July 16 accusing her of “influencing” MLAs in Sachin Pilot’s camp to help CM Ashok Gehlot save his government. RLP is BJP’s ally in Rajasthan. Responding to the allegations made by her old foe, Raje on Saturday tweeted: “Some people constantly are trying to create confusion related to the political crises in the state. From the past three decades, I am a dedicated party worker and serving people. I stand with the party and its ideology.” Raje, who had maintained a conspicuous silence till now on the political developments in the state, took to Twitter and said that it is unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan are paying for the discord within the Congress. Congress is trying to shift the blame on the BJP and the BJP leadership, she said. The interest of the people must be paramount for the government, Raje said while asking the Congress to think about the public. “There is no point in trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders' names through the mud. It is the interest of our people that must remain paramount!” she said in a statement posted on Twitter. Raje went on to list the many problems facing the people of Rajasthan. “At a time when Covid19 has claimed more than 500 lives and positive cases are close to 28,000, locust attacking the farmers, crime against women is an all-time high, problem of electricity across the state, there is no point trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders names through the mud… think of the people,” Raje tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/people-paying-heavy-price-for-cong-infighting-raje/articleshow/77046776.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Border dispute: Time to trust security forces||Ten weeks into the ongoing impasse on LAC and despite misplaced hype of Dragon being on retreat, harsh realities are finally beginning to sink in. There is only pro forma commitment on disengagement, after four rounds of Corps Commander-level talks. Parleys have been characterised by marathon filibustering; hence, it will be real tortuous, long haul to achieve much desired status quo ante. While disengagement is making tardy progress, it is only notional in Pangong Tso (Fingers 4 to 8), and requires to be negotiated in operationally critical Depsang sector. Some realists are already talking of alternate scenarios like ‘near real or meaningful status quo’. Doubts and issues regarding pull back from flash point at PP-17 (Gogra) linger and there is new, hopefully temporary formulation of buffer zone. Chinese being past masters in conflict resolution and on their own terms bordering on obduracy, the possibility of new normal being defined is very real. This is coupled with likelihood of LAC acquiring LoC type of character, entailing deployment of more formations with attendant penalties in logistics. The Army, in its much belated maiden statement, has categorically stated that process is likely to be complex, long drawn and requires detailed verification. With unsatisfactory disengagement, follow up stages of de-escalation and de-induction remain distant objectives. Raksha Mantri has followed up on PM’s visit and highlighted challenges, laced with marked pessimism. He witnessed an exercise on QPQ capabilities, signalling resolve. However, it will take much more, including some calibrated action, for message to register with Chinese. As impasse lingers, murmurs for fixing responsibility for lapses and even inquiry into issues like intelligence failure are becoming louder. Prima facie, any postmortem in an ongoing crisis, especially at tactical and even operational levels is premature and unwarranted. It is time to show support to commanders and troops on ground. It is fairly apparent that silver lining in the entire stand-off has been resolute defiance displayed by our junior leaders and troops, especially during skirmish at PP-14 on June 15. It was rude shock to PLA and may even force certain degree of re-calibration of expansionist designs. While armed forces always review their responses, in what is termed as ‘Fauri ilaaz’ (immediate repair), same unfortunately is not true for other agencies. They are likely to misuse prolonged hiatus for scapegoating and deflecting the blame. It is important to learn lessons and apply appropriate correctives, more like ‘stitch well in time’. International analysts are still to conclusively establish drivers for the current misadventure but most feel that Chinese wanted to teach us a lesson and show us our place. To put an end to these multiple rounds of spanking, we have to grow out of studying and ‘holding Chinese in awe’ syndrome. It is time that China Study Group graduates to China Strategic Response Group (CSRG) with operational orientation. This body should be staffed with professionals to include naysayers, who can flag unlikely scenarios, which surprise us often. With glut of think tanks, CSRG should steer clear of mundane issues to focus on measures to hold Dragon in check. Those rooting for accountability on intelligence issues may like to re-examine prevalent pacifist templates, ruling out precipitate action by Chinese in near time, leading to deferment in capability building. The rush to acquire armaments through emergency route amounts to belated, knee-jerk reaction. Post Kargil purchases ran into inquiries on Krasnapol and coffin gate scam. It is hoped that necessary safeguards against C3 (CBI, CVC and CAG) will be built into current round. Considering gestation period, accretions are unlikely to be relevant in current crisis. It will also be prudent to operationalise ‘one border, one force’, in its true essence by placing ITBP under the Army’s operational control. The role of local forces — Scouts (Ladakh, Himachal, Sikkim and Arunachal) needs to be enhanced. Scout battalions on sabbatical postings should get back to their operational areas. Genuine welfare needs of education and treatment can be catered to by creating suitable hostel complexes. Unique capabilities of Scouts and ITBP should be leveraged as embedded resource rather than deploying them in separate standalone areas. Political vacuum in Ladakh needs to be addressed by putting in place representative body, which can mobilise local populace to deliver strong message to Chinese. It will be appropriate to recall mobilisation of Shia Awaam by Farooq Abdullah during Kargil incursion. The constant harking to Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road as strategic venture needs to be tempered with its requirement for legitimate development aspirations of Ladakhis. There is urgent need to bring some sanity to vitiated infosphere. It is high time to start credible official briefings as was the norm during Kargil operations. Vacuum in this space is simply not feasible and all kinds of elements have moved in. The most worrying is jingoistic narrative being pedalled in regional media. In Bharat, videos from Khan Sir are primers on national security. Often, our mainstream media projects Chinese in larger-than-life avatar. One recent instance was programme on PLA training area, with imagery of soccer field sized mock-up, supposedly with magical capability to impart detailed terrain knowledge. Slides of this training area were shown in 2013 to a Corps commander and his remark to brigade commander from engineers was, “why don’t we make bigger and more relevant facility?” It can be stated with certainty that upcoming commanders in our Army will never take such suggestions lightly. It is time to stop psyching ourselves, as such scaled down mock-ups can at best provide generalised orientation. Trust security forces, do apply correctives, where necessary, however, detailed enquiries can certainly wait. (The writer is former Army Commander, Western Command)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/border-dispute-time-to-trust-security-forces/articleshow/77043812.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Kochi||Residents seek repair of Kundannoor-Petta Road||Kochi: People living near the Kundannoor-Petta Road have come up staging protests demanding immediate intervention of the state government to relay the damaged stretches of the road. The stretch of the road from Kundannoor Junction to Tripunithura bypass, which is part of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway (NH 85), is filled with large potholes. Karshaka Morcha mandalam president N K Sreevalsan pointed out the pathetic condition of the road and said: “It has become a danger zone. Motorists, including two-wheelers, cars and autorickshaws, can be seen struggling to navigate this stretch. At the same time large trucks also speed through the road. The bad road can lead to fatal accidents.” Local people pointed out that the stretch of the national highway was dug by PWD for laying pipelines and by KSEB for laying underground cables. Though both agencies carried out relaying works, the work was not up to the mark. “The relaying works are not durable. The rain has exposed the poor quality of work,” he added. Those who are familiar with the region said that they chose to avoid the highway and opted to take interior roads and bylanes. Tripunithura and Maradu municipalities have laid interlocking tiles and repaired interior roads. Even though these roads are narrow, two-wheelers and cars use them more frequently. “Had it not been for the bylanes and interior roads there would have been more vehicles moving through the NH stretch. The national highways authority of India (NHAI) is responsible for the upkeep of these roads. However, in Kochi many of the major works including construction of flyovers on NH are being undertaken by the state government. It means that the state government can take the initiative to relay the damaged stretches,” said Unnikrishnan Petta, a local resident. Meanwhile, officials with Tripunithura municipality said that they were aware of the condition of the road. “The entire focus of the local bodies and state government is on tackling Covid-19. Many of the other works that require immediate attention is either being ignored or postponed for an indefinite period of time,” said a municipal official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/residents-seek-repair-of-kundannoor-petta-road/articleshow/77043823.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Amt records highest single-day spike of 81 Covid positive cases||Amravati: Posting its highest single-day spike of 81 positive cases on Saturday, the district took its covid count to 1228 while a death of a 80-year-old male from Matafail locality at covid hospital today took the covid toll to 39. With rural areas reporting 22 cases today, the rural count crossed the 200 mark and settled at 201. The highest cases of the day (six) came from Purnanagar in Bhatkuli tehsil which reported 3 cases earlier. As many as 31 patients got discharged, taking the number of recovered cases to 759. The rapid antigen test helped detect 33 of the day’s 81 cases while the SGBAU lab gave 41 positive reports. The rest came from Dhruv lab in Nagpur, stated a release from the civil surgeon’s office. The Dharni quarantine centre reported five cases today while two each came from Anjangaon Surji and Yavali Shahid. Ward, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Achalpur, Paratwada, Ner Pinglai, Shirajgaon Kasba and Daryapur had one case each. In the city, the PDMC Hospital reported four cases while Khaparde Gardens reported three from a single family along with Kholapuri Gate and Ganuwadi on old bypass road. Two each came from Navjeevan Colony, Rampuri Camp, Venus Park, Tarkheda, Sajiyanagar, Chaprasipura, Police Colony in Gopalnagar, Sarafa Bazar and Camp. Single cases came from 27 other localities of the city. The ever growing number of cases is creating panic among people even as the district is observing a 60-hour curfew since 7pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amt-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-81-covid-positive-cases/articleshow/77043811.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Mom, daughter murdered||Karnal: A 46-year-old woman and her 17-year-old daughter were found murdered at their house in Indira Colony of Panipat city on late Friday evening, the police said. The deceased, identified as Rani and her daughter Neetu alias Anjali, had multiple injury marks on their bodies. Neighbours said on hearing the TV being played at a high volume in the house of the deceased, they knocked at their door. But, as they got no response for long they informed the police. The police found the duo lying in a pool of blood on the bed. The motive is not known yet. The incident took place 10 days after the murder of their tenant, Indrish (50). Panipat superintendent of police Manisha Chaudhary said a case has been registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mom-daughter-murdered/articleshow/77043808.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||Rims cites infra inadequacy for beginning plasma therapy, govt awaits hospitals preparedness||Ranchi: Almost two-and a-half months after the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) gave its approval for plasma therapy for clinical trials, the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) is yet to introduce it. On Saturday, the hospital submitted a report on its preparedness to the state health secretary where it attributed the delay in starting plasma therapy to the infrastructural inadequacies at Rims. “The health department had sought a report about our status for collecting plasma donation and starting convalescent plasma therapy. There is a shortage of equipments for carrying out the process and we have apprised the department,” Dr Vivek Kashyap, the medical superintendent at Rims, said. Health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the state is eager to start plasma therapy but before notifying the protocols, they wanted to understand the preparedness of the hospitals. “We had asked Rims to submit a report on its preparedness almost a week ago and depending on their response we are going to consult other government hospitals,” he added. Kulkarni further said, “Although plasma collection is not different from blood donation and collection, a donor will give blood while the blood bank will segregate the plasma component and preserve it for clinical administration.” Though Rims has details of all the Covid patients being treated there, including their contact numbers, in the absence of clear-cut guidelines, the patients’ consent for plasma donation after they recover from the infection has not been taken yet. “Once we are ready to collect plasma from the cured patients, we will contact them and seek their consent for donation,” Dr Kashyap said. Besides fitting the criteria for blood donation, a plasma donor has to qualify on other parameters. The donor should be cured of Covid-19 and should donate within 30 days of his/her recovery. “The concentration of antibody titre in the plasma should be enough, which has been determined in the ratio of 1:640. The donor should not be suffering from any other communicable disease and his consent is a must,” Dr Kashyap said. The administration of plasma to the Covid patients is supposed to be carried out under the strict monitoring of experts. The exercise of contacting the recovered patient and counselling him/her for donation would be handled by the preventive social medicine department at Rims while testing the donated plasma for adequate antibody titre would be done in the biochemistry lab. As on Saturday morning, the total number of recovered patients in the state is close to 2,500 but given the parameters that a donor needs to meet for plasma donation, so that his plasma can be used for treatment of critically infected patients is not known. Once the state is ready and mapping of the recovered patients is done then only the actual availability of suitable plasma will be known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-cites-infra-inadequacy-for-beginning-plasma-therapy-govt-awaits-hospitals-preparedness/articleshow/77044051.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||Mahagathbandhan smells ‘conspiracy’ as state BJP leaders meet party brass in Delhi||Ranchi: BJP’s leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi’s sudden meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Friday has raised eyebrows of the JMM-Congress-RJD ruling dispensation in Jharkhand, which has accused the saffron party of resorting to horse-trading attempts during the Rajya Sabha polls last month. The recent political turmoil in the Congress government in Rajasthan, owing to revolt by a few lawmakers led by deputy CM Sachin Pilot, was also alleged to have been orchestrated by BJP. In Jharkhand, both Congress and JMM are on alert to keep their house intact. Speaking with reporters on Friday, chief minister Hemant Soren said no such rebellion is possible in this state where the opposition (BJP) is “directionless and leaderless”. Congress on Saturday questioned the need for Marandi's visit to Delhi during the pandemic, even though he dubbed his trip as a courtesy call to apprise Shah about the “poor law and order situation” in the state. Talking to TOI, state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said Marandi is hatching some sort of a conspiracy. He said, “A sudden meeting like this cannot be dismissed as a mere courtesy call. We sense there is a deeper political message hidden behind this urgent meeting.” He added that both Shah and Marandi remained confined to their homes for months fearing the virus and stayed away from any political activities. However, Marandi’s sudden trip to Delhi has more to it than just a discussion over law and order issues. Defending the mahagathbandhan government’s work since the change of guard in Jharkhand, another Congress spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said despite the challenges of financial crunch, the Hemant Soren dispensation has been steadily overcoming all obstacles. He said, “Law and order is not an issue in the state, but BJP seems to be rattled by police and administrative action against their corrupt leaders. The party is in tizzy after all its wrongdoings and land grabs by its government in the last five years have started surfacing.” On the other hand, the newly elected Rajya Sabha member and state BJP president Deepak Prakash too met BJP national president J P Nadda in the national capital on Saturday to discuss the “evolving political” situation in the state. Reacting to Soren’s remarks, Prakash said, “The CM’s comments on the opposition are distasteful as the opposition is as important as the ruling dispensation in a democracy. As far as BJP is concerned, it believes in service to the nation and its people irrespective of it being in power or not.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mahagathbandhan-smells-conspiracy-as-state-bjp-leaders-meet-party-brass-in-delhi/articleshow/77043984.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic protocols, fitness hunt, fuel prices make cycles popular||Ranchi: Saurabh Sinha, an assistant technician with a private pathology lab, bought a bicycle last month to pedal to work from his Morhabadi residence. Until March, before the nationwide lockdown, the 40-year-old usually covered the 4km distance to work at Kutchery area in an auto or e-rickshaw, but the fear of catching the new virus while using public transport made him shift to cycling. Sinha said the transition has also helped him keep fit in these times. Rishab Murmu, a food delivery boy in Bariyatu, also stopped using the bike provided by his company and started to cycle to work after the steep hike in auto fares fueled by the government’s social distancing advisory on the number of passengers allowed in autos and rickshaws. Sinha and Murmu are not alone who have moved to cycling in the past few months. Since the state started to reopen in the end of May, the trend of cycling has been gaining traction across Jharkhand with many opting for this humble mode to commute to work and for other short-distance travel. With gyms and yoga classes still shut due to the coronavirus pandemic, many are using cycles not only to travel but also to stay fit, leading to an increase in sales of the bicycles. Besides, with fuel prices skyrocketing, many people have preferred pedalling over four- and two-wheelers to reach offices. Hence, the latest affection of people for cycles may be “an overall effect of Covid-19 and fuel price”. Kanishka Poddar, an international cyclist who was nominated as Ranchi’s cycle mayor last year by Amsterdam’s social enterprise BYCS to promote cycling, said, “Apart from all the negative aspects of the lockdown, one good thing that has come out is the people’s inclination towards the humble cycle. This cuts across all age groups,” he said. Poddar added that the phenomenon is likely to stay even after the pandemic is brought under control. “We have now realised that the virus is here to stay for a while and people are not too comfortable to travel in crowded commercial vehicles like buses or autos. The fear of crowds will remain for a while even after the spread of the virus is brought under control. The best and affordable option is to cycle.” Poddar, whose Ranchi Cycling Club concluded a monsoon cycling expedition between June 25 to July 10, received more than 100 participants travelling 30,000km across the state. “Besides the necessity of travelling, many are now taking up cycling for fitness and exploring the many lesser known avenues within Ranchi district. Such has been the spurt in cycling that you can spot a bunch of people riding in groups in the morning and evening in different parts of Ranchi,” he said, adding that his club has got about 150 enrolments during the lockdown period. Ganesh Reddy of Cycle Dost, another club, said that many people have been contacting them with requests to join them. “Our club has 80-odd regular riders, but in the last month, many have contacted us to join the club. Offering hosts of benefits right from health to sustainable environment, cycling as a trend is back on track,” he said. He added, “People have realized that cycling is the only exercise that can be done while maintaining social distancing. Bicycles are not treated as health equipment. Cycling boosts the immune system and oxygen level, very important during Covid-19.” Cycle shop owners agreed that there is a silver lining for them after their business was affected by the lockdown. Saurav Kedia, owner of Kedia Cycles, said, “Sales have zoomed. We have sold about 200 cycles in a month since Unlock 1. It is a decent figure. Earlier, we would sell about 100 cycles a month. The demand is more in city areas probably because villagers currently do not have enough money at their disposal or are busy with agriculture activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-protocols-fitness-hunt-fuel-prices-make-cycles-popular/articleshow/77044110.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||JBVNL power consumers likely to pay 2 times more than Steel City residents||Ranchi: Tariff proposals submitted to Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) by various power distribution companies in the state indicated that consumers of the state-owned Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL) would have to pay two times more per unit than their counterparts residing in Jamshedpur and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts. The proposals are currently being examined by JSERC and once it is complete, the commission will begin a series of public consultations before determining the tariff. For urban domestic consumers, JBVNL has proposed a hike from the present Rs 6.25 per unit to Rs 7.50 per unit. The fixed monthly charges, which is currently Rs 75, has been proposed at Rs 150 per month. On the other hand, Tata Steel Ltd. (TSL), which distributes power in Jamshedpur, has proposed that consumers drawing up to 100 units should be charged Rs 3 per unit with a fixed charge of Rs 30 per month. The current tariff rate is Rs 2.60 per unit. For those drawing over 100 units, the tariff has been proposed at Rs 6 per unit and a fixed monthly charge of Rs 70. Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Service Limited (TSUISL) has proposed to fix the domestic tariff for urban consumers utilising up to 100 units at Rs 3.40 per unit with a monthly charge of Rs 80. For those drawing over 100 units, the rate has been proposed at Rs 3.60 per unit. No change has been proposed in the monthly fixed charges. For commercial consumers, JBVNL has proposed a tariff of Rs 7.50 per unit, instead of the Rs 7 per unit as proposed by TSL or Rs 3.75 per unit suggested by TSUISL. However, JBVNL has proposed to give some respite to industrial consumers with a tariff of Rs 5 per KVA, as opposed to TSL’s Rs 6.79 or TSUISL’s Rs 5.25. Meanwhile, JSERC, in a public notice issued on Saturday, said it would not hold any physical hearing because of the pandemic but only virtual hearings, either through video conferencing or mobile calls, on the tariff proposals submitted by the power distribution companies. The commission further said the virtual hearings for TSUISL will be conducted on July 30 and for TSL, the hearing will take place on July 31. “All power distribution companies based in Jharkhand have submitted their tariff proposals for 2020-2021. In a first, JSERC will conduct virtual hearings on tariff proposals. We have decided to begin with small companies like Tata Steel and TSUISL before moving on to bigger discoms like JBVNL and Damodar Valley Corporation,” JSERCR secretary Rajendra Prasad Nayak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jbvnl-power-consumers-likely-to-pay-2-times-more-than-steel-city-residents/articleshow/77043862.cms||Tapas Biswas
July 19, 2020||Jamshedpur||Domestic help's daughter tops Jharkhand Class XII board exams||JAMSHEDPUR: The daughter of a tailor and a domestic help has emerged as the Arts topper in the Jharkhand Academic Council Class XII (intermediate) board exams, the results of which were announced on Friday evening. A student of Jamshedpur Women’s College (JWC), Nandita secured 419 of 500 marks. “I was expecting a good result, but I never thought I would become the state topper,” she told TOI. Rajesh Haripal and Rashmi wanted their 16-year daughter, the eldest of their three children, to discontinue studies after her matriculation as they could not afford to pay her fees. They gave in to her desire to pursue higher education when she started taking private tuitions for kindergarten and primary students to pay for the expenses. Studying without any help from private tutors, Nandita did scored 90 in Hindi, 88 in Geography, 85 in History, 82 in English and 74 in Political Science. Nandita said, “I paid my fees with the money I made from these tuition classes. I have no other interest but studies and I will continue my education no matter what comes my way,” Nandita, who completed her school from DBMS Kadma High School, said, adding that she aims to become an IAS officer after completing her graduation in mass communication. JWC principal Shukla Mahanty on Saturday visited Nandita’s home and rewarded her with some money, a silver coin and a wristwatch. Mahanty said, “Her resolve to not let the hardships at home come in the way of her studies is incredible. The entire college is proud of her.” She added that the college will not charge a single paisa, including hostel fees, from Nandita for her graduation in mass communication. Nandita added, “I am fortunate that my parents gave me the freedom to pursue higher studies and grateful to my college for supporting me,” Nandita added. East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar, himself a state stopper in 2004, called her on Friday night and congratulated her, urging her to continue with her education and work hard. Watch Domestic help's daughter tops Jharkhand Academic Council Class XII board exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/domestic-helps-daughter-tops-jharkhand-class-xii-board-exams/articleshow/77043941.cms||B Sridhar
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Two deaths, 289 new infections; active Covid-19 cases soar past recovery figure||DHANBAD/RANCHI: Even though Covid testing numbers fell significantly due to the closure of the state’s biggest microbiology lab at Rims, all 24 districts in Jharkhand on Saturday reported new Covid cases for the first time since the start of the outbreak.Jharkhand reported two casualties -- both from Dhanbad – and 289 cases in 24 hours (including 14 from East Singhbhum, which usually releases data very late in the night, late on Friday). On Saturday, Jharkhand conducted less than 3,800 Covid tests, far lesser than than the 6,000-odd tests it carried out on Thursday. The total number of coronavirus cases in Jharkhand has risen to 5,385, of which 2,681 are active, 2,656 have recovered and 48 have succumbed to the pathogen. On Saturday, Ranchi recorded 61 new infections, East Singhbhum 42 Latehar 24, Giridih 23, Depghar 18, Chatra 17, Dhanbad 14 and Koderma 12. The remaining districts recorded new cases in single digits. Meanwhile, Dhanbad MP P N Singh (BJP) – whose son’s 39-year-old driver is one of the Covid casualties recorded on Saturday -- slammed the district administration for its failure in providing timely results of Covid-19 samples collected by district administration. The coal capital has nine casualties so far -- all of them in the last two weeks. Singh’s house has been sealed by district administration after several members of his family and staff tested positive for Covid-19. Singh demanded the district administration to speed up the process of testing so that test results are made available within a day. The second casualty is a 70-year-old man admitted to ACN Jalan Hospital on July 14. "The 39-year-old man’s condition deteriorated on Saturday morning and he was having breathing issues. The 70-year-old male had several co-morbidities," said a district administration official. Singh said: "The swab sample of our driver had come four days after sample collection and the patient’s condition deteriorated before the results came in. Had the test report been given on time his life could have been saved." Dhanbad IDSP nodal officer Dr Jafarullah and civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das did not respond to several calls and texts from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-deaths-289-new-infections-active-covid-cases-soar-past-recovery-figure/articleshow/77044153.cms||Anil Ashutosh
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||Samples of E Singbhum DC collected after 3 staff test positive for Covid||Jamshedpur: Swab samples of the newly joined deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and 70 others were collected and his office along with that of the district transport officer (DTO) was closed on Saturday for two days after three staff members tested positive for Covid-19. All personnel deployed in the twin offices were also advised home quarantine. Notably, DTO Dinesh Ranjan had received Suraj Kumar when he took charge on Friday. The duo had also inspected quarantine centres in the district in the past two days. The office of the senior superintendent, which is also located in the district headquarters’ building complex, was sanitized by health workers on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 awareness chariot rolled out by the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) is moving across all market places in the city and appealed to the people about the need to follow safety measures like compulsory social distancing, mask wearing and hand washing. Moreover, the JNAC makes regular appeals on loudspeakers to the people not to venture out of their homes. Parents and guardians are asked not to send their children below 10 years of age out of homes unless in emergency cases. Till Saturday morning, the district has reported 774 total cases of Covid-19, of which 418 are active. Seven persons have succumbed to the viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/samples-of-e-singbhum-dc-collected-after-3-staff-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/77044013.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||No bed in Ranchi hospitals, new Covid centres being redied||Ranchi: With Ranchi reporting a spike in the number of coronavirus cases during the last few days and the dedicated Covid hospitals here staring at a shortage of beds, the district administration has set up four Covid care centres for asymptomatic patients. Talking to TOI, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said, “We have identified four new Covid care centres in the city which will cater to the asymptomatic patients. We have added 312 beds across three Covid centres and are also identifying new centres for treating the asymptomatic patients.” The new facilities at Baba Risaldar Mazar, Tana Bhagat Guest House and SIRD campus have been able to add a total of 282 beds for treating the asymptomatic patients. Asked about the future course of action keeping in mind the surge in cases, Ranjan said, “We are identifying new buildings and private hotels which can be converted into Covid care centres.” Ranchi has a total of 666 cases, of which 453 are active and 213 have recovered as per the data released by the state unit of National Health Mission on Saturday morning. With Ranchi detecting 277 cases in the last five days, the three earmarked Covid-19 hospitals in the city were flooded with patients and had raised an alarm about their inability to admit any more patients. All the beds (210) in the three Covid hospitals — Rims, CCL, Gandhinagar and Paras hospital — were occupied by July 16. Dr Prabhat Kumar, the head of the Covid-19 task force at Rims, said, “We had a capacity of 100 beds and now we have ran short of beds. We cannot even provide beds to our own staff who are infected. Out of 100, we had earmarked 60 for patients with mild symptoms, 10 for the critically ill ones, along with an ICU facility, and 10 for infants. However we do not have a single unoccupied bed and we are keeping our health workers at the paying ward in isolation.” Meanwhile, a state health department directive had asked all the 24 district administrations across the state to set up 10-bed Covid care centres at all CHCs in their respective districts. However, it was found that out of 14 Community Health Centres (CHCs) in Ranchi, only five have set up Covid-19 care centres and the rest are yet to start the process of setting them up. Budhmu (10), Lapung (10) Chanho (8) Tamar (8) and Mandar (4) have set up Covid care centres but nine other CHCs do not have even a single bed for housing Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-bed-in-ranchi-hospitals-new-covid-centres-being-redied/articleshow/77044032.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 19, 2020||Ranchi||Viral pictures of Rims Covid ward upsets Hemant||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday directed state health minister Banna Gupta and Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan to take appropriate and immediate action to set things in order after a few pictures showing broken beds and poor facilities at the Covid ward of Rims ICU went viral on social media on Friday night. The pictures showed one patient sitting on the floor because of a broken bed while another was seen sleeping on the floor without anyone attending him. The Covid ward is located on the third floor of the hospital. In his order, Soren reminded that the state government under JMM is a pro-people dispensation and such pictures projected the entire government machinery in poor light. He said, “The government has changed in Jharkhand and it should be more sensitive than ever towards such issues concerning the common people.” Asking the health minister to take cognisance of the situation, the chief minister said the state’s lone tertiary care centre and also dedicated Covid hospital should see an improvement. Soren also ordered the DC to conduct a probe and said, “Investigate the matter immediately and report the steps taken to prevent any rerun of such lapses.” Ranjan said a medical team has been constituted to visit Rims and conduct the probe. “The team will visit Rims at the earliest to find out the lapses and give their report after which corrective action will be taken,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/viral-pictures-of-rims-covid-ward-upsets-hemant/articleshow/77044077.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||India lodges protest after 3 civilians die in unprovoked Pakistan firing||NEW DELHI: India summoned the charge d’affaires of Pakistan on Saturday and lodged a strong protest on the death of three innocent civilians, including a child (and injury to another child), in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistani forces on the night of July 17 in Krishna Ghati sector in Jammu & Kashmir. “India condemns, in the strongest terms, the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians by Pakistan forces. This year alone, 21 Indians have been killed and 94 injured in over 2711 unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces,” said the government in a statement. “India also protested Pakistan’s continued support to cross-border terrorist infiltration into India, including supporting cover fire provided by Pakistani forces,” it added. Pakistan was called upon to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire understanding for maintaining peace and tranquility along the Line of Control and International Border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-lodges-protest-after-3-civilians-die-in-unprovoked-pakistan-firing/articleshow/77045174.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Oz flight, border woes keep families apart||MELBOURNE: Amita Bajwa last saw her three kids, including her six-year-old son, six months ago. The Melbourne resident had travelled to Patiala (Punjab) in early February after her mother’s demise. Since then, it’s been a battle to get home. “My father is alone and chronically ill. I decided to take him back to Australia with me but with the Covid-19 outbreak countries went into a complete lockdown. Now, after months of wait, we managed to book a Vande Bharat flight to Melbourne this month, but it got cancelled,” she told TOI. As a second wave of coronavirus gripped Australia, the country announced stricter border controls on July 10. While Melbourne airport shut down completely, all states capped the number of international arrivals per week. Consequently, Air India cancelled four out of six flights to Australia that were scheduled between July 15 and July 19 as part of Vande Bharat phase 4. “I had pinned my hopes on India starting some sort of air bubble with Australia, but that hasn’t happened. I have also been on unpaid leave from work for months,” said Bajwa, a healthcare worker. Komal Kathuria, who is six months pregnant, has been stranded since she travelled to Kurukshetra from Brisbane in February to renew her tourist visa. “My husband is an Australian resident and I was in the country on a tourist visa since I’m waiting for my partner visa. While authorities have finally granted me approval to join my husband, I can’t find a flight,” she said. At least 8,000 residents of Australia — majority of them NRIs or students in Australian varsities — are currently stranded in India and have registered with Australian High Commission (AHC) in India to return, said a source at AHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oz-flight-border-woes-keep-families-apart/articleshow/77045181.cms||Priyanka A Chokhani
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||At 394, Vid records highest single-day spike, cases nearing 9k||Nagpur: With 394 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, Vidarbha not only recorded its highest single-day spike but also rapidly moved towards the 9,000-mark — total cases in the region reached 8,883. The region also recorded seven deaths on Saturday. Nagpur recorded three deaths, Akola two while one patient each died in Amravati and Yavatmal, taking the total Covid-19 toll of region to 245. Akola surpassed the 100-mark of Covid-19 death after two patients from Akot tehsil died during treatment. Youngest of the six deceased is a 26-year-old girl from Mominpura in Nagpur. She was a patient of pulmonary TB. A 72-year-old man from Kanhai Peth in Timki in Nagpur also died on Saturday. The two deceased from Akola were 76-year and 54-year old. A 70-year-old man from Pusad died in Yavatmal while an 80-year-old man died in Amravati. Another Covid-19 positive patient died in Nagpur on late Saturday night. All the 11 districts in Vidarbha recorded cases on Saturday. At 102, Nagpur once again reported highest positive cases of the day from the region. Amravati reported its highest single-day spike of 81 cases while Gadchiroli reported 73 cases, including 72 CRPF jawans. Akola recorded 39, Chandrapur (32), Yavatmal (30), Washim (18), Wardha (9), Buldhana (7), Gondia (2) and Bhandara (1). Highest 65 patients were discharged after recovery from Nagpur, followed by Amravati (43), Chandrapur (18), Yavatmal (17), Buldhana (16), Akola (15), Washim (6), Gondia (5), Gadchiroli (4), Wardha (4), Bhandara (1). Now, 5,700 patients have recovered from the region, at recovery rate of slightly above 64%. AKOLA: Akola is conducting over 500 Rapid antigen tests daily for the last three days. On Saturday, 580 tests were conducted mostly in rural areas. Total 39 new cases were reported. After two deaths, Akola became only district in Vidarbha with 100-plus toll. Both the deceased were residents of Akot tehsil. They were admitted on July 10 after testing positive in rapid antigen tests. Akola now has 2,065 cases. After 1,682 recovered patients and 101 deaths, there are 282 patients under treatment. AMRAVATI: With highest single-day spike of 81 positive cases on Saturday, Amravati’s Covid count increased to 1,228 while death of a 80-year-old man from Matafail locality at Covid hospital took the toll to 39. As many as 43 patients were discharged, taking the number of recovered cases to 759. With 22 new cases on Saturday, the rural count reached 201. The highest six cases came from Purnanagar in Bhatkuli tehsil which had reported three cases earlier. The rapid antigen test helped detect 33 of the day’s 81 cases while SGBAU lab reported 41 cases. The remaining were reported from Dhruv Lab in Nagpur, as per the civil surgeon’s office. YAVATMAL: A 53-year-old man from Dudhe Layout of Pusad tehsil died on Saturday, taking district’s toll to 19. This was the second Covid death reported from Pusad. The district also reported 30 new cases, taking the total to 174. The day also saw 17 admitted in the GMC isolation ward getting discharge and currently 127 patients are admitted in the isolation ward. GADCHIROLI: Gadchiroli registered highest single-day spike of 73 cases. Out of them, 72 are CRPF Jawans and one a civilian. With this, district’s caseload surged to 329, including 50 from different districts/states. Total 113 patients have recovered, while one person died in Telangana. Now, 215 patients are under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: A record 32 new patients were detected within 24 hours, taking the district’s caseload to 260. While 15 positive results came during on Friday midnight, 17 new patients were reported on Saturday. Health officials said so far 148 patients have recovered and got discharge, while 112 patients are under treatment. The 15 patients detected on Friday night included a person each from Chandrapur city, Naleshwar in Sindewahi tehsil, Dabgaon in Mul tehsil. Remaining 12 are rice mill workers from Mul who arrived from Bihar. The 17 new patients reported on Saturday include five SRPF jawans who arrived from Pune. A 17 year-old girl from Urjanagar also tested positive. Four new patients from Chandrapur city included one each from Christian Colony, Tukdoji Maharaj Chowk, Azad Chowk Tukum and a 32-year-old resident. Three cases from Ballarpur town included a woman, WCL colony resident and Balaji ward resident. Three others are from Bhadrawati town included a businessman, electrician and youth. A resident of Patna in Bihar serving institutional quarantine too has been found positive. District collector claimed that they have started antigen tests which is helping in detection of more patients. He claimed that doubling rate in Chandrapur is 14 days. Chandrapur city along with Urjanagar and Durgapur villages on the outskirts have been put into 10-day lockdown from Friday. WASHIM: With 18 new cases from rural area, Washim’s total cases surged to 351. The district is conducing more than 300 rapid antigen tests daily. With six patients discharged in a day, total 141 have recovered. WARDHA: Nine new cases were detected in the district on Saturday while four patients were discharged from hospital. Six persons were reported positive in rapid antigen tests done at Karanja Rural Hospital in Kakada village. Three other infected persons are close contacts of other patients. The total number of patients in the district has increased to 102. With 66 patients discharged so far, there are 32 patients under treatment. GONDIA: A resident of Karanja in Gondia who returned from Mumbai and one Karnataka returnee from Arjuni-Morgaon tehsil are among the two who tested positive in Gondia district on Saturday. Five patients were discharged after recovery. Now, 34 patients are under treatment in Gonda. BHANDARA: Only one new case was reported while one patient got discharge in Bhandara on Saturday. Now, out of 190 cases in Bhandara, 100 have recovered. With two deaths reported earlier this month, Bhandara has 34 patients under treatment. BULDHANA: Seven persons tested positive on Saturday, taking Buldhana’s count to 703. With 326 of them discharged and 20 deaths, total 357 patients are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-394-vid-records-highest-single-day-spike-cases-nearing-9k/articleshow/77044049.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Akola first in Vid to record 100 Covid deaths||Nagpur: Two more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in Akola on Saturday taking the death toll of the district to 101. With this, Akola has become the first in Vidarbha to record 100 Covid-19 deaths and 10th in Maharashtra. The fatality rate in Akola is nearly 5%, which is alarming. Vidarbha now has 240 Covid-19 deaths of which 101 are from Akola alone. No other district in Vidarbha has crossed even 50 deaths till date. In Maharashtra, Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune, Solapur, Nashik, Jalgaon and Aurangabad have recorded 100-plus deaths. Akola recorded its first Covid-19 death on April 11. This means the district has recorded nearly 1 death per day since then. As many as 47 of the 101 deaths were reported in the June alone. The district administration in Akola is on its toes now. “Case fatality rate in Akola is one of the major concerns for us. We started rapid antigen testing in rural areas in the July first week. We have tested more than 16,500 samples till date which is the second highest in Vidarbha after Nagpur. Soon, we will be introducing the latest IIT-Delhi made Covid-19 test kits in Akola,” resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse told TOI. The death analysis of Akola clearly shows that co-morbidities are more fatal than that of the age-factor of Covid-19 patients. Of the 101 people who have died in the district, 57 were in the age group from 51 to 70 years. Most of them were brought to the hospital in critical condition and had co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, renal failure etc. They died during treatment. Only 25 of the deceased were above 70 years of age. “The number of Covid-19 deaths in Akola is highest in Vidarbha region, but the case fatality rate has come down significantly in the last two weeks,” said Dr KS Ghorpade, dean of Akola GMCH. According to him, patients used to reach hospital at a very critical stage earlier and hence, it was difficult to save them. But, thanks to more tests and awareness in people, patients are coming at an early stage in July,” he said. Akola is the divisional headquarters of department of health services of Amravati division. Critical patients are referred here from adjacent districts like Washim, Buldhana, Bhusawal and even Hingoli and Nanded. The youngest Covid-19 victim from Akola — a 21-yr-old girl — is from Hingoli. She was diabetic since childhood and her condition was critical when she reached Akola. INFOGFX 101 deaths in 98 days Month-wise data March: 0 April: 3 May: 29 June: 47 July: 22 (till July 18) Total: 101 Gender wise break-up Male: 63 Female: 38 Age group wise Age groups 20-30 | 3 31-40 | 7 41-50 | 19 51-60 | 28 61-70 | 19 71-80 | 21 81-90 | 4 Youngest deceased: 21-yr-old girl who had severe diabetes since childhood Oldest deceased: 85-yr-old man who had severe co-morbidities Case fatality rate in Akola: 5% Recovery rate: 81%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-first-in-vid-to-record-100-covid-deaths/articleshow/77044056.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||One time trustee of NIT, now guarding its complex||Nagpur: In an era where even a Gram Panchayat member flaunt his/her status with luxury cars and costly mobiles, a two-time former corporator Deepak Tijare , who was a trustee of Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), is nowadays guarding one of its complexes for feeding his family. Tijare, 72, was first elected from the Shanti Nagar area in 1985 on a ticket of Congress (Socialist) formed after a split from Congress Party. That time Maratha strongman and NCP president Sharad Pawar was the president of Congress (Socialist). Tijare again got ticket in 2007, this time from NCP, and served the office till 2012. Now, he earns a meagre salary of Rs7,000 per month by doing night duty at NIT complex, of which he was once the trustee during his corporator term, and manages his family and his children’s education. “I never joined politics to earn money, but my motive was to address grievances of citizens. This may probably be the reason that I couldn’t mint money and become rich unlike other politicians. In fact, I never liked corruption and always stayed away from any unethical practices,” he says with a smile. Nobody can believe that a two-room dilapidated house in Hazaripahad belongs to a former corporator, who was also an ex-chairman of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Standing Committee. It sounds a bit surprising as everybody is aware of how corporator’s fortunes grew multiple times, once they’re elected. Besides luxury cars, many of them have bungalows while some have even swanky farmhouses on the city's outskirts. On how he feels after watching other corporators making fortunes and he was living in poverty, the father of three says he doesn’t have any complaint and is proud of his credentials. “I am satisfied with whatever I have done. At least I can say that I am honest. Even today, people still come to me with problems and I help them in whatever possible way I can. A majority of NMC officials knew me.” According to him, the politics has changed in a big way from his days and now only money and sycophancy matters. “During our days, the hard working activists were recognized and allotted tickets. They were respected in political party. Nowadays, only money and closeness with the senior functionaries matters.” On whether he feels discarded by party leaders, Tijare says sometimes it feels bad, but he is happy and content that he has been living a happy life. “My elder daughter is married while the younger one is in her final year in Government Polytechnic. My son is studying BCom. I am happy that at least I am active and doing a job rather than sitting idly after retirement. My mentor Sharad Pawar still knows me well.” His family members are also happy over the fact that Tijare never indulged in any wrongdoings even if they’re surviving in the acute resources. “I am proud of my father, as he’s still popular in our area. Scores of people approached him with their problems and he readily helps them even at this age without any expectations. He’s an inspiration for all of us,” his son Dhyanesh says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-time-trustee-of-nit-now-guarding-its-complex/articleshow/77044094.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 19, 2020||Nagpur||Green neighbourhood call resonates with citizens||Nagpur: Rotary club of Nagpur Vision, in association with the Times of India, recently launched the ‘Green your Neighbourhood Challenge’ tree plantation drive across the city. While plantation drives by the government have been taking place in the city, the survival rate of trees is low due to lack of proper care. Taking note of this, the project has been kick-started, under which citizens are planting trees in their neighbourhood. “If each person plants one tree in their area and takes care of it, we can achieve a lot," club president Jatin Sampat said. Shabbir Shakir, district governor of Rotary 3030, stressed that this tree plantation drive should spread in the entire Vidarbha region. Inspired by the drive, Rotary clubs of Jalgaon West, Nagpur North and many other areas have also undertaken similar tree plantation drives. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was handed over a sapling of saptaparni, as a part of the drive. Promising to plant the sapling in his garden, Mundhe said, "I urge all citizens to plant at least one tree in their housing complex or identified free land. We should not plant trees on the roadside as it may block the flow of traffic." Nagpur police commissioner BK Upadhayay also appreciated the plantation drive. "Flora and fauna are an integral part of our life. By nourishing, growing and protecting them, we build a very strong defensive system around us," he said. Ladies of DSOI-Nagpur, an association of veterans of the armed forces at Vayu Sena Nagar, took part in tree plantation near the airport. They were supported by Wing commander Mukund Limaye and Squadron leader Ravi Wankhede, Jyoti Prajapati, Gunjan Chimnani and their friends from Hislop college. The drive got a very positive response, with many citizens coming forward to plant trees in their gardens and neighbourhood areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/green-neighbourhood-call-resonates-with-citizens/articleshow/77044129.cms||---
July 19, 2020||India||Lancet: By 2050, India to have net inbound migration of 2.5 lakh||NEW DELHI: Amid changing age profiles, declining fertility rates and economic progress, India is likely to see a significant shift in the migration scenario in the decades to come with the current net outflow of around 5 lakh people in 2018 getting reversed by 2050 with a net inbound migration of around two and a half lakh. An analysis published in The Lancet on fertility, mortality, migration and population scenarios for 195 countries said those with the largest immigration forecasts in absolute numbers in 2100 would be the US, India and China. The projections show that in 2018, the net migration in India was -5,08,000, which means that the outflow of people leaving was higher than those coming in. However, this trend is likely to reverse by 2050 when the estimated net migration count is projected to turn positive at 2,38,000. The net migration count is estimated to be even higher, at 5,20,000, in 2100. The analysis explains that net migration count accounts for all ages and sexes combined. Positive counts indicate net immigration while negative counts indicate net emigration. These trends are part of a study that has been carried out by researchers from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation and Department of Health Metrics Sciences, School of Medicine, University of Washington. Highlighting the key findings, the authors said global population was projected to peak in 2064 at 9.7 billion and decline to 8.8 billion in 2100. The projection for India in 2100 was 1.1 billion. The global TFR in the reference scenario was forecast to be 1.6 in 2100. The findings also suggested a shifting age structure in many parts of the world, with 2.4 billion individuals older than 65 years and 1.7 billion individuals younger than 20 years forecast globally in 2100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lancet-by-2050-india-to-have-net-inbound-migration-of-2-5-lakh/articleshow/77045196.cms||Ambika Pandit
July 19, 2020||Goa||Police plaints authority headless for over 2 yrs||Panaji: With the state government not filling the post of chairman, the State Police Complaints Authority (SPCA) continues to be only on paper for more than two years now. In the backdrop of criticism, the state government had made a statement last year that the chairman would be appointed, but so far no file has been moved to the high court to seek names of retired judges for the post. More than 80 complaints are pending before the authority to be addressed. The tenure of the last SPCA chairman, Justice R M S Khandeparkar, came to an end on April 15, 2018. The three-member SPCA comprises a chairman and two other members. A senior government officer said that the government is not keen on appointing a new chairman for the SPCA so soon as it will incur an additional financial burden on the state. Austerity measures have been taken by the government as the financial situation is not satisfactory. The senior officer said that once the chairman is appointed, he would have to be provided with necessary staff to make the authority functional. While for two years the government ignored demands to fill the post, the austerity measures seem to have come now to the rescue of the government, an RTI activist said. Most of the complaints filed with the SPCA relate to police refusing to register FIRs. Other complaints refer to police personnel assaulting the complainant when an FIR was asked to be registered. In one such case, the complainant had stated he had been harassed by police while registering an FIR. Other complaints include abuse of power and arrest without valid reasons. In 2014, the state government issued a memorandum restricting SPCA from taking suo motu cognisance of misconduct by police personnel. The move had drawn wide criticism from activists and public as there has been an increase in the number of cases being filed against law enforcers in the last five years. The SPCA has recommended disciplinary proceeding against some of them. It has even directed some of the uniformed men to perform social service, requiring them to educate members of 10 village panchayats of the existence, functioning, purpose and utility as well as the procedure followed by SPCA to dispose complaints in case the police failed to file a first information report (FIR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-plaints-authority-headless-for-over-2-yrs/articleshow/77044315.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Oppn: Release teachers’ salaries as per June data||Panaji: A day after the education department withdrew its contentious circular and announced that salaries of grant in aid teachers for July would be delayed, Congress and Goa Forward Party (GFP said that instead of delaying the salaries, the government could release funds based on June data. A delay in releasing salaries to teachers would create avoidable hardship for teachers and their families, said the opposition. “The arrears, if any, on account of release of annual increments payable in the month of July, can be paid along with regular salaries for the month of August with necessary adjustments,” said Congress president Girish Chodankar. Staff of the Grant-in-Aid section were home quarantined after their colleague tested positive for Covid-19. This prompted the directorate of education to issue a circular directing grant-in-aid institutions to pay staff salaries for July from the management funds. After criticism from all corners, the government withdrew the circular and the department issued another circular saying that salaries would be disbursed once the quarantined staff returned to work. Congress said that this is not a viable solution. Even GFP slammed the department, saying that the circulars were a “glaring instance of incompetent leadership”. “Doesn’t the account department have the list of disbursement of salaries for June? The chief minister should direct the account department to refer to it and disburse the salaries,” said GFP president Vijai Sardesai. Chodankar said a simple order from education director Vandana Rao in supercession to the earlier orders, can suffice to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-release-teachers-salaries-as-per-june-data/articleshow/77044330.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Business||‘New tax form will have more details, aid return filing’||NEW DELHI: The income tax department said on Saturday that the new Form 26AS will have additional details of high-value financial transactions undertaken by taxpayers during a financial year, which will facilitate voluntary compliance and ease the filing of electronic returns. Form 26AS is an annual consolidated tax statement that can be accessed by taxpayers from the income-tax website using their permanent account number (PAN). The new form will have a statement of financial transactions instead of the earlier system where only data on transactions related to tax deducted at source (TDS) and tax collected at source (TCS) in addition to taxpayers and refunds was available. The changes were mandated as part of the last set of amendments to Finance Act. In May, CBDT had notified the new form, containing TCS and TDS details that will now include information on property and share transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-tax-form-will-have-more-details-aid-return-filing/articleshow/77045208.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Class X result date yet to be finalised||PANAJI: The dates for declaration of the Class X public exam results are yet to be finalised by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, sources said. Due to the pandemic and the restrictions, the Class X exam schedule had to be revised and exams were then held from May 21 to June 6. Class X results are normally declared by the last week of May buy this year, it has also been delayed. The new academic year 2020-21 is also not expected to begin any time before August 15, as per guidelines of the Union human resource development ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-x-result-date-yet-to-be-finalised/articleshow/77044343.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Make South Goa dist hospital fully functional: Kamat||Margao: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Saturday demanded that the government make the South Goa district hospital fully operational as, he said, the new hospital project could help the government to provide best healthcare during the Covid-19 pandemic “The people of Goa have apprehensions about government’s intention in keeping the two floors of the hospital vacant when the government feels need of 20% beds in ICUs of private hospitals all across the state,” Kamat said in a press note. He suggested that the government “bring money from PM Cares fund and make all facilities in the hospital fully operational”. Kamat also insisted that the government involve the local medical fraternity while deciding about creation of basic and advanced healthcare facilities in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/make-south-goa-dist-hospital-fully-functional-kamat/articleshow/77044362.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Villagers wary of weak embankment near Talpona bridge||POINGUINIM: A portion of the embankment below the new Talpona bridge in Canacona is gradually getting washed away due to water from the service road gushing into the river there. Locals fear that since the river is shallow in that area, when it gets flooded, the water may breach the embankment and flood the road and then enter their houses. The problem, locals say, is largely due to the absence of a drainage system, which was left undone after the construction of the bridge was completed. In absence of a proper drainage system, rain water gushing from the service road pours into the river. To make matters worse, the embankment was filled up just recently, but without a retention wall being constructed to contain the mud. When contacted, PWD assistant engineer (highways) Subhash Pagi said, “Since the matter is related to highways, the problem will be discussed with higher authorities and some solution will found.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/villagers-wary-of-weak-embankment-near-talpona-bridge/articleshow/77044378.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Few days respite from heavy rain after July 20: Met dept||Panaji: Heavy rainfall will continue over the state for another day, with atmospheric conditions set to remain almost the same up to Sunday, the India meteorological department (IMD) said. The rainfall activity will subside from Monday before getting revived by July 24 owing to a probable circulation over the Kerala coast. “The offshore trough is going to continue to be prevalent from the Karnataka coast to the Kerala coast. As a result, Goa can expect heavy rainfall for 48 hours. This system is very important for Goa during the monsoon,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. Despite the ongoing heavy rainfall, there is a yellow warning over Goa till July 19. The orange alert lasted only till July 16. From Monday, the state can expect some reduction in rainfall for a few days. However, around July 24, Goa can expect a revival of the rainfall activity. “There is a probable circulation likely to occur over the Kerala coast. As of now, it is over Sri Lanka and will move slightly northwards. If it maintains its intensity, it may reach the Kerala coast. With this movement, we will yet again experience heavy rainfall,” Rahul said. The south west monsoon was active over Goa on Saturday. Heavy rainfall occurred at most places with very heavy rainfall at isolated places. Canacona received the most amount of rainfall with a total of 12cm recorded. Rain gauge stations at Panaji and Ela (Old Goa) recorded 11cm, while Quepem recorded 10cm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/few-days-respite-from-heavy-rain-after-july-20-met-dept/articleshow/77044387.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Mahalaxmi temple not to reopen on July 21||Panaji: After Covid-19 cases occurred in the vicinity, Shree Mahalaxmi Temple in Panaji will continue to remain closed until further orders, the saunsthan has announced. Earlier this month, the temple had announced that it would open its doors to devotees from July 21, which is the first day of the holy month of Shravan. “The above decision has been taken in the utmost interest, well being and safety of all devotees, pujaris and Devasthan. We sincerely request all devotees to kindly support the above decision and cooperate,” the Saunsthan said. Temples across the state had voluntarily decided to not allow visitors during the pandemic, even before the instructions from the central government to this effect. Established in 1818, the temple is the oldest place of Hindu worship in Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mahalaxmi-temple-not-to-reopen-on-july-21/articleshow/77044398.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Flooded fields worry Canacona farmers||POINGUINIM: Farmers in Canacona are worried that the freshly transplanted paddy saplings may be destroyed if they remain submerged in the flooded fields for another four to five days. Incessant rain and water from the swollen Talpona river have led to flooding of low-lying areas in many parts of Canacona, affecting agricultural activities in the taluka. Strong winds also uprooted many trees, with some crashing on houses and causing considerable loss to the owners. Narayan Komarpant from Patnem-Colomb suffered a loss of more than Rs 10,000 after an old tree damaged his house. A huge jackfruit tree crashed on a house at Ziltawadi, Gaondongrim, causing a loss of Rs 5,000. The Canacona fire station personnel, who cleared the fallen trees, said they were able to save property worth more than Rs 25,000. They also said that trees had uprooted at Agonda and Khola, and the road was blocked in some areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/flooded-fields-worry-canacona-farmers/articleshow/77044407.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Car falls into canal, two die||GHAZIABAD: A 58-year-old man and his son were killed after their speeding WagonR skidded off the road and plunged into the Ganga canal in Ghaziabad’s Masuri area on Saturday morning. The man’s wife who was also in the car sustained critical injuries in the accident, and is currently recuperating at a hospital. The accident occurred around 10.30am when the family of three from Vijay Nagar — Baburam, his wife Bari Devi (55), and their son, Amit (35) — was going to Muradnagar for a routine health checkup at a hospital. Police suspect Amit, who was on the wheel, lost control over the speeding vehicle, leading to the accident. “There was no protective railing where the car fell into the canal. But a rescue operation was launched within minutes by cops from the local post after locals alerted us. Two cops — Narendra Singh and Arvind Chaudhary — jumped into the canal and soon pulled the three out of the canal,” Masuri SHO Umesh Pawar said. The three were rushed to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared the father and the son brought dead. “Bari Devi sustained serious injuries in the accident, but she is said to be more or less out of danger. She is being treated at the same hospital,” the SHO said, adding the bodies have been sent for autopsy. “We will also write a letter to the authorities concerned to set up an iron railing at the spot, to prevent accidents in future,” Pawar said. Amit’s cousin Sanjay Yadav said the family had an appointment with a doctor at the Muradnagar hospital around 11am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/car-falls-into-canal-two-die/articleshow/77044793.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
July 19, 2020||Goa||Trailer truck plunges down hill||Vasco: A trailer truck went down a hillock near the Pirni junction at Verna on Friday after the driver lost control of the vehicle. The accident occurred near the Cabral petrol pump at around 3pm while the truck carrying a container laden with goods of Andro Telecommunication was travelling from the Verna industrial estate to the JNPT port in Mumbai. The truck trailer plunged down from a height of about 30m and damaged a part of a house belonging to Emy Gracias. While a resident, Mukanda Datmary, suffered a minor injury, the 21-year-old driver of trailer, Vilas Dhanve from Maharashtra, was seriously injuries and was shifted to Goa Medical College and Hospital, Bambolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trailer-truck-plunges-down-hill/articleshow/77044413.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||New BBMP chief to repurpose poll model to tackle Covid-19 outbreak||Manjunath Prasad, who was the commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for three years before BH Anil Kumar’s appointment, returned to the position on Saturday amid a surge in coronavirus infections in the state capital. Prasad faces the huge challenge of propping up Bengaluru’s overwhelmed health systems and fixing missteps. He spoke to STOI about the strategies he intends to implement to slow the outbreak. You are taking over at a time when the civic agency is grappling with Covid-19 cases. What is the mandate given to you by the state government?The mandate is to bring coronavirus cases, which are on the rise, under control. The main aim is to nullify death cases because of BBMP’s negligence. Rapid diagnosis will be improved, contact tracing will intensified, and surveillance will become more stringent. Only a month ago, other cities were trying to emulate the ‘Bengaluru Model’ to control the case count. Now, Bengaluru is struggling. What are your immediate priorities?We did very well during lockdown, but we didn’t think about the steps needed for the subsequent phase. When ‘Unlock’ kicked in, people became laid-back, interstate and intrastate travel increased and many cases went unnoticed. The enforcement weakened, which contributed to 70 per cent of the spike in cases. I plan to use the “election method”, where I will further decentralise everything to the assembly constituency and get every MLA actively involved in their respective constituencies. I think we will be able to handle the situation better this way. I have conducted elections and I know this is the best method to control the viral spread as locals will listen to their elected representatives. Attention will be paid to hospitals, which are full of asymptomatic patients. Such patients unnecessarily occupy beds. They should stay at home. It’s difficult for people living in slums to follow home isolation and beds should be provided to them instead. This is the change I am working on. You were the BBMP chief for three years. What are the problems plaguing the city’s healthcare infrastructure and what measures did you suggest in your previous stint?As the BBMP commissioner, I could only suggest, the councillors are the final decision-makers. We gave only 1 to 3 per cent importance to healthcare because we believed that only people from economically weaker sections would come to BBMP healthcare centres. But now, we have been proved wrong. Most of our budget went to roads, infrastructure and solid waste management, which has affected us now. We must train healthcare staff; we need a special team of 300 who will be able to multitask and handle the situation better. BBMP’s Covid response seems to be driven by the War Room, and not by personnel on the ground. Are you thinking about a strategy shift to make contact tracing, testing and bed management more effective?War Room is technology, but on the ground, the reality is very different. As I said, the election method will help us more — there are 8,400 polling stations in the city with 35,000 staffers. I will request the government to deploy them for Covid duty. Every single isolation case will be tracked through these booth-level officers and we will bring down the number of cases. I have noticed a gap in data, which has created problems. Many patients give wrong mobile numbers and addresses. A software is being developed to handle this issue. We will generate an OTP for everyone who turns positive and they will be linked to our database, so we can track their movements. While Bengaluru moves out of lockdown next week, what will greet Bengalureans are broken roads. Do you have a blueprint to fix the city?Infrastructure development and Covid care need to go hand in hand; we cannot ignore one because of the other. Projects will begin as usual. There are multiple lobbies in BBMP. The common man expects you to play for his side.Everybody has opinions. We need to look into the resources and extend support. The government is controlling expenditure and handling things with care; unnecessary projects won’t be encouraged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-bbmp-chief-to-repurpose-poll-model-to-tackle-outbreak/articleshow/77045232.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP chief ousted as Covid response falls apart in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Effecting a major reshuffle as the city reels under the Covid crisis, the Karnataka government shunted out BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar on Saturday and brought in his predecessor, N Manjunatha Prasad, currently principal secretary in the revenue department. Bengaluru is now among the worst-affected cities in the country, with more than 22,000 active cases. Official sources said the state government’s failure to contain the Covid-19 situation in Bengaluru accelerated Kumar’s exit. The 1987-batch IAS officer, considered the blueeyed boy of CM BS Yediyurappa and revenue minister R Ashoka, is now being seen as the poster boy for administrative failures, especially the tottering response to the pandemic in the city. Kumar has been moved to the department of public enterprises as additional chief secretary. The fall from favour — which many blamed for the failings in the city’s pandemic response and the resulting health crisis — was evident as the government and BBMP chief expressed conflicting views on extending the lockdown in Bengaluru. “In my personal opinion, the lockdown should be there for at least 15 days to break the cycle,” Kumar had said on Friday. An embarrassed Yediyurappa was later forced to clarify that the government has no plan to extend the lockdown since it is not a solution to contain the spread and would only add to the economic distress and fund crunch in the state. Another sign of faltering virus fightHowever, Kumar’s transfer only adds to the rapidly mounting tales of Covid mismanagement, marked even in the initial days by ego clashes between senior ministers. Kumar was recently pulled up for his decision to rent bedsets at a whopping Rs 800 a day each for the Covid Care Centre at Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC). The decision gave the opposition a handle to accuse the government of trying to profiteer from the health crisis. Facing flak and loss of face, Yediyurappa intervened and scrapped the earlier order, opting instead for a hire-purchase scheme to reduce the burden on the exchequer. Kumar, who was in the initial days praised for his work in containing the virus spread, faced criticism from the Karnataka high court for BBMP’s failure to help people in containment zones, among other lapses. Sources in the government said pressure had been building against Kumar over the past two months after most Bengaluru MLAs complained to the CM’s office. “No MLA liked him. Everyone had a problem,” an officer said. Another officer said Kumar also came under fire after a central team, which recently visited the state, flagged failing Covid surveillance in Bengaluru. Based on their findings, the Union home ministry reportedly pulled up Yediyurappa, forcing him to appoint ministers for Covid management in every zone in the city. Kumar replaced V Rashmi Mahesh, who has now been moved as secretary in the Kannada and culture department. Prasad will continue to hold charge of the revenue department, which includes disaster management, Bhoomi and UPOR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-chief-ousted-as-covid-response-falls-apart-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77045226.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Man who shot at police held after shootout in northwest Delhi||NEW DELHI: A man who allegedly shot at a police team near the Akshardham temple last year was caught from northwest Delhi after a shootout with police. The cops nabbed him after they received information he was coming to visit his pregnant wife.  Police said that the accused, identified as Rafiq (24), has been involved in 53 cases of burglary. He is known for targeting locked houses in upscale colonies. Rafiq along with his associate Akhtar (31) were stopped at a picket checking in Jahangirpuri on Friday night. "We had received information and the staff was on alert. The two were intercepted and taken into custody," said Vijayanta Arya, DCP (northwest).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-who-shot-at-police-held-after-shootout-in-northwest-delhi/articleshow/77045239.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||State revises Covid-19 action plan to arrest spurt in cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has drafted a refocused action plan in view of the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks. The two major objectives of the action plan are to reduce the time gap between the onset of Covid-19 symptoms and detection of the case to a maximum of 24 hours, and give the doctors ample time to restore the health of the patient to reduce the mortality rate to below 1%, that is, detection to death of a positive case should be six days in the event of death. As per an order issued by the health department, teams shall be constituted with the village and ward secretariat staff to complete contact tracing within 12 hours of detecting a positive case in a particular area. A robust surveillance mechanism will be in place in all containment zones where the caseload is high or deaths have been reported. The field-level teams, constituted by the local authorities, will carry out focussed screening of persons belonging to high-risk category in these containment zones. Fever clinics will be organised in all the high caseload clusters on a regular basis till the area witnesses a decline in the number of cases. Tests will be carried out on all fever cases, severe acute respiratory infection cases, persons with Covid-19 symptoms, frontline health workers, bluetooth contacts of positive cases (as per Aarogya Setu App) and primary contacts of positive cases in the containment zones. At least 90% of daily tests should be conducted in the containment zones. Persons belonging to the high-risk category with less than 94% SpO2 (oxygen saturation) will be tested locally with rapid antigen kits. For negative cases on rapid testing, an X-ray/CT scan or RT-PCR should be done to rule out Covid-19. Women self-help groups and other government organisations working at the field-level will be involved in the risk management and community engagement activities. The officials have been asked to assess beds available in different layers of hospitals, including the number of beds having oxygen lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-revises-covid-19-action-plan-to-arrest-spurt-in-cases/articleshow/77043531.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘How can 2 nurses handle 112 patients?’||BENGALURU: A minister’s surprise late-night visit to KC General Hospital revealed how its overworked staff members are struggling without adequate resources. “Ideally, there should be one nursing staffer for 10 patients. But here, two nurses are taking care of 112 patients. It’s humanly impossible (to handle such workload); you must do something about it,” a hospital employee told medical education minister K Sudhakar on Friday night. The medical staff told him that a manpower crunch had left them exhausted. As the state government has advised employees aged above 55 not to work during the pandemic, many are on leave. Sudhakar said he would ensure the hospital had adequate staff strength. According to Dr BR Venkatesh, the hospital’s medical superintendent, 59 employees have tested positive for coronavirus and 30 are still recovering. “We are running short of staff, but we are ensuring that patients get proper treatment. The hospital has 100 beds for Covid-19 patients and 260 for other patients. Many staff members have been tested positive or are primary contacts,” he said. One employee told Sudhakar that medical teams working in regular wards were getting infected more than the ones serving in Covid-19 wards. “Patients with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection are admitted to non-Covid wards and they are turning positive, which is the main reason why medical staffers are getting infected. The number of such patients has increased from 10 per cent to nearly 40 per cent. Teams have been instructed to wear personal protection equipment even in non-Covid wards,” Dr Venkatesh said. The hospital is finding it very difficult to treat both Covid-19 patients and people with other conditions. “We should be either declared a dedicated Covid-19 facility or asked to treat only regular patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-how-can-2-nurses-handle-112-patients/articleshow/77045243.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 19, 2020||World||Trump says he won't hold in-person rallies until 'Covid-19 problem' is solved||WISCONSIN: In view of a surging number of Covid-19 infections across the states, US President Donald Trump on Saturday said telephonic town hall will be replacing his large in-person campaign rallies until the "Covid-19 problem" is solved, CNN reported. Speaking to his supporters in Wisconsin during what was described as his first "Tele-Rally," the President said, "I wanted to be with you, and this is really replacing our rallies that we all love so much, we had great rallies in Wisconsin and all over the country, and unfortunately until this gets solved, and we're doing really well with the therapeutics and vaccines, but until that gets solved it's going to be tough to have those big massive rallies, so I'm doing telephonic rallies, and we'll call them the Trump Rallies, but we'll do it by telephone and we have a lot of people on the line and I appreciate it." The 22-minutes telephone rally marked a major backpedaling for the President who last month plowed ahead with his controversial rally in Tulsa, despite pleas from health experts and local officials to call it off. The decision to go ahead was costly, with a top local health official admitting the rally 'more than likely' triggered a surge in new cases of the deadly virus across Oklahoma. The President, meanwhile, also used the opportunity to hit out once again at China over its handling of the outbreak, referring to his popular name for COVID-19 as the "China virus" and blasting the country, stating that they "could have stopped it".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-he-wont-hold-in-person-rallies-until-covid-19-problem-is-solved/articleshow/77045245.cms||---
July 19, 2020||World||Trump says he won't hold in-person rallies until 'Covid-19 problem' is solved||WISCONSIN: In view of a surging number of Covid-19 infections across the states, US President Donald Trump on Saturday said telephonic town hall will be replacing his large in-person campaign rallies until the "Covid-19 problem" is solved, CNN reported. Speaking to his supporters in Wisconsin during what was described as his first "Tele-Rally," the President said, "I wanted to be with you, and this is really replacing our rallies that we all love so much, we had great rallies in Wisconsin and all over the country, and unfortunately until this gets solved, and we're doing really well with the therapeutics and vaccines, but until that gets solved it's going to be tough to have those big massive rallies, so I'm doing telephonic rallies, and we'll call them the Trump Rallies, but we'll do it by telephone and we have a lot of people on the line and I appreciate it." The 22-minutes telephone rally marked a major backpedaling for the President who last month plowed ahead with his controversial rally in Tulsa, despite pleas from health experts and local officials to call it off. The decision to go ahead was costly, with a top local health official admitting the rally 'more than likely' triggered a surge in new cases of the deadly virus across Oklahoma. The President, meanwhile, also used the opportunity to hit out once again at China over its handling of the outbreak, referring to his popular name for COVID-19 as the "China virus" and blasting the country, stating that they "could have stopped it".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-says-he-wont-hold-in-person-rallies-until-covid-19-problem-is-solved/articleshow/77045249.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Private medical colleges agree to share 50% beds for Covid patients||BENGALURU: Private medical colleges on Saturday agreed to provide a minimum of 50% beds for Covid-19 patients and treat non-Covid patients from Sunday. They agreed only after chief minister BS Yediyurappa warned them that criminal cases would be filed against them under the Karnataka Disaster Management Act if they did not comply. He met college representatives to persuade them to join the government in its fight. “From here on, there will be no more meetings and requests. We won’t even issue notices but will start booking cases if you continue to deny treatment. Provide 50 per cent beds from tomorrow (Sunday) itself as cases are rising,” he warned. Private colleges had been dilly-dallying over the government’s request to provide beds for Covid patients. They had promised 2,500 beds a fortnight ago but provided only around 300 beds till date, making it difficult for the government to arrange beds for patients. “Despite repeated requests, you (colleges) have been denying treatment to Covid and non-Covid patients. As a result, several people have died without getting timely treatment. The state government cannot be a mute spectator. It’s a major health emergency and you must cooperate. Else, we will act,” he told the representatives. Following his tough talk, all 12 medical colleges at the meeting fell in line. “They have all agreed. In fact, some colleges agreed to provide 80 percent of their beds for Covid patients. This will get us around 4,500 beds. We hope there won’t be complaints of patients being denied treatment,” said revenue minister R Ashoka, who attended the meeting with DyCM CN Ashwath Narayan and medical education minister K Sudhakar. Sudhakar said the CM instructed hospitals to reserve 5,200 beds for treatment of Covid patients and 3,000 beds must be added within a week. The government has assured colleges necessary help in terms of deputing doctors and nurses if the need arose. “We assured them we’d provide ventilators supplied to the state by the Centre for emergency usage,” Ashoka said. Nodal officers have been appointed to monitor availability of beds in these medical colleges, he added. The meeting also decided to issue notice to Vaidehi Medical College for not attending the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-private-medical-colleges-agree-to-share-50-beds-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77045250.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Gurgaon||80% of Gurugram’s Covid-19 patients suffering from other diseases||GURUGRAM: Around 80% of Covid patients in the district have been found to suffer from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as hypertension, diabetes and obesity, data released by the health department has revealed. Doctors have expressed concern over the trend, pointing out that Covid patients with such ailments have a higher chance of turning fatal than in normal cases. They said that since NCDs and Covid-19 share a similar pathology, the virus tends to infect bodies with such ailments more easily than in others. This makes patients suffering from hypertension, diabetes and heart diseases 10 times more susceptible to Covid-19 and their mortality rate is also several times higher. “NCDs and Covid-19 have common pathologies. People who have hypertension, diabetes and cardiac ailments are 10 times more predisposed to getting infected. While healthy persons have only a 1.2% chance of turning fatal, those with NCDs have a 6-8% chance. They have poor immunological responses and inflammatory cytokines in their bodies. Cytokines are responsible for lung infection, heart attacks and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The virus only aggravates them,” said Dr Amit Bhushan Sharma, associate director and head of the cardiology unit at Paras Hospital, Gurugram. Dr Sharma warned that when patients with NCDs turn critical and need to be put on ventilator support, their chance of fatality increases to 80%. He advised that with rapid changes in lifestyle, people should at least keep their sugar levels in check and control their weight. Dr Udgeath Dhir of Fortis Memorial Research Institute also said that a weak immune system leads to Covid-19 in most cases. “Non-communicable diseases are inflammatory. Like in hypertension, there is strain on the heart. This virus also causes inflammation in the body. Both combine and pose a higher risk in patients with NCDs. Certain cells are killed and immunity reduces further. More than 80% of Covid patients we have been getting here are suffering from NCDs,” he added. Experts said the risk of fatality increased manifold in Covid patients with NCDs. For instance, if the rate is just 1.2% in patients with no history of NCDs, it is 8% in those having diabetes and 7.5% in those with lung ailments. It is 6.5% in patients suffering from cardiovascular diseases and 3% in case of hypertension. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 response in Haryana and the head of the department of pulmonary and critical care at PGIMS-Rohtak, said, “According to data, two-thirds of Covid deaths in Gurugram are related to diabetes and obesity. Most people who require ventilators in such cases have been found to be obese. We have also observed that 90% of patients put on ventilator support are obese.” Doctors suggested that people suffering from obesity should start treatment at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/80-of-gurgaons-covid-19-patients-suffering-from-other-diseases/articleshow/77044940.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cop asks men to follow Covid rules, thrashed||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police constable was thrashed and his uniform torn after he asked three men to return home and not loiter at night. Constable Pradeep was on duty in Shahdara on Friday, when he spotted some men standing near a wall without following social distancing norms. When he asked them to return home, three of them caught hold of him and started beating him up.  "Later, he called head constable Akash and they both apprehended the three men even as one person managed to flee. A case has been registered," said a senior police officer. The accused have been identified as Raghuvir, Arun and Rampal, who work as drivers in the area. Watch Delhi cop asks men to follow Covid rules, thrashed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cop-asks-men-to-follow-covid-rules-thrashed/articleshow/77045257.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Spike of 4,500 Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 47% in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Karnataka added 4,537 Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total caseload to 59,652. Bengaluru reported 2,125 cases, witnessing a rise of 2,000-plus cases for the third day in a row. This was higher than the spike in other metros: Chennai reported 1,219 fresh cases, Delhi 1,475 and Mumbai 1,186 . Across the state, 93 Covid deaths were reported, of which 49 were in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/spike-of-4500-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-47-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77045265.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: NGOs slam reward for plasma donors||BENGALURU: A recent announcement by the state government that plasma donors should be given an incentive of Rs 5,000 has touched off a controversy. NGOs and blood banks say such policies of offering monetary rewards go against the voluntary spirit of blood donation and could affect campaigns. Convalescent plasma therapy is being used to treat severe Covid-19 patients, who are given a transfusion. “Many NGOs and blood banks have been putting in a lot of effort to promote blood donation. The aspect of payment for this to one category (plasma donation) flips the concept and its philosophy,” said a representative of a social organisation. Plasma is the almost clear liquid part of the blood. The plasma of somebody who has overcome an illness contains antibodies, protective proteins that fight disease and antigens. Government officials and hospitals have been urging people who recovered from Covid-19 to give plasma. Chandrakanth Acharya, a regular blood donor, has posted a letter against the incentive policy on social media. He tagged medical education minister K Sudhakar, who made the announcement. “The Supreme Court has banned blood donation against any inducement. It was done to prevent the ailing from donating blood. How can the minister, who is a doctor, commit such a blunder (the announcement). He must retract it,” said Acharya, who has donated blood/platelets around 180 times. Alphonse Kurian of Sanjay Nagar Lions Bloodline termed the government’s step as a shocker. “Thalassaemia patients depend on transfusions. Will the government pay the same amount to all those donors? This affects regular blood donation drives. A healthy person willing to donate will feel discouraged as one particular section is being rewarded. Some may ask for money,” Kurian said. According to licence conditions for blood banks under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, the licensee shall neither collect blood from any professional or paid donor. “The ‘gesture of gratitude’ that the government has suggested is likely to backfire. There seems to be no evidence to suggest that such a move will translate into high availability of convalescent plasma,” said Rajat Aagarwal, co-founder of Sankalp India Foundation, a network of blood banks. Responding to a query on the response the government had received, Sudhakar told STOI: “What should the government do? Should it take back the order? Plasma therapy has shown good results in patients, aiding recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-ngos-slam-reward-for-plasma-donors/articleshow/77045262.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Out of money, Museo Camera plans to open shutter on August 1||GURUGRAM: Aditya Arya, director, Museo Camera, is looking to reopen the city’s latest landmark on August 1. And back-to-business could not come any sooner, with the four-month-old lockdown having dried up every source of revenue for the museum, not yet a year old but already a thing of pride for Gurugrammers. “It has been an extremely difficult time for us,” Arya told TOI of the period lasting from mid-March to the present. “The pandemic and lockdown could not have come at a worse time for the Museo Camera. After the public opening in August last year, we were just beginning to establish ourselves as an important institution for photography, and for art lovers in this part of the world. But the closure of the museum brought all our revenue-generating activities to a grinding halt.” For museums, Arya points out, it was a double blow, seeing that such brick-and-mortar archives are rarely ever awash with funds to make owners and managers forget about financial challenges. Switching off the economy’s engines only made matters worse. “Museums provide much-needed cultural nourishment to the population, though in times of crisis such as this, they get pushed to the bottom of the list,” he said ruefully. “They take years of hard work and dedication to develop and to overlook that will be foolish.” Without these repositories of art, culture, history and knowledge, any city, Arya insists, would be like a body without a soul. The Museo Camera and its café will be open to visitors from August 1, and Arya is determined to go beyond the standard operating procedures laid down by the government – to the extent of ensuring that public areas within the premises are disinfected twice every day using ultraviolet lights. “The opening is very critical for the survival of the museum as we need to start generating revenue soon,” he stressed. Now that economic activity is up and running again, this is the time to commit to a bigger role for culture in the life of the Millennium City. For that, stronger government support is needed. Gurugram is sorely lacking in accessible and affordable spaces for the performing and visual arts, but residents’ embrace of the crowdfunded Museo Camera suggests there’s room for creative endeavour to thrive here. After all, culture contributes as much to a city’s quality of life as any of healthcare, education and a robust infrastructure. “With functioning and thriving cultural spaces, Gurugram can become much more than a metro of industries and high-rise office complexes,” shares Arya, hopefully. Inaugurated on 28 August, 2019, the Museo Camera, the city's latest landmark, endeavours to celebrate the story and evolution of photography. It has more than 2,500 cameras going back to as far as the 1860s, alongside photographic ephemera, much of it from the personal collection of Aditya Arya. Besides, the museum has spacious art galleries, workshop and lecture halls, and a fully functional dark room evoking the art's early days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/out-of-money-museo-camera-plans-to-open-shutter-on-aug-1/articleshow/77044954.cms||Sharad Kohli
July 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Executive capital shift could be delayed by two to three months||VISAKHAPATNAM: The shifting of state’s executive capital to Visakhapatnam is likely to be delayed till early next year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is already believed to have identified the areas and buildings where its key administrative offices would be located. There were plans to start executive operations from Vizag around the Dussehra festival, but the shifting process is likely to be delayed for two-three more months. YSRC general secretary and Rajya Sabha member, V Vijayasai Reddy, too recently indicated that executive capital in Vizag would become a reality in the next six months. “TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu has been resorting to all sorts of conspiracies to stop the process. But it won’t happen,” he said in a public meeting. Government sources said a guest house situated in the premises of anti-insurgency forces Greyhounds is being readied to become the camp office of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. A wall is being constructed to separate the guest house from the Greyhounds office and training areas. A road will also be built from the beach road to the camp office once it is ready. The secretariat will come up at the IT SEZ, while other structures will come up in Kommadi and Kapuluppada areas, tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao said recently. Jagan plans to shift all important departments by January so that government staff get sufficient time to admit their wards in schools and colleges before the start of the next academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/executive-capital-shift-could-be-delayed-by-two-to-three-months/articleshow/77043633.cms||Siva G
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Private medical colleges agree to share 50% beds for Covid patients||Bengaluru: Private medical colleges on Saturday agreed to provide a minimum of 50% beds for Covid-19 patients and treat non-Covid patients from Sunday. They agreed only after chief minister BS Yediyurappa warned them that criminal cases would be filed against them under the Karnataka Disaster Management Act if they did not comply. He met college representatives to persuade them to join the government in its fight. “From here on, there will be no more meetings and requests. We won’t even issue notices but will start booking cases if you continue to deny treatment. Provide 50 per cent beds from tomorrow (Sunday) itself as cases are rising," he warned. Private colleges had been dilly-dally over the government's request to provide beds for Covid patients. They had promised 2,500 beds a fortnight ago but provided only around 300 beds till date, making it difficult for the government to arrange beds for patients. "Despite repeated requests, you (colleges) have been denying treatment to Covid and non-Covid patients. As a result, several people have died without getting timely treatment. The government cannot be a mute spectator. It's a health emergency and you must cooperate. Else, we will act," he told the representatives. Following his tough talk, all 12 medical colleges at the meeting fell in line. "They have all agreed. In fact, some colleges agreed to provide 80 percent of their beds for Covid patients. This will get us around 4,500 beds. We hope there won’t be complaints of patients being denied treatment," said revenue minister R Ashoka, who attended the meeting with DyCM CN Ashwath Narayan and medical education minister K Sudhakar. Sudhakar said the CM instructed hospitals to reserve 5,200 beds for treatment of Covid patients and 3,000 beds must be added within a week. The government has assured colleges necessary help in terms of deputing doctors and nurses if the need arose. "We assured them we’d provide ventilators supplied to the state by the Centre for emergency usage," Ashoka said. Nodal officers have been appointed to monitor availability of beds in these medical colleges, he added. The meeting also decided to issue notice to Vaidehi Medical College for not attending the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-private-medical-colleges-agree-to-share-50-beds-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77045270.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rly offers discounts on freight movement||Visakhapatnam: The Indian Railways is offering concessions on freight movement in a bid to improve industrial activity. The Railways, which suffered significant losses during the lockdown, is giving 50% discount on freight for up to 50km, 25% discount for 51-75km and 10% discount for 76-90km. The Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) has responded positively to the offer and is using the services to move steel and slag. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), Simhadri, is using the services to transport fly ash to cement and brick industries. MY Home— a private firm has also enlisted itself to avail the offer, informed KVSRK Kishore, senior divisional operations manager, Waltair division. Speaking to TOI, Kishore said, “At present, all of us are working towards a single goal— to restore freight traffic and recover from the losses made during the Covid-19 lockdown. We hope to recover by giving these discounts on freight traffic.” The Waltair division suffered a 33% loss in freight traffic between April and June this year compared to the corresponding period last year, according to an official spokesperson of the Waltair division. “The concession will apply to all types of goods except coal, coke, iron ore, military traffic, raw material, railway material consignment and container traffic. This concession will be applicable till June, 2021,” Kishore added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rly-offers-discounts-on-freight-movement/articleshow/77043662.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: This panchayat has spent Rs 60 lakh to feed hungry||BENGALURU: When the first of the Covid-inducted lockdowns was announced in March, the Rajankunte gram panchayat set out a simple mission statement for itself: no one goes hungry. Located about 30km from the capital city, the gram panchayat (GP) has spent more than Rs 60 lakh so far to feed labourers, homeless and the poor — through cooked meals and ration kits. And the money has all come from contributions: from staff members, local organisations, business establishments, elected representatives and individual donors. “Initially, we contributed money from our pockets. Later, we approached some organisations for help,” said M Thimmareddy, former GP member. “There was some opposition initially over risk of infection when we opened a free canteen. But as the response was good, we extended the service to corona warriors. We have also provided ration kits to around 3,000 families who were left jobless due to the lockdown.” Canteen feeds 300 people a dayThe canteen, named after the chief minister, feeds around 300 people a day, Thimmareddy added. “Besides organisations and businessmen, farmers donated vegetables and foodgrains on a daily basis.” Villagers are now even celebrating their birthdays and other occasions by sponsoring a day’s meals for the poor. Panchayat development officer Rajesh HR said: “When lockdown was imposed, our GP members took a resolution to launch ‘Hasidavarige Anna’ programme to ensure no one goes hungry in our limits.” Since then, the six villages that make up the GP — Attiganahalli, Sriramanahalli, Sadenahalli, Adde, Vishwanathpura and Ittagallapura — have sheltered many workers from North Karnataka and north India. “We’re taking up disinfection, sanitisation and awareness works jointly with government departments and ASHA workers,” Rajesh said. Over the past four years, the GP has won two national and two state awards for its endeavours. “Rajankunte is one among best GPs of the state. It’s doing well in Covidcontrol measures and migrant workers’ relief. It has started a community kitchen and also distributed masks and sanitisers,” said Uma Mahadevan, principal secretary of rural development and panchayat raj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-this-panchayat-has-spent-rs-60-lakh-to-feed-hungry/articleshow/77045274.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Safety teams to visit industries starting today||Visakhapatnam: State tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao said on Saturday that violation of industrial protocols and human errors are causing industrial accidents. The minister, during an interaction with industrialists on industrial safety measures, said that the high power committee’s report on the LG Polymers accident have brought these problems to the fore. The minister said that special safety committees will be visiting industries from July 19 to July 29 to examine the safety measures put in place. He added that the fire services department, the pollution control board and the factories department should work in a coordinated manner and conduct random checks.  The tourism minister announced that a hospital will soon be constructed in the Pharma City area for which the pharmaceutical units have already collected Rs2.5 crore and the government will also help out. Visakhapatnam district collector Vinay Chand said that a state-level special meeting with industrialists will be held in the second week of August. The meeting will discuss safety measures and the future course of action. City police commissioner RK Meena said that there should be constant monitoring of safety systems in industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/safety-teams-to-visit-industries-starting-today/articleshow/77043729.cms||Siva G
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru to get 10 mobile ICUs||BENGALURU: Large containers normally used to ship cargo have been repurposed into mobile ICUs by a city-based private firm to overcome bed shortage amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Saturday examined the modular ICUs developed by Rinac India Limited at its Magadi Road facility. In a pilot project, 10 of these units will be deployed at KC General Hospital, Malleswaram in the next 10-15 days, said Narayan, who’s also in-charge of setting up Covid Care Centres. Each container-turned-ICU comprises five beds. The deputy CM said mobile ICUs will be useful in times of pandemics like Covid-19 or natural calamities. While health officials will have to enter through an airlock, the facility will have two doors for patients. The number may be increased if the need arises. The ICUs are fitted with cameras and can be monitored from a centralised monitoring station, thereby limiting the exposure of health personnel. Each unit is made of prefabricated modules of five beds and can be shifted to any location through a trailer. It’s easy to deploy, clean and maintain. The facility is airtight, which makes air-conditioning easier. The portable units can also be converted into other facilities like forest guesthouses and primary health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-to-get-10-mobile-icus/articleshow/77045282.cms||Farheen Hussain
July 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: This complex blended old and new ways||BENGALURU: The residents of Westend Heights Bengaluru, an apartment complex in Akshayanagar, off Bannerghatta Road, turned to traditional as well as high-tech methods to stay safe during the lockdown. For instance, the apartment’s executive committee decided to communicate with the residents about the seriousness of the matter in the traditional Munaadi way (when drum beats preceded mass announcements). Kartikeya Khanna, the secretary, told TOI that they observed residents loitering in the complex and decided to go for a public announcement on safety guidelines. “Interestingly, we observed 97% compliance from the very next day,”said Khanna. In a slightly improvised version of Munaadi, a security staff walked around the campus with a battery-operated speaker mounted on a cycle announcing guidelines for residents — stay home, avoid walking, wear mask, maintain social distance and wash hands. Apart from this, the first thing that the 14-member committee did was to form a Covid health committee, which ensured complete safety and direct communication with the residents. The committee also created a live tracker for residents in quarantine to help the 5,000-plus occupants of 1,830 flats stay updated. “An online form would be filled by travellers at the gate and the security guard would record the details, which would then be updated in real-time. Residents could visit a link to get all details,” Khanna explained. The committee functioned under the leadership of U Vishwanath Kini, its president and Mogishuddin Raza, the vice-resident. Dr Rashmi Vasanth, who leads the health committee said the team also organised a medical conference of 15 in-house doctors to discuss and share inputs on hospitalisation procedure and what to do if a resident turns positive. “We realised awareness is crucial. We shared videos made by doctors residing on our campus, which had guidelines on keeping things handy in case of emergency and other suggestions,” Dr Rashmi said, adding the community also has a Covid Care Centre, where the rooms are equipped with oxygen cylinders, PPE kits and other emergency equipment. “A medical professional who resides in our apartment had come in contact with a Covid-positive person. While she got herself tested, she couldn’t immediately go home because she had old and young family members. At that time, she was housed in the facility for 48 hours,” said Dr Rashmi. The committee made sure the residents received all essentials seamlessly and ensured comfortable stay for staff members who could not go back home. They also hired a retired government official as a health supervisor to help quarantined as well as other residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-this-complex-blended-old-and-new-ways-to-create-awareness/articleshow/77045286.cms||Farheen Hussain
July 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Truck carrying 2,800 liquor bottles seized by Guntur cops||VIJAYAWADA: Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) continues to be smuggled into the state from Telangana, in spite of strict surveillance and enhanced enforcement along the border. Guntur police, along with officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), seized a large consignment of NDPL at Dachepalli on Saturday. Upon receiving credible information, police intercepted a truck at Srinagar in Dachepalli mandal and found 2,800 liquor bottles being transported to Konanki village in Piduguralla mandal. One Yeruva Narasaiah, the supplier who procured the liquor from two wine shops in Nalgonda district in Telangana, has been arrested. Guntur (rural) SP, Vishal Gunni said Narasaiah was supplying NDPL to Bandaru Sri Krishna and Irla Srinu from Konanki, Battula Saibaba and Kasireddy Venkateswar Reddy from Narasaraopet and Akuri Sudarshan Reddy from Dachepalli. All five have been arrested. The two drivers of the vehicle, Bandi Venkatesh and Yapati Vinay Kumar, were also arrested. Two others to whom the NDPL was being supplied, the owner of the truck and the licence holders of the wine shops have also been booked under the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act and are yet to be arrested, said Gunni. In another incident, a wine shop supervisor and two salespersons were arrested for selling liquor manufactured in Telangana in a state-owned wine shop at Kondamodu village in Rajupalem mandal. SEB officials seized 15 bottles of NDPL from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/truck-carrying-2800-liquor-bottles-seized-by-guntur-cops/articleshow/77043781.cms||---
July 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Local sanitizers give legacy brands a run for their money||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 pandemic, which has immensely pushed up the demand for sanitizers, has also led to domestic sanitizer manufacturing industries mushrooming across the state. Consequently, traditional sanitizer manufacturers are facing a great deal of competition and the market has undergone a significant change. Sanitizer manufacturing units, who have been in the business for decades and have approvals of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have not only been forced to reduce prices but have also started packing sanitizers in smaller containers to address household demand, the space which has largely been taken up by domestic manufacturers. S Dhanesh, a leading sanitizer wholesaler in Visakhapatnam said, “The bulk sanitizer business is not new in Andhra Pradesh. We have been selling FDA-approved sanitizers for years. But our primary customers were hospitals and industries. But in the last three months, our business periphery has increased and now we are catering to different types of clientele.” Traders say that earlier most sanitizer manufacturers used to sell 5 litre to 50 litre jars. Industries and hospitals would purchase these and prices would go down for consumers buying in bigger quantities. “But now, we are selling even 10ml sanitizer packs. In fact, demand for mini packs has increased considerably over the last three months as hotels, restaurants, offices, marriage halls and households are buying sanitizers,” said K Pushpak, a wholesale sanitizer distributor from Kakinada. Over the last few months, many educational institutes, chemical plants who used to manufacture other stuff and even households have started manufacturing alcohol-based sanitizers. Although these sanitizers do not have FDA approval, there is huge demand for these because: one, they are easily available and two, they are cheaper. “In order to keep pace with these locally-manufactured sanitizers, the old-timers have also reduced their price. In March, we used to buy 5litres of sanitizer for Rs 2,000 and sell them for Rs 2,400. Now, we are buying 5 litres for Rs 650 and are selling it for Rs 900. There has been a drastic change in price,” Dhanesh, the wholesaler from Visakhapatnam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/local-sanitizers-give-legacy-brands-a-run-for-their-money/articleshow/77043800.cms||Arpit Basu
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Fear, staff crunch halt home swab tests in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Most private labs and agencies doing home collection of Covid suspects’ swab samples have suspended operations in the last few days due to lack of manpower, to fend off overcharging complaints, as well as reluctance on the part of the collectors following the spike in Covid cases in the city. The sudden suspension has put in distress a large section of people with symptoms who are reluctant to go to clinics fearing transmission (if they did not have it to start with). They include those in home quarantine after a family member or a contact tested positive . “Last Saturday, a lab technician collected my husband’s swab sample from our home and he tested Covid positive. Since Monday, I am in home quarantine and trying to get tested but none of the diagnostic centres are ready to send someone to my home. Only one lab agreed but said they cannot send anyone before a week. I can’t leave home and if no one comes to my place to collect the sample, how am I supposed to know if I also have the disease?” said a techie in her early 30s and a resident of Baguiati. Similar has been the situation for a septuagenarian Tollygunge resident who has mild cough and cold and wants to get himself tested but doesn’t want to risk going to a clinic or a hospital. “My house physician has advised a Covid test. Since morning, I have called multiple diagnostic centres for home collection but none agreed. I have diabetes and at my age I don’t want to take the risk of going to a clinic and expose myself to the infection,” the senior citizen said on Saturday. Currently, 15 private labs along with 37 state-run facilities test swab samples in Bengal. Kolkata has 11 private labs, of which Dr Lal Pathlabs and Suraksha Diagnostics are the leading ones with both clocking around 1,000 tests per day. Till Wednesday, Dr Lal Pathlabs has done 53,582 tests and Suraksha 30,556 tests. “There is an extreme load of patients these days which is making it difficult for us to send technicians home on all occasions. Everyone, from lab technicians, to microbiologists and clinic staff are working overtime to test suspects and furnish reports on time. We are still trying to send collectors but it is taking much longer than before,” said a senior executive of a diagnostic centre. Officials said the government’s decision to put a cap on Covid test costs has also led some labs to suspend home collections for the time being. “The government has fixed the cost of Covid test at Rs 2,250 but we were charging Rs 3,250 after including home collection charges and costs of PPEs. Our employees were putting on fresh PPEs and gloves in front of the patients. But some patients recently complained to the state health department that we were overcharging and so we have been asked not to go for home collections any more,” said the branch head of an ICMR-accredited diagnostic centre in the city. Another official said most collectors are also unwilling to visit homes after some of their colleagues tested positive for Covid in the last weeks. Virologists agreed that diagnostics centres are experiencing a logistics nightmare but also stressed on the importance of tests and home collections. “Tests are absolutely necessary but not at the expense of personal safety. One should avoid visiting crowded testing centres. If home collection is no longer possible, the government should try and introduce drive-by Covid testing centres and more open-air Covid testing kiosks across the city,” said doctor Rahul Jain. TOI spoke with a doctor over phone at the telemedicine patient service introduced by the state health department and he said he was aware of the problem. “We have learnt that home collections are being stalled at some places. But given the situation, symptomatic persons or those who have come in contact with Covid patients should practise home-isolation protocols, check their oxygen levels regularly and follow doctor prescribed diet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fear-staff-crunch-halt-home-swab-tests/articleshow/77044901.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 19, 2020||Kolkata||Clashes erupt over BJP rally, 6 injured||Barrackpore/Jhargram: At least six people participating in a BJP rally near Shyamnagar in North 24 Parganas sustained bomb splinter injuries on Saturday, indicating that there’s no let-up in violence even during the pandemic. BJP Bhatpara MLA Pawan Singh blamed Trinamool for the attack. Trouble broke out after Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh led a protest rally from Auckland Jute Mill to Bhatpara More over alleged Amphan- and ration-related corruption. “Armed TMC goons were hiding at Shundiapara Ground off Ghoshpara Road near Shyamnagar. They hurled bombs on our supporters passing by,” Pawan said. A large police contingent, including RAF and combat force, reached the spot to bring the situation under control. Meanwhile, BJP supporters scuffled with police yet again near Palta after police stopped a bus carrying BJP supporters. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh alleged that police were after Arjun since the day he joined BJP. “The ruling Trinamool is out to kill Arjun Singh since he joined BJP. His Bhatpara residence was mobbed by police on one side and Trinamool goons on the other. BJP’s Hemtabad MLA who joined the party from CPM was also killed,” Ghosh said. TMC’s Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmick, while mocking at BJP, said: “Bhatpara residents know whose writ runs in this area. People will laugh at such an allegation. I would only appeal to BJP leaders to have some restraint on rallies during the pandemic because the virus won’t spare either BJP or Trinamool.” At a rally in Jhargram on Saturday, BJP leader Sayantan Basu asked people not to pay electricity bills. “You don’t have to pay electricity bills at increased rates. We will waive payment of your bills, be it from CESC or WBSEB, when we come to power,” Basu said. He alleged that TMC and police were taking help from local Maoists to finish off BJP workers in the area. Basu also accused the Jhargram district magistrate of sitting on the development money that BJP’s Jhargram MP Kumar Hembram had allocated from his MPLAD funds. Earlier in the day, Ghosh gave a terse response to Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee’s appeal to set up a five-lakh brigade of men and women from all parties to help the distressed during the pandemic. “He had created a 1-lakh brigade earlier who looted rations and Amphan relief. What will he do now with this five-lakh brigade?” Ghosh asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clashes-erupt-over-bjp-rally-6-injured/articleshow/77044858.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
