July 20, 2020||Chennai||Bikers hit Chennai's race track for practice after three months||The sound of engines revving up at the race pit muffles everything else. And there is so much excitement on the faces of the bikers, who are just about to strap on their helmets before hitting the tarmac after several months. The Madras Motor Race Track (MMRT) at Irungattukottai opened for limited bikers for pay and practice sessions on Saturday. “This was only the second time we opened the track for practice since the outbreak of COVID-19 in India in March. Last month, we opened it for one day before the intense lockdown was announced from June 19 to July 5,” informs Philip George, the circuit manager at the MMRT. Philip adds that the numbers were restricted to ensure social distancing and avoid crowding. “Today, we had 30 bikers each for the morning and afternoon sessions. Generally, there would be around 70 bikers plus three others with each biker to help them out at the pit. Now, we’ve restricted it to one person with each biker.” When asked about other precautions that are in place at the race track to avoid virus transmission, he replies, “At the entry point, every single person is subjected to temperature check and we have installed hand sanitisers at different places. Also, we spray disinfectant on the tyres of vehicles. Even the workers at the track are subjected to health checks on a daily basis. All of them are from the neighbourhood.” Vicky Chandhok, the vice-president of the Madras Motor Sports Club, adds, “It worked really well on Saturday. The riders are complying with the guidelines so willingly. We are also encouraging them to not use the closed pits. Instead, we are asking them to use the space outside the garage, so that they are in the open and visibly maintain social distancing.” We spot seasoned racer Alisha Abdullah, who was on a bike on the race track after almost seven months. “The last time I raced on a bike was in November last year. Then, earlier this year, I was part of a car race, in February,” she tells us and adds, “But it wasn't as bad as I thought. I missed gearing at the first few corners and had my fingers feeling cramped after 10 to 15 laps. Otherwise, it was fine.” A racing trainer and former racer, P Ananthraj, says, “It felt really good to be back on the track after so long. And the practice session was also smooth as the track and the run-off area are maintained so well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bikers-hit-chennais-race-track-for-practice-after-three-months/articleshow/77055050.cms||Ashish Joseph
July 20, 2020||India||DCGI seeks clarification from Glenmark on its anti-viral favipiravir for use on Covid-19 patients||NEW DELHI: The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has asked for a clarification from Glenmark Pharmaceuticals regarding its alleged "false claims" on the utilisation of anti-viral FabiFlu (favipiravir) on Covid-19 patients with comorbidities. The top drug regulator has also asked for an explanation on the "pricing" of the drug. This move came after the drug regulator received a complaint from a Member of Parliament (MP). On June 19, ANI had reported that the drug regulator gave the green signal for anti-viral drug favipiravir for "restricted emergency use" in mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 in view of the emergency and unmet medical need during the pandemic. Thereafter, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals had launched FabiFlu last month at a price of Rs 103 per tablet. In a letter, Dr VG Somani, DCGI, has written to Glenmark pharma giant directing them to furnish a clarification after his office received a representation from a MP. The legislator, in his complaint, to the drug regulator stated, "The total cost of the treatment with FabiFlu (favipiravir) will be around Rs 12,500 and that the cost proposed by Glenmark is definitely not in the interest of the poor, lower middle class and middle class people of India." "As per the claim by Glenmark, the patient has to take the tablet for 14 days, which means one patient will have to take approximately 122 tablets (18 tablets on day 1 and 8 tablets per day from day 2 to day 14.) The total cost of the treatment will be around Rs 12,500," the complaint said in a representation to DGCI. As per the statement by Glenmark and media reports, the DCGI had accelerated the process for clinical trials and reviews considering the pandemic situation, unmet medical conditions and unavailability of specific therapeutic management against Covid-19 for this drug, the complainant said. "However, after positive approach, accelerated processes and efforts by DCGI, Health Ministry and relevant state FDA departments, the cost proposed by Glenmark is definitely not in the interest of the poor, lower middle class and middle-class people of India," the presentation made by legislator stated. "In such a global pandemic, where the world is struggling against Covid-19, the central government should ensure affordability of the drug to the common people. In fact, 6-12 centres wherein these clinical trials were conducted are government medical colleges from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. This indicates that poor and middle class patients have contributed to the clinical trial as subjects. "Price quoted for this drug is definitely unaffordable to the common people," the presentation said. The DCGI, in its letter, to the pharma giant has enclosed the presentation made by the MP based on an online press conference by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals and media reports that the cost of FabiFlu per tablet is Rs 103. "It has been mentioned in the representation that Glenmark has also claimed that this drug is effective in comorbid conditions like hypertension and diabetics, whereas in reality, as per protocol summary, this trial was not designed to assess the FabiFlu in comorbid condition," read the letter sent by DCGI to the Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company dated July 17, a copy of which is with ANI. "No clinically sufficient data specific to these conditions are available, the DCGI said in a letter. "In view of this, you (Glenmark) are requested to provide your clarification on the above points for taking further necessary action in the matter," read the DGCI letter to Glenmark. However, when ANI contacted Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, they refused to respond. However, it stated that on July 13, Glenmark had made its price cut for antiviral drug Favipiravir, under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate Covid-19, by 27 per cent to Rs 75 per tablet. (ANI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dcgi-seeks-clarification-from-glenmark-on-its-anti-viral-favipiravir-for-use-on-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77056256.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Heavy rain pummels Delhi, inundates several areas||NEW DELHI: The national capital on Sunday received its first spell of heavy rains which inundated low-lying areas, and brought traffic to a standstill on important road stretches in the city. The downpour led to the death of a 56-year-old man, allegedly due to drowning, after his mini-truck got submerged in rainwater under the Minto Bridge in central Delhi. A DTC bus almost submerged at #waterlogged #MintoBridge underpass after rains in New Delhi. A tempo driver is said… https://t.co/cDXDsO4jOI— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1595154507000A bus also got stuck in the water under the bridge. Fire department personnel rushed to the spot and rescued the people on board. The Youth Congress also shared a video of their inundated Raisina Road office. A motercyclist wades through a #waterlogged road near #ITO after #DelhiRains https://t.co/1Dd3UcB2Kx— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1595154619000Residents shared on social media videos and pictures of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles wading through waterlogged roads. #Delhi: A house collapsed in the slum area of Anna Nagar near ITO today following heavy rainfall. No one was presen… https://t.co/vLFm16ojRZ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1595143514000The Delhi Traffic Police reported heavy waterlogging at Minto Road, Azadpur underpass, South Avenue Road, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Azad market, Moolchand underpass and near Batra Hospital among others. The spot from where a house collapsed in the slum area of Anna Nagar near ITO today following heavy rainfall. No on… https://t.co/xTG27kC0Lj— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1595154570000The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 74.8mm rainfall till 8.30am. The Ridge and Lodhi Road weather station recorded 86 mm and 81.2 mm rainfall, respectively. The Palam and Ayanagar observatories gauged 16.9mm and 12.2mm precipitation, it said. Rainfall recorded below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5mm is moderate, and above 64.5mm is heavy, according to the IMD. Earlier, the IMD had predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall over isolated parts of northwest India. It said the "entire monsoon trough is most likely to shift northwards, closer to the foothills of the Himalayas during July 19-20". Despite the early arrival of monsoon in Delhi, rains had remained subdued so far. However, the rains on Sunday morning pushed the overall July rainfall in the surplus category. The Safdarjung Observatory has received 122.7mm rainfall in July so far, which is eight per cent more than the normal of 114.1 mm, according to the IMD data. The Lodhi Road weather station has recorded 137.1mm rainfall in July, which is 20 per cent more than the normal of 114.4mm. Monsoon reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than the usual date of June 27. The IMD had predicted normal rainfall in the national capital during the season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heavy-rain-pummels-delhi-inundates-several-areas/articleshow/77056245.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Two brothers killed after car rams into tree in Kuttanad||ALAPPUZHA: In a tragic accident, two brothers were killed when the car they were travelling rammed into a tree and fell into a waterlogged field at Edathua in Kuttanad on Sunday.  The deceased have been identified as Midhun M Panickar 22 and Nimal M Panickar 15, son of Sunil, Thalavadi. According to police, the accident took place at 10.30 am at Kaithamukku junction near Pacha on Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla Road. “The deceased were returning from a relative’s house at Ambalappuzha to their home. The car lost control and hit on a tree. Then it fell into the waterlogged field. Both got trapped inside the car. Though local people tried to take the car from the water, they failed as the car got stuck in the marshy part of the waterlogging. The fire and rescue service team from Thakazhi and Edathua police took out the car from the water. But their life could not be saved," the cops said. "Midhun was driving the car. He was an engineering student. Nimal, who completed class 10, was waiting for joining plus one course. Their bodies have been kept in the morgue of Alappuzha Medical College Hospital, " they added At the same time, a 39-year-old man drowned in Vembanad Lake while trying to catch fishes in Alappuzha on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Sujith, Charamparambu, Alappuzha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-two-brothers-killed-after-car-rams-into-tree-in-kuttanad/articleshow/77056166.cms||Sajimon P S
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||AIMIM chief flags off 2 ambulances in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi flagged of two ambulances on Sunday. Services of the ambulances can be availed by people of Hyderabad district round the clock for the next two months. People of the district can call 9550705278 or 9246103913 to avail the service. After launching the ambulance service at AIMIM party headquarters located in Darusalam, Owaisi urged people to avail the service. “As there is a spike in Covid-19 cases, these ambulances have been arranged. I urge the people to utilise the services. The total cost of ambulance service is around Rs 8 lakh. While the cost for ambulances is Rs 6.4 lakh, spending on oxygen cylinders, PPE kits and fuel sums up to Rs 1.6 lakh,” said Owaisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-chief-flags-off-2-ambulances-in-hyderabad/articleshow/77056383.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 20, 2020||World||Hagia Sophia mosaics will be covered with curtains during prayers: Turkish presidential spokesman||ISTANBUL: Mosaics depicting Christian figures in Istanbul's ancient Hagia Sophia will be covered with curtains during Muslim prayers, Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said on Sunday, as work to prepare the building for use as a mosque continues. Authorities had said last week that the mosaics would be concealed with either curtains or lasers when the first prayers are held next Friday. In a move that sparked sparked international criticism and concern, President Tayyip Erdogan declared Hagia Sophia open to Muslim worship earlier this month following a court ruling that said the building's conversion to a museum in 1934 was unlawful. Hagia Sophia dates back to the sixth century and has a history as both a church and a mosque before it was turned into a museum. In an interview with broadcaster NTV, Kalin said some mosaics of Mary and Gabriel that are positioned in the direction of Qiblah, where Muslims face during prayer, would be covered with curtains. He said other mosaics of Jesus and other Christian figures did not pose an obstacle for Muslim prayers because they are not located in the direction of Qiblah. But he did not say whether they would remain uncovered at all times. Outside prayers, Hagia Sophia will be open to all visitors and tourists and all mosaics will be uncovered, authorities have said. Erdogan visited the mosque earlier on Sunday to inspect the progress in preparing the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/hagia-sophia-mosaics-will-be-covered-with-curtains-during-prayers-turkish-presidential-spokesman/articleshow/77056445.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Sawant failed to recover mining dues, states plaint to PM||PANAJI: Goa Foundation has filed a complaint before Prime Minister Narendra Modi against chief minister Pramod Sawant for failing to recover over Rs 3,431 crore from several former mining leaseholders. In a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office, director of Goa Foundation Claude Alvares has stated that the department of mines and geology (DMG) issued several showcause demand notices to former mining leaseholders for recovery of various sums as per the report prepared by the team of chartered accountants that was submitted in 2016. “The team was set up by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar to calculate the dues for carrying out excessive extraction of mining ore in violation of environment norms. The amount to be recovered is Rs 1,508 crore,” states the complaint. Goa Foundation said that DMG thereafter issued several demand notices in 2017 for recovery of other sums under various heads as per the report of the auditor general, Goa, in 2016. “These total dues amount to over Rs 1,922 crore,” he said. Alvares stated that in February 2018, when the Supreme Court delivered its judgement cancelling approval of second renewal to 88 mining leases by the Goa government, it had given a specific direction for expeditious recovery of these amounts for which demand notices had been issued. “As you know, the state of Goa is bankrupt, and the government is regularly issuing security bonds to raise money for salaries. It goes without saying that if the sum of Rs 3,431 crore is recovered, many of the financial problems facing the state would find relief,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-cm-sawant-failed-to-recover-mining-dues-states-plaint-to-pm/articleshow/77056481.cms||Murari Shetye
July 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: CBI probe into Viveka murder case begins||TIRUPATI: A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team began its investigation into YS Vivekananda Reddy’s murder case on Sunday. The team arrived in Kadapa on Saturday and after formally meeting the SP, KKN Anburajan, it left for Pulivendula on Sunday morning. The team spoke to the Pulivendula DSP, R Vasudevan, the erstwhile investigating officer, and gathered information pertaining to the case. The team visited the the ancestral house of YS Vivekananda Reddy, where the murder took place on March 15 last year. Viveka Reddy’s close associate Yerra Gangireddy, personal assistant Krishna Reddy, driver Prakash and watchman Rangaiah have been named as suspects in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cbi-probe-into-viveka-murder-case-begins/articleshow/77055278.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 20, 2020||Goa||Coronavirus outbreak: Goa's Covid toll rises to 22||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid death toll rose to 22 with the death of a 67-year-old man from Chimbel at ESI Covid hospital on Sunday. Covid recoveries of the day outnumbered new cases bringing the tally of active cases to 1417. There were 180 recoveries during the day taking the tally of recoveries to 2218. Majority of the new cases were reported from South Goa. Vasco urban health centre added 20 cases increasing its count of active cases to 292 while Cortalim primary health centre 10 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coronavirus-outbreak-goas-covid-toll-rises-to-22/articleshow/77056303.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Megalithic antiques discovered near Kollur||UDUPI: A team from the department of ancient history and archaeology, MSRS College, Shirva during a recent exploration at the foothills of Mookasura Betta near Kollur have discovered a Menhir, a cupule that is well-cut round shape in hard laterite and potteries of a megalithic period.  The site is very near to the famed Kollur Mookambika temple, which is one of the famous pilgrimage centres of Shakta cult in India. T Murugeshi, associate professor of the department who led the team said Menhirs are a common feature in the adjacent Malnad region. Mookasura hill has a fort-like structure constructed using undressed stones and is referred to locally as Mookasura’s fort or Mookasurana Kote. Mookasura, according to Indian mythology, was a Devil king who was killed by Mookambika Devi in Kolluru to restore dharma and hence the name Kolluru Mookambika. The Menhir found lying on the ground is about 2.10 metre in height, 0.55-meter-thick, 0.65-meter-wide at the bottom and 0.55-meter-wide at the tip. The Menhir originally seems to be oriented to the East. Scholars have reported nearly 40 Menhirs adjacent to Kolluru at places such as Baise, Nilskal and Heragal, all in Hosanagara taluk. The name Baise is quite interesting and is a vernacular version of Sanskrit word – Mahisha, says A Sundara, scholar. With this discovery of antiquities, Kollur Mookambika can be dated to 1000 BC or much earlier. Sundara dates the Megalithic Menhir culture of Nilskal, Baise and Heragal to 1200–1000 BC. Murugeshi has already reported Menhirs from Kurkal, Adkadakatte and Buddhanajeddu in the district and the latest one is the seventh of its kind. This will be the beginning of the Megalithic culture of the Kollur region too, Murugeshi avers. Menhirs are upright standing stones and slanting. They are set up in memory of the dead and usually found near burial sites. They are usually made of granite and can be found in various heights and are heavy. They are locally known as Anekallu, Dibbanadakallu, Garbiniyara Kallu and so on. Muralidhar Hegde, Ramesh Anagalli, Chandra U B Gaddemane, Raghavendra Itala, Janardhana Achari and Bhaskar Nuksal of Kollur aided and supported the discovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/megalithic-period-menhir-cupule-potteries-discovered-near-kollur/articleshow/77056552.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Woman held with heroin worth Rs 3 lakh in Yamunanagar||YAMUNANAGAR: The anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of the Yamunanagar police arrested a woman after recovering 43.10gm heroin (chitta) worth about Rs 3 lakh from her possession under limits of Sadhaura police station of the district on Sunday, said police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh. The accused has been identified as Saroj, wife of Laksham Das of Sultanpur village. Saroj will be presented in the court on Monday, said Chamkaur. As per the information, the police received a tip-off that Saroj of Sultanpur village sells heroin in the area and she is selling the contraband in front of her house on Sunday. “Acting accordingly, the ANC team raided the location and Ashwani Kumar Sharma, principal of Government Industrial Training Institute, was also called at the spot. When police raided the house, accused Saroj was sitting on a cot outside her house under a tree. In the supervision of principal Ashwani, the accused woman was checked and 43.10 gm heroin was recovered from her possession”, said Chamkaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-woman-held-with-heroin-worth-rs-3-lakh-in-yamunanagar/articleshow/77056563.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||Rainwater gushes through ceiling of Covid hospital in Bareilly||BAREILLY: In a video clip which has been widely shared, patients at a Covid-19 hospital in Bareilly district were seen sitting helplessly even as rainwater started pouring into the ward from the ceiling. The patients were later shifted to another ward. The incident that occurred on Sunday attracted criticism from the opposition which targeted the Uttar Pradesh government. It's #NEWINDIA #AACHENDIN of PM @narendramodi HM @AmitShah UP CM @myogiadityanath"Fountain flowing in a Hospital… https://t.co/w9zIorOhnG— Salim Kaskar INC (@salimkaskar3) 1595169239000Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted the video and raised questions on the facilities being provided to patients by the Yogi Adityanath government. According to officials, there was some construction work going on, which caused the rainwater to enter through the hospital's roof. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, "We came to know about the issue through a viral video. When we contacted the officials of the medical college, they said that a pipe had broken during heavy rainfall. Prima facie, it was an accident and the medical college staff immediately shifted the patients to another ward. No action would be taken against them as of now." Watch Shocker from UP: Water gushes through roof of Bareilly hospital's Covid-19 ward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rainwater-gushes-through-ceiling-of-covid-hospital-in-bareilly/articleshow/77056766.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknowites destress themselves by cycling around the city||Ever since the Coronavirus scare gripped the nation, people are not able to get back to their normal routine, which is making life stressful for them. However, a few Lucknowites have now devised a way to not only beat stress but even to stay fit. Fitness enthusiasts, who were locked within the four walls of their house, are now taking to cycling to breathe in some fresh air and to destress. NEED TO DESTRESSYoung businessman Jatin Ahuja has been mostly staying indoors since March but has now started to go for cycling everyday. “For how long can we stay indoors and do nothing? Indoor gymming is not my thing. Plus, I was feeling very lethargic for most part of the day. So my friend and I, decided to go cycling. Both of us now carry our cycles in our cars and go cycling in Cant every evening maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. It is the best stress buster I can say, surrounded by trees and having a friend to talk to.” (L) Nisheet Jaiswal (R) Ajay Singh (BCCL)SAFEST BETFinding it the best way to maintain a healthy oxygen level in the body, businessman Luv Khattri is cycling every morning from Janeshwar Mishr Park to Ekana stadium and then back. “Getting fresh air is very important right now in the present stressful situations and so I think cycling is the best option for that.I, along with my gang of boys, cycle every morning for around 50 kms. It’s a great way to workout as one maintains a safe distance from the other despite being in company and no one is touching anything else,” he says. Neetu Kureel (BCCL) Self-employed 39-year-old Nisheet Jaiswal, who has been cycling on Sitapur Road since the unlock, shares, “Cycling and walking are emerging as a key strategy in a coronavirus affected world. I go cycling everyday and feel it’s the safest form of workout It limits physical contact, yet one gets to workout outdoors.” Anjali Chaurasia, Assistant Commissioner, Commercial Tax Department (BCCL)REJUVENATING EXPERIENCEFor 42-year-old Anjali Chaurasia, Assistant Commissioner, Commercial Tax Department, cycling is a stress buster as she also takes on the highway route often for cleaner air. “It’s so good to see the open fields and inhale some fresh air while cycling. It really rejuvenates me, especially during these times when there is so much going on and everyone is so stressed,” she says. Pratima Awashti (BCCL)BEST WAY TO KEEP ONESELF ENERGISEDAjay Singh, a businessman in the city has also started cycling for fitness post lockdown. He says, “I cycle daily for around 30-40 kms and love exploring different areas in and around the city. This, I think, is the perfect way to keep oneself sane, because otherwise, we do not have any other medium to keep ourselves energised in these stressful times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknowites-destress-themselves-by-cycling-around-the-city/articleshow/77054907.cms||Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
July 20, 2020||India||Tractors plough their way out of slump, motorcycles follow||Looking at the tractor sales of the past two months, it seems the lockdown never happened. More tractors were sold in May and June this year than in the same period last year. Forget a slump, the industry expects to end the year with 5% growth. It’s not that the lockdown spared the tractor market. From a high of 64,937 units in February, sales slumped to 35,216 in March, and 12,456 in April. But then, May saw 64,860 tractors sold — a shade higher than the 64,514 sold in May last year. June has been another good month with 23% sales growth over June 2019, and as demand remains strong, manufacturers are not worried about unsold tractors but the shortage of parts and labour, Hemant Sikka, president, farm equipment sector at M&M, told TOI. Read more from this seriesDemand for tractors is holding up because “rural population is comparatively not affected by the pandemic,” said T R Kesavan, president, Tractor Manufacturers’ Association. Sikka said April-June is the traditional season for tractor sales, and this year, despite the lockdown, “timely monsoon, a record rabi crop, government support for agri-initiatives and good sowing of kharif crop have led to positive sentiments.” Sonalika group executive director Raman Mittal said a high level of vertical integration at their plant has helped them bounce back faster. The company’s market share increased to 15.4% in June with sales of 13,691 units. Two wheeler sales have also shown a sharp, if not spectacular, recovery. They are now at 60-80% of the pre-lockdown level, thanks to strong demand in rural areas. “A major part of the demand is from rural and semi-urban markets, which have been helped by various government stimulus packages,” A Hero Motocorp spokesperson told TOI. A report by equity research firm Emkay Global Financial Services says the marriage season in states like UP, Rajasthan and Bihar has also propped up demand. While two wheeler sales in June were below last year’s level (see graphic), the good news is they have rebounded from the lockdown levels. Hero Motocorp, for instance, saw its sales quadruple from 112,682 units in May to 450,744 units in June. A Royal Enfield spokesperson said their bookings are at the pre-lockdown level. “Within a period of two months, there is business recovery of approximately 60%.” (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch Tractors plough their way out of slump, motorcycles follow||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tractors-plough-their-way-out-of-slump-motorcycles-follow/articleshow/77051525.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 20, 2020||India||Rajasthan CM framing me to avenge son’s defeat: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||NEW DELHI: Union Jal Shakti minister and Jodhpur MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said on Sunday that the "fabricated audio clip released last week by the Rajasthan Congress was engineered by chief minister Ashok Gehlot to avenge the defeat of his son in 2019". In the Lok Sabha polls last year for the Jodhpur seat, Shekhawat had defeated Gehlot's son and Congress candidate Vaibhav by about 2.7 lakh votes. The minister at the centre of the raging controversy told TOI in an exclusive interview at his Mother Teresa Crescent Road residence in Delhi that the contents of the tape were "malicious and defamatory". He added, "Neither the voice (in the recording) is mine, nor the accent. I have heard the entire conversation in the three audio clips. The person who is being referred to as 'Gajendra' has the accent of a man from the Sri Ganganagar region while I speak with a heavy Jodhpur Marwari accent. Second, it's laughable that content in the clip is being seen as seditious in nature." The Congress last week released three audio clips that purportedly had conversations revolving around the proposed overthrow of the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. Shekhawat was alleged to have been one of the three men doing the talking, the other two being Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and one Sanjay Jain. Later two FIRs were filed in the matter. Responding to the name 'Gajendra Singh' figuring in the FIR, the Union minister said, "The source of the recording is unverifiable. The case is being built against me only to bully and instill fear in the minds of Congress MLAs held at the Fairmont hotel in Jaipur by Gehlot to thwart a potential rebellion. There is no probe by the Rajasthan government regarding how and where that audio originated on social media or who recorded it. Instead of verifying the clip’s veracity, authenticity or even its source, CM Gehlot has chosen to send his state cops to record my statement and collect my voice sample out of vendetta for 2019. He wants to send a message to his MLAs that if he can frame a Union minister, he can frame them too.” The two-time MP, who was first inducted into the Narendra Modi cabinet in 2017 after his win from Jodhpur, disclosed that Gehlot sent Rajasthan Police personnel to his Delhi house at 2am two days ago but they left from the gate after making inquiries. Shekhawat maintained that his stand on internal fissures within the Congress in Rajasthan has been the same since the 2018 state polls and even earlier. "Even before the Rajya Sabha polls or in 2018, I have been openly saying, and to everybody in the country, that the Congress has a vertical split in Rajasthan. Besides, I also kept saying that the Congress wanted to shift the responsibility of their internal tussle onto the BJP. Now Gehlot is using the name of the BJP and its leaders to settle his personal score with former deputy CM Sachin Pilot. These moves are diversionary tactics to hide their own divide.” “The complexity of the present episode is indicative of the fact that Pilot alone was not his target but I too was on his target and have been dragged in a systematic manner” Shekhawat added. The 52-year-old also said that Congress should first look into the way Gehlot has poached six BSP MLAs twice, first in 2008 and now in 2019. "Has Congress tried to question its own conduct how it ensured defection of BSP MLAS in 2008 and 2019 and the way they formed their government by hook and crook, than just questioning other parties," he asked. Watch TOI Exclusive: Union minister Shekhawat says CM Gehlot is targeting him for defeating his son||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-cm-framing-me-to-avenge-sons-defeat-gajendra-singh-shekhawat/articleshow/77056918.cms||Rohan Dua
July 20, 2020||India||Print media on frontline of Covid battle, says VP Venkaiah Naidu||NEW DELHI: Vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday praised the print media, saying it has been on the frontline of battling the novel coronavirus pandemic in the country. Referring to journalists as the fourth pillar of democracy and the bridge between parliamentary institutions and people by enabling two-way communication, Naidu said, “This role has assumed even more significance during the time of the pandemic.”During adverse situations, it is the media that looks for information for the causes and consequences, and the means of coping with the prevailing situation, Naidu said. It is up to the Centre, state and media to inform and equip people accordingly, he added. Referring to media as a chronicler of the pandemic, he added, “With the economy contracting due to restrictions, advertisement revenues have dried up. Scales of operations had to be adjusted and a good number of mediapersons had to take pay cuts. But, by and large, the media persisted with the mission of empowering the people, when it is needed the most”. In a Facebook post, the Rajya Sabha chairman also expressed satisfaction over the resumption of meetings of the department-related standing committees of Parliament, which he said have started scrutinising the government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation. Naidu said a shorter timeframe to hold the standing committee meeting would not have been possible given the present situation. He added that Parliament is “on course” for holding the monsoon session. Watch Print media on frontline of Covid battle: VP Venkaiah Naidu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/print-media-on-frontline-of-covid-battle-says-vp-venkaiah-naidu/articleshow/77056996.cms||---
July 20, 2020||India||PM Modi speaks to seven CMs on floods, Covid-19 situation||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to the chief ministers of seven states to take stock of the flood situation and also the management of the coronavirus in their respective states. Assam and Bihar have been among the worst affected due to floods in the current monsoon season. The PM assured Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal of all support while dealing with the floods, which have claimed 81 lives so far this year. Modi also enquired about the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing efforts to douse the raging blaze at Oil India’s Baghjan gas well. Besides Sonowal, the PM had telephonic conversations with Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy (Andhra Pradesh), K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana), Edappadi K. Palaniswami (Tamil Nadu), Jai Ram Thakur (Himachal Pradesh) and Trivendra Singh Rawat (Uttarakhand). The PM discussed state-specific concerns with the CMs. Tamil Nadu is one of the key states where Covid-19 is spreading rapidly. Modi spoke to the Uttarakhand CM to take stock of the servicemen who have contracted Covid-19. The PM asked the state government and Army officers to coordinate and ensure the proper treatment of soldiers. Watch PM Modi inquiries about Covid-19 positive servicemen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-speaks-to-seven-cms-on-floods-covid-19-situation/articleshow/77057006.cms||---
July 20, 2020||World||Blast kills 5, wounds dozens in rebel-held north Syria||BEIRUT: An explosion rocked a rebel-held area in northern Syria across the border from Turkey late Sunday, killing at least five people and wounding dozens, opposition activists and Turkish state media reported. The car bomb went off near the Bab al-Salameh border crossing with Turkey, the reports said. The area is controlled by Turkey-backed opposition fighters. The blast killed seven and wounded more than 60, including women and children, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Right. The opposition war monitor said the blast was most likely carried out by sleeper cells of the Islamic State group. Other opposition activists said the blast killed five and wounded dozens. Turkey's state-run Anadolu news agency reported that at least five civilians were killed and 85 wounded in the blast. The agency said that some of the wounded who were in critical condition were taken for treatment in Turkey. It said no one claimed responsibility for the attack, adding that Kurdish fighters have carried out such attacks in the past. Anadolu reported another blast earlier Sunday wounded 13 people, including children, in the Syrian town of Afrin, which is controlled by Turkey-backed opposition fighters. Sunday's attacks came as parliamentary elections took place in government-held parts of the war-torn country. As in previous elections in Syria, the vote will produce a rubber-stamp body loyal to President Bashar Assad. Turkey and allied Syrian fighters took control of Afrin in 2018 in a military operation that expelled local U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters and displaced tens of thousands of Kurdish residents. Ankara considers the Kurdish fighters who were in control of Afrin terrorists. Since then, there have been a series of attacks on Turkish targets in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/blast-kills-5-wounds-dozens-in-rebel-held-north-syria/articleshow/77057067.cms||---
July 20, 2020||India||Few checks in place, ambulances fleece desperate Covid patients||NEW DELHI: There have been complaints of ambulances charging Covid patients as much as a flight to Europe to cover distances as small as 10-15 kilometres. Yet, few state governments, barring Punjab and Maharashtra, have stepped in to regulate charges. Even where caps have been fixed, there have been instances of their being flouted. The Maharashtra government was forced to step in towards the end of June after several cases came to light at the peak of the pandemic in Mumbai of people being forced to pay up to Rs 30,000 for an ambulance to ferry them 10-15 km, roughly Rs 3,000 per km. In Pune, a Covid patient was charged Rs 8,000 for 7 km within the city in the last week of June. Similar complaints have been pouring in from other states. A Bangalore resident was charged Rs 15,000 to transport his 54-year-old mother to a private hospital less than 6-km away. In Kolkata, private ambulances are charging Rs 6,000-8,000 for ferrying Covid patients for about 5km. To add to it, many private ambulance services were charging Rs 3,000 extra for PPE kit for the driver and helper and for disinfecting the ambulance. In Hyderabad, a person who hired a private ambulance to shift his uncle from a hospital in Nizampet to Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad 20 km away was charged Rs 11,000 by a private operator. According to the patient’s relatives, there was no mechanical ventilator or trained paramedic in the ambulance. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The WHO recommends at least one ambulance per 100,000 population. Barring a handful of states, most state-funded ambulance services more than meet this minimum standard. If the private operators and private hospital ambulances are counted, the availability of ambulances in most states would be about one or more for every 50,000 population. For instance, in Pune there is one state-funded ambulance for every 31,000 and in Chandigarh one for every 33,000. In Bengaluru, however, there is just one per roughly 1.4 lakh and this shortage has hit the city hard during the current Covid surge. Of the 71 ambulances operated by a state-funded agency, initially, only 23 were assigned for transport of Covid patients. At least a dozen persons were reported to have died waiting for an ambulance. This has led to the Karnataka home minister announcing an addition of 400, which would bring availability to one per 21,000. The government has not set a cap on private ambulances though it is being discussed, said BH Anil Kumar, Commissioner of Bengaluru’s municipal corporation. In most states, ambulance operators have hiked rates. In Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, ambulance operators who charged Rs 10 per kilometre in pre-covid times, have now increased it to Rs 13 per km. Also, in Jharkhand, Maruti van ambulances that used to charge Rs 500 per trip for distances up to 10 km, now charge Rs 900. In Bihar too, private ambulances are charging at least five to ten times the normal charge. “Attendants have no option but to pay whatever they ask for. Forget Covid-19 patients, even for carrying normal patients, they ask about symptoms and if someone has cough or cold, they will charge whatever they want,” said a health activist, Mukesh Hissariya. Even post regulation, in Pune, an ambulance operator charged a patient Rs 8,000 and demanded Rs 1,500 more for cost of PPE kit though the charges were capped at Rs 900. When an FIR was filed by the Regional Transport Office (RTO) against the operator under section 420 IPC for cheating, it was found that the operator was running an ambulance service illegally by converting vehicles meant to be used only as mobile clinics. In West Bengal, a person was forced to pay Rs 1.4 lakh to transport a Covid patient over 300 km, from Durgapur to Gaya. On the victim’s complaint, Burdwan RTO intervened to ensure that Rs 1 lakh was returned. But before further action could be taken, the operator fled with the ambulance and an FIR was registered. While stories abound of people across the country being fleeced by ambulance operators, few have been able to file a complaint or follow up the issue. In contrast, in states like Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Goa, transport of covid patients is by state-funded ambulance services free of cost. In Odisha, along with state ambulances, the government had tied up with private hospitals to provide their ambulances to Covid patients for free, with the government picking up the tab. Watch Few checks in place, ambulances fleece desperate Covid patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/few-checks-in-place-ambulances-fleece-desperate-covid-patients/articleshow/77057107.cms||---
July 20, 2020||India||Govt looks to attract tourists by pitching India as land of Buddha||NEW DELHI: As more states open up to tourists with a string of safeguards in place, the tourism ministry is lending a helping hand with its "Dekho Apna Desh" campaign and pitching India as the land of Buddha. With an eye on China and Buddhist countries in the neighbourhood, tourism minister Prahlad Patel emphasised the need to bring more Buddhist tourists to India, asking tour operators last week why India receives only a fraction of them. The development of Buddhist tourism, done with an eye on China, which has also invested heavily in infrastructure projects to cultivate Buddhist leaders, has been part of India’s bid to leverage its soft power in the neighbourhood. Earlier this month, PM Narendra Modi had pitched for encouraging Buddhist tourism, emphasising the centrality of India to the Buddhist world and highlighting the need for better connectivity of India’s Buddhist sites. He had also said his government had approved the upgrade of Kushinagar airport as an international one to allow more pilgrims and tourists to visit India. Tourism and culture minister Prahlad Patel, who had presented five volumes of the "Mongolian Kanjur", a Buddhist canonical text in 108 volumes, regarded as the most important religious text in Mongolia, to President Ram Nath Kovind and the Mongolian ambassador, has since doubled down on India’s bid to print all volumes of the Buddhist canon and provide copies to all monasteries across Mongolia. The tourism ministry has also started promotional activities related to Buddhist sites, including highlighting that the government has installed foreign language signage, including in Chinese, at crucial Buddhist sites like Shravasti, Sarnath, Kushinagar and Sanchi, where a large number of Buddhist tourists come. Though the coronavirus curve is still rising in the country and caution is key, promoting economic activity — of which tourism is a crucial sector — is also critical. In Uttarakhand, tourists need to register and have a certificate confirming a negative test for coronavirus for permission to travel. Armed with this certificate, tourists will not be quarantined. Hotels will administer the RT-PCR test on guests who have not been tested and people can only leave their hotels after seven days of arrival. Destination weddings have also been permitted, but guests are only allowed to visit the place of the wedding. The UN World Travel Organisation’s "Responsible Tourism" mantra is reflected in India’s approach too. Last week, J&K opened up to tourists arriving by air and mandated RT-PCR tests at the airport. The UT also said travellers will have to show prior taxi and hotel bookings and will be allowed to proceed from their hotels only after they test negative for the coronavirus. While further relaxations may be in order in the coming weeks, for now, J&K has advised travellers above 65 to desist from visiting. Goa, which restarted tourism earlier in July, has announced a fresh lockdown after a spike in cases. For now, uncertainty prevails over future lockdowns and hotels were compelled to cancel bookings over the weekend. Rajasthan, which gets a substantial revenue from tourism, has seen a slow but steady resumption of tourist activities. Though key heritage monuments have opened and are seeing a trickle of tourists, with restricted train and air travel still, numbers have been far below normal. Watch Tourism ministry pitches India as the land of Buddha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-looks-to-attract-tourists-by-pitching-india-as-land-of-buddha/articleshow/77057125.cms||Swati Mathur
July 20, 2020||India||Flood-hit Assam braces for more rains||GUWAHATI/ASSAM: Five more people died in the last 24 hours as floods continued to wreak havoc in Assam on Sunday, taking the state’s toll in the deluge to 85. According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority’s (ASDMA), the deaths were reported from Barpeta, Baksa, Dhubri, Morigaon and Nagaon. Even as 24 districts continue to remain affected by the disaster, the number of affected people on Sunday came down from 27.63 lakh to 25.2 lakh from a day earlier. According to ASDMA, over 50,000 people are taking shelter at 301 government-run relief camps. Rescuers evacuated 366 stranded persons on Sunday and shifted them to safer locations. Over 1,000 homes have been washed away or damaged and more than 25 lakh animals affected. ASDMA chief executive officer M S Manivannan told TOI, “The flood situation remains unchanged with several embankments breached due to incessant rainfall, the release of water from Bhutan’s and other state’s dams and overflowing of rivers inundating fresh areas.” “We are developing capacities and spreading awareness at the village level to reduce the casualties,” Manivannan said, adding that the IMD forecast heavy rains over north and northeast India and issued a red warning for West Bengal, Assam and Meghalaya from July 19-21. According to the Central Water Commission, most rivers in the state continue to be in spate. Nine rhinos are among the 108 wild animals that have died during this year’s floods at Kaziranga National Park. The Centre has accepted Assam’s proposal to construct a 32-km artificial highland inside the KNP to shelter animals from the floods. Watch No respite for flood-hit Assam, more rains predicted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/flood-hit-assam-braces-for-more-rains/articleshow/77057152.cms||---
July 20, 2020||India||Falling progressively, fatality rate in India now below 2.5%||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 fatality rate is “progressively falling” and is now below 2.5% for the first time, the health ministry said on Sunday, underlining that efficient clinical management of hospitalised patients and contact tracing had helped keep the death rate at one of the lowest in world. Currently, India’s case fatality rate (CFR) is at 2.49%. There are 29 states and UTs — including Kerala, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Karnataka and UP — with a CFR lower than the national average. Of these, five — Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Mizoram and Andaman and Nicobar Islands — have zero case fatality rate. While these are smaller territories, 14 others have a rate of less than 1%. “With effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on holistic standard of care approach, the case fatality rate has dipped significantly. The case fatality rate is progressively falling,” the ministry said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news On June 2, India had recorded a fatality rate of 2.82% with 1.98 lakh confirmed cases of Covid-19 and 5,598 deaths. Then on July 10, the fatality rate declined to 2.72% even as total infections jumped to over 7.93 lakh cases and death toll increased to 21,604. According to the ministry’s data, India once again witnessed a record single-day jump of 38,902 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing its tally to 10,77,618. The death toll rose to 26,816 with 543 new deaths reported in a day. However, recoveries too have increased alongside cases and deaths, helping bring down the death rate to 2.49% . Of the total 10.77 lakh cases, there are around 3.73 lakh active cases at present, whereas over 6.77 lakh people have recovered. Officials said many states have conducted population surveys to map and identify vulnerable groups like the elderly, pregnant women and those with co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/falling-progressively-fatality-rate-in-india-now-below-2-5/articleshow/77057164.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 20, 2020||Business||Refunds, non-delivery top complaints against etailers||NEW DELHI: Topping the list of consumer grievances were issues to do with refunds of paid amounts and delayed or missing deliveries of ordered items during the months of April and June when many e-commerce users remained confined to their homes. Refunds seemed to be especially a problem for air passengers who cancelled their tickets and call drops were the most common gripe of mobile users, according to data compiled by the National Consumer Helpline (NCH). Analysis of the complaints reported at the government-run NCH shows that out of the total 23,859 complaints in the e-commerce category, nearly 30% were related to no refund of already paid amount and another 22% was with regard to non-delivery or delay in delivery of the items. Read AlsoBombay HC seeks Air India’s reply on refund of tickets booked pre-lockdownBombay HC has directed Air India to reply if the Centre had decided to refund tickets booked before lockdown. The order by a bench of Justices Ramesh Dhanuka and V G Bisht was passed on a petition by South Mumbai businessman Pradip Jhaveri (65) and four of his family, including his 13-year-oldThe NCH data also show that out of the 5,891 complaints under the telecom category, 1,850 were about network problem and call drops. In the aviation sector, a whopping 81% of complaints out of the total 4,247 were related to no refund from airlines after consumers cancelled their tickets. Domestic flight services resumed operation gradually from May 25. According to NCH, 95% of the complaints related to legal metrology were about charging over MRP. Consumers had lodged 3,856 complaints for violation of legal metrology norms. Read AlsoWhat is an air travel bubble?NEW DELHI: India has established individual bilateral bubbles with France and the US that will allow airlines of each country in the pact to operate international flights, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said, adding that similar arrangement with Germany and the UK will soonHowever, significantly, there was a sharp decline in the number of complaints relating to masks and sanitisers between April and June. Watch Airline ticket refunds, call drops, missing deliveries: What worried consumers most during lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/refunds-non-delivery-top-complaints-against-etailers/articleshow/77057193.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 20, 2020||India||Rajnath hails 16 Bihar soldiers for bravery against PLA in Galwan||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh, during his visit to forward areas of eastern Ladakh on Friday, had special words of praise for the gallantry displayed by soldiers of 16 Bihar who fought with Chinese troops during the bloody clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15. Singh lauded the 16 Bihar soldiers for their bravery against all odds despite being attacked by Chinese troops, who outnumbered them and were armed with nail-studded rods and stones, near ‘Patrolling Point-14’ in Galwan Valley. In a video tweeted by the minister’s office on Sunday, Singh was seen shaking hands and patting the backs of soldiers while interacting with them at the Lukung base camp in the Pangong Tso area on Friday. The People’s Liberation Army had reneged on dismantling one of its observation posts in Galwan Valley which led to the extended clashes in which 16 Bihar commanding officer Col Santosh Babu and 19 soldiers were killed. China has kept silent about the number of its casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-hails-16-bihar-soldiers-for-bravery-against-pla-in-galwan/articleshow/77057203.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Business||Regulator asks company to clarify on claims, pricing of Covid drug||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The drug regulator has issued a notice to Mumbai-based Glenmark Pharma seeking a clarification against a complaint that the company is selling its recently approved Covid-19 drug Fabiflu at an “unaffordable” price and with “false claims” that it can be effective for patients with co-morbidities. The notice from the Drugs Controller General of India is based on a complaint from a Member of Parliament. “It has been mentioned in representation that Glenmark has claimed that this drug is effective in co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes whereas in reality, as per protocol summary, this trial was not designed to assess the Fabiflu in co-morbid conditions. No clinically sufficient data specific to these conditions are available,” the letter from DCGI VG Somani sent to Glenmark on Friday said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/regulator-asks-company-to-clarify-on-claims-pricing-of-covid-drug/articleshow/77057211.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 20, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Mukhtar Ansari aide’s property worth Rs 8 crore seized||VARANASI: Continuing the crackdown on organised crime with jailed mafia don and having MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s gang in its crosshairs, UP police seized movable and immovable properties worth over Rs 8 crore of Ansari’s aide Paras Sonkar operating as fish trade mafia in Mau. Police also got Mukhtar’s another accomplice Ankur Rai enlisted as land mafia on Saturday. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said the Mau administration and police seized seven plots of Sonkar in Jamalpur and Validpur area worth Rs 6.95 crore and 13 goods carriers, SUVs and two-wheeler worth Rs 1.22 crore under section 14(1) of Gangster Act. Sonkar was arrested on June 20 with two others Mohd Ismail and Chhotai Sonkar with a truck carrying 10.6 tonne of fish worth Rs 12 lakhs in Mohammadabad area of Mau and booked under Sections 188, 269 of IPC and sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, Food Safety and Standards Act and Environment Protection Act. Mau SP Anurag Arya said the money Sonkar earned from illegal fish trade was used by Mukhtar gang. Sonkar was booked under Gangster Act on June 29. Besides, Ankur Rai, a gangster currently lodged in jail and an associate of Mukhtar, was enlisted as land mafia after revenue department submitted a report to district magistrate Gyan Prakash Tripathi confirming that he had grabbed government land in Chakra village and was running a gymnasium on it. Earlier, Jaunpur administration and police had confiscated movable and immovable properties of Mukhtar-backed fish trade mafia Ravindra Kumar Nishad worth Rs 3.7 crore on July 10. On July 17, police seized Nishad’s one more house worth Rs 95 lakhs and an SUV. Police officials have also been taking strict action against Mukhtar’s relatives and henchmen by cancelling and suspending their arms licences and seizing the weapons. So far, 47 arms licences of Mukhtar’s associates have been suspended in Ghazipur district. Ghazipur officials have also freed land and other properties worth over Rs 39 crore grabbed by close associates of Mukhtar, who is currently lodged in Ropar jail in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-aides-property-worth-rs-8-crore-seized/articleshow/77056752.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Surat||Surat’s community care model to be emulated across country||SURAT: The Community Covid Isolation Centre (CCIC) model for the treatment of Covid-19 patients eligible for home isolation in Surat will be replicated across country. The Union health ministry on July 17 issued guidelines asking all states to emulate Surat’s CCIC model by the communities, social organisations and residential societies for treating positive patients with mild and moderate symptoms in these centres. The concept of the CCICs was first launched in the city’s Katargam zone where the Samast Patidar Samaj and the Vataliya Prajapati Samaj had set-up CCICs for their community members do not have the home isolation facilities. Official sources said that about nine CCICs with the total capacity of 766 beds have been set up by various communities including Patidar Samaj, Dawoodi Bohras, Rana Samaj, Vataliya Prajapati, Ahir Samaj, Jains, Vaishnavs etc. across the city. Moreover, social organisations including Maruti Veer Jawan Trust and Koshish Charitable trust, too have set-up CCICs with 175 beds. A senior officer of SMC said, “The CCICs model was launched at the behest state’s health secretary, Dr Jayanti Ravi, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani and state finance secretary, Milind Torawane. At present, there are 776 beds in the CCICs with the capacity to scale up to about 650 beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-community-care-model-to-be-emulated-across-country/articleshow/77055774.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Surat||Now, fly to the US straight from Surat!||SURAT: Surtis have some good news as far as flying to the US is concerned. Air India will start booking for flights from Surat to Chicago, New York and San Francisco from July 23. The flights with layover at New Delhi will be scheduled every Tuesday and Thursday will start from Surat at 7pm. “This is good news for international fliers, especially those travelling to the US as Air India has started booking for flights from Surat to New York, Chicago and San Francisco from July 23. The airline will issue a single PNR. Travellers will have to complete customs immigration formalities at Delhi Airport,” said Sanjay Jain of airport activists group, We Work for Working Airport. “Earlier, people had to book tickets from Surat to Delhi and then another connecting ticket from Delhi to the destination city. But now if a person wants to travel from Surat to Chicago, they will have to book just one ticket straight from home city to destination Chicago with layover at New Delhi,” Jain added. At present Surat Airport has only one international flight which connects the diamond city to Sharjah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/now-fly-to-the-us-straight-from-surat/articleshow/77055945.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Surat||No Janmashthami, Dashama festivals in Covid-battered Surat||SURAT: With the diamond city reeling under the menace of the pandemic, the city police has issued strict notification prohibiting celebration of all upcoming festivals — Dashama and Janmashthmi — in the traditional manner. The 10-day Dashama festival begins on Monday, while Janmashthami festival is on August 12. The prohibitory orders, issued as per the directives of central home ministry, ban devotees from taking out processions and the idols will have to be immersed at individual homes. This is aimed at ensuring that people do not gather in crowds and also maintain social distancing to contain spread of the disease in the city. In normal times, devotees take out long processions with the idols of Dashama which are then ceremoniously immersed in River Tapi. Idols were installed for 10 days in pandals erected on public places with multiple prayer sessions organised daily. Police also cited the prohibitory orders of National Green Tribunal to stop immersion of idols in river. “Those found violating the orders will face arrest. Police will strictly implement the order to ensure that no assemblage takes place at one place,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, allowing celebration of the festival at lower scale in people’s own homes, police have permitted idol makers to strictly make and sell idols only less than 2 feet height of Dashama and Lord Krishna. Devotees have also been ordered to refrain from erecting pandals for community prayers. “No one will be allowed to immerse the idols in river or lakes like past years. In past artificial ponds were made but this year no ponds have been developed,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-janmashthami-dashama-festivals-in-covid-battered-surat/articleshow/77055714.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Water will be released to Krishnaraja Sagar canals from July 28||MANDYA: Sowing for the kharif season having commenced in the earnest in most parts of the state and the monsoon having turned brisk, farmers in the Cauvery delta are waiting for release of water to the irrigation canals. Heavy rain in Kodagu district has filled Harangi Dam to the brim, and discharge from the reservoir upstream has resulted in a spike in the inflow to both Kabini and Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dams in HD Kote and Mandya respectively. Against the backdrop of a rise in the water level in the KRS reservoir, the Irrigation Consultative Committee met on Sunday to deliberate on scheduling for release of water to the dam’s agricultural canals. The members, including district in-charge ministers for Mysuru and Mandya respectively ST Somashekar and KC Narayanagowda, decided that it would be best to release water to the canals of both KRS and Kabini reservoirs after July 28. “We have decided to open the sluice gates and release water to the irrigation canals. The authorities have brought it to our notice that canals of the Kabini Reservoir are being repaired, work on which will take a week to complete. However, there are no such problems as far as releasing water to the canals of KRS Dam are concerned, and we will do so after July 28,” Somashekar said. Narayanagowda said that, since the water level at the KRS Dam was 20ft below its capacity storage level of 124.8ft, water would be released to the canals intermittently for the time being. “But once the dam is full to the brim, we will be able to release the water to the canals continuously. Officials have told us that there will be copious rain in the coming days, and we are hopeful of the water level in the KRS Dam rising to the brim soon,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/water-to-krs-irrigation-canals-to-be-released-after-july-28/articleshow/77055854.cms||K Rajendra Kumar
July 20, 2020||Patna||Patna: Even cops enquire about health of accused before raid & arrest||PATNA: The fear of getting infected with coronavirus is such that even policemen these days first gather information about the health status of the accused before conducting raids to arrest them. For that, the policemen use their network and sources to know about the health conditions of the accused like whether he is running fever or have cough, cold, running nose and any other Covid-19 symptom or if there is any ill person in the house where the suspect or accused is hiding. They also inquire about the locality if it falls under containment zone or whether there was any Covid-19 case detected in the vicinity. When asked about it, Jakkanpur police station SHO Mukesh Kumar Verma admitted to TOI that policemen were extra cautious these days while going for conducting raids to nab any suspect or accused. “Earlier, we used to dart after receiving information about hiding of any suspect at that place. But now, we gather more information from sources about the persons we target to arrest,” Verma said. He said the policemen gather information about the accused’s health as a precautionary measure. “We also try to gather information about health of other persons who we expect to be around the accused or inside his hideout,” he said, adding Covid-19 test is surely done on arrested person before producing him in court and forwarding to jail. Airport police station SHO Arun Kumar also admitted that police, in the pandemic situation, gather as much information as they can about a person’s health before going to arrest him. “We even take help from locals to know the details. General precaution like wearing of masks and gloves has now become a common practice for policemen before going for a raid,” he said. Pirbahore police station SHO Rizwan Ahmed Khan, when asked, said the policemen maintain distance and remain cautious during raids. “We also take precautions like wearing masks and gloves,” he said. “We even ask the accused himself if he has fever, running nose or any other Covid symptoms before bringing him to the police station,” he said. Rizwan said each of the arrested accused had to undergo Covid-19 test before sending him to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/even-cops-enquire-about-health-of-accused-before-raid-arrest/articleshow/77054681.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 20, 2020||Patna||Antigen test facility at all sub-divisional hospitals from Tuesday in Bihar||PATNA: The state government would start antigen tests for Covid-19 at all sub-divisional hospitals from Tuesday. It would also start the same facility even at all the primary health centres in the next one week. State IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said on Sunday that anyone having symptoms of Covid-19 would be provided free on-demand antigen testing facility. He said all the districts had been provided with abundant testing kits, especially for antigen tests. Symptomatic people can get themselves tested at the health institutions in all districts. Kumar said the on-demand testing facility had been copied from Patna where five mobile medical teams had started it at 25 hospitals from Saturday. He said 808 persons were screened and 305 symptomatic persons underwent antigen tests in Patna on Saturday. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said antigen testing had been started at eight places in Gaya and six places in Muzaffarpur besides Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/antigen-test-facility-at-all-sub-divisional-hospitals-from-tuesday/articleshow/77055605.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Diabetes, hypertension increase Covid-19 death risk, say experts||PATNA: Around 63% of people, who have died at different hospitals in Patna due to Covid-19, had diabetes, hypertension or both. According to experts, the immune system of people having co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension becomes weak and they are at high risk as far as Covid-19 fatality is concerned. Of 132 Covid deaths recorded at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)- Patna, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), around 86 had diabetes and hypertension. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said of the 62 patients who have died at the hospital, 32 had diabetes and 12 were suffering from cancer and heart disease. “While treating diabetes or hypertension patients, the doctors ensure that the blood sugar and blood pressure parameters are kept in control. Besides, presence of diabetic complications and old age increase the risk of death,” he said. At NMCH, 54 Covid deaths have been recorded so far and 80% of the victims had diabetes and hypertension, nine were cancer patients, four were asthmatic and one was suffering from tuberculosis. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer at NMCH, said people with diabetes are more vulnerable to the infection, especially those in the age group of 50 to 70 years as high blood sugar levels can weaken the patient's immune system defences. “Patents with controlled diabetes have good chances of recovery. There is no different parameter for the Covid treatment of a healthy person or those suffering from other health ailments. However, the doctors have to ensure that people with other health ailments take their medicines regularly,” Dr Mukul said. According to PMCH nodal officer for Covid Dr P N Jha, eight patients who died of Covid at the hospital had diabetes and hypertension and four had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). “The remaining four had no health ailments, but they were symptomatic,” he said. An NMCH doctor said people with other health ailments should avoid going to private hospitals. “Private hospitals in Patna are not taking precautionary measures while treating patients for other health ailments. When the patient’s health deteriorates, they come to NMCH for treatment and test positive for Covid-19,” the doctor said. Experts said diabetic and hypertension patients should stay at home, keep checking their blood pressure and sugar levels and take vitamins. Dr Sunil Kumar, general secretary of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said fluctuation in blood pressure and sugar level causes problems in treatment of Covid. “These patients should take vitamin C and D tablets, immunity boosters and ‘kadha’,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/diabetes-hypertension-increase-covid-19-death-risk-say-experts/articleshow/77054640.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar Covid-19 tally crosses 26,000-mark, toll mounts to 179||PATNA: The Covid-19 tally in Bihar reached 26,379 with altogether 1,412 new cases reported on Sunday. According to the state health department, 638 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours and 774 Covid positive cases were of July 17, but reported on Sunday. According to the health department bulletin, two more deaths were reported, taking the state Covid toll up to 179. Total 16,597 patients have recovered so far in Bihar. There were 9,602 active cases in state. Bihar’s recovery rate is now at 62.91%. Six more deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna and NMCH on Sunday, according to the Covid nodal officers of the two hospitals. Among the six deceased, a 55-year-old man was from Patel Nagar and another man (70) from Lalji Tola in the city. AIIMS-P nodal officer Dr Sanjeev Kumar said one each from Patna, Purnea and Bhojpur died on Sunday. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer at NMCH, said three Covid patients died and two of them had cardiac arrest. The one was from Patna and another from Madhepura. “The third person from Muzaffarpur was suffering from tuberculosis and tested positive on July 17,” he said. The deceased were in the age group of 50 to 73 years. “Today, 10,276 samples were tested in Bihar. Presently, there are total 9,602 Covid active cases in the state. So far, about 3,80,000 samples have been tested in the state. Altogether 826 Covid patients have recovered in the state in last 24 hours (sic),” state health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Sunday. Corona +ve woman delivers healthy baby: A woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19 virus, gave birth to a healthy child at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna on Sunday. The woman was stable as the girl child was born through caesarean delivery. The 25-year-old from Gulzarbagh was admitted there on Saturday after testing positive on July 16. Her other family members are also infected. AIIMS-P nodal officer Dr Sanjeev Kumar said a team of doctors led Dr Monika Anant conducted the caesarean section. “The woman was on full term of pregnancy. The doctors waited for 12 hours for spontaneous labour pain. At 12 noon, she suffered fetal distress and the doctors decided to conduct caesarean operation,” he said. He added: “The woman is stable now. The baby is healthy and weighs around 3kg. The doctors will conduct the Covid test on the baby as well.” The woman’s husband had tested positive in June and his test result came negative on July 6 at the NMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-covid-19-tally-crosses-26k-mark-toll-mounts-to-179/articleshow/77054629.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 20, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna launches community care for coronavirus patients in Siwan||PATNA: While all the big hospitals in the state are facing rush of patients with symptoms of coronavirus, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Patna (AIIMS-P) on Saturday launched community care for Covid-19 (CCC-19) as a pilot project at Siwan with facility of telemedicine available from its doctors round-the-clock. The CCC-19 centre has been set up with the help of an NGO in 7,000 square feet area on the first floor of a building in Chari Bazar village under Barhariya block, about 26km from Siwan town. AIIMS-P director Dr PK Singh said it is a pilot project to reach people in far off places through telemedicine. “The CCC-19 has been started with 10 beds. The medical condition of those reaching there from nearby villages would be shared through videoconferencing with AIIMS-P doctors under its telemedicine programme and they would suggest medication and precautionary measures,” said Dr Anil Kumar, head of trauma and emergency department and clinical coordinator of telemedicine at AIIMS-P. Only patients who have tested positive with mild symptoms of cough, fever and shortness of breath would be taken there for telemedicine treatment. The centre is equipped with oxygen cylinders and other necessary equipment for providing relief under medical guidance. In serious cases of coronavirus infection, patients would be advised hospitalization. The centre is being run by a team of five persons headed by Arjun Kumar, who has been trained by AIIMS-P in telemedicine. It would cater to the needs of over 200 villages under 30 panchayats of this block. Dr Anil said AIIMS-P has categorized Covid-19 patients in red, yellow and green. While those with serious condition and other ailments and need hospitalization are put under red zone, while clinically stable patients without symptoms are considered in green zone and recommended for home isolation with medication to boost their immunity. The yellow category includes those who have tested positive but have mild symptoms of cough, fever and shortness of breath. Such persons could well be treated through telemedicine at the Siwan centre, said Anil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-p-launches-community-care-for-coronavirus-patients-in-siwan/articleshow/77054660.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav slams Bihar govt over Covid-19 spike, floods||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday slammed the state government for its “failure” to effectively combat Covid-19 pandemic and floods. “People are dying mainly due to mismanagement at the top level. While those who matter in the administration are infected with deadly coronavirus, people are grappling with floods. Nobody is there to take care of,” he tweeted. Alleging that both the health minister and the water resources minister were in oblivion, Tejashwi said, “While the people are dying due to floods and Covid-19, the entire cabinet is focused on addressing virtual rallies for the assembly polls.” Describing the prevailing scenario in the state as “very bad”, the former deputy chief minister said the NDA government in the state has crossed all limits of cruelty, inhumanity and insensitivity. “Their actions show that they are more concerned about votes rather than the lives of the people,” he added. Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic, Tejashwi said the state’s positivity rate is the highest in the country. “It’s an indicator that the tests have not kept pace with spread of the disease,” the RJD leader said. Meanwhile, former Jehanabad MP Arun Kumar has urged the President of the country, Prime Minister and the governor of Bihar to impose President’s Rule in the state. “The situation demands imposition of the President’s Rule in the state. The governor should immediately initiate steps in this regard,” he told mediapersons in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-slams-govt-over-covid-19-spike-floods/articleshow/77055301.cms||Ramashankar
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Speed demons mock cops on 6-lane Dandia Bazaar-Akota bridge||Vadodara: The main objective behind Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s (VMC) building the broad six-lane road was to connect old city directly with Akota area and thereby ease traffic flow on Jail Road. But since the lockdown opened, it has acquired a new dimension. Rash bikers, mostly youngsters have begun considering the two-kilometre stretch from Dandia Bazaar to Akota Crossroads to be a track for them to prove their ‘grand prix’ skills.It’s almost an everyday sight when they zoom at breakneck speed in the evenings on this road, that otherwise has a maximum speed limit of 50km per hour. But cops could only tolerate the rising nuisance only so much and on Thursday evening, installed speed guns on this stretch. “Over last one month, many rash bikers speeding on this road have put theirs as well as other commuters’ lives at risk. Some even race with one other while riding from one end to other end for fun,” said a traffic police official.“We try to stop them sometimes but they speed away. Also, it’s a risk to intercept them when they are driving at top speed. The police aren’t penalizing traffic offenders these days so these bikers take advantage of it,” the official added. When asked, city police commissioner, Anupam Singh Gahlaut told TOI, “We have decided to crack down on these over-speeding bikers. From Thursday evening, speed guns were installed on Akota-Dandia Bazaar Road to penalize rash driving.”A team of policemen will also patrol the stretch in civil clothes and detain vehicles in case of over-speeding and rash driving. Apart from bikers, many citizens also drive cars at top speed on this stretch. A team of cops from Raopura police has been patrolling this road to evict citizens who hang out on this road every evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/speed-demons-mock-cops-on-6-lane-dandia-bazaar-akota-bridge/articleshow/77055019.cms||Tushar Tere
July 20, 2020||Allahabad||One killed, 2 hurt as shuttering of rail bridge collapses in Sonbhadra||Varanasi: One labourer was killed while two others suffered grave injuries when the shuttering of an under-construction bridge between Obra Dam and Phaphrakund near Kadia village under the limits of Obra police station collapsed and fell on them on Saturday. District magistrate Sonbhadra S Rajalingam said during initial investigation by magistrates and police officials, laxity of the contractor has come to light as no labourer had been given protective gears due to which one labourer lost life and two others were injured. Police were waiting for the complaint from the family of the deceased labourer to lodge an FIR. The DM said that the bereaved family would be given financial assistance while proper treatment has been ensured by the administration. Under the project of track-doubling of the Railways, a bridge is being constructed between Obra Dam and Phaphrakund near Kadia village in the trans-Renuka area. Around 2 pm, when most of the labourers working at the site had gone for lunch, the shuttering on pillar-12 collapsed. One labourer Raju (22) of Arungytola Bahera village was killed on the spot while Vijay (19) and Surendra (20) of Arungi suffered grave injuries. On getting information, SDM Sadar YN Chauhan, CO Obra Bhaskar Verma, inspector Obra Shailesh Rai and other officials reached there and engaged heavy cranes to remove the shuttering materials and debris after which injured labourers were rescued and rushed to hospital. Later, local villagers went on a rampage. They kept the body on the road and staged a demonstration seeking compensation for his family and action against the contractor for overlooking safety norms. No railway official concerned had reached the incident site till evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/one-killed-2-hurt-as-shuttering-of-rail-bridge-collapses-in-sonbhadra/articleshow/77044705.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mysuru||Street vendors to get PM AtmaNirbhar benefits||Mysuru: Street vendors in the city can heave a sigh of relief as Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to provide benefits of PM Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi to those vendors who don’t necessary certificates. MCC has conducted several surveys to identify food vendors and street vendors. After the latest survey in 2018, 1,856 vendors were identified and by December 2019, ID cards were issued to 1,760 eligible vendors. However, the vendors who were left out from the list had demanded MCC to conduct a resurvey and said more than 6000 vendors in the city haven’t been included in the list. MCC additional commissioner M N Shashikumar said special micro-credit facilities provided to vendors by the central government is available to those who have a certificate or ID card or have been identified as vendors in a survey. Street Vendors Association of India national vice-president and Mysuru Street Vendors Association general secretary Bhaskar Srinivas Raje Urs told TOI, “There are vendors who are yet to get certificates and ID cards. Some of them have been left out in the survey list as they did not show interest and provide documents during survey. All genuine vendors must be given ID cards.” However, MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde told TOI that the corporation had planned to conduct another survey in March but could not do so due the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will conduct the survey soon. But we will ensure we recognize vendors who are not in the list and ensure they too get benefits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/street-vendors-to-get-pm-atmanirbhar-benefits/articleshow/77056012.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 20, 2020||Mysuru||Cops bust extortion racket involved in trapping govt officials||Mandya: The district police on Saturday busted a racket involved in trapping government employees in false bribery allegations and extortion. According to police, the group was involved in trapping government officials with the help of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths and blackmailing them for money. The illegal activity came to light when one of the miscreants was arrested in connection with a separate case and his mobile phone was found to contain chilling recordings of the group threatening the officials. Speaking to TOI, K R Pete tahasildar Shivamurti said he had lodged a complaint with police when he learnt that a gang were conspiring to trap him in a false bribery charges with the help of ACB sleuths. “I was informed by cops that a local goon S M Ravi, who had earlier pressurised me to hand over the land sanctioned to families displaced due to Hemavati dam project, was conspiring to falsely trap me through ACB officers. “The cops got to know about their plans when they apprehended another Ravi who is a co-conspirator. His mobile phone contained call recordings in which they talked about trapping officials to extort money,” Shivamurti said. He said kingpin M S Ravi would frequent the taluk office and threaten the officials to get his illegal works done. “He had also lent loans to lower rung staff which in turn made them submissive to him,” he added. “Ravi’s family had not lost any land to the dam project. But he had created some bogus records, claiming he is among displaced persons and tried to influence me to transfer the land reserved for displaced families to his name. When I rejected his claims, he conspired to frame me in false bribery charges. When I learnt about his plans I filed a case against him and his accomplices,” he said. During interrogation, a senior police officer said, arrested Ravi spilled the beans over how they had falsely trapped innocent government officials who refused to toe their line. “There are more persons involved in this syndicate and we launch to nab them all including the kingpin, ” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-bust-extortion-racket-involved-in-trapping-govt-officials/articleshow/77055892.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Housing societies in Kolkata plan Covid care facilities after Centre advisory||KOLKATA: From planning to convert clubs and community halls into mini Covid-care centres and empty flats into safe homes to setting aside funds to buy emergency medical equipment — housing societies in Kolkata have started formulating ways to deal with the pandemic following a central government guideline issued on Friday. “We have a club in the complex that has rooms which residents can rent for a few days to accommodate guests. We have planned to convert this club into a mini Covid-care centre with 10 rooms acting as safe homes for patients who may need isolation. The discussions are in the final stage and hopefully, in the next few days, we will be able to prepare a full-fledged medicare facility for residents,” to house the residents,” said Manak Daga, president of South City Welfare Association. At Upohar Condominium, the board of managers held an emergency meeting on Saturday, primarily to discuss the possibility of hosting a Covid-care facility in the complex. “We don’t have a separate community hall. But each tower has an activity centre on the ground floor. But they don’t have a separate water connection or washroom. Hence we are still trying to figure out ways to set up the centre,” said Nilanjan Das, the secretary of the apartment owners’ association. On Friday, the ministry of health and family welfare issued a guideline allowing gated complexes to create small Covid-care facilities within the complex, managed either by the residential societies or in collaboration with an NGO, to help reduce the burden on existing facilities for managing suspect, pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic or very mild cases of Covid. The guideline mentioned the facilities should be dedicated to residents of that particular complex barring the elderly, kids under 10, pregnant women, lactating mothers and patients with co-morbidities  At places where community centres are too small, resident welfare associations are also thinking out of the box. “We have a few large empty flats in our complex that can be converted into safe homes in case of an emergency. However, it is still in the discussion stage,” said Ashok Baid of Silver Spring complex on EM Bypass. At Merlin Warden Lakeview in Ultadanga, the resident association is planning to buy large quantities of equipment, like sphygmomanometer, pulse oximeter, oxygen cylinders, oxygen delivery tubes and face masks. “Our community hall doesn’t have space to convert it into a mini Covid-care unit. But to ensure we have ample equipment during emergencies, we are stocking up,” said Deepak Jaiswal, president of the residents’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hsg-societies-plan-covid-care-facilities-after-centre-advisory/articleshow/77056351.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata complexes involve resident experts and survivors to raise awareness||KOLKATA: With the number of Covid cases continuing to spiral up across the state, high-rises in Kolkata are taking steps to create awareness among residents. Gated communities in the city are at risk despite taking steps to curb the entry of outsiders, including domestic helps, as asymptomatic residents who have contracted the disease during their movements outside the complexes could spread it to others — particularly the elderly, the ailing and the children. While the South City Apartment Owners’ Association organized a virtual interactive session for residents on Sunday, office bearers at Silver Spring and Urbana have been spreading updated information through social media. “This is an unprecedented situation and people have a lot of questions. The South City Heathcare Group has been issuing timely updates that are being circulated. The interactive session at South City Towers was a major event. We had resident doctors Hrisikesh Kumar, Paramita Trivedi and P K Hazra answering questions. Some Covid survivors also participated and spoke about their experiences. It surely helped in putting unnecessary panic at rest while informing residents of what steps they need to take to remain safe,” said Ritesh Agrawal, a board member of the welfare association and the Rotary Club of the complex that helped in organizing the session. The complex houses nearly 6,000 people. The doctors spoke from their experiences and insisted on the need to maintain social distance and wear masks. Among other things, Trivedi spoke on how the concept of herd immunity is fraught with danger without a vaccine. The residents’ association at Silver Spring has been sending out regular advisories and guidelines that have the latest government regulations and instructions to prevent the virus from spreading. Videos and online material explaining procedures such as home isolation and quarantine are also shared. “As large gatherings are forbidden, we regularly interact via WhatsApp or video calls. Everybody is involved in the decision-making process and we organized an online vote to decide whether domestic helps should be allowed inside again,” said Ashok Baid, a senior member of the residents’ association. Urbana has constituted a Covid vigilance team comprising residents and facility management representatives. The team meets regularly to chart out the ‘dos and don’ts’ for residents to prevent spread of the virus. With nearly eight persons from the complex suffering from the infection, social distancing and sanitization have turned into critical issues. “Residents are kept informed about the number of cases within the complex and government guidelines. Material is also shared on how to remain safe at home. We are also encouraging residents to remain inside as much as possible and restrict the number of visitors,” said Debjani Mukherjee, vice-president, facility management, Urbana Residential Complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/complexes-involve-resident-experts-and-survivors-to-raise-awareness/articleshow/77056364.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 20, 2020||Hubballi||Breathe easy, enjoy the beauty of waste||Haveri: A beautiful park has blossomed on a thorny land in Tumminakatti village, thanks to the efforts by elected representatives and officers, who embarked upon the idea to use solid waste in a productive way and provide a recreation facility to villagers. Taken up under the Swaccha Bharat Mission, the park has been beautified using waste materials including empty bottles, caps, tyres and plastic boxes. It is attracting people, the old and the young alike, even in the times of Covid. Spread over 1.3 acres, it has all the facilities including a walking path. M Ambika, PDO, Tumminkatti gram panchayat, explained said: “We collected waste materials in the GP limits and stored it and in a primary school premises which was lying vacant since many days. Instead of disposing, we thought of using the waste materials in a creative way. We planted saplings in tyres and bottles.Bottle caps have been used for constructing walking paths. It gives a nice experience while walking. Some of the structures have been created with glass bottles. We have a drinking water treatment plant attached to the park. The park is attracting many people.” “We had such beautiful parks only in cities. Now, we have one in our village, thanks to the efforts by panchayat officials and elected representatives,” said BS Patil, resident of the village. Haveri zilla panchayat CEO Ramesh Desai said that he visited the park recently and it is a wonderful concept. “The novel idea was conceived when the GP was faced with the challenge of disposing waste materials. Every GP should adopt this concept and construct parks in every village in Haveri district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/breathe-easy-enjoy-the-beauty-of-waste/articleshow/77055679.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
July 20, 2020||Surat||Diamond markets extend voluntary lockdown||SURAT: Diamond traders in Mini Bazaar and Choksi Bazaar have extended their voluntary lockdown till July 31 to help stall the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Earlier, the diamond markets in Varachha area had been shut from July 12 to Juy 19. There are around 3,000 traders engaged in diamond trading in Mini Bazaar and Choksi Bazaar in Varachha area, with Varachha (A) having 1,126 cases, Varachha (B) 816 and Katargam zone having 2,008 cases. “Diamond markets will be shut but safe deposit vaults will be allowed to be opened for traders for four hours on July 20 and July 24 so that they can continue their work. Traders have unanimously decided to shut shops and it is in the interest of everyone in the city,” said Dinesh Navadia, regional chairman, Gem Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). “There was a need to extend the voluntary lockdown in areas such as Varachha which are Covid-19 hotspots. Further decision will be taken after assessing the situation,” said Navadia. ‘SMC officers are asking various diamond, textile markets, shop owners and business associations to observe ‘voluntary’ shutdown for a few days to contain the spread of the virus,” said a businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-markets-extend-voluntary-lockdown/articleshow/77055685.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Surat||Covid infected 51 Surat policemen since March||SURAT: At least 51 police personnel working on the frontlines with Covid warriors have been infected in a period of nearly four months since the first positive Covid-19 case was reported in the city on March 16. Of these 51 cops, one officer has succumbed to the virus, while 20 have already recovered. Thirty personnel are still under treatment and the majority of them are asymptomatic. A senior police officer said that some are under treatment in home isolation without requiring oxygen support. However, no cops have reported infecting their family members so far. “In most cases arrested accused are the source of infection. Since cops come in close contact with accused while arresting without knowing their status they get infected,” the officer added. Among those who got infected include two deputy commissioner of police (DCP), one assistant commissioner of police (ACP), two police inspectors, six police sub-inspectors and 40 assistant sub-inspector (ASI), head constable and constables. One DCP and an ACP has recovered and resumed work. ASI Magan Bariya, 52, had, however, died in New Civil Hospital (NCH) on June 14. He was admitted to hospital on May 30 and discharged on June 9 after his health was stable but after relapse, he condition worsened on June 11 and had to be admitted again. “After performing bandobust duties for more than three months, we are taking multiple steps to ensure that police personnel does not get infected. Dhanvantri Rath to examine police personnel and distribute preventive medicines are being sent to all police stations and police colonies on regular intervals,” city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt told TOI, adding that its a relief that most of the infected personnel are having mild symptoms. On Sunday, too, police arranged a medical check-up by Dhanvantari Rath for 300 new women constables recruits at the police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ncov-infected-51-surat-policemen-since-march/articleshow/77055749.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 20, 2020||Patna||Gaya records 220 Covid-19 positive cases in one day||GAYA: With more than two dozen deaths in the last week and 220 positive cases in a single day, Gaya covid scene appeared grim. The first positive case was recorded in the district on March31 and between 31 March and July 17, 586 cases have been added. But suddenly on July 18, 220 new positive cases were added taking the number to 807. Gaya civil surgeon Dr BK Singh confirmed 220 positive reports on Saturday evening. For the more statistically inclined more than 25% of the positive cases were added on a single day. The maximum number of deaths were reported on July 14, the day when six persons died in the covid-designated Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH). Another five died on Saturday. ANMMCH superintendent said that all the deaths that took place in the hospital were not covid positive deaths. The figures included non-covid deaths as well. Asked about the exact number of covid and non-covid deaths, the superintendent said that he needed time to sift records. There is absolute lack of transparency in the hospital’s functioning alleged activist Md Moosa whose brother Md Isa died on July 14. “Though the last rites were performed as per Covid protocol, till date the family has not been informed about the test result,” said Moosa, a former member of the hospital’s monitoring committee. Conceding that complaints of lack of transparency have been received, district magistrate Abhishek Singh said that a control room has started functioning in the Covid special hospital and family members of the admitted patients would be updated with the health condition of their near and dear ones twice a day. Inquiries can also be made from the control room about the health status of admitted patients. The DM also said that complaints have also been received about some senior doctors shirking responsibility. It is obligatory on the part of senior doctors to personally monitor the health condition of admitted patients and make proper documentation. Instructions have also been issued for the proper maintenance of CCTV cameras installed in the hospital to ascertain facts. The DM also said that RT PCR test in the ANMMCH has been suspended as nearly half-a-dozen paramedical staff of the microbiology department tested positive. The department’s head is already under home isolation after he tested positive. Test facility is being expanded. As on date, test is being done at eight centres. By July 22, test facility will be available at all the PHCs in the district. “Earlier, 400 tests are being done per day, now the testing capacity has become 700 per day and in the next few days, it will be 1200 per day. Only symptomatic suspects are to be tested,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-records-220-covid-19-positive-cases-in-one-day/articleshow/77054691.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 20, 2020||Patna||Criminals open fire at road construction site in Bihar||PATNA: At least a dozen bike-borne criminals hurled a grenade and fired several rounds in the air to terrorize workers engaged in road construction at Sarasat under Naubatpur police station in western Patna on Sunday. However, the grenade did not explode. The 18km-long road from Araap to Amhara near Bihta via Naubatpur is being constructed by a private firm with an estimated cost of Rs50 crore. Police sources said this was the second such incident related to the project as criminals had fired at the firm’s camp in Bikram in August 2018 as well. An FIR was lodged with Bikram police that time. The incidents are related to extortion, but the contractors did not complain this. Naubatpur SHO Samrat Deepak Kumar said the incident took place between 1pm and 2pm. “According to the workers, criminals reached the spot on five bikes and opened fire. One of them threw a grenade and they sped away,” Deepak said. He said though the workers told the police about several rounds of firing, only one empty cartridge of .315 bore was recovered from the spot. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the grenade was empty from inside. “Probably it was hurled to terrorize the workers. The firm had been provided eight police personnel after the attack on its camp at Bikram last year,” he said. The SSP said security personnel were not taken to spot where the incident took place on Sunday. “None from the firm has complained about extortion demand by any gang yet,” he said. Sharma said the matter was being investigated from all angles and an FIR would be registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/criminals-open-fire-at-road-construction-site/articleshow/77055373.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Many villages in Bagaha, Khagaria and Darbhanga under floodwaters||BAGAHA/KHAGARIA/DARBHANGA: Widespread rain and 1.70 lakh cusecs of water discharge from Valmikinagar barrage on Sunday afternoon spread over the Gandak riverine areas under Piparasi, Madhubani, Bhitaha, Thakaraha, Bagaha-1 and Bagaha-2 blocks in West Champaran district. Incessant rain in the catchment areas during the last few days and rising trends of Kosi, Bagmati and Ganga rivers disrupted road communication and damaged standing crops over hundreds of acres in the riverine areas across Khagaria district. Altogether 30 panchayats of Keoti, Hayaghat; Gaurabaram, Ghanshyampur, Kiratpur and Kusheshwar Sthan (East) in Darbhanga remained flooded, affecting 1.57 lakh population in 119 villages. Villagers of Jhandu Tola, Bintoli and Chakadahawa of Lakshmipur panchayat under Bagaha-2 block were taking shelter on the embankment. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) border outpost camp at Jhandu Tola near India-Nepal border is still submerged under 3 feet Gandak floodwaters, said Gulab Ansari of Lakshmipur Rampurwa panchayat. Over 100 hectares of crops in Tamkuhi, Jharmahuyee and Ajamalnagar villages were submerged under floodwaters. Flood fighting division of Bettiah is yet to start anti-erosion work near Jharmahuyee under Salaha Bariyarawa panchayat despite an assurance given by West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar, said its former sarpanch Nazere Emam. Motipur mukhiya Surendar Yadav said many were suffering from fever and cold. Floodwaters also entered into Shripatinagar and Sathi Tola under Semra-Labdeha panchayat. People of Chiurahi and Shrinagar panchayats were surrounded by Gandak floodwaters. Floodwaters of the Ganga entered Banni, Jhiktiya, Borna, Bhadlaiya and Rampur villages under Gogri block in Khagaria. “Farmers are compelled to use standing maize crops as animal fodder,” rued Lakshmi Devi, mukhiya of Banni panchayat. The district faces the wrath of Kosi, Bagmati, Kali Kosi, Ganga, Burhi Gandak, Kareh and Kamla Balan rivers every year. “This time the area has been flooded in July itself, instead of August,” said Prabhakar Singh of Haiti under Chauthm block. The swollen Kosi posed a serious erosion threat to Beerwas village under Pasraha police station. Brahamdeo Sharma, Ranjit Sharma, Sikand Sharma, Medni Sharma and Rohit Sharma among others said their houses and cultivable land had already been eroded, compelling them to take shelter on the embankment. The floodwaters of Kosi and Bagmati also entered Dighaun, Etmadi, Chorhli, Kanjri, Kurban, Balaitha, Mehnathnagar and Pirnagra panchayats under Beldaur block and many villages under Chautham block. Khagaria DM Alok Rajan Ghosh said all the embankments under the jurisdiction of flood control division 1 & 2 were safe. He said the district administration was alert for any eventuality. According to Darbhanga district disaster management wing, community kitchens are being run at seven places. Altogether 1,181 people were staying in two camps as their houses remained inundated. The district administration claimed that 122 boats, including 99 private ones, have been pressed into service. Ghanshyampur block CO Deenanath Kumar said though water was receding, still people were being fed at four community kitchens in the block. DM Thiyagarajan SM has asked all the senior officers to visit the affected areas and monitor the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-villages-in-bagaha-khagaria-and-darbhanga-under-floodwaters/articleshow/77054789.cms||Thirthraj Kushwaha
July 20, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur civic body steps up sanitisation drive||BHAGALPUR: The Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC), in the backdrop of ever increasing number of Corona patients in the district, has embarked upon massive sanitization work in areas falling under the civic body. All roads, bylanes, exterior of houses and establishments are being sanitized by water hydrants, fire-tenders and fogging machines to check the spread of the deadly pandemic. Apart from eradicating the deadly virus, the objective of sanitization of vast areas under BMC is also to control mosquitoes that spread deadly dengue (break-bone fever), especially in the rainy season. “Fogging machines besides fire-tenders and water hydrants fitted on tractors are fogging and sanitizing the 51 wards of the town on war footing,” said deputy mayor Rajesh Verma and added that fogging machines for all the wards will be made available soon as the process of purchasing 51 fogging machines has already been finalized. On the other hand, the number of Corona patients has touched nearly 1600 in the district which includes more than 16 doctors and 90 paramedics including nurses (ANMs), ward boys, hospital staff etc. Whereas senior most IAS and administrative officers besides office staff and police personnel have also tested positive recently. Social activist Syed Zeejah Hussain, who also is secretary of District Shia Waqf Committee at Bhagalpur, said that the BMC step is though initiated late but will help in checking the virus to certain extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-civic-body-steps-up-sanitisation-drive/articleshow/77054738.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 20, 2020||Patna||Target of planting 2.51 crore saplings to be achieved by July 31: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Sunday said the target of planting 2.51 crore saplings across the state would be achieved by July 31. He said more than 1.51 crore samplings have already been planted in different parts of the state. Earlier on June 5 this year, CM Nitish Kumar, while addressing a webinar on the occasion of the World Environment Day, had announced that the state government will plant more than 2.51 crore saplings on a single day on the occasion of ‘Bihar Prithvi Diwas’ on August 9 to achieve the target of 17% green cover in the state. The CM had then also said that the planting of 2.51 crore saplings on a single day in public places might create a world record. Modi on Sunday said, “The state government’s earlier plan to plant 2.51 crore saplings on a single day was modified due to the spread of Covid-19, lockdown and monsoon rainfall. The government began the exercise of planting saplings on July 1 itself because of availability of water after good rainfall.” “So far, 83.22 lakh saplings have been planted in forest areas, 12.42 lakh under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, 19.57 lakh by Didis of Jeevika, 10.39 lakh under the agro-forestry schemes and another 4.65 lakh by public sector undertakings and other organisations,” Modi said. The deputy CM said there would be a token closing programme for the sapling plantation campaign on August 9. “On August 9, saplings will be planted in at least one place in a gram-panchayat, block and district on a token basis to mark the Bihar Prithvi Diwas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/target-of-planting-2-51cr-saplings-to-be-achieved-by-july-31-sumo/articleshow/77055336.cms||Madan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Thermal scanners installed at Eastern Railway stations||BHAGALPUR: Eastern Railways (ER) have installed thermal scanning cameras at Malda, Bhagalpur, Shahibanj and Jamalpur railway stations. The scanner is equipped with Network Video Recorder (NVR) with 4 GB hard disks and has 42 inches LED commercial display for scrutiny of passengers. The basic objective of these thermal scanning machines is to provide health safety to travelling passengers and check the spread of Covid-19 through travellers, who might have symptoms and could be possible carriers of the virus. ER chief public relations officer (CPRO) Nikhil K Chakraborty said that the thermal scanning cameras with ticket scanners have been commissioned at the main entrance of busy railway stations under ER where numbers of passengers are high. “The system will be helpful in quick scanning of passengers without stopping at the entrance with the help of photographs. At a time 10-15 persons can be diagnosed,” the CPRO added. “The system has one ticket scanner which is connected with the screen. After thermal scanning of passengers, they need to put his/her ticket under scanner for online checking. The system is equipped with audio and visual alarm system for generating alarms against symptomatic passengers with a flash of red light.” “The railways is making constant effort to extend safety to the passengers during the prevailing pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thermal-scanners-installed-at-eastern-railway-stations/articleshow/77054747.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 20, 2020||Patna||Patna: Rain brings respite from sultry weather||PATNA: A brief spell of rain Sunday morning brought relief from some sultry weather, but left slush near the dug-up roads. The weatherman at Patna Meteorological Centre, Patna received 20.4mm rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm. The rain was attributed to active monsoon in eastern states. “The monsoon activities in Bihar are likely to be more active over the next 48 hours. Widespread rainfall, cloudy sky and thunderstorm are to continue in the state till July 21. Temperatures are expected to remain below normal in Patna and other districts,” a weatherman said. The intensity of rainfall increased from Sunday in Bihar, which has recorded 41% more precipitation than normal between July 1 and 17. According to daily weather bulletin, heavy to very heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places over northwest and northeast Bihar in the last 24 hours. Bhagalpur recorded the highest maximum temperature at 36.5 degrees Celsius while Purnea had the lowest minimum temperature at 25 degrees Celsius. Patna municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said there was no waterlogging in the city, except only few inches in Prithviraj Path at Lohanipur, which was drained out in a couple of hours. “The civic body has already taken corrective measures to tackle the waterlogging problem in Patna. We are using portable pumps in different areas and well prepared for more rainfall in the coming days,” he said. Urban development and housing department’s secretary Anand Kishor on Saturday had instructed the PMC officials to continue the desilting of the manholes in Patna to ensure that no more waterlogging is seen during monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-brings-respite-from-sultry-weather/articleshow/77055075.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 20, 2020||Surat||First crematorium only for Covid patients at Gujarat's Bharuch||BHARUCH: The district administration has set up temporary crematorium for Covid-19 victims after it met with strong opposition from people residing near the crematoriums at Bharuch, Ankleshwar and Borbhatha.All these cremation grounds are surrounded by residential areas. While the trustees agreed to allow cremation of Covid bodies, residents turned up in huge numbers to stop a hearse carrying Covid victim’s body. Talking to media, district collector Dr M D Modiya said, “We are setting up a temporary crematorium near Golden Bridge on the banks of River Narmada, in a remote location not near any residential area.” The Bharuch Nagarpalika identified a team of four persons who will be equipped with PPE kits to cremate the bodies. The Shantidham Rotary Smashan Gruh with Ankleshwar Nagarpalika will provide wood or bear entire cost for cremation of the bodies, said Bhupendra Shah, convener, of the crematorium. Fifteen people have succumbed to the virus in the district till date since March. The district has 244 active cases till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-crematorium-only-for-covid-patients-at-bharuch/articleshow/77055760.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Business||Tough to get companies' moratorium dues by March 31: Bankers||MUMBAI: Bankers warn that many businesses may not be able to square their positions by March 2021 with regards to dues relating to the ongoing moratorium period, because of the delay in demand resumption. Several bankers are now saying that more time may need to be given to businesses to repay both the principal and interest amounts pertaining to the moratorium. At present, borrowers who opted for the moratorium are much more indebted than they would have been had there been no lockdown. At the same time, they do not have the turnover to support the higher debt. Current rules require borrowers to repay their additional dues pertaining to the moratorium period by March 2021. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had issued a circular on May 23 in respect of working capital facilities sanctioned in the form of cash credit/overdraft, where banks have allowed deferment up to August 31, 2020. It said lenders have to recover the dues either immediately, or in instalments or a bullet repayment but not later than March 31, 2021. The March 31 deadline applies to the moratorium availed under working capital limits. In the case of term loans, the dues can be back-ended by extending the tenure of the loan. For instance, home loan customers who have availed the moratorium can opt for the same EMI and an extended tenure, or they can pay a higher EMI keeping the same tenure. This will also not apply to loans extended under the government’s guaranteed emergency credit line, which has a three-year tenure. “Some of the recovery seen in June is tapering off as it was an outcome of pent-up demand for the earlier months of severe lockdown,” said the chief of a private bank. He added that sales are not expected to normalise in September 2020 (after the moratorium concludes in August-end) as was originally envisaged. If borrowers are not able to repay their dues by March 2021, banks will have to classify them as non-performing assets (NPAs) by June 2021. To avoid these defaults, borrowers would need to be given time beyond March 2021. A report by SBI’s chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh last month had estimated that 35-40% of the average portfolio is under a moratorium for the banking system. “The Q4 results of the banks indicate a sequential decline in NPA numbers, which is because the moratorium has prevented any loan account to downgrade and helped the banking industry in reining in fresh slippages, but the real picture will emerge after the September quarter,” the report said. Bankers say that this relief would be required in addition to the specific restructuring for sectors such as aviation, hospitality and retail. “Some of these sectors would, in fact, require money to preserve their assets until demand picks up,” said a banker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tough-to-get-cos-moratorium-dues-by-march-31-bankers/articleshow/77055823.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 20, 2020||Business||Covid forces companies to relook at board mix||MUMBAI: The current pandemic, which has challenged businesses like never before, has also got them thinking about the quality of their board of directors. Although the process of examining value-addition by independent directors had started some time earlier, hiring experts said it is only now, since the pandemic, that it is being accelerated. It is understood that in some cases, with valuable suggestions not always forthcoming from board members, CEOs have been all at sea in these unprecedented times. Executive search company Odgers Berndtson India MD Prasad Medury said, “The pandemic has taken boards of organisations by surprise. Our interactions with owner-promoters of listed companies lead us to believe that the CEO lacks appropriate guidance from the board. A promoter-chairman of a listed company with majority representation from independent directors on the board, which is great from an autonomy perspective, told me he did not see much value addition from them. On the other hand, a promoter of a smaller listed firm is considering positioning internal talent as directors on the board rather than looking for external members to fill in the vacancies.” Hunt Partners India managing partner Suresh Raina said, “Since the pandemic, there are already talks where companies are looking to bring on board people who can be an adviser to the CEO to have regular conversations with. Not many board members may have the experience of dealing with a Covid-like pandemic. But what companies could look at is bringing on board independent directors who have dealt with crisis/change/unprecedented situations in the past and who also can challenge conventional thinking.” Executive Access India MD Ronesh Puri said in three-six months, one could expect far more professionals being inducted on boards who can help organisations grow in these turbulent times. “We expect 20% new inductions as organisations relook at present board compositions,” said Puri. “Previously, organisations would only look for independent directors who would not ask any uncomfortable questions. Today, our conversations with CEOs reveal that they are not getting enough value from the current board members. They are looking for those who can help the business grow. Such conversations are expected to result in some change in the manner in which organisations appoint members on the board,” added Puri. However, there are boards that effectively demonstrate their depth of knowledge and experience. Shailesh Haribhakti Associates chairman Shailesh Haribhakti, who is an independent director on seven company boards, has seen the levels of engagement between directors, the chairman, CEO and other CXOs increase dramatically in the last four months. “We have multiple one-on-one, small group and several committee conversations in addition to board meetings. If I have some thought that could be useful to an organisation, or if someone has sent a proposal, I reach out to the chairman of the board directly and keep the CEOs in the loop.” Haribhakti said without the CEO, the chairman and the directors collaborating and working as a team, nothing works. “In today’s times, a company also needs its CXOs to be part of crucial meetings. That depends on whether the CEO has created an open channel so that members can freely interact with one-level-down executives as well. I recently attended a meeting where there were at least 25 people on call. There were several takeaways because everyone came prepared on key aspects like cash, cost, health, competition, M&A. What determines such active engagement levels is the DNA of the board, which is not built overnight,” said Haribhakti. A decade ago, the role of independent directors was more about statutory compliance. Gradually, the trend has shifted to focusing on board composition that allows for independent directors from a particular background or skill they bring to the table. Raina said several circular meetings and offline conversations are happening between directors. “With all leaders trying to find their way out of this maze, such conversations and advice to management can play a significant role. If a company management has not really exercised the option of making a thoughtful selection of board directors, Covid is the perfect trigger to push them into thinking along these lines,” Raina added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-forces-cos-to-relook-at-board-mix-assess-independent-directors-value-addition/articleshow/77055857.cms||Namrata Singh
July 20, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Over 5,000 fined for not wearing masks||PRAYAGRAJ: Police challaned more than 5,000 Prayagraj residents for not wearing masks and realised around Rs 4.84 lakh in fine on Sunday — the second day of the weekend restrictions enforced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus infection (Covid-19). A senior police officer said, “Over 5,000 persons were challaned for not wearing masks in public places. Police realised Rs 4.84 lakh in penalty from them for violating norms. Around 14,000 vehicles were also checked across the district on Sunday.” Due to the restrictions, markets, malls and shops in various markets like Civil Lines, Chowk, Dhoomanganj, Mutthiganj, Ashok Nagar and Katra remained closed on Sunday. Only shops selling essential commodities like groceries, milk and medicines were open. In Old City, however, despite the restrictions and heavy police deployment, local residents were seen roaming on streets without wearing masks. Prayagraj Municipal Corporation sanitized markets and many localities on Sunday. Adequate police force was deployed at 212 crossings and intersections of the city to restrict traffic movement. Meanwhile, traders’ associations said they would no longer allow customers to enter their shops if they weren’t wearing masks. Traders said they would sanitize their shops and showrooms daily and they and their staff would be wearing masks and follow the social distancing norms. President of the Civil Lines Vyapaar Mandal, Sushil Kharbanda said “The rising number of Covid-19 patients in the city has put the onus of being responsible on us citizens. We appeal to the state government to allow home isolation /quarantine facility for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, so that there are enough beds for critical patients in hospitals. The Delhi government has already allowed asymptomatic patients to quarantine/isolate at home. Besides, there should be adequate testing to detect potential patients in the city and check the disease’s spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-5000-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/77055229.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||4 more recovered NDRF personnel donate plasma||Cuttack: Four of the recovered NDRF personnel donated plasma at the plasma bank of SCB Medical College and Hospital on Monday. The plasma will be used for treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state. A person has to undergo several tests, including the antibody test, before donating plasma and the tests are being carried out at the transfusion medicine department of SCB. Assistant commandant of NDRF A K Patnaik said, “All the jawans, who were infected are fit now after a month of being kept under observation. All were quite enthusiastic to donate plasma.” Nakul Mandal, a sub-inspector with NDRF, said, “I have recovered now and I want all to recover. So I decided to donate plasma.” Several personnel of NDRF, ORDAF and Odisha fire services, had been to West Bengal for rescue operations after Cyclone Amphan. Around 350 jawans were infected. After treatment in the Covid hospitals all have recovered. Around 80 jawans out of 350 were identified on the basis of health condition to donate plasma. “I am donating plasma to save the lives of people suffereing from Covid-19,” said Sasi Hansda, another NDRF jawan. Earlier, some more NDRF personnel had donated plasma. Emergency officer of SCB Bhuban Maharana said,“We have preserved the plasma in the bank. The plasma will be supplied to the Covid hospitals as per their need.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/4-more-recovered-ndrf-personnel-donate-plasma/articleshow/77074204.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar gets 700 cases in 19 days||KOLKATA: Covid cases in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area touched the 1,180 mark on Sunday. The civic authorities have now decided to increase efforts to generate more awareness on the issue. Another 77 Covid cases were reported in the past 24 hours, making it the second single-day highest record. There are 646 active cases in the Bidhannagar area at present. Till June 30, the affected figure stood at 480. With 700 cases reported in the last 19 days alone, the tally has reached 1,180. Containment zones have been set up in some localities and the civic body has been conducting sanitization drives. It is also reaching out to affected families to extend help. The officials added that though several Covid cases have allegedly been identified in high-rises, the civic body is not being alerted most of the time. Many residents of these complexes are also flouting social distancing rules and not wearing masks. “Councillors have been conducting awareness drives. But since there are still some people not wearing masks, we are thinking of imposing a penalty on them,” said an official. The civic body on Saturday also organized an online session on Covid at its headquarters where doctors spoke on the scenario and preventive steps. Officials said the session was recorded and will be handed over to councillors to arrange for viewing by residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-gets-700-cases-in-19-days/articleshow/77056388.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana saw maximum Covid surge during June 22-July 5||Ludhiana: Even as the cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Ludhiana district ever since the outbreak of pandemic, maximum surge in the number of patients was seen between June 22 and July 5 and over 50 cases were reported everyday in the last five days, suggests a government data.According to a media bulletin, during the June 22-July 5 period, the district witnessed highest 538 new cases. It was highest compared to the previous fortnights. The second highest surge was reported during June 8 and 21, when the district had recorded 315 cases. The May 11-24 period had seen only 44 cases — lowest since 27 April.Even in comparison to other districts of the state, Ludhiana reported highest number of new cases between June 22 and July 5, with Jalandhar recording 394 cases, Sangrur 393 and 269 new cases surfaced in Amritsar. Incidentally, the state also witnessed highest number of new cases in the same fortnight at 2,519.As per the data drawn from daily bulletins for Ludhiana, between July 6 and July 17, 623 new cases were recorded in the district. On July 14, the district witnessed 97 new cases, highest for a day.The health department officials attribute the surge in cases to the lifting of lockdown.“During the lockdown, the number of cases was less compared to the current later numbers. It is because of the exposure of people to the virus, as many are not following the guidelines,” civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said. The residents also said that a large number of people are not taking the safety measures related to Covid-19 and treating the virus threat lightly.“Even as a good number of people are wearing masks and following social distancing, the truth is that many others are not doing the same. I am shocked to see that even some educated people do not care for the norms as if the virus will spare them,” said Avtar Singh, a city resident. BOXRecent countDate cases July 6 | 22July 7 | 41July 8 | 48July 9 | 50July 10 | 39July 11 | 29July 12 | 31July 13 | 80July 14 | 97July 15 | 61July 16 | 57July 17 | 68 Fortnightly countApril 27 to May 10 | 117 May 11 to May 24 | 44May 25 to June 7 | 86June 8 to June 21 | 315June 22 to July 5 | 538||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-saw-maximum-covid-surge-during-june-22-july-5/articleshow/77055411.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 20, 2020||Goa||Sarzora local’s contacts traced||Margao: A Sarzora resident tested positive on Saturday following which the Chinchinim primary health centre (PHC) identified all high risk contacts of the patient and subjected them to covid tests. Sources in the health department said throat swab samples of several persons who had come in close contact with the patient were drawn on Sunday. The results are awaited. Significantly, as the person who tested positive was a non-teaching employee of a school in Navelim, panic gripped other staff members, all of whom wanted to get tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sarzora-locals-contacts-traced/articleshow/77057094.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Dist reports 97 +ve cases, one death||Kochi: Ernakulam reported 97 new Covid positive cases on Sunday. Of these, 88 are contact cases and the rest from outside Kerala. Chellanam cluster reported 19 cases, Aluva cluster 37 and Keezhmad cluster 15. Besides these, four healthcare workers also tested positive. Meanwhile, a 67-year-old Covid patient died on Sunday morning. Kunjuveeran of Karumalloor died after he contracted pneumonia. He was suffering from hypertension and diabetes. Kunjuveeran was on ventilator support and was administered convalescent plasma therapy. This is the fourth Covid death being reported from Ernakulam. The positive cases include a 56-year-old Mattanchery resident. Eight people, including three who were under treatment for more than a month, were discharged. A total of 14,115 people is under quarantine, including 12,113 in home quarantine, in Ernakulam. Currently, 764 people are under treatment in various hospitals and first-line Covid treatment centres in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dist-reports-97-ve-cases-one-death/articleshow/77055420.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||5 arrested for cooking up kidnapping story||Times News Network Ludhiana: In a twist to the case of “kidnapping” of a 25-year-old woman, the police on Sunday arrested the complainant and four others for fabricating the abduction story to implicate their relatives. The police have also traced the “kidnapped” woman, Kia, who was hiding in Bajra village. Those arrested include Mohammad Sipahia, his brother Mohammad Mashoor, both residents of Kutbewal village, sister Kia of Jalandhar and relatives Jabbu and Fakardeen of Phillaur. On July 16, Sipahia had lodged a complaint against Makhan, his son Shareef and brother Dulla, all residents of Bilaspur village in Jagraon, for thrashing him and kidnapping Kia near Quadia crossing on GT Road. In his complaint to the police, Sipahia had said that Makhan’s daughter Sakoora had married his brother Mashoor 10 years ago. The couple had three children. Due to their strained relations, Sakoora had been living with her parents for the past three years. When Sakoora left the house, she took one of their children along, while the other two lived with Mashoor. In these three years, Sakoora and her family tried to get custody of the other two children also, but Mashoor did not agree to it. About a week ago, Makhan came to his village and approached the panchayat to take custody of the children, but to no avail.His sister Kia, who is married in Jalandhar, had come to their house early in July. As Kia was unwell on the night of July 13, he took her along to get medicines. As no clinic was open around 10.30pm, they decided to head back home. When they reached near Quadia crossing on GT Road, an SUV intercepted their bike. Makhan, Shareef and Dulla came out of the SUV, thrashed him and kidnapped Kia, he had said in his complaint. Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Gopal Krishan said, “During investigation, Makhan and his family were questioned. But we found no clue. Thereafter, we approached all the doctors near the locality and found that Sipahia and Kia had gone to get medicines in the afternoon not at night. Even the CCTVs installed near the Quadia crossing had not captured anything of the sort. All this indicated that Sipahia had lodged a false complaint.” “We then traced Kia to Bajra village. When police reached there, Kia tried to flee. She was caught after a chase of 1.5km. Thereafter, Sipahia and Mashoor were arrested. They have confessed that they wanted to implicate Makhan and his family in the case as they were pressuring them to hand over the custody of Mashoor’s children,” the inspector added.Jubbu and Fakardeen, relatives of Sipahia, had asked him to fabricate a kidnapping story to frame Makhan’s family, the police said. After cracking the case, the police changed the FIR sections to 182 (false statement), 191 (giving false evidence), 192 (fabricating false evidence), 193 (punishment for false evidence) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-arrested-for-cooking-up-kidnapping-story/articleshow/77055418.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||No event in BJP’s Kumaon office for fortnight as 2 leaders test Covid +ve||Dehradun: Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state president Bansidhar Bhagat on Sunday announced that no event will take place in BJP’s Kumaon head office for a fortnight as two party leaders of the division tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. A unit of 25 BJP functionaries in Pithoragarh and more than 50 members of the party in Haldwani have quarantined themselves as they recently came in contact with the party’s district president and the state spokesperson — both of them have now tested positive for the virus. “We have asked the party members and others who came in contact with the two infected leaders to report to the health department,” said Bhagat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-event-in-bjps-kumaon-office-for-fortnight-as-2-leaders-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77055424.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||CM launches Sunday campaign against dengue||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday launched a campaign against dengue asking residents to spare 15 minutes the same day every week to ensure that there is no stagnant water around the house and its surroundings. Inaugurating the campaign named ‘Har Ravivar, 15-minute Dengue pe vaar’, the CM inspected his home and camp office for any stagnant water on the premises. He also appealed to the residents to spare 15 minutes every Sunday to clear pools of stagnant water in their surroundings to curb the breeding of mosquitoes. “Along with the ongoing fight against Covid-19, we have to fight against dengue as well. With a little care and necessary precautions, we can stop dengue. Every Sunday, we must ensure that there is no clean stagnant water in our houses and immediate surroundings,” he added. Uttarakhand had battled one of the worst dengue outbreaks last year with cases over 8500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-launches-sunday-campaign-against-dengue/articleshow/77055415.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 20, 2020||Varanasi||Covid cases register sharp spurt in urban belts of East UP districts||Varanasi: Almost 100 new Covid-19 cases were detected on every alternate day in the past one week in Varanasi pushing the tally further up gradually, but health officials are specifically concerned over the sudden sharp rise in infection in the urban belts of neighbouring districts where cases had been trickling in at a rather slow pace. Chandauli and Ballia, the districts which earlier witnessed few Covid cases with migrants’ influx are now reporting a sharp increase in cases, especially in urban belts. Looking at the alarming spread of the virus, the district administrations in Varanasi, Chandauli, Ballia and Mau are taking extra precautions like curtailing market opening hours and enforcing complete lockdown in city areas. Since the first case was reported in the district on March 22, Varanasi had witnessed slow but continuous rise in Covid infection graph. The district tally rose to 100 in 57 days and 100 more cases were added in 16 days. But, gradually the gap in addition of 100 cases reduced from three to five days in June. Situation turned alarming in past eight days as the district tally increased by 100 every alternate day. In view of the sharp jump in positive cases, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma ordered curtailing the market opening hours on July 12. On Sunday, he ordered minor changes. In a fresh order, he said, “Commercial establishments in all categories, including medicine shops and petrol pumps will be closed at 4pm and no movement will be permitted between 5pm and 6am.” The only change in the arrangements is of the opening of shops. “The right-left and odd-even formula for opening of shops in city and rural areas will continue. The shops, which were opening on Monday, Wednesday and Friday will now open on Tuesday and Thursday only. The shops that opened on Tuesday and Thursday will now open on Monday, Wednesday and Thursday,” said Sharma, adding from Monday strict action would be taken against people found violating norms. Chandauli was the last district of state to report Covid-19 cases and its first case had come to light on May 30 when migrant labourers started coming from other states. However, only in past 10 days this district reported over 250 cases lreaving the Covid figures in districts—Mirzapur, Bhadohi and Mau far behind. Initially the outbreak of epidemic was in rural areas due to arrival of migrants. But, in past 10 days the urban belt, especially Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Nagar (Mughalsarai), was also hit. DM Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal ordered complete lockdown in the township. Similar trend is evident in Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia and Sonbhadra. Rise in Covid-19 cases in rural belts of these districts had seen peak by May 15, but now they are witnessing increase in cases in main city or townships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-cases-register-sharp-spurt-in-urban-belts-of-east-up-districts/articleshow/77056763.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Diocese of M’lore develops its own SOP for Covid-19 burial||Mangaluru: The diocese of Mangalore, in order to ensure dignity in death to its community members, has chalked a separate 20 point standard operating procedure along with the guidelines of the Union government. Apart from it, a group of lay people are being trained across the diocese for the safe and dignified burial of Covid-19 victims. The diocese of Mangalore reported its first Covid death on Friday,and its second fatality was recorded on Sunday. The funeral rites of the first the victim, aged about 67, were held at Holy Cross Church, Kulashekar, and second victim, a 97-year-old woman, was performed at St Sebastian Church, Bendur, on Sunday. Bishop Most Rev Peter Paul Saldanha said that there is no dedicated place for burial for Covid victims, but it will be held at the victim’s respective parishes or church. Louis J Pinto, president of Mandd Sobhann, a Konkani cultural organisation, who is training volunteers and heading a laity group, said that once a death is declared, the body is placed in a coffin and the same is transported directly to the respective church cemetery in a government ambulance. Along with the body, they also hand over six pairs of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for those involved in the burial, which includes personnel digging the grave pit and lowering the body after the final rites, and later covering the grave. Pinto further explained that they had come up with a plan a month ago, and said that the Covid-19 victim’s body is covered in such a way that only the face is visible to others. A transparent sheet is used to cover the face. “The burial is held as per the Roman Catholic rites with funeral prayers, while adhering to strict social distancing and a minimum number of people present,” he added. Apart from it, for Covid-19 victims, graves are dug eight feet deep instead of the usual six feet. The bottom and top is sprayed with sodium hypochlorite chemical as per the protocol. “We are also training more funeral service undertakers apart from volunteers,” Pinto mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/diocese-of-mlore-develops-its-own-sop-for-covid-19-burial/articleshow/77055430.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||BCCI eyes IPL from Sept 26 to Nov 8, but broadcaster unhappy||Mumbai: The Indian Premier League (IPL) finally has a tentative schedule. The Indian cricket board (BCCI) wants the league to begin on September 26 (a Saturday) and conclude on November 8 (Sunday)—a period of 44 days to host 60 games. Broadcaster Star India and the franchises are reported to have reservations about this ‘constricted scheduling’. According to industry sources, Star wants to make optimum use of the Diwali week in a bid to rake in advertisements in these lean times. Diwali is on November 14, a Saturday, and Star wants the IPL to conclude that weekend. Those opposing BCCI’s timetable say it’ll mean more afternoon matches, which would affect visibility and ratings. BCCI’s lack of enthusiasm for the Diwali dates stems from its commitment to Cricket Australia (CA) that India will tour Down Under later this year for a four-Test series starting December 3, for which the team would have to arrive much earlier.Said a senior board official, “If the IPL concludes by November 8, the team can fly to Australia by the 10th, undergo the mandatory Covid tests and start with practice and warm-up matches so that the first Test can begin as scheduled. Also, India might want to play a day-night warm-up game ahead of the proposed day-night Test, and that will add days to the schedule.” The schedule has been in discussion for a couple of weeks now and was again “informally” brought up at the apex council meeting on Friday. The IPL is tentatively scheduled to be held from September 26 to November 8, though the governing council is yet to meet and give its final approval. The dates are expected to be made public soon after the International Cricket Council (ICC) formally announces the postponement of this year’s T20 World Cup. Star bought the IPL broadcast rights in 2018 with a consolidated bid of Rs 16,347 crore and pays the BCCI Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,000 crore every year as part of a five-year rights cycle. Cricket Australia last week announced a 65-day window — from December 3 to February 6 — for its own T20 property, the Big Bash League (BBL), comprising 61 matches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bcci-eyes-ipl-from-sept-26-to-nov-8-but-broadcaster-unhappy/articleshow/77057081.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Frontline warriors at risk: 59 cops tested positive to date||Ludhiana: As many as 59 cops of Ludhiana commissionerate have tested positive for coronavirus to date, which makes it 1.4% of the total force tested so far. Reports of 118 cops are pending. On the other hand, the civil rate of contracting coronavirus is 3.4%. Assistant commissioner of police Anil Kohli was the first cop from the commissionerate to test positive on April 13. He had succumbed to the virus on April 18. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Ashwani Kapur had also tested positive, but he defeated the virus and joined duty on July 13. Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said, “Among all cops who have contracted coronavirus, maximum are non-gazetted officers, including sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors. Out of total 1,787 non-gazetted officers, 25 have contracted the virus, and 21 cops of the rank of constables and head constables, out of total 2,127 tested, have also been infected. Besides, five Punjab home guards, three private employees, two gazetted officers, including an ACP and a DCP, two inspectors and one Class IV employee have also tested positive.” “It is only 1.4% of the total cops tested so far. Moreover, out of total 59 positive cases, 30 cops have already been cured. Out of 29 positive cops, only five are admitted to hospitals and others are home isolated as they are asymptomatic,” added Chaudhary. As per the data provided by the department of health and family welfare, Punjab, under the integrated disease surveillance programme, till July 17, as many as 48,219 samples were collected in Ludhiana district, of which reports of 46,953 have been received. Out of these reports, 1,626 have tested positive, including 296 from other districts and states. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “Cops are in the frontline. Besides performing Covid duty, they have to follow the daily routine work like visiting crime spots or arresting criminals. Despite taking precautionary measures, some have contracted the virus. We stay in touch with all cops who are positive so that they remain motivated and optimistic. The good thing is that cops are recovering.”  Free kits for cops in home isolationCommissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said positive cops who were asymptomatic were kept in home isolation and the Ludhiana Police was providing them essential kits of 12 commodities, including pulse oximeter, thermometer, steamer, yoga mat, masks, sanitiser, hot water electric kettle, medicines, among others. The kit includes every item a person needs in home isolation. They have also been directed to contact doctors in case the oxygen saturation is less than 95%, temperature more than 100 degree Celsius, breathlessness, heaviness in chest, blue lips or any other discomfort, he added.Box-CIVILIANS’ CASE FILESamples taken- 48,219Reports received- 46,953Positive cases- 1,626Other districts’ positive cases- 296Pending reports- 1,266Box-COPS’ CASE FILESamples taken- 4,384Reports received- 4,266Positive cases- 59Pending reports- 118||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/frontline-warriors-at-risk-59-cops-tested-positive-to-date/articleshow/77055449.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Number of Covid-19 cases at Haridwar industrial unit rises to 220||Haridwar: A day after 60 employees of an industrial unit in Haridwar's SIDCUL tested Covid-19 positive, the number of infected people shot up to 220 on Sunday. District Covid-19 coordinator Ajay Kumar confirmed the spike and said that the number is likely to go up further. A total of 2,300 samples from the unit have been sent for testing. "Results of 400 samples are expected latest by Monday. Testing methods include Rapid Antigen as well as RT-PCR tests," Kumar said. The first coronavirus case surfaced at the unit on July 8. On Thursday, the number rose to 20 and district magistrate C Ravishankar ordered the unit to be closed and sanitized. By Saturday, the number of infected workers increased to 60, sending local residents into panic. The unit's spokesperson released a written statement, that read, “We can confirm that several employees at our Haridwar factory have been diagnosed with Covid-19, a majority of them asymptomatic. This came to light after we started a Covid-19 testing programme. To curtail further spread (of the infection), we are carrying out contact tracing amongst our employees and workers." "A total of 168 people have been pressed for contact tracing. Nearly 100 containment zones are being made to contain the spread of the infection. Testing facilities will be hugely increased. There will be extensive testing in industrial settlements like Rawli Mehdood," said DM Ravishankar. On Saturday, Ravishankar had ordered neighbouring industrial units to test at least 10% of their employees for Covid-19 to contain the spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/number-of-covid-19-cases-at-haridwar-industrial-unit-rises-to-220/articleshow/77055451.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Traffic volunteers thrashed my son & nephews without a reason: Councillor||Times News Network Ludhiana: A BJP councillor has accused traffic volunteers of beating up his son and nephews on Saturday night.Councillor Chudhary Yashpal, a resident of Ghati Mohalla, said in his police complaint, “Around 9pm Saturday, my son Takshak, 30, and nephews Aditya and Gori were walking our dog in the locality. At the time, additional deputy commissioner of police-1 Deepak Pareek, assistant commissioner of police (Central) Waryam Singh and three SHOs with more force were on a round.” “Even as my son and nephews were wearing masks, the cops stopped them to issue a challan. When my son asked the reason, the volunteers started beating them with sticks. All senior cops were present there, but nobody stopped them. Meanwhile, a safai karamchari, Gagan, was crossing by the spot. The volunteers thrashed him too for no reason,” Chaudhary added. Takshak called up his father, who along with locality residents reached there. They then went to Division 4 police station to lodge a complaint. Chaudhary said, “On Sunday, we met ACP Waryam Singh, seeking action against the volunteers. He has asked us to wait till Monday evening. On Monday, I will take up the issue of safai karamchari with the mayor, too.”Pareek said volunteers and the three men had an argument as the latter were not maintaining distance. “Nobody was beaten up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traffic-volunteers-thrashed-my-son-nephews-without-a-reason-councillor/articleshow/77055432.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Constable arrested for cheating||Times News NetworkLudhiana: A cop, who had been absent from duty for the past six months, was arrested for cheating on Saturday.Constable Gursharan Singh, 47, of Sarabha Nagar, was posted at the Police Lines. Lal Bahadur, an employee of KC Gas Company, near Jagraon Bridge, said in his police complaint, “When I was loading empty cylinders on a vehicle on Saturday afternoon, a man came to me. He was wearing a police uniform that had the nameplate of Gursharan Singh. He told me that he needs a cylinder. He gave me an empty cylinder and took a filled one. When I asked him to pay Rs 620, he told me to come at Jagraon Bridge checkpoint to collect the payment.” When Bahadur reached the checkpoint, he met another cop. “That cop told me that neither he sent anyone to get an LPG cylinder nor he knew any Gursharan Singh,” he added.Bahadur then lodged a police complaint. Division 2 police station sub-inspector Kulveer Singh said, “Gursharan is a police constable posted at Police Lines. He has been absent from duty for the past six months. Gurshran said that he needed an LPG cylinder at his house, but had no money to pay for it. Therefore, he took advantage of his uniform. The accused has been arrested under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/constable-arrested-for-cheating/articleshow/77055422.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Double whammy for Kerala: Rough sea floods Chellanam||KOCHI: The Chellanam coastal village, which is the most severe Covid-19 containment zone in Ernakulam, has been hit by the worst sea erosion of this year on Sunday. More than 300 families have been affected as the seawater rushed into their houses wreaking havoc. One house has been destroyed by the waves and four houses suffered partial damage. Seawater seeped into more than 200 houses when the sea turned angry on Sunday afternoon unexpectedly. People are unable to shift to other places due to the containment restrictions. But many were forced to come out to the roads to clear the blocked drainages while police and health authorities stood helpless. Many electric appliances were destroyed and people including kids and elderly had to stay in the flooded house throughout the night as they could not go to safer places due to the lockdown. The areas which were severely hit are Velankanni, Chellanam Bazaar and Companypady where the waters entered even the coastal highway houses on eastern side of the road, which is more than 100m away from the sea. Even though the district administration has announced that relief camps will be opened if the situation gets worse, residents are not ready for the evacuation fearing virus infection in camps. As many as 201 Covid cases have been reported from Chellanam coast till Sunday and triple lockdown is in effect. The erosion is likely to continue as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued warning of high waves in the range of 3.5-3.8m till 11.30pm on Monday along the coast of Kerala from Pozhiyoor to Kasargod. People are protesting as their pleas to the government to create strong seawall before the monsoons were ignored multiple times. “The geobags were washed away within the first 15 minutes leaving nothing between us and the sea. It took me three hours to clean my house but the flooding will continue in the coming days too,” said Joseph Arackal, Chellanam Janakiyavedi convener. Residents also complained that the authorities including elected representatives did not visit the flood-hit regions citing lockdown. The erosion has also affected Covid testing in the region. Two persons reportedly went missing near Mulavukadu Sicily Jetty after a boat capsized in the lake on Sunday evening. Mulavukadu police have launched a rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/double-whammy-rough-sea-floods-chellanam/articleshow/77055465.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chennai||TN: Counselling for lateral entry, MBA, MCA to be held online||CHENNAI: Higher education minister K P Anbalagan on Sunday announced that counselling for lateral entry (direct admission in BE/BTech courses) and counselling for MBA and MCA courses will be conducted online in view of the Covid-19 crisis. Earlier, counselling for lateral entry admissions was to be held at Alagappa Government College of Engineering and Technology in Karaikudi. "Students had to travel to Karaikudi to take part in the admissions. So, we have decided to conduct online counselling this year," the minister said. The details of notification and websites will be announced later. Students who have completed polytechnic colleges usually join second year of BE or BTech programmes. Engineering colleges can fill up to 20% of seats in each branch through lateral entry. Around 15,000 students join engineering colleges through this process every year. MBA and MCA counselling will also be conducted online this year. "Counselling for MBA and MCA admissions and part -time BE and BTech admissions used to be held offline. But these admissions would also be held online from this academic year," the minister said. These two counselling sessions were scheduled to be held at Government College of Technology in Coimbatore. While the MBA degree programme receives more than 10,000 applications, MCA receives around 3,000 applications. For part time BE/BTech courses, around 5,000 applications are received by government engineering colleges every year. The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee had launched its online registration of applications for BE/BTech courses on July 15. So far, 60,000 students have registered and around 40,000 students have paid their fees. The minister also said the random number and ranks would be sent to students’ mobile numbers, besides releasing it on the website. TNEA officials have also clarified doubts to 2,290 students through telephone and email. A majority of the queries were related to calculating cut-off and previous year cut-off to colleges. Some students have also raised queries regarding creating username and password, sources said. The number of registrations in four days has increased the expectations from the colleges that the admissions would be more compared to the previous year. "The number of applications for engineering admissions is going to be more compared to the previous year. The interest among students to pursue engineering has increased. There is an expectation that technology growth would be phenomenal due to automation," said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/counselling-for-lateral-entry-mba-mca-to-be-held-online/articleshow/77056244.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Indian American kids raise funds for low-cost respiratory support device||Mangaluru: Three Indian American children have raised funds to procure five low- cost respiratory devices deemed helpful during Covid times at the hospitals in coastal districts. The low cost devices, christened Viveka Jeevavardhaka, were developed by a team from Vivekananda College of Engineering and Technology (VCET), Puttur. The New Jersey-based students raised funds for the World Central Kitchen, USA, through their performances and donated the devices to several hospitals in the coast, amid the rising Covid-19 cases. Bhakti Hegde, 16, told TOI: “My father Anand Hegde, an engineer, received a video about this device on his phone. I have been reading about difficulties migrants, especially women in India faced during the lockdown. I was keen on doing something for them and when my dad received this video, we thought of raising funds to donate a few of them. These devices can be helpful even after the Covid crisis ends.” Bhakti, a grade 11 student, shared this idea with Ananya and Pranav, who were happy to be on board. Through an online platform, she presented light music, while grade 9 students Ananya Bhat, performed a classical dance and Pranav Joshi, presented classical music on July 3. They managed to reach the target within a week of streaming the video live, “During the pandemic, we thought that this is the best thing we can do. I have been learning Bharatanatyam for the past eight years,” said 14 -year-old Ananya. Anand Hegde who hails from Sirsi said, “We may donate two more devices. Funds are being raised through crowdfunding platforms.” Professor Shrikanth Rao, HOD, electronics and communications engineering, VCET, said: Currently, we have completed the production of five devices, and based on the demand, we will take up production of more devices. Production of one-unit costing Rs 16,000 (plus taxes) takes about a week.” “We were hoping that the government would place orders. We never expected an NRI to take note of our work. The devices are expected to be handed over to hospitals during the week,” he said. The respiratory support device controls the quantity and speed of oxygen supplied from the oxygen cylinder and makes breathing easier for patients. It can also run on a battery unit. The Wenlock District Hospital had evaluated this device developed based on suggestions by a team of doctors, Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/indian-american-kids-raise-funds-for-low-cost-respiratory-support-device/articleshow/77050568.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Coastal district’s age-old immunity booster||Mangaluru: At the time where people are talking about immunity boosters due to Covid-19, Tulunadu has its own version of the same. Interestingly, it is taken only on ‘Aati Aamavase’ and believed to protect the individual taking it for the rest of the year. ‘Paale ketteda kashaya’, a bitter ayurvedic concoction, is served to each member of the family, including newborns. This year it will be taken on Monday. It is believed that the paale tree or devil’s tree bark has 108 medicinal properties on Aati Aamavase or new moon day. “For time immemorial, the Aati Aamavase date has varied according to the Tulu calendar, the day is considered as a holy day in the coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada and even in some parts of Kasaragod in Kerala. Drinking the concoction where the main ingredient is Pale tree bark juice, boosts immunity against diseases that are mostly particular to the rainy season, and it also has other health benefits,” says young researcher and lecturer Arun Ullal. He says that the pale tree has been an integral part of Tulu culture and tradition. The branches are used during weddings, and at temples. The bark of this tree is bitter and generates heat in the body, which is essential during the monsoon. This practice has been going on from the time of our ancestors, however till date Tulvas have stuck to the tradition, and are following it without making any changes. The kashaya is prepared by mixing ingredients like garlic, turmeric and ajwain seeds into it. Soon after the kashaya is served, to counter bitterness, jaggery or sugar is given. After this menthe ganji or fenugreek conji is eaten to cool down the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coastal-districts-age-old-immunity-booster/articleshow/77055471.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 20, 2020||Chennai||Veerappan’s daughter takes charge of Tamil Nadu's BJP youth wing, vows to remove caste barriers||CHENNAI: After being appointed as vice-president of Tamil Nadu BJP’s youth wing, forest brigand Veerappan’s daughter Vidhya has vowed to fight caste discrimination. Hailing from the dominant vanniyar community in northern Tamil Nadu, the 29-year-old law graduate is keen to break the caste barriers which have dominated the state politics for decades. “Everyone is equal here. I am keen on spreading this message. I believe only in humanity,” said Vidhya. The state’s northern region is infamous for caste killings and frequent clashes between vanniyars and dalits. She said she was determined to put an end to discrimination in the name of caste, community and religion; help youngsters evolve into better human beings and bring about a positive change in society. On her father, the notorious forest brigand who ruled the dense Satyamangalam jungles for many years before he was gunned down in 2004, Vidhya said: “For me, my father was a good human being. I met him only once when I was six years old. Before I grew up to understand what went wrong in his life that forced him to take a different path, he was gone.” Vidhya said she had heard a lot of good things about him. “Many have told me that he used to help the poor,” she said and added she chose a different path to do good work for society. Vidhya’s mother Muthulakshmi Veerappan is the state president of the women’s wing of Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi, a breakaway group of the PMK led by S Ramadoss. Vidhya joined the saffron party in February last year in Hosur in TN’s Krishnagiri district. “I am inspired by the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is active and works tirelessly for the development of the country. I don't believe in what others say about him. I have seen many people who have benefited from his welfare schemes,” she said. On Vidhya’s appointment, state BJP leaders said it was part of a strategy to identify and rope in young people from different communities and background and groom them to be future leaders. “She is one among the young cadres given the responsibility to take the party forward, besides making inroads into the vanniyar vote bank,” said a state-level functionary, seeking anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veerappans-daughter-takes-charge-of-bjp-youth-wing-vows-to-remove-caste-barriers/articleshow/77056246.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Two detained for assaulting cops||VADODARA: Two persons living in Danteshwar were detained for getting into a scuffle with cops in Pratapnagar on the midnight of Saturday when they were stopped for roaming around during curfew hours. According to police, Rahul Batham and Sumit Batham were stopped near Pratapangar railway over bridge as they were riding down on a scooter at a high speed. When they could not explain their late night adventure, nor stand properly, cops began doubting that they may be in an inebriated condition. They seized the scooter and took the duo to Wadi police station in a PCR van. On their way, the duo, however, started misbehaving and began hurling abuses at the police. They even resorted to physical abuse, cops claimed, adding that Rahul bit a head constable on his hand, while the other scratched him with fingernails. As the brawl aggravated, more cops intervened and the two accused were taken into custody. The two accused were booked for assaulting a public servant and using obscene words in a public place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-detained-for-assaulting-cops/articleshow/77055318.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Officials with district admin want to back out of Op Breakthrough||Kochi: Officials with various departments have asked the district administration to exempt them from Operation Breakthrough team as they have to prepare estimates of projects announced in the previous budget. According to officials, preparation of estimates of various work undertaken by their departments will have to be completed in a month. Which means, implementation of the remaining projects as part of Operation Breakthrough will have to be done by Kochi corporation single-handedly. It was after Kochi corporation authorities failed to execute projects to mitigate waterlogging in the city that the state government launched Operation Breakthrough with district collector S Suhas as its head. Officials with various government departments like major irrigation, minor irrigation, PWD, Periyar valley irrigation project, Muvattupuzha valley irrigation project and Kochi corporation were part of the project. “We have completed the work entrusted with us. Now, we have to go back to our home departments. Estimate works of a lot of projects are to be done,” an official associated with a project said. Meanwhile, there are apprehensions that the implementation of work under Operation Breakthrough will be adversely affected due to backing out of officials from other departments. Experience and expertise of the officials from departments like major irrigation, minor irrigation and other irrigation projects have been instrumental in implementing projects to avoid waterlogging in the city as part of the second phase of Operation Breakthrough. “In the first phase of Operation Breakthrough, officials with Kochi corporation had spearheaded designing of projects. Many of the projects in the first phase were selected as per the whims and fancies of the corporation authorities. So, less important projects and areas were selected in the first phase,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation. “The situation changed when the second phase of projects were designed by officials from the minor irrigation department. Then, projects were designed and implemented in a scientific manner. If we again entrust Kochi corporation officials with the implementation of the remaining projects, it will affect the efficiency of project implementation,” he added. It is the projects undertaken in the second phase of Operation Breakthrough that are pending now. Projects to the tune of around Rs 16 crore were approved for the second phase. Of this, 17 projects worth Rs 9 crore have been completed. Nine more works are to be executed. Increasing the depth of Mullassery canal, de-silting of the Link canal in the Pachalam area and Kareethodu in Vennala area are major projects which are yet to be implemented. At the same time, Kochi corporation is yet to implement many of the projects designed by the local body itself. “The superintendent engineer of Kochi corporation superannuated a couple of months ago. The vacancy is yet to be filled. How can a headless department take up all these responsibilities,” asked Chandran. “The local body officials are unable to implement their own projects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/officials-with-district-admin-want-to-back-out-of-op-breakthrough/articleshow/77055490.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Varanasi||VHS paid Rs 1K to Nepalese youth to get head tonsured||Varanasi: The Nepalese youth, who was tonsured by a little-known right-wing outfit – Vishwa Hindu Sena – in protest against what Nepal Prime Minister had said about Lord Ram, appeared before the Varanasi police on Saturday to claim that he was paid Rs 1,000 by the outfit for agreeing to get his head shaved. The Nepalese youth, Dharmendra Singh, has a voter ID card and claimed his ancestors had come from Nepal. The police, meanwhile, have so far arrested six persons involved in alleged tonsuring of a Nepalese by the members of a little-known right-wing group – Vishwa Hindu Sena (VHS) on Thursday. The main accused, VHS chief Arun Pathak, is absconding. The Nepalese youth, however, has told the police that he was paid Rs 1,000 by the accused to get his head tonsured. The police also increased the sections including 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of IPC and 7 Criminal Law Amendment Act in the FIR. Earlier, the FIR was lodged on Friday against Pathak under sections 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of IPC and 67 IT Act. The police claimed that it a deal of Rs. 1,000 between the Nepalese youth and the VHS members for tonsuring the head. SSP Amit Pathak on Saturday said that the Nepali youth, identified as Dharmendra Singh, confessed that he had received Rs. 1,000 from VHS to get his head tonsured. He also possesses Indian Aadhaar card and voter ID card, and dwells in a government quarter with his brother. The arrested persons were identified as Santosh Pandey, who shot the video of head shaving, Ayush alias Ashish Mishra, Raju Yadav, Amit Dubey, Rajesh Rajbhar and Jai Ganesh Sharma, who shaved the head of Nepali youth. The SSP said that the man, who is seen in video, lives in the government quarters of Jal Sansthan in Bhelupur area. His parents were employed at Jal Sasthan. His brother got the job after the demise of the mother. Presently, he lives with his brother. He has no idea where his ancestors lived in Nepal. During interrogation, he disclosed that Rajesh Rajbhar alias Mahagu and Jai Ganesh Sharma called on him on July 16 and offered him Rs. 1,000 for getting his head shaved in a programme at the ghat. Arun Pathak and his men were known to him. The SSP said that further investigation is in progress, and a manhunt has been launched to nab absconding Arun Pathak. The VHS member had allegedly tonsured him and also forced him to raise slogans against Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli for his recent controversial comments on Lord Ram. The incident took place on the bank of the Ganga in Samneghat area on Thursday. Arun Pathak had uploaded the video of the incident on his Facebook account. In the video, he could be heard instructing the unidentified Nepalese citizen to raise slogans in favour of Lord Ram and against the Nepal PM. The inscription of Lord Ram was also put on his tonsured head. The police swung into action after the video of the incident went viral. Even after the police action, Pathak justified his act by posting on his Facebook wall on Friday. He wrote that “humiliation of Lord Ram would not be tolerated”. He also urged the police and administration not to use indecent words for him, as he is not a criminal. He also warned that agitation would continue until the Nepal PM publicly apologizes for his remarks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vhs-paid-rs-1k-to-nepalese-youth-to-get-head-tonsured/articleshow/77044710.cms||Binay Singh
July 20, 2020||Varanasi||Six govt depts hand over vehicles for Covid services||Varanasi: To end the shortage of ambulances and other vehicles in the health department, all the vehicles of six government departments have been attached to streamline Covid-19 health services in the district. Taking note of the shortage of ambulances delaying the process of admission of persons tested positive for coronavirus and other mobilities of the health department officials, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal on Sunday issued an order. In this order he asked the head of departments including joint director agriculture, superintending engineer irrigation, deputy director economics and statistics, additional director animal husbandry, deputy director fishery and deputy director panchayati raj department to attach the vehicles of their departments to chief medical office with drivers and fuel. These departments will hand over the vehicles on Monday morning after which the CMO will ensure their utilisation by following the Covid-19 protocoal prescribed for the transportation of the infected persons. Their vehicles will remain attached with the CMO till next order while in case of performing any laxity in handover of vehicles the officials concerned will face music, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/six-govt-depts-hand-over-vehicles-for-covid-services/articleshow/77056777.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kanpur||Covid menace continues in dist, 10 succumb, 179 more test positive||Kanpur: For the first time since the first confirmed case of Covid-19 was reported in the city in March, a whopping 179 Covid-19 positive cases (between 5pm on July 18 to 5pm on July 19) were recorded by the district health department on Sunday. This was the highest number of Covid-19 recorded by the health department in 24 hours so far. And 10 persons succumbed to the infection on Sunday. This was for the third consecutive day when the number of Corona positive cases reported were above hundred. As per the data of three days provided by the district health department, 413 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the city. On July 17, 130 confirmed cases were reported followed by 104 people on next day and 179 positive cases registered on Sunday. In past three days 23 persons succumbed to the virus infection. The health department stated that the deceased were also suffering from other ailments like diabetes, respiratory problem etc. In July so far 77 Covid deaths were reported of which 46 persons died in past nine days (from July 11-July 19). The Covid toll has reached to 128. The number of active cases, which were only 253 on July 1, have now reached to 1,063. Meanwhile, a total of 32 persons were discharged from hospital on Sunday. According to the health department, of 2,500 people tested positive in the city 1,3,09 have been discharged. Health department informed that 10 people who died were residents of - Kidwai Nagar, Hanspuram in Naubasta, Gopalganj Nagar, Juhi Colony, Govind Nagar, TP Nagar, Kalyanpur Kala, Darshanpurwa, Babupurwa, Raipurwa. While nine persons died at LLR hospital, one person died at Kashiram Sayukt Hospital. All of them died while being treated. Only 486 samples for tests were collected on Sunday. A total of 623 samples were taken on the previous day. On Friday, 1169 samples were collected. On the previous day over one thousand samples were collected. This shows the rate of testing in the past couple of days has reduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-menace-continues-in-dist-10-succumb-179-more-test-positive/articleshow/77056800.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kanpur||Posters of Dubey’s 12 absconding henchmen put up for info: Cops||Kanpur: The police, on Sunday, put up posters with names and photographs of twelve aides of gangster Vikas Dubey after they were declared as proclaimed absconders. “We have put the poster at all public places along with contact number of the police,” said deputy superintendent of police Ram Sharan Singh. “With the help of this poster people can easily identify these absconders and inform us immediately. There are photographs of total 12 absconders posters put up at Subhash Chowk, Azad Chowk and tehsil premises. We have crossed the photos of the gangster Vikas Dubey, his right hand Amar Dubey and others who were killed in encounter,” he said and added, “We have also announced a reward for anyone who provides information about these absconding accused.” Six persons including gangster Vikas Dubey and his five aides were allegedly killed in an encounter since July 2 & 3 ambush in Bikru village of Chaubeypur, said a senior police official further. Before this, the police had released a photograph of the gangster Vikas Dubey, who escaped with his men after the ambush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/posters-of-dubeys-12-absconding-henchmen-put-up-for-info-cops/articleshow/77056793.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 20, 2020||Kanpur||Six killed as bus falls 20 feet after crashing into SUV on Agra-Lucknow Expressway||KANPUR: Six people, including the driver, were killed and more than 35 injured when a Delhi-bound private sleeper bus, full of migrants from Bihar, veered off the Agra-Lucknow Expressway and tossed into the fields 20 feet below after ramming a stationary SUV in Kannauj on Sunday morning. The bus was carrying 45 migrant workers from Madhubani district of Bihar, who returned home during the lockdown and were going back to Delhi to resume work, said Chhibramau SDM Gaurav Shukla. The accident took place near Sakrawa village of Kannauj around 5am when the driver apparently dozed off on the wheel and hit a stationary SUV. Both the vehicles went off the expressway and fell into the fields. The bus driver, Rajendra (40), a resident of Faridabad, is among the six deceased. Locals rushed to the spot and helped police rescue the trapped passengers. “The others deceased of the bus have been identified as Asharfi Nishad (50), Lalbabu (40), Laxmi Shah (42) Chandrika (55) and an unknown person,” police said in a statement. CM expresses grief over deathsOccupants of SUV were on way to PunjabFive persons travelling in the SUV received injuries and have been admitted to Saifai Medical University in Etawah. Nine injured bus passengers have also been admitted to Saifai Medical University, while 18 were hospitalised in Tirwa (Kannauj), said superintendent of police, Kannauj, Amrendra Pratap Singh. He said most passengers were migrants from Bihar while occupants of the SUV were going to Ludhiana in Punjab from Lucknow. “We are trying to ascertain their identity with the help of documents recovered from their possession,” a senior official added. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the deaths and directed district officials to provide proper treatment to injured persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/six-killed-as-bus-falls-20-feet-after-crashing-into-suv-on-agra-lucknow-expressway/articleshow/77056830.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Business||Flying fit: Immunity boosting beverages take off at airports||MUMBAI: When domestic flights were restarted in May, a motley staple of beverages from India’s domestic kitchens like haldi doodh, rasam, tulsi-mint shikanji, saffron sattu shake and amla aam panna — flying in on their reputation as immunity boosters — made their debut at food and beverage outlets of metro airports. At airport lounges, pre-packed meal boxes have already replaced buffets, to prevent spread of coronavirus. Other flyers largely stick to home-cooked food. The attendant anxiety that comes with travelling amid the pandemic has altered the gastronomic scene at airports, but in the case of Indian airports, the sale of immunity boosters seems to have taken off. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesCurcumin and Vitamin C drinks might not beat caffeinated beverages like tea and coffee, but in the past two months they have gained in popularity at various metros, says Gaurav Dewan, chief operating officer, Travel Food Services (TFS), which runs about 300 food outlets across various metro airports. There is a certain pattern to food preferences at metros though. “Haldi Doodh is the third largest selling beverage at Delhi airport and so is Tulsi-Mint Shikanji at Kolkata airport. Predictably, Rasam is popular at Chennai airport. Immunity boosters have been doing so well, we’ve been thinking of bottling and marketing it," he said. Another meal that has picked up sales across India’s airports during the pandemic is curd rice. “It’s a light meal, its healthy and fermented. Among our south Indian fare, curd rice used to account for only 2-3% of sales in pre-Covid times, now it accounts for over 15-20% and is sold throughout the day," he says. Among food items that have dropped in terms of preference are non-vegetarian meals. “We don’t know whether it’s related to Covid or the changed customer profile," he said. The pandemic has forced a mix of new menu options and technology onto the airport food scene. The manner of ordering food has changed as well. It’s common to now find employees walking around with iPads to help people order food. Scan a QR code, read the menu, choose the item, pay online and collect the order from the outlet. Akshara Pratap, a student who boarded a Delhi-Mumbai flight two weeks ago said: “Hardly any passengers were ordering or having meals. But quite a few were having beverages, probably tea or coffee. We were curious about contactless order and so I bought a cappuccino. But most eateries inside the terminals are still closed.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news At lounges, the new normal translates to pre-packed meals in spill-proof boxes. Pradip Somani, a frequent flyer on the Mumbai-Delhi route said, “In June, I travelled for the first time after lockdown was imposed. I stepped into the lounge at Mumbai airport to kill time and not to eat, as buffets are known to aid the spread of Covid. I was surprised to find a boxed meal of paneer, rice and roti instead. Other passengers too were rather okay with the new normal reality of boxed meals in lounges." Watch Covid-19 crisis: Immunity boosting beverages take off at airports||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flying-fit-immunity-boosting-beverages-take-off-at-airports/articleshow/77057224.cms||Manju V
July 20, 2020||Kanpur||New Consumer Protection Act comes into force today||Kanpur: The new Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which will be coming into effect from Monday, empowers a consumer to drag to court manufacturers, sellers and distributors found dealing with adulterated and spurious products. Welcoming the implementation of the new Consumer Act, Shyamji Srivastava, advocate, and president of Kanpur Bar Association said that the provisions notified by the government were related to consumer protection councils, consumer forums, about mediation, liability of services or products, penalty for manufacturing selling, distributing spurious goods or products containing adulterants. He said the district consumer forum, which has been renamed as district consumer commission, has a pecuniary jurisdiction up to Rs 1 crore while the pecuniary jurisdiction of the state consumer commission too has been increased up to Rs 10 crore. The matters above Rs 10 crore would be heard by the national consumer commission, he said. “Now a complainant can file a complaint within the territorial jurisdiction of the commission where the complainant resides or personally works for gain, meaning thereby that he can file a complaint anywhere in India”, he added. Kapil Sachan, advocate said the lawmakers have given teeth to the consumer courts to take action against errant businessmen and traders. “Under the new provisions, consumer courts can award six months jail or a fine up to Rs 1 lakh in cases where a consumer is not injured but in cases where consumer is injured the consumer court may slap a fine to the tune of Rs 5 lakh and award seven years jail term. In case if a consumer dies the court can impose a fine of Rs 5 lakh and award a jail term up to 7 years which can be extended up to life imprisonment”, he said. “The new Act guarantees six rights to a consumer. They are right to safety which involves the right to be protected from marketing of goods and services which could pose a threat to one’s life and property. The second is right to be informed in order to save a consumer from unfair trade practices as he has been given the rights to be informed about the quality, quantity, potency, purity, standard, and price of goods or services. Right to choose, right to be heard and right to consumer education” said Shyanji Srivastava. He said that under the provisions of the new Act, the consumer commission may take suo moto action if it feels that interest of people is affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/new-consumer-protection-act-comes-into-force-today/articleshow/77056804.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kanpur||Retired HC judge visits encounter site of gangster’s two aides, Shivli police station||Kanpur: Retired Allahabad high court judge Shashikant Agarwal of the one-member judicial commission, set up to probe gangster Vikas Dubey’s encounter and circumstances that led to it, visited Kanshiram Newada village and Shivli police station in Kanpur Dehat district on Sunday. Kanshiram Newada village was the encounter site where the don’s aides Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey were gunned down soon after Bikru ambush, while the gangster had killed a state minister in the Shivli police station in 2001. Besides, majority of criminal cases are registered against Dubey in Shivli police station only. “Judge Agarwal first visited Kanshiram Newada village where Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul, aides of gangster Vikas Dubey, were gunned down hours after they had killed eight police personnel in Bikru village,” informed police sources told TOI. The judge assessed all vital aspects that led to the encounter between police and two aides of the gangster, they added. “Later, the retired judge visited Shivli police station where BJP minister was allegedly killed by Dubey in 2001 but was acquitted as all eyewitness, including 25 policemen, turned hostile. He, specifically went through the case file of manager of Tarachand Inter College, Siddheshwar Pandey, who was allegedly murdered by Dubey in 2000 over a property dispute. Judge Agarwal also sought details of the history-sheet of gangster Vikas Dubey from Shivli police station records,” said police sources. Earlier, on July 13, the one-member commission had inspected the scene of crime where eight policemen, including Deputy SP Devendra Mishra were allegedly trapped and shot dead by gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides on July 3. The state government had ordered a judicial probe into the Bikru village ambush. The panel with its headquarters in Kanpur has to submit its report within two months. The probe will also cover the encounters of Bikru carnage accused between July 3 and July 10. Six criminals, including Dubey, were killed and two injured in these encounters. The judicial commission will also investigate police-criminal nexus to avoid recurrence of such incidents in future. It has been asked to suggest measures to prevent such nexus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/retired-hc-judge-visits-encounter-site-of-gangsters-two-aides-shivli-police-station/articleshow/77056808.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||DK ropes in volunteers for Covid war room||Mangaluru: As Dakshina Kannada is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths, the district administration has roped in volunteers of Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK) for its war room. A new Covid war room with more than 60 volunteers has been opened through the NYK at School of Social Work Roshni Nilaya in the city, to support the district administration in fighting the pandemic. They will trace primary and secondary contacts of those who test positive for the novel coronavirus, maintain databases, counsel the kith and kin of Covid victims, in addition to monitoring those under home quarantine. While Dakshina Kannada has recorded 3,311 cases as on Saturday, as per the district administration’s bulletin, 75 have died of Covid-19 in the district so far. The percentage of deaths against cases is higher than the state average in the district (see box). NYK district youth coordinator Raghuveer Suterpet said that the trained team of volunteers has already started supporting the district administration in managing the pandemic in the district. “There are three types of data related to home isolation, Covid care centres (CCC) and hospital patients that our volunteers are collecting. They have been calling routinely to get feedback from patients. Our volunteers have been finding out whether those who are in home isolation have separate bedrooms and washrooms. If any patient has no such facilities in the house, volunteers will initiate the process to shift the person to the CCC. Volunteers will also continue to be in touch with the patients even after shifting them to the CCC,” Raghuveer said. Volunteers collect complete data and continue monitoring by calling the patients till they are cured completely. In case of patients showing symptoms during home isolation or in the CCC, volunteers will make arrangements to shift them to the hospital. Similarly, data of those in hospitals too are collected. The whole process is recorded and the data is uploaded to the government portal on a real-time basis, he said. “Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh has provided sufficient number of computers and phone lines and other infrastructure. In addition, all safety equipment and immunity booster medicines also have been provided for the volunteers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-ropes-in-volunteers-for-covid-war-room/articleshow/77055535.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Sensitise youths towards uniqueness of Sanskrit: Nishank||Roorkee: Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Sunday said that there is a need to make the youths aware of the uniqueness of the Sanskrit language. The minister made the remark while addressing the online valedictory session of the 12-day-long Sanskrit Speaking Class organised by the Sanskrit Club of IIT Roorkee. “Sanskrit is one of the oldest languages of the world. There is a need to sensitise the new age generation towards the uniqueness and significance of Sanskrit language. Such initiatives go a long way in sensitising the young generation towards preserving the Indian culture and knowledge systems,” said Nishank. Professor AK Chaturvedi, director of IIT Roorkee, said, “The 12-day online classes taught the participants how to speak elementary Sanskrit.” The programme was launched on the occasion of Guru Purnima (July 5) by the Sanskrit Club of IIT Roorkee and was open to all with a workable knowledge of an Indian language anywhere in the world. The first-level online course was organised with the support of Samskrita Bharati, an NGO. The next four courses are scheduled to start from the first week of August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sensitise-youths-towards-uniqueness-of-sanskrit-nishank/articleshow/77055547.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Met issues heavy rainfall warning in five districts||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Sunday issued a yellow colour alert of heavy rainfall for five districts of Uttarakhand on July 20. According to the Met office, isolated places in Pauri, Haridwar, Nainital, Pithoragarh, and Bageshwar districts are likely to receive heavy spells of rainfall on Monday. On Sunday, intermittent showers lashed Dehradun and surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-issues-heavy-rainfall-warning-in-five-districts/articleshow/77055559.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Denied admission at hospital, woman delivers baby at bus stop||BACHANNAPET: A woman delivered her baby at a bus stop outside a government hospital here on Sunday after she was denied admission into the hospital. The hospital’s blood bank was reportedly shut and she needed to be given a blood transfusion. The woman was later shifted to the hospital after she gave birth to a son. According to Shaik Hussain, Champaka Hills government hospital staff rejected his pleas to admit his wife Shaik Bibi and advised him to go to MGM Hospital in Warangal. “Just as we came out of the hospital, my wife developed a pain. My mother-in-law assisted her and she gave birth to a baby boy at the bus stop,” said Hussain. Soon after the delivery, Hussain and some others rushed back to the hospital and got into an argument with the nursing staff, following which the hospital superintendent Raghu intervened and tried to convince Hussain. The hospital staff then rushed to the bus stop and shifted Bibi to the labour room. Speaking to TOI, hospital superintendent said that the hospital blood bank was shut after the lab technician tested positive for coronavirus. Bibi’s is said to be weak and need blood transfusion during the surgery. “We suggested the couple to go to MGM Hospital, to which they agreed. It is not a case of negligence,” he said. Meanwhile, witnesses said that the couple waited for two hours to get an ambulance but could not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/denied-admission-at-hosp-woman-delivers-baby-at-bus-stop/articleshow/77057095.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ernakulam market stall association decides not to open shops||KOCHI: The Ernakulam Market stall owners association has stated that they would not open shops unless the district administration revises the SOP being drafted for facilitating the functioning of the market. Association president C J George said that it would be impossible for them to function within the restrictions that are being stipulated by the district administration. Explaining their major contention, George said there are around 2,000 shops in the market area. This include vegetable vendors, provision dealers, cloth merchants and the like. “The administration is stipulating that only one-third of the shops would be allowed to function. However, the Ernakulam market stall owners association or any other merchant body cannot decide on who can open stalls or who should remain closed. If merchants’ organizations take a decision on such matter it would lead to disputes and even clashes between traders,” he said. The traders’ body has suggested that the merchants are willing to close down shops on one side of the road on given days, meanwhile the shops on the other side can function. The traders are demanding that as the district administration is planning to limit the functioning of the market to 5pm, they should allow entry and exit points. “There are merchants dealing in perishable goods. Hence, there needs to be fast movement of these goods to outer regions. The merchants are not keen to have unsold goods as it will lead to huge loss,” said George. He said the market receives around 25-30 truckloads of vegetables per day. Apart from this, around 10 truckloads of bananas arrive in the market every day. Also, 10-15 truckloads of provisions are brought here on a daily basis. “These are all essential items. The traders at the market are generally wholesale dealers. Retail merchants in the city as well as neighbouring areas and even other districts come here to purchase goods. If vehicle movement gets restricted through one road, how would the sales take place?” he asks. The market stall owners are of the view that if district administration fails to consider the major demands, they would not be able to open shops. “This is a matter of our survival. It is better for us to keep the shops closed if these demands are not met,” added George.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-market-stall-association-decides-not-to-open-shops/articleshow/77055624.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad RWAs take to social media to resist closure of roads||SECUNDERABAD: A day after the local military authority (LMA) shut the four major civilian roads in AOC Circle, aggrieved citizens on Sunday launched a social media campaign disapproving the decision. Several short duration videos are trending on WhatsApp groups within the resident welfare associations (RWAs). While severely criticising the road closure, which has adversely affected the free movement of people, the videos described the LMA’s decision as violative of the orders of chief of army staff and Centre. In one video, a citizen alleged that LMA blocked a civilian road that connects Yapral and adjoining areas by constructing a wall at Lakdawala. Many described LMA’s decision of allowing only ambulances on cantonment roads as inhumane and against the law. “Not everyone uses ambulances for medical emergencies. People do use their own vehicles to reach hospitals,” RWAs said in a video, adding General Bipin Rawat must intervene. Another RWA expressed doubts on the motive of Army . “LMA has put up the gates and built walls on the civilian roads. This has been the strategy of LMA. First, they put up signage saying that the roads are under repair and a little while later they construct walls. This is happening since 2011. They are gradually occupying all civilian roads,” says the video. As per the century-old records preserved by Telangana State Archives & Research Institute, the roads being blocked were constructed by Nizams. The issue came to light when the state government approached the archives department in 2016, regarding documents pertaining to cantonment roads. Accordingly, the department gave proof stating that the roads in Secunderabad were laid by the Nizam rulers.“Even the Defence Estates Office, Telangana, official ‘military land records’ have revealed that the closed roads belong to the public,” secretary, Federation of North Eastern Colonies Secunderabad, CS Chandrasekhar told TOI. “The procedure was issued by the MoD regarding road closure but the SCB follows none,” he added.When TOI reached the defence PRO, the official did not respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-take-to-social-media-to-resist-closure-of-roads/articleshow/77057098.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Port modifies SOP to prevent Covid clusters||Mangaluru: New Mangalore Port is on alert to prevent this gateway to Karnataka’s Exim trade becoming a potential Covid-19 cluster. After instances of major industries dotting the state, including those in Ballari, Mysuru, Raichur and even here reporting a spurt in clusters. New Mangalore Port Trust, since the identification of the first positive case on its premise on Friday, has changed gears with its established SOP, to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Friday’s case was reported in the fire and emergency services department of the port, despite following the SOP strictly. NMPT chairman A V Ramana said that the contacts of the infected person were isolated and tested for Covid. With 13 of those primary contacts testing positive, Ramana said all of them have been quarantined, including their secondary contacts. Anticipating the outbreak reaching this stage, Ramana said the port had prepared a business continuity plan in March that covered splitting the workforce into teams and working from different buildings at different locations, and inking an exclusive arrangement with private labs for mass testing of field staff. “Due to community spread, the period till August end will be challenging, as many staff staying outside the port premises are getting infected,” he said. Keeping this in mind, the port at its latest board meeting, has also decided to allow stevedores to use private cargo handling equipment from the open market, without depending on the port’s machinery, he said. In addition, the port has also kept its hospital fully geared to act as a Covid care centre to the extent possible, by roping in additional doctors on a short contract basis. “We do not want to be found wanting if there is a full blown crisis,” Ramana said. With monsoon in full vigour, Ramana said there is a social obligation on NMPT to accommodate private fishing trawlers amidst Covid. “We worked out a plan three months in advance and formulated the SOP involving the fisheries department, Indian Coast Guard and fisher folk, as per which they are regulated through a well-defined system through separate make-shift gate with approval from customs, so that they do not mix with regular port users,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/port-modifies-sop-to-prevent-covid-clusters/articleshow/77055573.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||ADM appointed as nodal officer to issue emergency passes||Dehradun: In the wake of the TS Rawat government capping the number of visitors to the state at 1,500 a day, the district administration has appointed Dehradun ADM Arvind Pandey as the nodal officer to issue emergency passes. Apart from the passes issued to those entering Uttarakhand, the Dehradun district administration has also been authorised to issue 50 passes for people entering the city citing special reasons. District magistrate Ashish Srivastava has also instructed the officials to issue passes under exceptional circumstances through a dedicated email ID admepass.dehradun@gmail.com. For all others seeking permission to enter Dehradun, applications must be submitted through the Dehradun smart city app. The DM also inspected the Asharodi checkpost on Sunday and issued instructions regarding the limit on entrants. Meanwhile, the district administration has removed lane number 8 Birpur Khurd in Rishikesh from the list of containment zones. The locality has completed its 28 days of surveillance and no new case has been reported from the area. However, sanitation workers would continue to sanitise the area on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/adm-appointed-as-nodal-officer-to-issue-emergency-passes/articleshow/77055591.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Vatican directs bishops to report clerical abuse of minors to police||Idukki: In the wake of increase in sexual-abuse cases in Catholic Church, Pope Francis has instructed bishops to report clerical abuse of minors to police. Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) in Vatican issued a manual (vademecum) on July 16 to help bishops, dioceses and other ecclesiastical establishments handle and prevent sexual-abuse cases of minors by church officials. Fr Abraham Kavilpurayidathil, PRO and chancellor of Syro-Malabar Church, said, “We will soon implement the new guidelines issued by the Vatican. In 2019, the Vatican issued similar guidelines and the Syro-Malabar Church had implemented them from June 1 this year.” As per the new guidelines, a committee has to be formed in each diocese to ensure a safe environment for minors and vulnerable adults. “The committee consists of priests, nuns and the laity (both men and women). The committee will study each sexual-abuse incident reported under its purview and conducted a probe parallel to local police. It will then submit a report to the Vatican,” Fr Kavilpurayidathil said. “Even if there is no civil or criminal case, the church will take action against anyone who violates the dignity of women or vow of chastity,” the priest said. The handbook issued by the Vatican lists the three new delicts (violation) involving minors introduced by the church. They are the acquisition, possession (even temporary) or distribution by a cleric of pornographic images of minors under the age of 14 (as of January 1, 2020, under the age of 18) for purposes of sexual gratification by whatever means or using whatever technology, stated the manual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vatican-directs-bishops-to-report-clerical-abuse-of-minors-to-police/articleshow/77055588.cms||Sandeep Thomas
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 135 new cases, tally at 2,043||Coimbatore: The total number of novel coronavirus cases in the district crossed the 2,000-mark on Sunday, when 135 people tested positive for the virus, even as the toll rose to 20, from 18 on Saturday. The district’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 2,043, of which 1,193 are active cases.A health official said there weren’t any imported cases in the district on Sunday. The Selvapuram cluster continued to grow bigger with seven new cases, while 16 people tested positive for the virus from Kunniyamuthur, five from KC Thottam and three from Saravanampatty.To contain local transmission of the virus, the city corporation carried out a massive disinfection drive in every nook and corner of Selvapuram by deploying 10 trucks and 14 other small vehicles, including mini trucks. Corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar flagged off the drive. The two Covid-19 deaths that the state included in its bulletin were that of a 50-year-old man who died of acute respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia and systemic hypertension in the ESI Hospital on Saturday morning, five days after his hospitalization, and a 67-year-old man, who died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Friday. He was suffering from hypertension, type 2 diabetes and bilateral bronchopneumonia. The state is yet to include the death of a 50-year-old woman, who died in the ESI hospital on Saturday night, days after her hospitalization, in its list. According to health officials, the woman had comorbidities such as acute respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia and diabetics.According to officials, 1,193 people are in home quarantine in the district. Meanwhile, 112 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the ESI Hospital and CMCH on Sunday after recovery.The neighbouring Tirupur recorded 41 fresh cases, taking its Covid-19 count to 473. There are 253 active cases and 2,942 people in home quarantine in that district.In his Twitter handle, Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan said a 50-year-old woman from Thotti Mannarai, who was tested positive for the virus after she was admitted to the government hospital with fever and breathing difficulties on Friday, died on Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-135-new-cases-tally-at-2043/articleshow/77056314.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Leopard enters a house in Nainital town, carries away dog||NAINITAL: A leopard was spotted sneaking into a house and carrying away a dog in Nainital town on Saturday night. The entire incident was captured on CCTV. The incident took place in the Zoo Road area of Nainital. When the family was inside the house, a leopard entered the premises. The CCTV footage shows that the dog escaped the first attack but the leopard followed it and carried it away. #WATCH A leopard sneaks into a house and carries away a dog in Nainital town on Saturday night. #Nainital… https://t.co/CPwRGSdQTv— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1595177855000“We have two dogs, both of them were out. We heard the barking and when I came out, I saw the leopard carrying one of them with it. We started shouting in a state of panic following which the leopard ran into the forest area,” said Tapisha Adhikari, the owner of the house where the leopard entered. The locals say that this is not the first time that a leopard has been sighted in the area. “The area is right next to the Nainital Zoo and is covered with forest. Therefore, leopards have entered the streets earlier as well, however, this is the first time that a big cat attacked and killed a dog,” said Adhikari. Meanwhile, the forest department officials said that they have talked to the family and are trying to trace the animal so that it does not attack any human. “We have talked to the family and are trying to trace the animal. We will make sure that no human is attacked by the leopard in the area,” said a forest department official. Earlier on Thursday night, a leopard that is believed to have killed a one-year-old child and a 60-year-old woman in the first week of July in Almora was shot dead by shooters engaged by the forest department. Watch On cam: Leopard enters house, takes away puppy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-enters-a-house-in-nainital-town-carries-away-dog/articleshow/77055587.cms||Prashant Jha
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Maharaj attacks ex-CM Rawat, helds him responsible for Kedarnath deluge||Dehradun: Days after Congress veteran Harish Rawat attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying that “the saffron party is busy de-stabilising state governments while the country is battling a pandemic”, Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Sunday alleged that the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy could have been averted if Rawat, the then water resource minister, had taken the initiative to conduct the survey of glaciers in the Himalyan state. Satpal Maharaj, while speaking to the mediapersons at his residence, maintained that Harish Rawat has no right to ask questions from the incumbent government as he has committed hundreds of glaring mistakes in his own tenure as state’s chief minister, including allowing the builders to construct structures near Ganga. Maharaj added that if a study of glaciers was done during the UPA rule, the Kedarnath deluge could have been averted. “The Wadia Institute of Himalyan Geology had already warned the then government about active glaciers in Kedarnath but no one took it seriously, including Rawat. Will he be seeking apology for this,” he said while adding that he personally has initiated a study of all the glaciers in the state under Indian Hydrology section. Meanwhile, BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat compared the Congress leader to demon king Ravan. “Harish Rawat is the Kalnemi (demon mentioned in epic Ramayan) and Ravan of the Congress who has been sent to stop the Hanuman of BJP. However, he won’t be able to stop us as we are here to bring Ram Rajya,” said Bhagat. He added that Congress is a party that has always refused to accept the existence of Lord Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maharaj-attacks-ex-cm-rawat-helds-him-responsible-for-kedarnath-deluge/articleshow/77055604.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 20, 2020||Salem||Salem man arrested for setting tyres on fire in front of temples||COIMBATORE: A 48-year-old native of Salem was arrested on Sunday in connection with setting tyres on fire in front of three temples in the city and one on the outskirts. Identifying the accused as G Gajendran, of Arisipalayam in Salem, police said he was not a member of any religious organization or political outfit. Pointing out that Gajendran had left home on Friday after a quarrel with his family, police said quoting his kin that he was in the habit of setting things on fire after fighting with them. Police said they zeroed in on the accused based on the surveillance footage from CCTV cameras in the temples and nearby areas. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Gajendran had not returned home after the incident. The city police collected his details from family members and circulated his photos among their counterparts in Tirupur, Erode and Salem districts, and to toll plazas. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said Gajendran was intercepted by a police team during a vehicle check at RG Pudur on Sunday evening. “He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.” According to another police officer, Gajendran was getting treatment for depression and deaddiction at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). “He escaped from the hospital on July 14 and went home on a moped that was parked on roadside. He fought with his family members on Friday and set pillows on fire in front of his house. Later, he left the house and did not return.” Police said Gajendran has confessed to have setting tyres ablaze in front of all the four temples - Mahaliamman shrine on NH Road at Five Corner, Vinayagar temple at Kottaimedu, Mappillai Vinagar shrine in front of the city railway junction and Selva Vinayagar temple at Nallampalayam. Meanwhile, Hindu Munnani founder Rama Gopalan said the government had failed to take action against the people who were uploading derogatory videos on Hindu gods on YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-man-arrested-for-setting-tyres-on-fire-in-front-of-temples/articleshow/77056323.cms||A Subburaj
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: AOC roads report in cold storage||SECUNDERABAD: A survey report regarding the construction of alternative roads to relieve people from the persistent problem of road closures in the AOC Circle, is gathering dust for the last three years. In 2017, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Local Military Authority (LMA) jointly conducted a detailed survey on alternative roads. In fact, both came to a conclusion that 25 acres of defence land had to be acquired for this purpose. The LMA even asked the civic body to either allot alternate land or pay compensation for the acquired land. At one stage the state government even took a decision to allot alternate land to LMA. The state wanted to build two skyways to ease traffic congestion in the cantonment area. Thereafter, the proposal did not gain traction. “Had those plans materialised, lakhs of people could have got respite today. Now those living in Malkajgiri, Alwal, Bolarum, Yapral and other parts of Secunderabad are put to severe inconvenience,” said BT Srinivasan, general secretary, United Federation of Residents Welfare Associations (UFERWAS). “The LMA even took a decision to move army establishments which had thoroughfares connecting major civilian roads,” he added. Even the skyway plans through the Allahabad Gate, Wellington Road, Gough Road and Ordnance Road are in cold storage for several years. “For building the skyway, we need not require the defence land, but permissions are must to construct pillars for the elevated skyway on the four roads, which pass through the AOC Circle,” a senior SCB official told TOI. RWAs of Safilguda, however, urged the SCB and Telangana government to find a permanent solution to this road closure problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aoc-roads-report-in-cold-storage/articleshow/77057099.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||As cases spike, CM Rawat orders more testing and surveillance||Dehradun: In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, chief minister TS Rawat on Sunday issued orders to further increase testing and surveillance to curb the outbreak. At present, both Asha and Anganwadi workers visit each and every household to trace people with Covid-19 symptoms. Similarly, senior citizens and those with comorbidities are under constant surveillance for any sign of the virus. The CM said, “We are constantly increasing Covid-19 testing in the state. While an average of 1,660 samples were tested on a daily basis last week, it has increased to 2,487 now. The rate of testing in the state is now 9,981 per million population which is slightly lower than the national average. We are confident of matching it with the national average this week.” Rawat also ordered all district magistrates to rope in private labs to increase the testing in the state. “Antigen testing kits are being made available in all districts soon,” he added. At present, there are 342 dedicated Covid-19 care centres in the state with a capacity of 23,426 bed. Out of this, 22,762 are now lying vacant. These include 338 ICU beds, 243 ventilators and 1,197 oxygen support beds. Similarly, Asha and Anganwadi workers have completed two rounds of surveillance in a majority of districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-cases-spike-cm-rawat-orders-more-testing-and-surveillance/articleshow/77055595.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Tasmac staffer held for illegal sale of liquor||Coimbatore: A 28-year-old man was arrested on Sunday morning for selling liquor to public at a Tasmac bar at Amarjothi Garden in Tirupur.The 15 Velampalayam police identified the accused as K Veerapandi, a native of Pudukkottai. He was a salesman with the Tasmac bar.Pointing out that none of the shops were allowed to open on Sunday owing to complete lockdown, a police officer said Veerapandi had stored liquor bottles in the bar, which he opened for public, flouting the norms. Police have seized 38 bottles of liquor from the bar and registered a case against Veerapandi under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tasmac-staffer-held-for-illegal-sale-of-liquor/articleshow/77056326.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown forces Narikuravas to take up mobile grocery biz||Coimbatore: The coronavirus-induced restrictions have forced the Narikurava community (gypsies) to give up their traditional means of livelihood and venture into selling groceries, door-to-door.For 30-year-old E Manikandan from this community, life has undergone a sea change since March, when the lockdown kicked in. Earlier, he was involved in making beaded necklaces, apart from running a small tattoo business in Annur. Even though the money was meagre, they were not dependent on others. The lockdown bolted his business and left him penniless, with no souce of income in sight. It was then that he began selling grocery items such as cumin seeds, mustard, cloves and pulses, on their motorbikes.Over 75% of the community from Marudur, Thudiyalur, Avinashi, Palladam and Pollachi have taken up the mobile grocery business. With a microphone attached to his vehicle to announce that each packet costs only Rs 10, Manikandan – a resident of Marudur village near Karamadai – travels through several villages, sometimes as far as 30 km away. While some people stop him to buy grocery items, many rebuke him for entering their village during the pandemic. After a day’s work, Manikandan stops at Metttupalayam or Karamadai to refill his stock before making his way home. Before going to bed, his entire family sits together to separate and pack grocery items in small sachets. “From our meagre income, we shell out at least Rs 200 a day for petrol, because our business is dependent on the number of villages we travel in a day. After purchasing stock for next day’s sale, only Rs 300 to Rs 400 remains in my hand... I have to manage all my expenses in that,” he said. Manikandan’s travails are common among other members of his community too. R Rajapriya, 41, whose husband has recently begun selling grocery items, said, “After the lockdown was imposed, we were completely dependent on assistance provided by the state government and volunteers. But at some point, we knew we will have to manage our own expenses.”  “As essential commodities are the only items that can be sold now, a lot of people have taken up the business. As three to four people visit the same village, we do not make any profit,” said G Bhagyaraj, a member of the community who has taken up the grocery business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-forces-narikuravas-to-take-up-mobile-grocery-biz/articleshow/77056316.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CEO seeks ECI permission to do away with by-elections to two assembly seats||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena has once again appealed to Election Commission of India to spare Kerala from conducting byelection to two assembly seats lying vacant following the death of incumbent MLAs. In a meeting of electoral officers in the country via videoconference on Friday, Meena apprised the chief election commissioner about the Covid-19 related restrictions in place in Kerala and the practical difficulties in conducting the elections during the thick of the pandemic. It’s for the second time that the chief electoral officer of the state is making such an appeal to the Election Commission. As per the rules, byelections to assembly segments have to be conducted within six months after the seat gets vacant. Kuttanad assembly seat has been lying vacant since the death of MLA Thomas Chandy in December 2019, while Chavara seat got vacant in March 2020 after the demise of MLA Vijayan Pillai. “I have apprised the ECI about the practical difficulties in conducting the by-elections during this pandemic situation. The commission said it would consider the request sympathetically,” CEO Teeka Ram Meena told TOI. The ECI is expected to go by the opinion of the state chief electoral officer considering the Covid situation and also that the incumbent government has only less than a year in the office. Meanwhile, the election commission has announced a set of guidelines to be followed by the chief electoral officers in the country with regard to the conduct of elections. Some of the major points in the guidelines are: All voters coming to polling booths should wear masks without fail. Covid-positive voters, those above 65 years of age and disabled people should not come to polling booths as they should be allowed to cast postal votes. The number of voters being attached to each polling booth should be reduced to 1,000 from the existing 1,500. The hustings should mostly be online and a maximum of five workers would be allowed in house campaigns. There would be restrictions in counting centres too as the number of tables set for counting should be 7 instead of 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ceo-seeks-eci-permission-to-do-away-with-by-elections-to-two-assembly-seats/articleshow/77055617.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Covid fear slows down war on vector-borne diseases||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has recorded one death due to dengue in June — which is the only casualty under the disease head for this year — and 25 cases out of the 99 samples as on July 14. The civic body also registered only two cases of malaria so far from the 75,086 smear samples (blood slides) as part of the malaria disease surveillance. A majority of these blood slides were collected by February — average 19,500 a month — while the number drastically dipped to below 10,000 a month as half of the health workers got busy with Covid-19 surveillance. Rest of the anti-malaria squads were turned away by people fearing novel coronavirus infection. The NMC malaria and filaria department largely banks on private hospitals, national urban health mission (NUHM) workers, and government hospitals to trace vector-borne diseases. A couple of private hospitals TOI spoke to said they have been witnessing several patients from mosquito-prone areas having fever, joint pain, rashes, drop in platelets. “Many people are fearful of visiting hospitals despite having fever and relying on telemedicine. Some big hospitals are also observing that people are taking HCQ (anti-malaria) on their own,” said hospital sources. As compared to 2019, the smear collection had picked up at the beginning of this year only to come to a grinding halt from March. Anti-malaria squads had collected 19,403 blood slides in January this year as compared to 17,896 during the corresponding period last year. However, against 21,490 samples from March 2019, health workers could get only 8,969 samples this March after reaching 21,016 a month before. Officials said blood smear examination is gold standard to differentiate between plasmodium vivax and plasmodium falcipuram species of the virus. “If diagnosis is not proper, malaria could be fatal,” they said. Anti-filarial campaign to administer triple drugs — DCE or diethylcarbamazine citrate, albendazole and ivermectin — too was halted as people refused to take them. The campaign was supposed to go on till March 20. NMC malaria and filarial officer Dipali Nasare said monsoon rains have started, but many people have still not dismounted coolers which are major source of mosquito breeding. “People must adopt preventive measures or they will be responsible for their fate,” she said. Regarding malaria, she said, “People must cooperate when health teams that approach them. They shouldn’t hide their illness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-fear-slows-down-war-on-vector-borne-diseases/articleshow/77056337.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Railway employees develop auto thermal scanner||AHMEDABAD: A way to scan body temperature without an employee needing to hold a thermal gun at an arm’s distance from another was the need of the hour. In a true demonstration of the ‘atmanirbhar’ spirit, engineers of the Ahmedabad coaching depot of Western Railway have developed a body temperature scanner that works automatically with the employee monitoring the scanner able to maintain safe social distance from the subject.  The temperature scanner can be mounted on a wall. When someone stands before it, a green light blinks if the body temperature is normal or flashes red with a buzzer being set off if the temperature of the subject is higher than normal. The group of employees who developed the machine includes junior engineer Prabhulal Baghel, and Sarvesh Chauhan, Matadin and Kamlesh Sainin. The team used a PVC box, relay, buzzer and distance sensor to build the machine currently being used to scan employees of Ahmedabad coaching depot for body temperature, after review of the project by divisional railway manager, Deepak Kumar Jha. The Western Railway now plans to install similar devices at each office. The machines will not only save the need of dedicated human resources, but also increase the safety of those monitoring body temperatures of employees. A senior officer said that if such machines were installed at four spots at the entrance of stations, it may solve the need to scan each passenger. Earlier during lockdown, the railway employees had manufactured their own sanitizers and masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/railway-employees-develop-auto-thermal-scanner/articleshow/77056328.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Ex-jawan of BSF held for robbery||Haridwar: Police have arrested a former BSF jawan from Shyampur area on Sunday in connection with a robbery case. The accused, Piyush alias Ashok Kumar, a resident of Najibabad in Bijnor, allegedly attacked a man with an iron rod and snatched his mobile phone and cash. Shyampur SHO Deepak Singh Kathait said, “The accused was in the BSF and left the job due to personal reasons. We arrested him on Sunday and recovered the stolen items. A case has been registered against him under section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-jawan-of-bsf-held-for-robbery/articleshow/77055603.cms||MS Nawaz
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling key accused Faisal Fareed detained in Dubai||KOCHI: One among the prime suspects in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case and the racket’s link in the UAE, Faisal Fareed has been intercepted by law enforcement agencies in the UAE, official sources in Kochi confirmed. The person is a suspect of both Commissionerate of Customs Preventive (CCP), Kerala, and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) that are probing the smuggling, misusing the diplomatic channel at Thiruvananthapuram airport and the terror funding angle behind it, respectively. Faisal is suspected to have sent the consignment in question in the name of charge d’Affairs of the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram from which 30kg of gold was seized. According to sources with the investigation agencies here, Faisal was picked up by Dubai police two day ago from his residence in Al Rashidiya in Dubai. It is also learnt that Dubai police are also interrogating him based on the information shared with them by Indian agencies. “UAE is also conducting a probe relating to the possible involvement of diplomats and the gang’s operations in their country including suspected forging of documents. He is expected to be handed over to us after their probe gets over,” said a source privy to the information. A counter terrorism treaty signed by India and UAE in 2018 is going to fasten the handing over process, source said. Earlier, a look-out-circular (LOC) was issued by MHA. The move was to ensure that he can be caught upon his arrival and exit at any port in India. NIA had also approached Interpol to issue a blue notice so as to collect information about him from the member countries of the International agency. Faisal’s name first appeared in the remand report of the first accused Sarith PS soon after his arrest. It was said in the report that as per the statements of Sarith, he used to place orders to Faisal who runs a provision store in UAE for supplying packing and forwarding the diplomatic cargo as instructed by Sarith, which is not the legal practice of forwarding diplomatic cargo. Later it was revealed that the accused was a key link of the racket in UAE. However, Faisal later came in front of television channels in Dubai and denied allegations against him, and claimed innocence. He told news channels that he was a businessman and that he had no connections to gold smuggling. However, law enforcement agencies kept pursuing him. NIA filed a plea to issue a non-bailable warrant against him at the special court for NIA cases here on July 13. As per the agency’s request, the court issued an open ended non-bailable warrant. With this NIA was able to get the ministry of home affairs to issue the LOC against Faisal. They also approached Interpol with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-smuggling-key-accused-faisal-detained-in-dubai/articleshow/77055615.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Osmania University gets Rs 10 crore grant for life sciences||HYDERABAD: The Osmania University (OU) has been sanctioned a grant of Rs 10 crore by the department of biotechnology (DBT) under the ministry of science and technology, government of India for five years. The grant, which was sanctioned as part of ‘boost to university interdisciplinary life sciences department for education and research (BUILDER)’ programme, will be utilised by the life sciences department to upgrade the infrastructure and equipment and to promote interdisciplinary teaching and research. “Of the Rs 10 crore sanctioned to OU, Rs 6 crore will be utilised on upgradation of labs and purchase of equipment such as high-power computer involved in genomics and confocal microscopic and mass spectroscopy. Remaining amount of Rs 4 crore will be utilised for research in three thrust areas -- genomics, therapeutics and nanotechnology for medical and industrial applications,” said Prof Pratap Reddy, principal, University College of Science, OU. As part of infrastructure development, the varsity is set to upgrade central facilities such as animal house, genomics, greenhouse etc. The DBT-BUILDER augmented infrastructure facilities will benefit close to 400 students, including post-graduate and research scholars of the life sciences department. It will facilitate high-end research and enhance the research output from the life sciences department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-gets-rs-10-cr-grant-for-life-sciences/articleshow/77057102.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Downpour triggers civic issues in Pithoragarh||Pithoragarh: Heavy rainfall on Saturday and Sunday triggered civic issues for the residents of Pithoragarh district. While the Munsyari town got cut off from the district headquarter, the Ghatiyabagar-Lipulekh road near the China border in Dharchula got blocked for traffic movements. The swollen Gori river washed away five houses and large tracts of cultivable land at Chori Bagar village in Bangapani sub-division of the district. However, no casualty was reported as the houses had been evacuated in advance. “The residents of these houses were shifted in advance. The administration has also provided ration and other essential items to the affected people,” Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande told TOI. The downpour also led to the collapse of a concrete bridge at Tall Ghorpatta in Munsyari on Saturday night. The bridge connected Munsyari to nearby villages. Heavy rainfall also damaged 17 drinking water pipelines in Munsyari and disrupted the electric supply of 37 nearby villages. According to the district disaster management office, another bridge at Dhapuagad also got damaged due to rainfall. The Thal-Munsyari and Jauljibi-Munsiyari roads got blocked at several spots and works were ongoing to restore the stretches for traffic movement till the time of filing this report. In Dharchula, the strategically important Ghatiyabagar-Lipulekh road, which was inaugurated by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on May 8 this year, got blocked at three places due to rain spells. Due to this, seven villages in the Byas Valley region got disconnected. The Tawaghat-Sobla road also got blocked, cutting off villages in the Darma Valley region. Meanwhile, the district administration has ordered the tehsils to assess the damage and file a report on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/downpour-triggers-civic-issues-in-pithoragarh/articleshow/77055611.cms||Prem Punetha
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Civilians raise road closure issue with CP||Secunderabad: For the first time since the road closure issue came to the fore in 2014, a civilians’ group on Sunday reached out to the city police commissioner to complain against the LMA. The primary complainant, S Anoop Kumar, representing the Open Secunderabad Cantonment All Roads (OSCAR) group, accused the LMA of unnecessarily harassing civilians and resorting to illegal practices. However, the CP said he wasn’t aware of the complaint as nobody has approached him physically. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civilians-raise-road-closure-issue-with-cp/articleshow/77057104.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Elderly cops get a breather in DK, Udupi||Mangaluru: Somanath (name changed), 59, a head police constable who is about to retire in a few months is spending quality time with his family, which he never had all throughout his service period. “I thank the pandemic which has come as a blessing in disguise for police personnel who otherwise slog without week offs and missing important family events due to work,” says a relaxed Somanath. The police department has asked personnel in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi aged above 55 to work from home, while exempting officials up to the rank of ASI. “Police, especially from lower rungs, who were denied leave earlier are now getting much needed rest and family time. Police were always required to be on duty either due to communal clashes or crime. We used to work without taking week offs. Now I am happy that I can spend quality time with my family,” adds Somanath. When there are few like Somanath who wish to be home, there are others who say the police station was their first home and are feeling restless without any work. “Illade kullare bari banga apundu ye (It’s difficult to sit idle at home). I wish to go back to work soon as there is a lot of pending documentation,” says a police head constable aged 57. “Wish I was 55 years now. I envy our seniors,” quickly adds a young police constable. A senior police official said those who are in office posting are doing documentation work from home. “However, about 20% of outdoor work has been affected with the absence of senior heads,” he said. In Mangaluru City Commissionerate, more than 50 persons aged above 55 are asked to work from home. “Despite the pandemic and many of them being infected, enthusiasm hasn’t been affected,” said City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash. Several police personnel have tested positive in the two districts and many of them have recovered. Dakshina Kannada superintendent of police BM Laxmi Prasad said 30 personnel aged above 50 have been asked to stay home. In Udupi, it is mandatory for personnel aged above 50 to remain at home said SP N Vishnuvardhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/elderly-cops-get-a-breather-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/77055618.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||4 men arrested for attacking forest guard at Narasipuram||Coimbatore: The Alandurai police on Saturday arrested four men for attacking a forest guard at Narasipuram, on the outskirts of the city.Forest guard of Boluvampatti forest range A Nehru Dhass, who was patrolling the area, had found R Arunprasath, 30, of Kanuvai, B Rajesh, 39, of Vadavalli, Arunkumar, 28, of PN Pudur and S Babu, 30, of MGR Street at Vadavalli, consuming liquor around 4.30pm, a police officer said. “He asked them to leave as a wild elephant that killed a man two days ago was on the prowl. However, the men refused to do so and attacked the guard. Local residents rushed to his help and took the men to the forest range office,” the officer told TOI.Forest department officials handed over the four people to the Alandurai police, who registered a case under Section 294 b of the Indian Penal Code and arrested them. They were later let off on station bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-men-arrested-for-attacking-forest-guard-at-narasipuram/articleshow/77056338.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Agriculture zoning may not be cut from Ahmedabad plans||GANDHINAGAR: Although the Hasmukh Adhia-led committee has reiterated the need to remove agriculture zoning from city draft development plans and town planning areas, the government does not appear keen to implement the proposal. The committee was formed to chart an economic revival roadmap for the post-Covid scenario. As for the proposal to do away with agricultural zoning in city areas, it has been under discussion for several years. A key state government source said that though the Adhia committee had categorically proposed the removal of agricultural zoning, the state urban development department is yet to take a call. “The committee had proposed that agriculture zoning be removed from municipal corporation limits of Development Plan (DP) schemes to increase the space available for residences,” the source said. “Another objective was to curb corruption, malpractices, and illegal constructions.” The source added that the draft development plan for Surat city is still being revised. He said that the recommendations of the committee on agricultural zoning are being proposed in a partial manner. The government will have to take a call on draft development plans for Ahmedabad, Vadodara, and Rajkot. “This is a political decision. As in the case of Ahmedabad, where draft development plans have been finalized, the government will have to revise the plans to include the recommendations of the committee,” the source said. “Waiting for the next draft to be prepared will not serve any purpose.” No reduction in stamp duty The Adhia committee members and other experts have recommended a reduction in stamp duty and registration fees to kick-start the real estate sector. But the government has not accepted the suggestions. The government says the reduction will mean a loss of Rs 4,500 crore to the state exchequer. On stamp duty and registration fees, the Adhia committee had recommended, “To stimulate demand in the immediate term, the Gujarat government may reduce the incidence of stamp duty and registration fees by 50% on purchase of all residential units from a developer up to March 31, 2021, or to the specific category of affordable housing segment (currently 4.90% with an additional 1% for registration).” The committee had recommended that the government give additional FSI to energy efficient-buildings to incentivize the construction of green buildings. The committee’s report said that only 100 or so buildings in Gujarat have obtained the existing benefit of 5% reduction in FSI premium for energy-efficient buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/agriculture-zoning-may-not-be-cut-from-city-plans/articleshow/77056346.cms||Kapil Dave
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Curchorem town to remain shut till Friday||QUEPEM: Though the three-day statewide lockdown ends on Monday, the Curchorem town will remain shut for another five days, up to Friday. The decision to lock down was taken after a person who had tested positive for Covid-19 had been freely moving around the town before his test results were out. With apprehensions that he may have come in contact with many other persons before the test, the Curchorem market association decided to shut the market till July 24. From July 17-19, except medical shops and one fair price shop, all other business establishments, including grocery shops and vegetable outlets, remained closed in towns of Quepem, Sanguem and Curchorem and the surrounding villages. The president of the Curchorem market association, Rocha Pereira, told reporters that the decision was taken after consulting two other market associations and the business community. “We came to the conclusion to have a voluntary lockdown till Friday to contain the virus among Curchorem locals,” he said. Pereira also requested government to extend the lockdown for a few more days, as a precautionary measure. Ravi Laad and Agnelo Pires, secretaries of the other market associations, said that “since cases are increasing day by day, lockdown is the only solution to prevent the virus from spreading”. “Except milk, every thing will be shut in Curchorem till Friday,” Laad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curchorem-town-to-remain-shut-till-friday/articleshow/77057105.cms||Johnny M
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Serial killer yet to be chargesheeted||Hyderabad: More than six months after the alleged serial killer Yerukali Srinu was arrested by Mahabubnagar police for killing four women last year, investigators are yet to get forensic reports in the case in order to file a charge sheet against the accused. Srinu has allegedly murdered 17 people since 2007. While he was earlier convicted in two murder cases, he was acquitted by local courts in the remaining 11. In the last four murder cases, his modus operandi was to frequent toddy compounds and target women consuming toddy. He used to take them out on various pretexts, kill them and loot the gold and silver ornaments from them, police said. “Due to the Covid-19 situation, the investigation into the murders has taken a backseat. The charge sheet is almost ready and once we get the DNA and other forensic reports, Srinu will be chargesheeted in court,” police said. In December 2019, Mahabubnagar police had arrested Srinu for murdering 55-year-old Aliveamma and stealing her ornaments in Devarakadra. During interrogation, Srinu confessed to having committed three more murders since his release from jail in 2018. “He was convicted in 2015 for one of the murders and released from jail in 2018 for good conduct, but had taken to crime again to get his daily quota of liquor,” police said. In the last six months, Srinu was released on bail after he was arrested for murdering Aliveamma as police failed to file the charge sheet in the stipulated three-months’ time. However, the district police arrested him in another pending murder case. Officials said that they have enough proof to nail the accused in the murder of four women in Devarakadra, Kothakota, Midji and Boothpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/serial-killer-yet-to-be-chargesheeted/articleshow/77057103.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||30 junior colleges move court over CAP issues||Nagpur: Just over 30 junior colleges in Nagpur have dragged the state education department to court over various issues related to Std XI’s Common Admission Process (CAP). The petition, which is likely to be heard on Monday, questions the need for having CAP in Nagpur when an average of 19,000 seats have remained vacant in the last three years. The petition also questions why CAP is applicable only to junior colleges located within Nagpur city limits, “whereas it should ideally include those under Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA)”. Regarding this the petition alleges that colleges in NMRDA have tie-up with private coaching classes. “Hence the managements are not required to provide infrastructure and also to appoint staff. Curriculum is completed by coaching classes,” the petition states. The petition adds that since colleges are of no-grant basis, they charge hefty fee and pocket the money without doing any work. Though colleges in NMRDA are at some distance from students’ residence in city, the petition claims that the fact does not matter. “The distance between residence and junior colleges is of no relevance as students are not required to attend the junior college. The respondent authorities are hardly bothered about unholy practices and commercialization of education,” the petition claimed. The problem that grant-in-aid colleges in city are facing due to this, is drop in admissions. The petition states “Majority of grant-in aid colleges are held to be ineligible for non-salary grants because of lesser number of admissions/attendance. Many teachers are rendered surplus and can’t be absorbed”. The petition further questions the legal status of CAP. “As a matter of fact there is no statutory sanction to CAP and it is unwarranted as number of seats is more and number of applicants is less,” the petition mentions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/30-junior-colleges-move-court-over-cap-issues/articleshow/77056358.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Teachers refuse to take online classes, but urge us to take tuition with them’||Ludhiana: Students of the SCD Government College are claiming that the teachers are not conducting any online classes for a few streams ever since the lockdown was announced. The students reported the issue at Smart Citizens of Ludhiana’s Facebook page. The post states “SCD Government College is not conducting any classes for some courses since the lockdown started. Some students are messaging us for the last few days with screenshots, in which the teachers are seen urging them to take tuition classes with them — and pay extra — to cover the syllabus.” Sumit Sharma, admin of the page, told TOI “If the student is not able to afford extra tuition classes, then they should be left alone. When the whole world is providing online classes, SCD Government College is also duty bound to provide such classes.” According to him, the students have shared screenshots with names of the teachers who are insisting on tuition classes on WhatsApp group. An MA economics last semester student complained, “We are not being taught through online classes. I am an IAS and UGC aspirant and I cannot afford separate coaching for that. I depend solely on my classes to crack these exams. The teachers are offering tuitions and if we complain to the principal, they will trouble us by deducting marks in assessment.” One of the professors of economics from SCD Government College, Geetanjali. said, “Students of intermediate classes have been already promoted and 80%-90% syllabus were completed before lockdown. We completed the rest in March via online. July is admission period, but still we have told last year students to text and call whenever for clarifying their doubts. College would start class after the new syllabus will be provided to us. As far as private coaching is concerned, I offered them message but that is for UGC aspirants. Importantly, these classes are being conducted by the passed out students of this college. Officially, I was part time teacher and now have been regularised and waiting for orders. Once we get new syllabus we start with classes.” Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of the college, said, “No regular teacher would say this in group as we have already conducted the online classes. If any professor has sent such messages, it is ethically wrong to promote themselves in college groups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/teachers-refuse-to-take-online-classes-but-urge-us-to-take-tuition-with-them/articleshow/77056857.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Syro-Malabar Church gets a minor basilica in Rome||Kochi: Santa Anastasia Minor Basilica in Rome, one of the oldest Christian churches and one of the oldest minor basilicas in the world, has been assigned to Kerala-based Syro-Malabar Church (SMC) by the Vatican. SMC in a statement on Sunday said Cardinal Angelo de Donatis, the vicar general of Pope Francis for the diocese of Rome, has issued a decree assigning Santa Anastasia Minor Basilica to SMC. “This basilica from now on would become the centre of pastoral activities of the faithful of the Syro-Malabar Church, which is one of the foremost Oriental Churches in apostolic tradition and the zeal of faith,” the SMC said. According to SMC, Emperor Constantine started the construction of this basilica during 325-326 AD. St Jerome, the Bible scholar, preached in this church. It is built on the Palatine Hill, the administrative centre of the Roman empire, very close to the Colosseum. Popes till the 7th century celebrated Christmas mass in this basilica. This church, built in the baroque style, is famous for its architectural splendour and decorative works. There are around 7,000 Syro-Malabar catholics in and around Rome and this new set-up will go a long way in the smooth coordination of their spiritual and pastoral activities, SMC said. Fr Abraham Kavilpurayidathil, PRO of the church, said according to decree, the centre of pastoral activities of the Syro-Malabar catholics in Rome will be Santa Anastasia Minor Basilica. “A priest designated by the Syro-Malabar major archbishop will be appointed as the chaplain of the Syro-Malabar catholics. The chaplain will be also be the rector of the basilica,” he said. “It is the Holy Father special interest that made it possible for the issue of such a decree,” Fr Kavilpurayidathil’s statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/syro-malabar-church-gets-a-minor-basilica-in-rome/articleshow/77055631.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPI lashes out at ‘consultancy raj’||Thiruvananthapuram: CPI has come out against the practice of the government relying heavily on consultancy agencies. Most consultancy services are ‘expendable and the Left parties should be more cautious about the devious nature of such agencies’, CPI assistant secretary K Prakash Babu said in an article published in the party mouth piece ‘Janayugam’ on Sunday. Though the column doesn’t criticize the CPM or chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan per se, it is full of innuendos against both, and in one way or the other tries to absolve CPI from the charges the LDF government now encounters following the expose of gold smuggling through diplomatic channel. “May be mafia dons have roped in top officials as they knew they couldn’t win over Left leaders to their side. But, the Left government can’t lower its guard against such forces. Those behind the gold smuggling have got their work done by placing their moles in key positions and projects of the government. They did it with the help of multi-national consulting agencies,” said the column that spoke at length about the role of Left politics and its commitment towards all living creatures. “It’s said around 45 consultancy agencies operate in government projects in Kerala. Their service is expendable in most of these projects. We also have some quasi-governmental and cooperative institutions that pocket mammoth projects without participating in open tender. There are many such that survive on the commission it generates by sub-letting those huge works to other large or small players in the field,” Babu said. According to him, there were attempts to belittle the gravity of the smuggling case by packaging the whole ‘anti-national’ activities as in a soap opera. Gold smuggling through diplomatic channels amounts to anti-national activity. Such heinous crimes should be dealt with the seriousness it demands. “Many of our airports are smuggling hubs for long. It’s doubtful whether customs, intelligence or any other agencies have properly investigated the same. That’s why smuggling continues unabated through our airports,” the article said. In an apparent dig at higher-education minister K T Jaleel, Babu said the government should probe into violation of the country’s rules and procedures with regard to keeping contact with international consulates. “Violation of these rules by some (people) should be probed into,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpi-lashes-out-at-consultancy-raj/articleshow/77055637.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Hacking is the new normal, says cyber expert||Mangaluru: Hacking is the new normal and hacking of verified Twitter accounts is scary, said cybersecurity expert Ananth Prabhu G. He was reacting to the major Twitter accounts being hacked in a bitcoin scam, where the hacker got the administrator privileges to access many verified accounts and post whatever they wanted. Accounts of celebrities including former US President Barack Obama, billionaire Elon Musk, actress Kim Kardashian and rapper Kanye West, were among many others that were compromised. “The attack could have been much more damaging if sensitive information or private information was published, but it looked more like a ‘smash and grab’ approach, where the hacker knew these posts wouldn’t stay for long, and whatever money they could earn in this short period is the bounty,” said Ananth Prabhu, professor, Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management. The hackers used a technique of posting from verified accounts. They asked people to send USD 1,000, within the next 30 mins and would get back USD 2,000. “From the publicly available ledger, it is seen that more than 120 people have fallen prey, making the hacker richer by nearly Rs 1 crore,” he said. Explaining that bitcoin is a digital currency created in January 2009 following the housing market crash, Prabhu said it follows the ideas set out in a white paper by the mysterious and pseudonymous Satoshi Nakamoto. The identity of the person or persons who created the technology is still a mystery. Bitcoin offers the promise of lower transaction fees than traditional online payment mechanisms and is operated by a decentralised authority, unlike government-issued currencies. There are no physical bitcoins, only balances kept on a public ledger that everyone has transparent access to, that – along with all Bitcoin transactions – is verified by a massive amount of computing power. Bitcoin charts high on popularity, and has triggered the launch of hundreds of other virtual currencies collectively referred to as Altcoins, Prabhu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hacking-is-the-new-normal-says-cyber-expert/articleshow/77055703.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 20, 2020||Hubballi||Sunday lockdown total in Dharwad||Dharwad: Even though the administration has clamped 10-day lockdown from July 15, total lockdown was felt in Dharwad city on Sunday. The usual hustle and bustle in the market area was not witnessed and all the shops including those selling vegetables, fruits, flowers and grocery remained closed for the day. The administration on Saturday had enforced prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC from Saturday night to Monday morning and the people of the city responded positively to the ‘Sunday lockdown.’ Movement of private vehicles and public transport was prohibited. Trucks going to other states en-route Dharwad were allowed on the bypass road and entry for such vehicles into the city was barred. Police personnel, who had given some relaxations to the public to move around in the city for purchase of essential goods, had implemented lockdown orders effectively. A few bike riders were intercepted near Town police station, Gandhi Chowk and Jubilee Circle and were told to stay indoor. Morning walkers too gave a skip to their routine and chose to remain indoor. There was heavy presence of police in the market area and even public announcements were made asking people not to step out of the house for the entire day. Majority of the medical shops and even the milk parlours remained closed in the market area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sunday-lockdown-total-in-dharwad/articleshow/77055372.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘Food with worms served in Ytl Covid care centre’||Yavatmal: The issue of alleged poor quality and worm-infested food being served in 250-bedded Covid-19 care centre at Yavatmal GMCH is back to haunt the district administration. According to corporator Pravin Prajapathi dead caterpillars were found in the food served to the patients on Saturday. Prajapathi claimed that he had lodged a complaint earlier also along with proof, but the caterers continue to serve substandard and contaminated food to the patients. Bringing the unhygienic food quality having dead caterpillars to the notice of district collector MD Singh, Prajapathi has on Sunday demanded blacklisting of the caterers and also action against supervisors of the mess in the Covid-19 care centre. Prajapathi said that on April 6 he had brought the issue to the notice of authorities including collector, guardian minister Sanjay Rathod in the presence of dean Dr RP Singh, Covid-19 coordinator Dr Milind Kamble and civil surgeon DrTarangtushar Warey. Though Rathod had promised to look into the complainant and instructed GMCH authorities to improve facilities, not much has changed, said Prajapathi. “If the collector continues to ignore the lapses, I will approach the high court with a PIL soon,” he said. Suspecting corruption in the food supply, he also asked authorities to make the amount received and spent on supplying food to the patients public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/food-with-worms-served-in-ytl-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77056369.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hubballi||Volunteers sought for Covid-19 duty in Dharwad||Dharwad: To effectively tackle the rise in Covid-19 cases, the district administration and the HDMC have decided to form ward level task force teams. Along with HDMC officials, the public too can join them and become ‘Corona volunteers’. The basic objective of the task force will be to ensure that people wear face masks, maintain cleanliness, avoid spitting, maintain social distancing, compulsorily use hand sanitisers in commercial establishments, dispose of bio-waste scientifically, penalise those violating Covid-19 guidelines, provide medical aid to the poor and distribute medicines to the aged, among other such activities. Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil has called upon the youths to join the task force and help in making Dharwad a Covid-free district. Those interested have to send their bio-data to: https://forms.gle/UYqVr2kawrgnd1Xh9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/volunteers-sought-for-covid-19-duty-in-dharwad/articleshow/77055120.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||HSI seeks help to identify accused||Hyderabad: Humane Society International/India has announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for information leading to the identification, arrest, and conviction of the person who burnt a kitten to death. The video was shared with Humane Society International/India on Twitter. The video showed an unknown person setting a kitten on fire using a lighter. The video showed unidentified persons setting a kitten on fire with a lighter. It looks like an accelerant was used as the kitten is seen immediately catching on fire which continues to flame without abating,” said Alokparna Sengupta, managing director of HSI/India. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hsi-seeks-help-to-identify-accused/articleshow/77057108.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Another peak for Vadodara with 79 cases||VADODARA: Vadodara city and district registered yet another single-day peak on Sunday with 79 new Covid-19 cases recorded in 24 hours since Saturday evening. With the addition of fresh cases, the total number detected so far touched 3,604. The new cases were detected from 544 samples that were tested since Saturday evening. On Sunday, the authorities declared two more deaths. With this, the official death tally due to Covid-19 has touched 62 even as authorities are yet to declare many deaths that have occurred during the pandemic. The fresh cases have been reported from VIP Road, Pratapgunj, New Sama Road, Warasiya, RTO Road, Soma Talav, Chanakyapuri, Chhani Jakatnaka, Raopura, Maneja, Makarpura, Subhanpura, Laxmipura Road and Khatri Pole areas within the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. In Vadodara rural, the fresh cases have been reported from Dabhoi, Karjan, Padra, Bajwa, Karodiya and Sayajipura. Within the VMC limits, north zone which is worst-hit saw an addition of 26 new cases taking the total number of cases to 1,131. In Vadodara rural that saw addition of 20 new cases, the total number of cases has touched 606. The south zone witnessed addition of 18 new cases taking the total to 693 while the total number of cases in east zone touched 769 after ten new cases were registered in this zone. West zone saw an addition of five new cases taking the total number of cases to 378. Currently, there are 653 patients under treatment. Of them, condition of 483 is said to be stable while 131 patients are being treated with the support of oxygen and 39 others are under ventilator or BiPAP support. On Sunday, 160 patients including 41 from government hospitals, 115 from private hospitals and four who were under home isolation were discharged. With this, the total number of patients discharged so far has touched 2,889. A total of 1,654 individuals are under quarantine. Of them, 1,569 are under home quarantine, 65 are at government facility while 20 are under quarantine at private facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-peak-for-vadodara-with-79-cases/articleshow/77055396.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Burglars target house in Gotri||VADODARA: A gang of burglars struck in Gotri area of the city early on Sunday morning. Maulik Buch, a resident of Marutidham Society, has registered a complaint of burglary at Gotri police station after the burglars decamped with cash and jewellery worth Rs 1.24 lakh from his home. “I was asleep on the first floor of our house. When I came down at around 5 am I saw that the lights were turned on and the cupboards were all open. The burglars entered through a door and fled with the valuables,” Buch said. The burglary has raised a question on night patrolling of the cops as the burglars were out on the roads amid the curfew between 10 pm and 5 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-target-house-in-gotri/articleshow/77055366.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mumbai man among 3 held for duping 27 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Kagdapith police on Saturday detained three men for duping 27 businessmen of New Cloth Market of crores. The accused are Manohar Lalwani of Mumbai, and Ajay Murlidhar and Irfan Ansari of Sardarnagar in Ahmedabad. Police officials said that the accused set up bogus companies, won the businessmen’s confidence, acquired cloth on credit, and thereafter vanished without paying.  Senior police officials said that the 27 businessmen had first lodged three complaints in 2019. But police suspect that the trio has cheated more than 70 businessman over the past four years. Inspector M A Singh of the Kagdapith police station said that the accused have been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 406 (breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) among others. According to senior police officials,Murlidhar and Ansari created bogus companies using the documents of poor people. The trio promised a certain sum of money every month for providing the documents. “So far, it has come to light that Lalwani alone opened three such companies in Delhi and, overall, seven companies were set up by the accused,” a police official said. “They would target businessmen in several cities. In Ahmedabad, they paid cash initially to New Cloth Market businessmen to build confidence.” Later, they acquired material worth crores on credit and disappeared. Police sources said that the accused will be taken to several locations to investigate the bogus companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mumbai-man-among-3-held-for-duping-27-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/77056367.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Panaji may backpaddle on Cycles4Change challenge||PANAJI: Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited (IPSCDL) has signed up for the union ministry of housing and urban affair’s (MoHUA) India Cycles4Change challenge, which was launched on July 10. However, with Covid-19 cases shooting up in Goa over the last week, authorities will re-evaluate to see if the project should be considered at such a juncture. The challenge, which is open to all Smart Cities, state capitals, and cities with a population of over 5 lakh, aims to promote cycle-friendly interventions in cities in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the 141 eligible cities, the top 11 cities will be granted Rs 1 crore each to promote cycling. “MoHUA has asked us if any intervention is planned around cycling and since Panaji has prepared a report on public cycle sharing system, the report has been shared,” said an official. The two-stage challenge required cities to register their participation by July 21 and implement and document at least one pilot project on cycling between July 1 and October 14. MoHUA officials said that the need for personalised forms of transport is expected to increase as a response to Covid-19. A recent survey by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) India Programme shows that cycling would increase by 50-65% as cities come out of lockdown. However, with Covid-19 cases increasing over the last one week, IPSCDL officials have second thoughts about participating in the challenge. IPSCDL is also working with ITDP and World Resources Institute on initiatives surrounding walkways, pedestrian bridges and non-motorised transportation. Once all the cities submit their entries, the Smart Cities Mission and a panel of experts will review the submissions and shortlist 11 cities which will move into stage 2 where they will receive Rs 1 crore funding and support from domain experts. The challenge guidelines allow cities that do not make it to stage 2 to tweak their projects and reapply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-may-backpaddle-on-cycles4change-challenge/articleshow/77057109.cms||---
July 20, 2020||India||MEA cites Afghanistan Sikh’s case to switch gears on CAA||NEW DELHI: Until a few months ago, the MEA was trying to calm tempers and apprehensions among neighbouring countries like Bangladesh and Afghanistan ab- out the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). On Friday, the foreign office indicated that persecuted Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan could use the CAA to take Indian citizenship and move to India for their safety. This came as India conveyed its gratitude to the Afghan government for securing the release of Sikh leader Nidan Singh Sachdeva, who had been kidnapped in Chamkani district of Paktia province on 22 June. In a statement, the MEA spokesperson said, “In a recent decision, India has decided to facilitate the return of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan to India.” This is the first time the Indian government has openly pointed to the CAA as a route to citizenship for minorities in neighbouring countries. After Parliament passed an amendment to the Citizenship Act in December 2019, India faced a barrage of protests from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan, along with many Indians who felt the amendment was discriminatory, and linked to the National Register of Citizens (NRC). The Afghanistan embassy in New Delhi actually gave out special identity cards to Afghan Sikhs residing in India who, they said, could use the cards for passports etc. According to some estimates, there are over 1,000 Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan who have been targeted by Taliban and other Islamist groups — the March 25 attack on a Kabul gurdwara which killed 25 was one example. In recent months, the government has highlighted ill-treatment of Hindu minorities in Pakistan as well, in a reminder to those that are opposed to it that this was why the CAA had been passed in the first place. While groups as diverse as Taliban and ISKP are seen to be targeting Hindu and Sikh minorities, the Indian government believes they are being instigated by Pakistan. The MEA said, “The targeting and persecution of minority community members by terrorists at the behest of their external supporters remains a matter of grave concern.” These events in India’s neighbourhood will not cease, but they will provide greater justification for the passage of the CAA by the Modi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-cites-afghanistan-sikhs-case-to-switch-gears-on-caa/articleshow/77057257.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Mayor makes peace with dy mayor||Ludhiana: The ongoing dispute between mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and deputy mayor Sarabjit Kaur ended on Monday, when the former reached the house of latter and cleared the air. The mayor met deputy mayor and her husband Jarnail Singh Shimlapuri and cleared everything. The sources revealed that party leaders were trying to end this dispute ever since it started, but it could not be resolved by anybody. However, the mayor resolved the problem by visiting deputy mayor at her home. Shimlapuri while confirming the same, said the mayor visited their house and misunderstanding between them are sorted now. Notably, deputy mayor had written a letter to party high command, the chief minister, local bodies minister and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu against the mayor while alleging that he misbehaved with her husband. She had even threatened to boycott all meetings unless action was taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mayor-makes-peace-with-dy-mayor/articleshow/77056870.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||As e-commerce becomes way of life, emphasis is on self protection||E-commerce has witnessed a tremendous growth, especially during the last decade or so. There have been many reasons for phenomenal growth in this sector and one of the major contributors is behaviour of our youth. They usually go for online purchases after browsing through apps of e-commerce service providers about the product variants and price rather than physically go to market. The whole process involves two elements — “online transactions” and “online payment”. There are many links available for online payments like bank specific (debit/credit cards, internet banking services, bank specific mobile apps) and non bank related payment platforms (PayTm, GooglePay, PhonePay). The new norms and standard of procedures announced by governments in unlock phase of the current pandemic have given further momentum to e-commerce. It is now popular not only among the youth but also among all age groups. As offshoot of this, online payment system has also witnessed a robust growth. The Indian government has already initiated a number of steps for digitisation of payment system. As of now, out of “Fang” companies of the United States (Facebook, Apple, Netflix and Google) the first and last, Facebook and Google, have already made investments or shown interest in making investments in India. As online transaction/payments are convenient from many angles and in post Covid era human mobility is likely to remain restricted, there would be transformation from use of physical to virtual mode by all of us, either in our personal capacity or as business entity, including MSME. Going by this, chances of an irreversible shift in behaviour of all economic agents — be it producer, service provider or consumer — in favour of e-commerce and digital platform are very high. Besides, many benefits of e-commerce and online payments, there are elements of risk in shape of cyber crimes also involved and need to be tackled and kept in mind while doing transactions. We need to be vigil enough to check the fraudulent acts at every stage. The following steps can help us to avoid becoming victim of frauds in e-commerce related online payments; Never share user ID, PIN, CVV, one-time password (OTP) with anybody, as these are payment sensitive information and can be misused by the fraudsters Whenever any OTP is received, the full content of the message should be read and not just OTP. It is important to ascertain the authenticity of the transaction being undertaken The user ID, password, PIN should be remembered and writing the same in notebook or saving in mobile can be source of misuse According to the requirement, an amount-wise limit should be fixed for fund transfer in e-commerce and this should never be enhanced on suggestion of a caller/someone else Install only need-based applications from trusted sources only. Never install any app on the suggestion given by a caller Don’t respond with personal information to the text messages, phone calls and emails claiming to be from bank or any other organisation. One need to avoid, as much as possible, to conduct e-commerce transactions at public places like restaurants, hospitals, airports and railway stations, as these places may lack strong security protections Ensure website address is correct, check spellings and logo, before logging in and sending any payment sensitive information Keep operating system of computer and mobile devices updated to protect against unknown threats/vulnerabilities The frequent e-commerce buyers should make a habit of changing transaction password of online payment tool on regular basis Disable your transactions through internet banking facility for night hours when you can’t see your alert messages In case of a fraud, one should lodge a complaint immediately, as early as possible, with bank/payment service provider concerned. It is very important to block further transactions which the fraudster may be planning to conduct. Matter may be pursued for tracking of wrongful transaction. Cyber crimes happen mostly because of people’s failure rather than fault of system/technology. As such it is our awareness, alertness that can avoid us becoming a victim. The most important safeguard here is need of thinking twice before passing on payment sensitive information/credentials. (The writer is former deputy zonal manager, Punjab National Bank)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-e-commerce-becomes-way-of-life-emphasis-is-on-self-protection/articleshow/77056868.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM must be questioned in gold smuggling case: Oppn||Thiruvananthapuram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has said the CMO cannot shy away from the links in the gold smuggling case and hence the chief minister will also have to be questioned. “The accused have revealed details of their close connections with the CMO. Time is ripe for investigating the role of CMO in the smuggling and even questioning the chief minister himself,” said Ramesh. “Reports of close involvement of top bureaucrats at CMO with the key accused in gold smuggling have exposed the inefficiency of the CMO and rampant corruption prevailing there,” he added. Alleging that a consultancy raj has formed under LDF government, Ramesh said, “UDF or Congress is not against consultancies but want them to be selected following norms. The CM selected consultancies without cabinet nod. Yet the CM is turning a blind eye towards the protests.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-must-be-questioned-in-gold-smuggling-case-oppn/articleshow/77055658.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||AP cases leap, inch closer to 50k||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh continued to bear the brunt of Covid-19 as it reported the biggest single-day spike of 5,041 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 49,650. The death roll rose to 642 with 56 more people succumbing to the pandemic virus, the highest ever single-day Covid-19 toll in the state. AP reported the second highest number of Covid-19 cases on Sunday after Maharashtra (8,348 cases). With the state registering thousands of cases every day, the recovery rate has now plummeted to 46%, the third lowest among all the states. The baffling surge in Covid-19 cases and toll point to the ever growing burden on the health systems. The state fast running out of options with almost 50,000 positive cases reported so far. However, the mortality rate is somewhat stable at 1.29% as per official statistics. Of the 56 fatalities, 10 are from East Godavari, eight from Srikakulam, seven each from Kurnool , Krishna and Visakhapatnam, four from Prakasam, three each from Anantapur, Kadapa and Vizianagaram, and two each from Guntur and Chittoor. As many as 1,127 people were declared cured from the pandemic on Sunday. There are currently 26,118 active cases with the 22,890 cumulative recoveries and 642 deaths. East Godavari reported 647 new cases, followed by Anantapur 637, Srikakulam 535, Chittoor 440, Krishna 397, West Godavari 393 and Nellore 391.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-cases-leap-inch-closer-to-50k/articleshow/77057111.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Teachers at risk, no govt order yet: GFP||Panaji: It has been more than a week since the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) said that teaching and non-teaching staff should be allowed to work from home, but the state government is yet to extend the order for local teachers, Goa Forward Party (GFP) said on Sunday. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat said that non-teaching staff at three educational institutions in Ponda, Navelim and Mapusa have already tested positive for coronavirus and if staff continued to report to schools, the virus would only spread further. The education department’s delay comes at a time when Goa is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases, with close to 200 cases being reported daily for the past few days. “The chief minister is yet to send a file to the education department to allow teaching and non teaching staff to work from home,” Kamat said.MHRD has permitted teachers to continue working from home, but the state has directed the approximately 15,000 teaching and non-teaching staff to continue reporting to work. On June 10, TOI had reported that the state had completely disregarded the directives of the Centre and made it mandatory for teaching and non-teaching staff to attend schools. “We urge the government to issue the order allowing teachers to work from home otherwise the virus will infect more people and there will be no control. Goa does not have proper health infrastructure and enough bed to handle a rise in Covid-19 cases,” Kamat said. GFP has said that chief minister Pramod Sawant, chief secretary Parimal Rai and education director Vandana Rao will be responsible if more staff get infected. “By now we all know that community spread has started and it is infecting teaching and non-teaching staff. It has been five days since the Centres’ guidelines came but the order is not being issued,” Kamat added. He said Sawant appeared focused on mining instead of the Covid-19 pandemic and the education sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-at-risk-no-govt-order-yet-gfp/articleshow/77057114.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Our views ignored, we feel like a toothless committee: Members of SC-appointed panel on Char Dham highway||Dehradun: The submission of two separate reports by the high-powered committee (HPC) appointed by the Supreme Court last year to assess the environmental and sociological impact of the ambitious Char Dham Pariyojana, a pet project of PM Modi to connect the Char Dham shrines in the Garhwal Himalayas with an ‘all-weather road’, has once again brought into focus the concerns environmentalists have been raising about the impact the project will have on the fragile Himalayan ecology. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, committee members led by Ravi Chopra, Dehradun-based veteran environmentalist who was chairman of the HPC, said that "it is sad that carrying capacity and ecological concerns of the Himalayan valleys are not being taken into consideration in the project." He added: "Most of our recommendations have not been complied with either and we feel like a toothless committee,” they added. Chopra along with three other members — geologist Navin Juyal, social expert Hemant Dhyani and wildlife scientist S Sathyakumar — had submitted a separate report to the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) while 21 other members of the HPC had submitted their own report. According to Chopra, the ‘choice of road width’, the key factor which determines the extent of all ecological damage, was the point on which the committee members disagreed, leading them to submit separate reports. While Chopra’s group recommended widening of the road to a maximum of 8 meter including pavement, others supported the approved project standard, that is a double lane with paved shoulder, which would make the road width around 12 meter. In their submission to the MoEF, Chopra and other members of the minority group said that they found during field visits to the road construction site and interactions with locals that there was “unaccounted loss of forests, trees and green cover, increased landslides, vulnerability of slopes due to vertical hill cutting and inadequate slope stabilization measures, hazardous and unauthorized muck dumps along many stretches and almost no stabilisation measures.” “With the formation of the HPC, fresh hill cutting and tree felling should have been suspended until our recommendations were presented. The idea was that a vision and understanding of the importance of the Himalayan ecology should guide the further progress of work. This did not occur in spite of my repeated persuasions. We witnessed a dense oak forest at Kund actually being bulldozed, despite a promise to wait till our recommendations were received,” Chopra said. He added that “it was not difficult for the ministry of road transport & highways and the district administrations to provide basic data necessary to help the HPC appraise the project but my requests for information regarding landslides, muck dumps, traffic volume, visitors at the Char Dham sites, and other relevant data went largely unanswered despite repeated emails and personal calls.” Terming the project a ‘Himalayan blunder’, two other members of the minority group, Navin Juyal and Hemant Dhyani said, “The propaganda of an ‘all-weather road’ was spread deep into the public psyche but it is not clear to the public or even some officials that as per definition, any tarred road is in fact an all-weather road…there has been no thought of the several wild life such as Himalayan thar, goral, Himalayan blue sheep, snow leopard, Himalayan bear, elephant, Tibetan argali sheep, jungle cat, to name a few, and even migrating tigers that have been sighted in these regions, that use the road as a crossing, in trust, and whose lives would be greatly endangered by speeding traffic and also by broader roads which they have to cross.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/our-views-ignored-we-feel-like-a-toothless-committee-members-of-sc-appointed-panel-on-char-dham-highway/articleshow/77055675.cms||Shivani Azad
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Over 200 farmers ended life in lockdown in Amr Div: RTI reply||Nagpur: Despite various measures to stem farmers’ suicides, they continue unabated, particularly in Amravati division. In last 7.5 years, over 7,300 farmers have ended their lives owing to crop failure and mounting debts. Of these, over 200 came in the lockdown period from March to May, despite the government providing free ration for all citizens below poverty line (BPL). Needy people were not even asked to produce the mandatory ration and Aadhaar cards to get the food kits during the pandemic period. Unlike common perception that Yavatmal, often referred to as the suicide capital of Maharashtra, would have the most suicides, Buldhana and Amravati have far more numbers. Among the 7,380 farmers who ended their lives, only about half were found to be eligible to get government aid, show the replies to an RTI query filed by activist Abhay Kolarkar. The government has rejected applications of 3,161 families of farmers, since their suicides didn’t fit into the criteria framed by it, while 187 cases are pending for inquiry. However, in the lockdown period from March to May, Yavatmal witnessed the highest number of suicides at 67, followed by Buldhana with 62, Amravati 52, Akola 19 and Washim 16. “Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had extended the scheme of free ration to over 80 crore people till October, the suicides continue to happen, raising serious doubts over entire system in rural areas. Something is wrong with the system or there’s a possibility that help isn’t reaching the beneficiaries and it needs to be probed,” Kolarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-200-farmers-ended-life-in-lockdown-in-amr-div-rti-reply/articleshow/77056401.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||More beautification projects on anvil, as MC tries to make Ludhiana vibrant||Ludhiana: After completion of lighting and face lifting of clock tower, the civic officials are ready to take over lighting under southern bypass flyover starting from backside of MC zone D office to Ferozepur Road railway crossing, under smart city mission. The main idea is to develop some places where people could spend leisure time. The officials claimed that they have issued tenders and the work will begin as soon as possible. The trial of lights impact at clock tower had created impact on residents and various pictures of clock tower were doing round the social media. The residents though appreciated the work but they demanded clocks of clock tower should also made functional. The officials, however, claimed that efforts are going on for restoration of clocks as well. The work is near completion at clock tower. Near southern bypass, the much talked about project of Sidhwan canal beautification is also near completion and people have already started utilising it. The residents are happy that finally they have some place to go and chill. Superintending engineer of bridges and road department of trhe municipal corporation, Rahul Gagneja said, “The work at clock tower is near completion and now we will take up flyovers and first of all southern bypass flyover will be taken up." He said they had floated tenders earlier and three companies participated in bidding process, but could not qualify so now again tenders are floated. Meanwhile, a resident of Sarabha Nagar, Manmohan Singh, said, “It is good that civic officials are planning for beautification of city. When our friends or relatives come for a visit, there is not much we can do with them here. But when these projects will be completed, we can at least show them something.” He said more such projects should be developed in city to make it vibrant. According to Kapil Sharma, a resident of Civil Lines, along with developing such places, the civic body should pay attention towards improving civic infrastructure of the city as well. He said the residents need better civic amenities so even those should be improvised especially the drainage of rain water should be arranged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/more-beautification-projects-on-anvil-as-mc-tries-to-make-ludhiana-vibrant/articleshow/77056872.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Lokayukta seeks report on fee||Hyderabad: Acting on a complaint, Lokayukta has asked the accountant general of AP to submit the report regarding the Rs 45 lakh legal expenses given to six IAS officers involved in AP CM YS Jagan quid pro quo investments case by August 19. All seven officers face charges in the case. AV Ramana of Miyapur filed the complaint alleging that legal expenses sanctioned in 2014 were deposited into the accounts of the officers and payments are subject to the advance stamped receipt of the advocates. Without proper receipt, the money was given to the officers. Ramana said that some of the receipts have no cheque numbers or or PAN numbers as mandated under the Income Tax rules. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lokayukta-seeks-report-on-fee/articleshow/77057113.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||MP Asad flags off ambulance services||Hyderabad: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday flagged off two ambulances, whose services can be availed by people of Hyderabad district round the clock for the next two months. Owaisi, after launching the ambulance service at the AIMIM party headquarters in Darussalam, urged people to avail the facilities. “As there is a spike in cases, these ambulances have been arranged for the benefit of the people and, therefore, I urge them to make use of the facility. The total cost of the ambulance service is around Rs 8 lakh. While the cost for the ambulances is Rs 6.4 lakh, another Rs 1.6 lakh will be spent on oxygen cylinders, PPE kits and fuel,” said Owaisi at the launch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mp-asad-flags-off-ambulance-services/articleshow/77057115.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Our recommendations not complied with, we feel like a toothless committee, say members of SC-appointed panel on Char Dham highway||Dehradun: The submission of two separate reports by the high-powered committee (HPC) appointed by the Supreme Court last year to assess the environmental and sociological impact of the ambitious Char Dham Pariyojana, a pet project of PM Modi to connect the Char Dham shrines in the Garhwal Himalayas with an ‘all-weather road’, has once again brought into focus the concerns environmentalists have been raising about the impact the project will have on the fragile Himalayan ecology. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, committee members led by Ravi Chopra, Dehradun-based veteran environmentalist who was chairman of the HPC, said that "it is sad that carrying capacity and ecological concerns of the Himalayan valleys are not being taken into consideration in the project." "Most of our recommendations have not been complied with either and we feel like a toothless committee,” they added. Chopra along with three other members — geologist Navin Juyal, social expert Hemant Dhyani and wildlife scientist S Sathyakumar — had submitted a separate report to the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) while 21 other members of the HPC had submitted their own report. According to Chopra, the ‘choice of road width’, the key factor which determines the extent of all ecological damage, was the point on which the committee members disagreed, leading them to submit separate reports. While Chopra’s group recommended widening of the road to a maximum of 8 meter including pavement, others supported the approved project standard, that is a double lane with paved shoulder, which would make the road width around 12 meter. In their submission to the MoEF, Chopra and other members of the minority group said that they found during field visits to the road construction site and interactions with locals that there was “unaccounted loss of forests, trees and green cover, increased landslides, vulnerability of slopes due to vertical hill cutting and inadequate slope stabilization measures, hazardous and unauthorized muck dumps along many stretches and almost no stabilisation measures.” “With the formation of the HPC, fresh hill cutting and tree felling should have been suspended until our recommendations were presented. The idea was that a vision and understanding of the importance of the Himalayan ecology should guide the further progress of work. This did not occur in spite of my repeated persuasions. We witnessed a dense oak forest at Kund actually being bulldozed, despite a promise to wait till our recommendations were received,” Chopra said. He added that “it was not difficult for the ministry of road transport & highways and the district administrations to provide basic data necessary to help the HPC appraise the project but my requests for information regarding landslides, muck dumps, traffic volume, visitors at the Char Dham sites, and other relevant data went largely unanswered despite repeated emails and personal calls.” Terming the project a ‘Himalayan blunder’, two other members of the minority group, Navin Juyal and Hemant Dhyani said, “The propaganda of an ‘all-weather road’ was spread deep into the public psyche but it is not clear to the public or even some officials that as per definition, any tarred road is in fact an all-weather road. Thus the existing NHs in all valleys were already all-weather roads.” They added that “the advantage of racing through these mountains on one’s ‘pilgrimage’ or holiday trip, the advantage to locals of tourists pouring into their valleys have largely been the justification of these projects and repeated often but there has been no thought of the several wild life such asHimalayan thar, goral, Himalayan blue sheep, snow leopard, Himalayan bear, elephant, Tibetan argali sheep, jungle cat, to name a few, and even migrating tigers that have been sighted in these regions, that use the road as a crossing, in trust, and whose lives would be greatly endangered by speeding traffic and also by broader roads which they have to cross.” The members also expressed concern at the manner in which “vertical or near-vertical cuts had been observed at many locations without sufficient prior slope vulnerability analysis, enhancing the occurrence of slope failure.” “On NH-125, 102 out of 174 fresh cut slopes were landslide-prone and 44 slope failures had taken place by mid-December 2019. In the first four months of 2020, there were 11 slope failures, almost one a week.” Regarding the disposal of the muck generated, Chopra’s report said that “there is an overall shortfall in sites and muck dumping capacities in several areas.” “Provisions have not been made for safe disposal of extra muck generated due to slope failures, even at known landslide-prone zones. Many natural streams are blocked or threatened due to improper muck dumping and most muck dumps have not undertaken adequate stabilization and protective measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/our-recommendations-not-complied-with-we-feel-like-a-toothless-committee-say-members-of-sc-appointed-panel-on-char-dham-highway/articleshow/77055682.cms||Shivani Azad
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam: Feel proud as PV Narasimha Rao belonged to Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress is making an all-out effort to send a clear message to people that the party is proud of having had a statesman like PV Narasimha Rao in its ranks. V Hanumantha Rao, honorary chairman of TPCC’s PV Narasimha Rao Centenary Celebrations committee, said: “Right from a party activist to the chief minister’s post in undivided Andhra Pradesh and from AICC president to the Prime Minister’s post, the party has honoured Rao with top positions in the party as well as in the government. His son was given MP ticket.” He called upon party leaders and activists to inform the people that Congress holds Narasimha Rao in highest regard and has always honoured him with top positions. “Tell the people that BJP and TRS are carrying out a malicious campaign against Congress,” he said at a review meeting of the Narasimha Rao centenary celebrations committee here on Sunday. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said: “We are proud of the fact that Narasimha Rao belongs to Congress and we are happy to celebrate his birth centenary.” Congress would launch the inaugural of year-long centenary celebrations of the former PM in the city on July 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-feel-proud-as-pv-belonged-to-cong/articleshow/77057117.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Chalo Mallaram’ poster released||Hyderabad: State Congress leaders on Sunday released the poster of ‘Chalo Mallaram’ programme, being organised by scheduled caste wing of TPCC on July 26. The event is being organised to protest against the ‘atrocities’ against Dalits under TRS government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chalo-mallaram-poster-released/articleshow/77057118.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cave-in swallows ten houses near ITO||NEW DELHI: Within two hours of Sunday’s morning rain, a road in the slum area of ITO’s Anna Nagar caved in partially, swallowing at least 10 houses and leaving at least 50 people homeless. “All we now own is what we are wearing,” cried 60-year-old widow Santosh, a clipping of whose house collapsing due to the cave-in has since gone viral. #Delhi: A house collapsed in the slum area of Anna Nagar near ITO today following heavy rainfall. No one was presen… https://t.co/vLFm16ojRZ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1595143514000“It rains every year but this time, construction activity is going on opposite our home, across the drain. Around 8am, people started screaming, asking everyone to come out. We wondered why, but as soon as we stepped out, we knew something was terribly wrong,” said Pushpa, who has also lost her home. “A huge neem tree had just collapsed, leading to a cave-in. Rainwater started gushing in, and as we ran towards safety, we saw our houses collapse behind us,” she told TOI. The slum has around 2,000 residents and fortunately there wasn’t any casualty. But many residents had a similar horror story to share. “Just after I heard clouds roaring, people started screaming ‘bhaago! bhaago!’. We quickly picked up our children and ran outside. Barely a few seconds after we stepped out, our house collapsed like a pack of cards,” said Vikram. “We have been living here since the past 40 years. Who will compensate for our loss? My sister is blind and it took us at least five minutes to get her out. Had we taken just a few more seconds to come out, we would have died,” said Guddi. Slum residents and the public works department blame National Buildings Construction Company (NBCC), which is reconstructing a portion of the World Health Organization (WHO) building. The land, an official said, belongs to South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). Temporary sheds next to the corporation’s drain no. 12 have been erected and being used by NBCC contractor labourers working for the WHO building, said an SDMC spokesperson. However, NBCC said it had nothing to do with the collapse and the reconstruction was going on for four months. “We have taken all precautions and faced damage ourselves due to the heavy rainfall. We are helping in the rehabilitation process,” an official said. The SDMC commissioner, along with the additional commissioner and other civic officials, visited the spot. the corporation has deployed three super sucker machines with 18 tankers, one suction-cum-jetting machine and two pumps to remove the water, said the spokesperson. CATS ambulances and fire engines were also rushed to the spot. Most residents are now scared to stay in the slum during the monsoon. While some have managed to shift, others said they won’t open their shops and would soon move to a safer place. “What will happen if it rains more than it did today? I don’t want to take a chance and will shift to my relative’s house,” said Ravi Kumar, whose family has seven members. Watch Nature's fury: Slums washed away near Delhi's ITO after rains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cave-in-swallows-10-houses-near-ito/articleshow/77056413.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Flying fit: Immunity boosting beverages take off at airports||MUMBAI: When domestic flights restarted in May, a motley staple of beverages from India’s domestic kitchens—Haldi Doodh, Rasam, Tulsi-Mint Shikanji, Saffron Sattu Shake and Amla Aam Panna—flying in on their reputation as immunity boosters, made their debut at the food and beverage outlets of metro airports. The attendant anxiety that comes with travelling amid the pandemic has altered the gastronomic scene at airports. At the lounges, buffets, now notorious for aiding the spread of coronavirus, were replaced with pre-packed meal boxes. Globally, a number of food outlets at airports continue to remain shut as passenger numbers are down and those who choose to travel largely stick to home-cooked food. But in the case of Indian airports, the sale of immunity boosters seems to have taken off. Curcumin and vitamin C drinks might not beat caffeinated beverages like tea and coffee, but in the past two months, they have gained in popularity at various metros. There is a certain pattern to food preferences at metros though. “Haldi Doodh is the third-largest selling beverage at Delhi airport and so is Tulsi-Mint Shikanji at Kolkata airport. Predictably, Rasam is popular at Chennai airport. Immunity boosters have been doing so well, we’ve been thinking of bottling and marketing it,’’ says Gaurav Dewan, chief operating officer, Travel Food Services (TFS), which runs about 300 food outlets across various metro airports.. Another meal that has picked up sales across India’s airports during the pandemic is curd rice. “It’s a light meal, its healthy and fermented. Among our South Indian fare, curd rice used to account for only 2-3% of sales in pre-Covid times; now it accounts for over 15-20% and is sold throughout the day,’’ he says. Among food items that have dropped in terms of preference are non-vegetarian meals. “We don’t know whether it’s related to Covid or the changed customer profile,’’ he said. The pandemic has forced a mix of new menu options and technology onto the airport food scene. The manner of ordering food has changed as well. It’s common to now find employees walking around with iPads to help people order food. Scan a QR code, read the menu, choose the item, pay online and collect the order from the outlet. Akshara Pratap, a student who boarded a Delhi-Mumbai flight two weeks ago said: “Hardly any passengers were ordering or having meals. But quite a few were having beverages, probably tea or coffee. We were curious about contactless order and so I bought a cappuccino. But most eateries inside the terminals are still closed.” At lounges, the new normal translates to pre-packed meals in spill-proof boxes. Pradip Somani, a frequent flyer on the Mumbai-Delhi route said, “In June, I travelled for the first time after lockdown was imposed. I stepped into the lounge at Mumbai airport to kill time and not to eat, as buffets are known to aid the spread of Covid. I was surprised to find a boxed meal of paneer, rice and roti instead. Other passengers too were rather okay with the new normal reality of boxed meals in lounges”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/flying-fit-immunity-boosting-beverages-take-off-at-airports/articleshow/77056881.cms||Manju V
July 20, 2020||India||Helmet norms tweaked, doors open for imports||NEW DELHI: After some back and forth, the BIS has finally notified the new two-wheeler helmet standard, which will come to effect from September 4. It has done away with the weight limit, which was notified three years back. The revised standard will allow sale of imported helmets, though they have to comply with the Indian Standard (IS) norms. Earlier the Bureau of Indian Standards had reduced the maximum weight of helmets from 1.5 kg to 1.2 kg in its bid to make the head gears lighter for drivers and pillion riders after an expert committee had recommended this. Sources said later there were representations from different players highlighting why the government should not block people’s access to get higher quality helmets even if these are heavier. Sources in the road transport ministry said since the final standard has been notified soon they will issue a draft notification for mandatory IS certification for all helmets sold in India. “We will give six months time for the quality control order (QCO) from the date of final notification to give enough time to all players to comply with the BIS norm. After that deadline, selling non-IS helmets will be an offence,” said an official. Rajeev Kapoor, president of Two-wheeler Helmet Manufacturers Association said in all practicality the weight of more than 90% of the helmets made in India would be in the range of 700 grams and 1 kg range. “The helmet with features such as airbags and other additional features will weigh little more. Less than 1 lakh helmets are imported annually,” he added. According to the transport ministry data, 43,600 two-wheeler riders without helmets had in road crashes in 2018 and this included 15,364 pillion riders. Ban on non-standard helmets has become all the more important considering that post-Covid more people are expected to shift to two-wheelers from using public transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/helmet-norms-tweaked-doors-open-for-imports/articleshow/77057265.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Most trade associations for lockdown, if distancing not followed||Nagpur: Leaders of the city’s trade associations, who met municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Saturday, agree that if discipline is not ensured in the coming days, lockdown and curfew would be the only option. They insist, however, that if the authorities now implement a lockdown it has to be strict, with curfew in effect too. No shops, except medical stores, should get leeway, and even grocery stores should be shut. They also offered to create awareness before a decision is finally taken. TOI contacted leaders of major trade associations, and a majority of them said that in case the public, including traders, don’t comply, a strict lockdown and curfew needs to be clamped. The Nagpur Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), which is the umbrella body of 180 trade associations, has decided to set up teams of volunteers. “We have resolved to free the city of corona by August 15. Each association will set up a 15-member team to monitor activities in the market areas. They will accompany NMC officials to ensure standard operating procedure (SOP) for preventing spread of infection is followed,” said Ashwin Mehadia, president of NVCC. Mehadia said, “If violations continue despite efforts, then we have told the authorities should certainly go ahead with a strict curfew. NVCC and other associations have insisted that in case NMC goes for a lockdown, it should be followed in letter and spirit. Only medical services should remain open. There is no need for lists of essential and non-essential services. Unless there is complete shutdown, it may not help break the infection chain.” BC Bhartia, national president of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said he had stressed during the meeting that lockdown cannot be the solution. At the same time, if people continue to violate rules then the city cannot be put at risk, he said. “No trader feels there should be a 14-day lockdown. We have suggested trade association should form teams of corona ambassadors, and spread awareness among public. Even the people should follow restraint,” said Bhartia. Opposing a lockdown, as it would impact the economy, Bhartia said the civic body should impose heavy fines to deter violators. Tejindersingh Renu, secretary of Vidarbha Taxpayers’ Association (VTA), said, “Despite restrictions on movement there has been a spike in cases because crowding continues. If people violate rules, then strict lockdown with curfew is only solution. We should give curfew another chance, it may help break the chain.” Renu said even workers have adjusted to the new situation and are managing with limited resources. Vishnu Pacheriwala of Nagpur Chamber of Commerce Limited (NCCL) too backed a minimum 14-day curfew and said the civic body should restrain street vendors, for whom there is no odd-even rule. Anil Madan of the Wholesale Cloth Merchants’ Association said if there is a curfew shops selling items like milk or medicine should be allowed. “Traders are ready to deploy staff in monitoring squads. Instead of paying them without work, they can be gainfully employed,” said Ritesh Modi of Jagnath Road Merchants, who also advocated a curfew if other measures failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-trade-associations-for-lockdown-if-distancing-not-followed/articleshow/77056448.cms||Shishir Arya
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Brain-dead man gives fresh lease of life to 8||Kochi: In this period of gloom, the family of a 39-year-old man who died of stroke in a private hospital here gave hope and happiness to eight persons. The deceased, Kelvin Joy’s family came forward to donated his two cornea, heart, liver, hands, small intestine and both kidneys. While the majority of organs were taken for transplant by Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS), Joy’s one kidney was donated to a patient at Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and another one to Lourdes Hospital, Kochi. Joy, hailing from North Paravur, was brought to AIMS two days ago after he suffered a stroke. Though admitted in ICU, his condition worsened and after tests, the doctors declared him brain dead. Joy’s father was informed of the same and he was also counselled on the option of organ donation. After counselling, Joy’s father said that his son used to often talk about donating his organs after death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/brain-dead-man-gives-fresh-lease-of-life-to-8/articleshow/77055718.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi makes heavy weather of first good downpour||NEW DELHI: With the capital recording its first day of “heavy” rainfall this monsoon, Delhiites woke up to waterlogged roads, fallen trees and power cuts in various areas on Sunday. Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded 74.8mm of rainfall in a 24-hour period till 8.30am. The Ridge station received the maximum rainfall at 86mm, followed by Lodhi Road at 81.2mm. Light to moderate rainfall was recorded at Palam and Aya Nagar stations, which received 16.9mm and 12.2mm, respectively. Rainfall above 64.4mm in a 24-hour duration is classified as “heavy”, between 2.5mm and 15.5mm as “light” and between 15.6mm and 64.4mm as “moderate”. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said the monsoon trough had shifted, bringing moderate to heavy rainfall across Delhi-NCR with an increase in rain activity expected this week. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, told TOI that the monsoon trough, which was over Rajasthan, had shifted in the past 24 hours and was passing through Haryana and Delhi at the moment. “This is what led to the strong spell of rain on Sunday, the heaviest this season. While Monday might see light rain, the intensity will increase to moderate on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. Isolated parts could receive heavy showers,” said Srivastava. Until Saturday, Delhi had an overall rainfall deficit of 55% for this season, but Sunday’s spell brought it down to 45%, IMD data showed. Before this, the most rainfall received in a single day was on July 5 at Safdarjung (34.8mm). Palam, Lodhi Road, Ridge and Aya Nagar had received 48.6mm, 38.2mm, 46.6mm and 35.2mm of rainfall, respectively. “The spell on July 5 was moderate. Since then, Delhi has barely received any rain,” said Srivastava. Met officials said the temperature was likely to go down by 2-3 degrees Celsius in the next few days. Delhi’s maximum on Sunday was 35.2 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 23.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal. The forecast for Monday showed that Delhi was likely to record light rainfall with the maximum temperature settling around 35° Celsius. The air quality also improved in the past 24 hours with the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) dropping to 65 (satisfactory) from Saturday’s reading of 92 (satisfactory). System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), a body under Union ministry of earth sciences, said widespread rainfall across Delhi would continue for the next three days, which would keep the air quality in a similar range. “The overall AQI is at the lower end of the satisfactory category. Widespread rainfall over the plains of northwest India is forecast for the next three days. The AQI is likely to improve during the day and might be in the satisfactory to good category on Monday,” said SAFAR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-makes-heavy-weather-of-first-good-downpour/articleshow/77056436.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Patna||Patna: Three-member central team assesses Covid situation||PATNA: The three-member central team reached Patna on Sunday and visited the buffer zone in Rajiv Nagar locality and 100-bed isolation ward set up at Patliputra Sports Complex to review the measures taken by the district authorities in controlling the spread of Covid-19. The central team is led by joint secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Lav Agarwal. Dr S K Singh, the director of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), and Dr Neeraj Nischal, associate professor of medicine at AIIMS, New Delhi, are the part of the team, which also visited the containment zones in the state capital and reviewed the measures. Patna DM Kumar Ravi told this newspaper on Sunday that the team visited Rajiv Nagar, which was declared a buffer zone by clubbing four containment zones in the area after 14 new cases were reported from there. “The team was satisfied with all the measures for the containment of the virus. The medical team is conducting intensive door-to-door surveillance in the area,” he said. “The central team was also satisfied with the arrangements made for the Covid-19 patients at the Patliputra Sports Complex. Whatever instructions they will further issue will be followed,” he said. When contacted, central team members Dr Neeraj and Dr Sujeet said they had submitted the review report to the state health department. The officials in health department, however, said health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh will brief the media about the report on Monday. Minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey said in a press statement that the team was on a two- day visit to Bihar. The team emphasized upon the containment of virus by contact tracing and testing of Covid. “The central government will provide all possible help to the state and there will be no shortage of resources,” he said. The central team reached Patna airport at 12.20pm to assess the spike in number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Taking serious view of the spread of the Covid-19 virus in state in the recent past, the team was asked to “undertake the visit immediately and coordinate with state health authorities to review the existing situation and provide necessary support and guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-member-central-team-assesses-covid-situation/articleshow/77055707.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Petlad MLA tests positive||ANAND: Congress MLA from Petlad Niranjan Patel tested positive of Covid-19 on Sunday. Patel, a senior Congress MLA from Anand district, has been admitted at Ahmedabad’s CIMS Hospital. Sources said that Patel had developed symptoms like fever and cough before couple of days after which he was already being treated as Covid-19 suspect. “All the necessary precautions like sanitising his house in Petlad were already taken by us,” said Dr Mahendra Chhari, chief district health officer of Anand district. Patel’s samples were collected at Petlad civil hospital after which he tested positive. After that he was admitted at Ahmedabad hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/petlad-mla-tests-positive/articleshow/77055410.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||HC allows counsels to file 2 reports in NE riots case||NEW DELHI: With the tussle over who will represent Delhi Police in riot-related court cases refusing to die down, Delhi high court on Monday allowed both the standing counsel and the special public prosecutor to argue and file their respective status reports opposing any relief to Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan. Jahan was booked under anti-terror law—UAPA—earlier this year. Appearing before a bench of justice Suresh Kait, Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra tried to inform the high court that the Lt Governor’s “suo motu” order appointing Special PPs for Delhi riots cases has been set aside by Manish Sisodia, the current home minister of Delhi and only the standing counsel is authorised to represent police. On the other hand, SPP Amit Prasad maintained he had the authority to argue for police and cited a July 17 order by the Director of Prosecution, Delhi government, G V Rao, appointing him as the counsel for this case in trial court and high court. However, justice Kait dismissed both the claims and made it clear the court is not inclined to go into the controversy of which lawyer can represent police, since it has allowed both the lawyers to argue and file status reports. Incidentally, the high court has already reserved its order on the issue of who is authorised to represent police in another riots matter involving a school principal Faisal Farooq. After hearing the prosecution and defence arguments, justice Kait reserved the order on Jahan’s plea challenging the trial court order extending time for completing the probe beyond 90 days. Both the lawyers for prosecution opposed the plea of Jahan who was arrested on February 26. Advocate Lalit Valecha, who appeared for Jahan, argued that the trial court’s order was “erroneous, bad in law and wrong on facts” and overlooked the fact that the prosecutor had not applied his mind while filing the application in the trial court. Backing police, Mehra argued that all the ingredients for extending the time are made out and there is no irregularity in the sessions judge’s order, while Prasad too submitted that the reasons warranting extension of time to complete the investigation in the case have been tested twice, first by the public prosecutor and second by the trial court judge. Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan said that he will place on record an order passed by another bench in the case of former JNU student Sharjeel Imam who had also challenged the order extending time to complete the probe in the UAPA case lodged against him in relation to his alleged instigating speeches during anti Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens protests. It had dismissed the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-allows-counsels-to-file-2-reports-in-ne-riots-case/articleshow/77074526.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger blamed for three human kills captured||Chandrapur: Dreaded tiger responsible for three human kills in Nagbhid and Talodhi ranges was tranquillized and captured on Sunday evening. The capture orders were issued by PCCF (Wildlife ) following the latest human kill by the tiger NT1 in a farm near Owala village on Saturday evening. The tiger was prowling the outskirts on villages in Nagbhid and Talodhi ranges for over a month. It had killed three persons, all of them were working in farms. People in the area were terrorized and were afraid to go out to their farms despite peak agriculture season. NT1 had made its first kill on June 18 in a farm near Tukum village by killing farmer Rajendra Ganvir. Farm labourer Maroti Uiki from Manglur village was its second victim on July 4. The tiger had killed farmer Jagdish Mohurle in his farm near Owala village on Saturday evening prompting the expert committee of forest department to rush for seeking capturing permission. CCF SV Ramarao claimed that the capture orders from PCCF (wildlife) came in the afternoon and immediately a team swung into action to tranquillize the tiger. Officials on field claimed that bait was laid in Govindpur beat and a team led by RFO, Talodhi range, Abhilasha Sontakke, waited for the tiger near the bait. Finally as the tiger came to the bait at around 5.45pm, shooter Ajay Marathe darted the feline with tranquillizing gun. The beast was caged immediately after it was sedated, RFO Sontakke told TOI. Wildlife veterinary officer, Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), Dr Ravikant Khobragade, aided in the operation. The tiger is likely to be sent to Gorewada zoo to be kept in confinement for rest of its life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-blamed-for-three-human-kills-captured/articleshow/77056469.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Low footfall, extra expenses: Salons, spas in Kochi take a hit||KOCHI: Salons, spas and other beauty and wellness centres are yet to get back to normalcy. Even though some of them opened shops after state government relaxed restrictions, owners of these centres say they do not generate enough revenues to sustain themselves. Shelia Mathew, who owns a salon in the city, said the government has stipulated certain norms and operating procedures for the functioning of saloons and spas. “Owners are already burdened with the pending rent. The cost of sanitising equipment and precautionary measures have increased.” Owners also say that they started the business as a self-employment project. They took loans from banks for buying equipment and for furnishing the spaces. “For the past three months I haven’t paid the interest. The interest is accumulating and there is no business. Debt keeps increasing. Moreover, I also have to raise some capital to restart the business,” added Mathew. Many who used to regularly visit salons and spas say they have become extremely cautious and avoid taking beauty treatments. Prior to Covid outbreak, Rajalakshmi Sadasivan used to visit salon every month. “The salon might be following safety protocols. But, I do not want to get exposed and get infected. Everybody is concerned about their health and not looks,” she said. Customers like her are sticking to the basic beauty care and are not keen about facial, pedicure, manicure or hair spa. “They are even cautious while coming for waxing and threading,” said Seema G Nair, an employee at a saloon. Customers also say that they are not comfortable with temperature checks, protective equipment, masks and gloves. While the staffers at salons maintain that it saves them from being endangered, customers are not comfortable. Most salons and spas function with a limited number of staff. Most of these facilities had employed people from the Northeast. However, many returned to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/low-footfall-extra-expenses-salons-spas-in-city-take-a-hit/articleshow/77055742.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Syro-Malabar Church gets 4th century basilica in Rome||KOCHI: Santa Anastasia Minor Basilica in Rome, one of the oldest Christian churches and one of the oldest minor basilicas in the world, has been assigned to Kerala-based Syro-Malabar Church (SMC) by the Vatican. SMC in a statement on Sunday said Cardinal Angelo de Donatis, the vicar general of Pope Francis for the diocese of Rome, has issued a decree assigning Santa Anastasia Minor Basilica to SMC. “This basilica from now on would become the centre of pastoral activities of the faithful of the Syro-Malabar Church, which is one of the foremost Oriental Churches in apostolic tradition and the zeal of faith,” the SMC said. According to SMC, Emperor Constantine started the construction of this basilica during 325-326 AD. St Jerome, the Bible scholar, preached in this church. It is built on the Palatine Hill, the administrative centre of the Roman empire, very close to the Colosseum. Popes till the 7th century celebrated Christmas mass in this basilica. This church, built in the baroque style, is famous for its architectural splendour and decorative works. There are around 7,000 Syro-Malabar catholics in and around Rome and this new setup will go a long way in the smooth coordination of their spiritual and pastoral activities, SMC said. Fr Abraham Kavilpurayidathil, PRO of the church, said according to decree, the centre of pastoral activities of the Syro-Malabar catholics in Rome will be Santa Anastasia Minor Basilica. “A priest designated by the Syro-Malabar major archbishop will be appointed as the chaplain of the Syro-Malabar catholics. The chaplain will be also be the rector of the basilica,” he said. “It is the Holy Father special interest that made it possible for the issue of such a decree,” Fr Kavilpurayidathil’s statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/syro-malabar-church-gets-4th-century-basilica-in-rome/articleshow/77057268.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa’s active Covid-19 count drops, but death toll rises||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 22 on Sunday after a 67-year-old man from Chimbel succumbed to the infection at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, on Sunday. The day also saw the state’s active cases drop to 1,417 after the number of those cured and discharged — 180 — was more than the 173 fresh cases it reported. Most of the new cases were reported in South Goa. The Vasco urban health centre added 20 cases to its tally, increasing its active count to 292, while Cortalim too saw 10 more cases, taking its count to 355. Porvorim added to its tally, taking its total up to 24. A health official said that new cases in the past two days have been detected in Britona, Socorro and Salvador do Mundo, and that all of their contacts have been traced and quarantined. Meanwhile, Loutolim, which had 33 active cases on Saturday, saw its tally drop to 6 on Sunday. In Margao, too, two persons were declared cured on Sunday, while in Quepem, the total active count dropped from 25 to 14 in a single day. While a marginal rise in cases was reported in many health centres, Cansarvanem, in Pernem taluka, saw nine new cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 15. Six travellers also tested positive on Sunday. Tourists entering the state who opt to get tested are quarantined till their results are received, and are only allowed to go if they’re Covid-negative. As per the state’s standard operating procedure, all tourists have to either get tested here or produce a Covid-negative certificate from an ICMR-approved lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-active-count-drops-but-death-toll-rises/articleshow/77056889.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Pune||PMC set to add 100 more ICU beds to improve critical Covid treatment||PUNE: Nearly 100 intensive care unit (ICU) beds will be added at government and private hospitals in the city this week for critically ill Covid-19 patients, Pune Municipal Corporation officials confirmed on Sunday. The state-run Sassoon hospital, which currently has 44 ICU beds, will get 50 more from the fresh batch of 100 units. The rest will be distributed among private hospitals treating Covid-19. Almost all of the city's ICU beds under Covid-care — 247 ICU beds with ventilator support and 197 ICU beds without ventilator support — show that they are occupied, according to the online dashboard set up to monitor admissions 24x7. Experts said this clearly indicates that infrastructure and training need to be boosted. “Over the last 50 years, number of beds at many government-hospitals has not gone up despite the increase in population,” said senior physician Vilas Gundecha. He added, “Government hospitals have been struggling with staff shortages, which have made them unable to increase bed strength. But this excuse cannot be given by a private hospital. All private hospitals are trying to give the maximum number of their beds for Covid patients, often beyond their capabilities. Our doctors and nurses are struggling to cope with the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-set-to-add-100-more-icu-beds-to-improve-critical-covid-treatment/articleshow/77056896.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Drowning street in Delhi: Swim or sink||NEW DELHI: The waterlogging at Minto Road was hardly a surprise on Sunday. In a repeat of what has been seen since the 1990s, a DTC bus got submerged in water stagnated in the railway underpass barely an hour after heavy rainfall lashed the capital. The low-lying areas bordering the jurisdiction of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and North Delhi Municipal Corporationwere heavily waterlogged and various civic agencies passed the buck to each other for the mess that stopped the heart of the city till noon. While north corporation said the road fell under the jurisdiction of PWD, the latter claimed the waterlogging occurred because a Delhi Jal Board (DJB) pipe was choked. In 2018, DJB had claimed that the blockage in front of BJP headquarters on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg had been removed. Except last year, Minto Road has always been a vulnerable spot, sending agencies guessing about how waterlogging occurs despite suction pumps being placed at five different points. The mayor of north corporation, Jai Prakash, said that the waterlogging was the result of negligence on part of PWD. He alleged that PWD and DJB officials were informed about the problem, but no one reached here. “Though the underpass comes under PWD’s jurisdiction, we are carrying out the water removal work. Three out five pumps operated by PWD are not running,” he claimed. A senior DJB official said that a team visited the site and the brick barrel line that carries water from Minto Bridge towards ITO was found to be running smoothly. “There is no blockage in the DJB pipeline. The pumps at Minto bridge are operated by PWD and it is likely that they did not switch them on. Because of this, the water kept on accumulating,” added the official, saying DJB was only responsible for the sewer lines and not the stormwater drains that are managed by north corporation and PWD. A senior PWD official said, “The pumps are manned round the clock, so the allegation that nobody was present to switch on the pumps is baseless and false. When it started raining around 4am, the pumps were started as a precautionary measure. The area was closed for traffic when water started accumulating. The stretch was thrown open by 12pm.” The Minto Road case is a classic example of the problem of multiplicity of authorities looking after Delhi’s drainage. The problematic point lies at the junction of the jurisdiction of NDMC and north corporation, while the water collecting in the low-lying area passes through a DJB line. In June 2018, when the DJB line had emerged as a problem, the agency had claimed that it was working towards resolving it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drowning-street-swim-or-sink/articleshow/77056460.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 20, 2020||Goa||VPK civic body to take care of patients till govt help arrives||Ponda: The Veling-Priol-Kunkoliem (VPK) panchayat has resolved to take care of Covid patients in its jurisdiction till government machinery comes to the rescue. This resolution was taken after seven patients from Mardol on Saturday had to return as they were told that the Covid care centre they were to be admitted to was full to capacity. Following the incident, the VPK panchayat convened an urgent meeting on Sunday morning and sought the guidance of Dr Madhu Ghodkirekar, associate professor, forensic medicine, Goa Medical College and Hospital at Bambolim, who is a resident of Ghodkirewada-Kuncoliem. “Based on the doctor’s suggestions, the panchayat decided to provide all facilities to ease the agony of those infected by the virus and their families,” sarpanch Pandurang Gaude said. “The panchayat will use its hall for the purpose for quarantine, while the infected persons will have to come with their own carpets, bed sheets, etc. The panchayat will provide a pulseoximeter to monitor their oxygen levels and arrange for ambulances to move the patient to Covid care centres. Personal protective equipment (PPE) will also be provided to those attending to the patients,” Ghodkirekar said. The panchayat’s initiative will provide moral support to the Covid persons and will also help to ease the dilemma of the infected persons’ families, he added. “Most live in joint families in a limited space. In such a situation, if some one gets infected, the entire family faces tension not knowing where to quarantine the infected person till government aid arrives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vpk-civic-body-to-take-care-of-patients-till-govt-help-arrives/articleshow/77057123.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Can’t treat Covid patients, ask corp hospitals first: Pvt nursing homes||Panaji: A week after the state government directed private hospitals with ICU facilities to reserve 20% of their beds for Covid-19 patients, over 100 private nursing homes expressed their inability to comply, saying they don’t have adequate facilities to provide treatment to Covid patients. The association of private nursing homes (APNH) said that its member hospitals do not have multi-speciality facilities under one roof, the most important requirement for treating a critically-ill Covid patient. The APNH decided that the government must first approach corporate hospitals, as they have all facilities and meet the criteria for treating Covid patients. Else, the government should identify one corporate hospital in each district that would cater to Covid patients, the association said. “We are not shying away from our responsibility, but small nursing homes with one or two ICU beds will not be able to cope with having Covid patients. They lack other specialities as well,” said APNH secretary Dr Ajit Mopkar. He said that, for instance, it would be difficult to move a Covid patient with chronic kidney disease elsewhere for dialysis if the private hospital doesn’t have a dialysis facility. APNH members had a meeting on Friday with the Indian Medical Council (IMC)-Goa, and representatives of corporate hospitals, to discuss the state government’s diktat. During the meeting, Mopkar said that a consensus emerged that the government should be informed that corporate hospitals must take the responsibility first. “If their (corporate hospitals’) bed capacity falls short, other hospitals will come on board, there is no doubt about that,” Mopkar said. The APNH has only one corporate hospital as its member, but there are five in the state. As on Sunday, the APNH was in the process of conveying its response to the government. On July 13, the directorate of health services directed private hospitals with ICU facilities to comply with its directive within three days, with a warning that licenses to operate non-complying hospitals could be suspended. The private hospitals were also asked to share with the DHS their rates of treatment of Covid patients. A source said that the state’s corporate hospitals are not keen to open their doors for Covid patients. Head of clinical services at Manipal Hospital, Dr Shekhar Salkar, refused to comment on the government order. TOI also approached two other corporate hospitals, who didn’t respond. Explaining the APNH’s rationale, Mopkar said that it’s unviable for nursing homes to take in Covid patients, as most of them are in packed residential colonies or occupy a single floor of a building, without separate entry and exit. Also, being single specialties, they do not have any isolation facility. “Small hospitals have one or two ICU beds. If used for Covid patients, our non-Covid patients will be left out,” Mopkar said, adding that their biggest worry is cross-contamination, which may result in shutting down the hospital if the lone owner-doctor managing it contracts the virus. Mopkar also said that the deadline — three days — was too short a time frame for even corporate hospitals to ready themselves to treat Covid patients. “The government must understand the difficulties of corporate hospitals, and help sort them out,” he said In March, the state government said that private hospitals would be roped in to help it fight Covid-19, but since there were not too many cases then, it didn’t pursue the matter. Only this month, after the massive spike in cases did the government issue its July 13 directive. Asked about non-compliance, director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa said that they are monitoring the situation. A senior government doctor said that they have taken more than their share of treating Covid patients, and that they are now overworked. Also, government hospitals have been reporting cases of doctors and nursing staff getting infected, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cant-treat-covid-patients-ask-corp-hospitals-first-pvt-nursing-homes/articleshow/77056892.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 20, 2020||Goa||Seven ex-Covid patients set to donate plasma today||Panaji: A person who was recently cured of Covid-19 became the first person to donate his plasma at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, while seven more have conveyed their willingness to do so and will donate on Monday. Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital dean Dr S M Bandekar said that while they’re getting responses from former Covid patients, they need more people to come forward and donate. “Recovered Covid patients have some hesitation in donating plasma,” he said. However, the process has been set in motion to contact more former Covid patients. The government is calling them and asking them to state their willingness. A GMC official said that greater awareness is required about CPT, as there are myths circulating that a person may compromise his immunity after donating plasma. These initiatives are part of the state government’s strategy to introduce convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) to treat critically-ill Covid patients in the state. Bandekar said that CPT will be used as a last-ditch effort to save a seriously-ill patient who has contracted the virus. He also said that the hospital has plasma ready for the treatment of one patient. The three-day lockdown has also slowed down the process. Bandekar said that although some donors were ready to visit GMC and donate plasma, they couldn’t do so because of the lockdown. While the hospital was willing to pick them up and drop them home, they declined, fearing their neighbours would suspect they’ve again contracted the infection. Bandekar also said that all patients coming forward to donate plasma for CPT would be screened as per blood bank protocol. “Only after a potential donor’s fitness is ascertained will his plasma be extracted.” The state government has received guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and guidance from a doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Research (AIIMS) on plasma therapy, the dean said. The hospital last week acquired an apheresis machine that receives blood from a donor’s body and separates it into various components, such as plasma and platelets. GFX · What is convalescent plasma therapy (CPT)? Convalescent plasma is a liquid part of blood minus the blood cells from patients who have recovered from Covid-19 infection, which is rich in antibodies specific to SARS COV 2. The transfusion of this antibody rich plasma into seriously ill-covid patients is called CPT. Who can donate plasma? A person who has fully recovered from Covid-19 infection for at least two weeks can donate plasma. The patient must not have symptoms of covid infection for at least, 14 days. Person recovered from Covid may able to donate plasma if – · Age more than 17 · Weight more 50 kg · A haemoglobin level more than 8gm/dl · Presence of adequate antibody titre Who can’t donate plasma · Pregnant woman · Person having uncontrolled diabetes or hypertension · Cancer survivor · If suffering from chronic kidney/ hurt/lung or liver disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-ex-covid-patients-set-to-donate-plasma-today/articleshow/77056904.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 20, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Delayed updates make key health infrastructure harder to reach||PUNE: The number of ICU beds for Covid-19 treatment has gone up, but finding a vacant bed continues to be a problem. On Sunday (July 19), the dashboard set up by authorities to monitor bed availability showed that there were only 12 vacant ICU beds in PMC limits — including just one with ventilator support. The PMC had added 13 ICU beds (7 with ventilator and 6 without) since the death of a retired scientist on July 15 at Sassoon hospital. His family had said they were unable to find an ICU bed on time. But despite the new additions, the dashboard shows not all hositals with ICUs have kept up live updates. Last week, 25 hospitals were served notices by the civic body for not updating the dashboard with vacant bed data. Hospital administrations are supposed to update the dashboard in real-time, but most updates are carried out at 11am and 6pm. The dashboard was set up by the district administration to inform families about real-time vacancies. It's for that very reason that data entry access was given directly to the hospitals. But the website is yet to have any effect on patient management in the city. Officials faulted the hospitals for the lapses. “Citizens could not get correct data on hospital beds. It led to complications in communication. Some hospitals appeared to have hidden vital information. So PMC took the action against them,” said a senior official from the civic body. Another official said the situation is showing signs of improvement. “Increased awareness on the issue has helped PMC add more beds. The situation has improved as far as the availability of beds is concerned,” said Sanjeev Wavare, the assistant medical officer of PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delayed-updates-make-key-health-infra-harder-to-reach/articleshow/77056901.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Lockdown extended by four days for Mormugao, rest of Goa opens today||PANAJI: Even as the three-day lockdown in the state ends on Monday, the state government on Sunday extended it by five days for Mormugao taluka, where it will end at 6am on Friday. The night curfew (8pm-6am), however, will be in force for the rest of Goa till August 10. South Goa collector Ajit Roy on Sunday evening issued an order under Section 144 of CrPC restraining the movement of people and imposing other restrictions in Mormugao. Thus, all shops (except those selling essentials), restaurants, public transport, liquor stores, malls, religious places and sports complexes will remain closed. “Offices, including government (excluding those pertaining to essential government functioing) and private offices excluding those pertaiing to essential services” will also remain closed, according to the order, which will be in force till July 24. Mormugao taluka comprises four assemlby constituencies — Vasco, Dabolim, Cortalim and Mormugao. The government’s three-day curfew received a largely positive response from the public, with most people remaining indoors. Shops too, remained shut, and otherwise bustling streets wore a deserted look. Mormugao, which has over 400 active cases, saw its first positive on June 1 at Mangor Hill, which was declared the state’s first containment zone. As cases began rising, MLAs, ministers and others demanded the port town be locked down, but the state government decided against it. The case then spread to various areas of the taluka, including Baina, Zuarinagar, New Vaddem, etc. An MMC councillor has succumed to the virus, while another politician from the port town — a former state cabinet minister — recently tested positive for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-extended-by-4-days-for-mormugao-rest-of-state-opens-today/articleshow/77056899.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Gajendra Singh Shekhawat should step down till cleared: Congress||JAIPUR: Continuing to put pressure on Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and BJP over the alleged horse-trading of Rajasthan MLAs, the Congress on Sunday demanded that he should either resign or the Centre should sack him. Former Union minister Ajay Maken said Shekhawat should give his voice samples to let Rajasthan SOG investigate if the audio clips related to the horse-trading matter were genuine or fake. “Outside forces are using money to topple the state government. They will kill democracy. If they are not stopped, people will lose faith in elections and democracy,” said Maken, who is part of the three-member Congress team dispatched to Jaipur to settle the political crisis that has arisen following the rebellion by former deputy CM Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 ruling party MLAs. “If BJP has no role in destabilising the Rajasthan government, why are these MLAs running only to BJP ruled states,” Maken asked. At a press conference here, the Congress posed five questions to the BJP central leadership. “Shekhawat has said the voice in the audio clips is not his, so why is he reluctant to give his samples to probe agencies? Now that the anti-corruption bureau too has booked him, is it not fair that he steps down or the PM relieves him of his post till he is cleared of the charges?” said Maken. “Why is BJP’s Haryana and Delhi police not allowing voice samples of Congress MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh and union minister Shekhawat to be taken?” he added. “Is the BJP threatening a CBI probe because many in the central government are linked to the buying of MLAs and they fear being exposed,” asked Maken. “BJP should disclose from where such black money is coming to buy the legislators. Who is arranging this black money? Is the money being transferred through hawala? Who all are getting this money? Shouldn’t these people involved in toppling the Rajasthan government using black money be exposed?” he said. “If the BJP is not involved, why are the central and Haryana governments, income tax, ED, Haryana and Delhi police providing special security to Congress MLAs and hindering Rajasthan police probe,” asked Maken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/min-should-step-down-till-cleared-cong/articleshow/77056906.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad to acquire ICU facilities from 25 private hospitals||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad is set to acquire ICU beds of 25 private hospitals within its 13 tehsils for Covid-19 care.  District civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar said, “We will have 218 ICU beds; 587 beds with just oxygen support; 65 ventilator-supported beds at these hospitals.” Rural Pune, including small towns outside Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits have collectively registered 4,290 cases since the outbreak started in March: 1,511 patients went on to recover, 2,689 remain active and 90 succumbed to the contagion (as of July 18). Nandapurkar added that out of every 100 Covid-19 positive patients, about 80 are asymptomatic — patients with very mild to no symptoms who can recover at home or at Covid Care Centres. “Only five or less than five patients require ICU facilities such as oxygen beds and ventilators,” he said. Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “We want to end our dependency on city hospitals and ensure rural patients have enough ICU beds.” The most severely ill Covid-19 patients from the rural areas are currently being moved to Sassoon General Hospital, Yeshwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital or the Aundh Chest Hospital. “On an average, we shift less than 10 critical patients to these hospital in a week,” said Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer. But he added that the tehsils need beds too. "These beds will ensure a patient gets timely care. Adequate ICU beds will save lives,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-to-acquire-icu-facilities-from-25-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/77056905.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: With defect liability in place, L&T to pay for pothole repairs, says GSIDC||PANAJI: The Goa state infrastructure development Corporation (GSIDC) on Sunday admitted that the potholes which surfaced on the 18-month-old bridge across the Mandovi river, Atal Setu, required rectification. GSIDC officials said that L&T will have to bear the cost to fill up the potholes. The cable-stayed bridge, which was inaugurated on January 27, 2019, has at least three defects which GSIDC has asked L&T to rectify. “The state will not have to pay for any repairs. We will ask L&T to repair the potholes,” said a official speaking on condition of anonymity. He said that the bridge has a defect liability period during which time L&T, which built the bridge, will have to carry out all rectification and repairs at its own cost. On February 29, TOI had reported that GSIDC had identified three flaws which L&T had been asked to correct. The south side approach road leading towards Porvorim had started sinking and has been repaired and thrown open for traffic just two days ago. The emergence of potholes were part of the three flaws. “The waterproof membrane that has been applied bonds with the asphalt at a particular temperature. The membrane technology was approved by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). We will have to review why the membrane and the asphalt did not bond,” said the GSIDC official. L&T had patched up the potholes earlier but due to the heavy rains, the potholes have surfaced again. L&T bagged the contract to construct the cable-stayed bridge for Rs403 crore, but, as on date, GSIDC has spent a total of Rs546.8 crore on the four-lane bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-defect-liability-in-place-lt-to-pay-for-pothole-repairs-gsidc/articleshow/77056902.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Gulf returnees irked by Covid-19 test delays||PANAJI: Returnees on direct flights from the Middle East have faced delays in getting their Covid-19 test results despite paying for the procedure at the Goa airport. Several say they have been kept waiting for a week, causing them much distress. They have now called for a system to be put in place to ensure that the results are delivered quickly. The passengers include those from Maharashtra and Karnataka who landed at Goa airport and were compelled to give their swab samples for testing and pay Rs 2,000 before proceeding to their respective states. The prolonged delivery of the results has inconvenienced them as they have had nothing to show their housing societies, the police, sarpanchs, villagers and doctors when they’ve tried to access healthcare. A pregnant woman who landed in Goa on a direct flight from Saudi Arabia on July 10 got her swab taken at the airport and was then allowed to proceed to Latur, Maharashtra, where she assured the authorities that she had been tested in Goa and that the report would be out in a day or two. A week later, she had still not received an SMS informing her of the status of her test. This has led to the police and the local authorities arriving at her doorstep and questioning her. “It was a big problem for me. I couldn’t get myself checked by a doctor as I was asked for the Covid-19 test results. I managed to get the report only on Thursday afternoon after I requested someone to collect it from the lab in Mapusa,” the woman, who is five months along, told TOI. “She was desperate, and we only managed to get her results after sending someone to the Mapusa district hospital to collect them after which we then sent her a picture of it. After paying Rs 2,000, it is our right to get a report either via email or other means. As a week has passed by, many have gone on with their lives assuming that they must be negative,” said one of her co-passengers, Arun. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said citizens have been receiving the results on SMS within a day or two. “If there are delays, they receive the results after 48 hours, but there hasn’t been a delay beyond that. Sometimes, the contact number provided is either out of reach or incorrect,” Betodkar told TOI. He added that those facing issues could contact the IT team on helpline number 104. Passengers of another flight from Qatar that landed in Goa on July 8 faced a different set of problems. When those from other states were directed to get their swab samples tested, they refused, fearing that they would have to get tested again on reaching their states. Following a lengthy discussion, they were allowed to proceed directly to their respective states. Goan returnees who were asked to pay for hotel accommodation for four days in advance, didn’t receive any refund when they got their rest results earlier than expected and proceeded on home quarantine, one of the passengers, Slanney Lucas, told TOI. “For someone like me who has lost a job, Rs 13,000 for four nights in a hotel, plus Covid test fees and transport costs is a lot of money,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gulf-returnees-irked-by-covid-test-delays/articleshow/77056909.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Wave of lockdowns dash hopes in Janata Vasahat||PUNE: Parts of the Janata Vasahat slum, which have been registering a drop in Covid-19 cases, were about to resume normal life when news arrived of the fresh lockdown. Nearly 60,000 residents of the slum, most relying on a daily wage, have been hit with another wave of anxiety. “Civic authorities had recently allowed residents here to resume jobs because of a drop in cases. There was also an agitation that demanded officials lift restrictions on movement. People were just starting to pick up the pieces when the fresh lockdown hit,” said Suraj Lokhande, president of the Janata Vasahat Kruti Samiti.  Arun Mukari, who owns a salon in the slum, is now a vegetable vendor. “I had to earn a living; salons were shut for months. And I was hoping to resume operations when they announced the 10-day lockdown. We live in uncertain times.” Janata Vasahat, which spans 110 acres, has had 11 deaths so far. The PMC has sealed some parts of the slum. Those outside the micro-containment zone were, in the beginning of July, allowed to get back to their jobs. But their relief was brief. Shobha Kamble, a domestic help, said her hopes for normal life have been dashed. “I have to pay school fees of my three daughters. My husband, who is part of music troupe, has been out of work since March,” she said. Lokhande added that the situation spiralled after people started borrowing money to survive. “Scores here are now neck-deep in debt. Civic officials, local corporators and NGOs kept ration supplies all through May. But supplies stopped in June. Many without work ran out of options and started to sell whatever valuables they had at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wave-of-lockdowns-dash-hopes-in-janata-vasahat/articleshow/77056911.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Kota, Dholpur join list of 10 worst-affected Covid dists||JAIPUR: With Covid-19 cases continuing to rise, Kota and Dholpur joined the league of districts that have breached the 1,000 mark in cumulative infections on Sunday. Out of the 33 districts, the state now has 10 districts reporting over 1,000 cumulative Covid cases. The state also reported its biggest single-day record of new cases on Sunday, with 934 new infections from different parts of the state on Sunday. This took the state tally to 29,434. On July 15, the state had reported a record 866 cases, the biggest single-day spike till now. The districts which reported over 1,000 cumulative cases are Jodhpur (4,654), Jaipur (4,321), Bharatpur (2,156), Pali (1,914), Alwar (1,702), Bikaner (1,407), Ajmer (1,101), Nagaur (1,078), Kota (1,028) and Dholpur (1,011). Also, for the first time, the number of active cases in the state crossed 7,000 mark and set a new high of 7,145 cases. Jodhpur has the highest number of active cases at 1,197, followed by Alwar (834), Bikaner (816), Jaipur (798), Pali (487), Ajmer (415) and Barmer (388). Dholpur reported 104 cases to become one of the districts reporting over 1,000 cumulative cases. It now has 1,011 cases. Kota reported 42 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 1,028. However, Jodhpur ranks first in the state in both the number of total cases and new ones. It reported 126 new infections which took its tally to 4,654. The districts which reported new cases on Sunday are Jodhpur (126), Dholpur (104), Ajmer (84), Bikaner (72), Barmer (71), Pali (71), Jalore (70), Alwar (52), Kota (42), Bharatpur (40), Jaipur (38), Karauli (24), Churu (21), Rajsamand (19), Udaipur (19), Nagaur (12), Sawai Madhopur (11), Hanumangarh (11), Jhalawar (11), Sikar (6), Dungarpur (5), Jhunjhunu (3), Banswara (3), Chittorgarh (3), Bhilwara (2), Dausa (2), Pratapgarh (2), Baran (1), Tonk (1) and eight from other states. In Jaipur, 21 different places reported 38 new infections. The areas which reported new cases are Govindgarh (5), Sanganer (5), Sodala (3), Tonk Road (3), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Malviya Nagar (2), Bassi (2), Jhotwara (2), Shahpura (2), while one each case was reported from Vaishali Nagar, Chandpole, Jhalana, Sitapura, Gopalpura, Amber, Ambabari, Shastri Nagar, Amber Road, Sikar Road, Johri Bazaar Idgah. Besides, 586 persons have recovered from Covid, taking the tally of cured persons to 21,730.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-dholpur-join-list-of-10worst-affected-covid-dists/articleshow/77056913.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||IGS being shut to grab land, say ex-students||Wardha: Claiming that the management’s move to suspend admissions citing coronavirus pandemic this year is a step towards shutting down the Institute of Gandhian Studies (IGS), former students on Sunday launched ‘Save IGS’ campaign on social media on Sunday. Former students alleged that the management wants to shut down the institute to grab the land to build a hostel for Shiksha Mandal. The students claimed that patron of the institute Rahul Bajaj is being misguided by the director and local management. IGS is being run by Jamanalal Bajaj Foundation and it was established to preach Gandhian ideology in practical way to students. Hundreds of national and international students have studied here. IGS runs 10-month diploma course every year for 14 students covering Gandhian philosophy. A former student from Odisha Sasmita Jena in a Facebook post said, “IGS is soul of many progressive thinkers, but director Bharat Mahoday and Sanjay Bhargav want to destroy this institute for their personal need and greed. They plan to convert it into a profitmaking institution.” IGS director Bharat Mahoday said, “We have suspended the course this year due to Covid crises.” On reopening of the institute, he said, “It is up to the management. I cannot say anything about that now.” “We invite admissions in July every year, but this year not a single application has been received and therefore the decision to suspend the course,” said Mahoday. On IGS professor Dr Ramchandra Pradhan being asked to vacate his room and leave the institute citing Covid situation, Mahoday said, “He is from Delhi and since the lockdown he was staying here. As the institute is not going to open this year, we have asked him to leave the campus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/igs-being-shut-to-grab-land-say-ex-students/articleshow/77056500.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 20, 2020||Goa||With defect liability in place, L&T to pay for bridge repairs: GSIDC||Panaji: The Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) onSunday admitted that potholes which surfaced on the 18-month-old bridge across the Mandovi, Atal Setu, required rectification. GSIDC officials said L&T will have to bear the cost to fill up the potholes.The cable-stayed bridge inaugurated on January 27, 2019, has at least three defects which GSIDC has asked L&T to rectify.“The state will not have to pay for any repairs,” said an official on condition of anonymity. He said the bridge has a defect liability period during which time L&T, which built the bridge, will have to carry out all rectification and repairs at its own cost.On February 29, TOI had reported that GSIDC had identified three flaws which L&T had been asked to correct. The southside approach road leading towards Porvorim had started sinking and has been repaired and thrown open for traffic just two days ago. The emergence of potholes were part of the three flaws.“The waterproof membrane that has been applied bonds with the asphalt at a particular temperature. The membrane technology was approved by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). We will have to review why the membrane and the asphalt did not bond,” said the GSIDC official.L&T bagged the contract forthe cable-stayed bridge for Rs403 crore, but, as on date, GSIDC has spent Rs546.8 crore on the four-lane bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-defect-liability-in-place-lt-to-pay-for-bridge-repairs-gsidc/articleshow/77056912.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Bookaholics await opening of libraries||Coimbatore: While the coronavirus lockdown prevents them from visiting public libraries, avid readers badly want to borrow books, even if they are not allowed to spend time at the facilities.The District Central Library on the Cowley Brown Road at RS Puram has a dedicated section for competitive exam aspirants. Readers like S Ramesh Kumar used to spend six to seven hours there every day for UPSC preparation. “There were reference books which were handy. Now, at home, there are many distractions and I miss the library ambience,” he said.Some readers are worried about the dreaded late fees. “I had borrowed three books from the District Central Library in March and am not able to return them nor able to borrow new books,” said V Sangeetha, a city resident. “While the library has given access to e-books, I can’t afford them. Now, I have no access to books,” she told TOI.Booklovers like Sangeetha need not worry as late fee has been waived off, said district library officer M Sakthivel. “Readers can return books when the libraries open. There has been no official announcement on the opening date,” he said. Now the focus is on cleaning libraries, Sakthivel said. “We opened libraries in the first week of June to carry out cleaning. Our staff have been instructed to visit libraries once in a while to carry out maintenance.”The district has 246 libraries including the central library, 100 branch libraries, 90 village libraries, 54 part-time libraries and a mobile library. They have more than 5.1 lakh members. The central library, which is the biggest, has 61,000 members. It saw an average daily footfall of 800 before the lockdown. Librarian P Rajendran, said the staff are visiting the library once in 10 days for cleaning. “Books would suffer damage if we let them idle for a long time. So, we have been dusting and cleaning books,” he said. The department is mulling to allow competitive exams aspirants to visit libraries on a rotation basis, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bookaholics-await-opening-of-libraries/articleshow/77056492.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 56-year-old driver found drowned in underpass at Minto Bridge||NEW DELHI: A 56-year-old man drowned while trying to manoeuvre his vehicle out of the waterlogged railway underpass at Minto Road near Connaught Place on Sunday morning. The deceased, Kundan, sat on the roof of the Tata Ace mini-truck to save himself, but the rising water level claimed his life. The vehicle is owned by his cousin, Pritam, who is currently engaged in transporting raw materials to various canteens of Delhi Police. “We have been here since 1987, but this is the first time that I’ve known someone who has drowned in rainwater collected under the bridge. Kundan’s elder daughter’s wedding is scheduled for November. I hope the government offers some compensation as he was his family’s only earning member,” Pritam told TOI. Kundan was from Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand and lived near the taxi stand at Shankar Market. He is survived by his wife and two daughters aged 21 and 13, who live with his parents in their native village. Pritam said his cousin would usually sleep in the vehicle as he had to begin work early. “The vehicle was being used to supply raw materials to various canteens of the police force. Even on Sunday, he was heading to work when he got trapped,” he added. DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said, “Kundan was coming from New Delhi Railway Station side and heading to Connaught Place when he got stuck under the bridge. He tried to manoeuvre his vehicle through the water, but couldn’t succeed. It seems he died of drowning. No external injury marks were present on his body. Inquest proceedings under CrPC Section 174 are under way.” A railway trackman, Ramniwas Meena, spotted Kundan’s body around 10am while patrolling the tracks. “I spotted him floating near a bus submerged in the water and jumped in to save him. But he had passed away by the time I fished him out,” he said. When TOI spoke to Kundan’s family members on Sunday night, they said they were handed over a cheque of Rs 10 lakh in the name of Munni Devi, the deceased’s wife, at the DM’s office. In two other deaths reported from southeast Delhi, an eight-year-old boy died after slipping off a ghat in Jaitpur. In Sriniwaspuri, a 28-year-old man died after slipping in the water and hitting a hard surface. Watch Delhi: Dead body found near submerged bus under Minto Bridge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/56-year-old-drowns-in-waterlogged-underpass/articleshow/77056484.cms||Sakshi Chand
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Three more DMK legislators test positive||Three more DMK legislators - Krishnagiri MLA T Senguttuvan, Vellore MLA P Karthikeyan and Ranipet MLA R Gandhi - tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Senguttuvan, 63, who is also the party’s Krishnagiri East district incharge, was admitted to a private hospital in Hosur on Saturday with mild fever and cough. Subsequently, samples were collected from him for Covid-19 test. “The results turned to be positive,” said P D Aravindan, director, Kauvery Hospital, where Senguttuvan was first admitted. The MLA was shifted to another private hospital in Coimbatore on Sunday. “He is stable now. We have started tracing his contacts and collecting samples from them,” said V Govindan, Krishnagiri deputy director of health. Immediately after the results came, the DMK party office and his house were completely disinfected. A party source said Senguttuvan was involved in Covid relief distribution all these days. On July 17, Senguttuvan had led a protest against the AIADMK government in Krishnagiri that was attended by a large number of party cadres as well as other MLAs, whom he took to meet the district collector and submit a petition, questioning the state government for not inviting them for a meeting that was chaired by the chief minister in the district. Prior to that, on July 14, Senguttuvan had led another protest, condemning removal of alleged encroachments. It was also participated by several traders. “We have advised everyone, who came in close contact with the MLA, to self-isolate themselves and test for Covid-19,” said another health officer. Similar was the case with Karthikeyan and Gandhi. Both the MLAs had been participating in protests and attending private functions. A DMK source said Gandhi was frequently meeting party carders and other people in his constituency. “Both of them had attended private functions like marriages.” So far, more than dozen MLAs have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-dmk-mlas-contract-virus/articleshow/77056516.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Closure of markets triggers farmer distress in green belt||PUNE: The exemption provided to agricultural activities from the lockdown failed to bring any relief to farmers in the green belt of Junnar, Ambegaon, Baramati and Indapur in Pune district as they struggled to sell their produce or buy pesticides and fertilisers, with several wholesale and retail markets markets closed. Market closure following the lockdown has resulted in farmer distress, said sources in the All India Vegetable Growers’ Association. Many farmers failed to find any labour due to the lockdown. Several municipal corporations and adjoining rural administrations have imposed a 10-day lockdown to curb the Covid-19 spread. Farmers said horticulture farm produce, like vegetable and fruits, has remained unsold during the lockdown due to several wholesale and retail markets remaining closed not only in Pune district, but also in places like Aurangabad, Solapur, Thane and Kalyan. Shriram Gadhave, president, Vegetables Growers Association of India told TOI, “Almost 60% of horticulture farmers have not harvested produce like veggies and fruits in the districts affected by the lockdown. The produce has been lying unsold or unharvested as some major urban markets are closed. Apart from Pune and PCMC markets, those in other places are closed. Many farmers have not even harvested their produce, which has caused it to decay on fields.” Sachin Bhikaji Pawar, a farmer in Narayangaon in Junnar, said, “We have not been able to get pesticides and fertilisers during the last few days due to the lockdown. Workers have also been scarce as they have not been able to travel. Places like Junnar, Ambegaon, have huge tracts of cultivable land and, thus, require many farmhands. Smaller markets, where vegetables are sold, like Narayangaon, Manchar, Alephata have remained closed. Besides, police stop us when we visit the markets that are open.” Satish Pate, head of a farmer-producer company with 297 registered and 1,500 beneficiary farmers in Junnar and Ambegaon, said, “Almost 200-300 tonnes of vegetables have gone rotten in these parts in the last four-five days as they could not be sold in bigger vegetable markets in Pune and PCMC. Because of the glut in production, the wholesale market in Narayangaon saw prices of vegetables crashing by 70%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/closure-of-markets-triggers-farmer-distress-in-green-belt/articleshow/77056915.cms||Neha Madaan
July 20, 2020||Goa||S Goa cops strategy: Counselling criminals||Margao: Sending a signal, loud and clear, about their intent to crack down on criminal activities with an iron hand, 116 persons identified by the South Goa police as prone to disturbing peace in the society, were summoned by police on Thursday and warned against indulging in any criminal activities. Police sources said that the criminals — those with criminal record, ex-convicts, habitual law breakers and even budding offenders — were “appropriately counselled” by police inspectors of the respective police stations across South Goa. Police sources said that holding of “counselling sessions” for criminals at all police stations on the same day — held incidentally just a day ahead of the three-day lockdown — bore the stamp of authority of South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh. Singh on Saturday confirmed the pre-emptive police drive in reining in anti-social elements. “We identified the criminals in the jurisdiction of each police station based on their criminal record and the nature of crimes they were involved in,” Singh told TOI. “We also identified budding criminals by profiling their ages along with their criminal tendencies. The idea is to keep a tab on their activities to prevent them from turning into hardened criminals.” Singh, who was transferred from his earlier posting as SP (crime) assumed charge of his new office nearly two weeks ago. Singh said that all police inspectors have been instructed to take stringent action against those indulging in strong arm tactics, creating nuisance on streets at night in an inebriated condition, intimidating others, and committing breach of peace by their disorderly conduct. Youngsters driving recklessly and indulging in speed biking on public roads will also be reined in, he said. Strengthening community policing also tops high among Singh’s priorities as the South Goa district SP. “Reaching out to senior citizens and helping resolve their grievances is a part of our community policing approach. We will be monitoring and following up on their calls separately,” Singh said. The police have a dedicated control room and 1090 helpline for senior citizens. Putting in place an alternative complaint redressal mechanism at police stations and strengthening the student police cadet programme is also a part of Singh’s community policing agenda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/s-goa-cops-strategy-counselling-criminals/articleshow/77056916.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Rapid antigen tests of salon, dhaba owners, truckers: Collector||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakare has set the agenda of conducting widespread rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 in the district suburbs. The plan is to test grass root level stakeholders of society beginning from workers and owners of salons and roadside dhabas or eateries, especially at inter-state borders, to vegetable vendors, autorickshaw drivers and truckers. Thakare, in a review meeting at the divisional commissioner’s office last week, placed his plan to fight corona spread in the mofussil localities of the district. These areas are considered more vulnerable as the health infrastructure is not so developed as in the city. The collector said they will also test doctors, corporators and journalists, who work in high risk zones. “We have asked private doctors to provide details of people who come with complaints of fever and cough. We are also testing doctors who are helping us fight Covid at our request, and ensuring their morale remains high,” he said. Thakare said 4,000 antigen tests have already been done, and another 20,000 antigen kits are reaching, following which a random testing drive would start in the district. “We would need to test drivers as they are moving to different districts and states, or making our district a stopover location. They can get infected during their travels and so it’s important to test them, isolate them if infected, and get them treated. This also holds true for the others too,” said the collector. With haircut salons now thrown open to public, the collector said testing of people engaged in shaving and cutting is required too as they are attending to customers from different walks of life. Thakare said widespread testing of service providers and those in transport sector can detect and check more infections. He underlined the fact that all these sectors had the potential to infect many if undetected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rapid-antigen-tests-of-salon-dhaba-owners-truckers-collector/articleshow/77056474.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 20, 2020||Pune||E-conclave on telemedicine at Symbiosis||Pune: To explore the potential and other facets of telemedicine and related fields, Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre (SUHRC) and Symbiosis Medical College for Women, in collaboration with Telemedicine Society of India (TSI) organized a three-day e-conclave that started on July 10 and ended on July 12. Over 25 eminent panellists from relevant fields shared their valuable insights on diverse topics which were aired through webinars for registered professionals. Some of the topics covered in the conclave ranged from telehealth’s scope and its application, capacity building initiatives, affordability, teleconsultation and electronic health records — including the ethical & legal aspects of telemedicine. Dean of faculty of Health Sciences at Symbiosis International, Rajiv Yeravdekar, said, “Telemedicine has the potential to meet the challenges of healthcare delivery to rural and remote areas. It can improve medical care by facilitating physician-patient communication besides monitoring treatment of chronic conditions, among others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-conclave-on-telemedicine-at-symbiosis/articleshow/77056917.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Second time cancelled: Flyers in Kolkata seek refund from airlines||KOLKATA: Airline offices and the landline number of the Kolkata Airport’s manager are being flooded with calls from anxious and frustrated fliers, whose tickets have been cancelled for the second time in a row after the airport authorities announced extension of the ongoing ban on flights arriving from six Covid-hit cities including Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. Several flyers have also taken to social media venting out their anger and frustration all the while and tagging airlines and the civil aviation ministry, seeking for immediate refund of ticket fare after most airlines started depositing the money to passenger’s credit shell. “The airlines are sitting on passenger’s hard earned money by not offering refunds and putting all fares aside on credit shell. This is the second time my tickets have been cancelled and it has gone on credit shell,” a user, Jalal Siddiqui, wrote on Twitter. Similar complaint was raised by another user Mehbub Hasan who too complained: “The booking price of flight has not been returned to customers. They should return money but they are going for credit shell. I have experienced with the cancellation of my scheduled flights twice. It’s not the solution for common people.” A senior official of a private airline in Kolkata responded: “Refunds are being processed as per the customer convenience.” Though there are no curbs on flights from Kolkata to the six cities in focus, the airlines have once again ruled out one-way flights, citing logistics and viability constraints, effectively snapping direct connections with Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad. Consequently, many fliers from Kolkata booked tickets to travel to these cities on Monday while they received SMS from airlines the fortnight that followed, announcing the cancellation of flights. Meanwhile, with the direct connection from Kolkata to these cities being suspended for a longer period, several passengers are also calling up airlines for alternative routes via other airports to reach the city. “The places like Bhubaneshwar, Patna and Raipur have suddenly been in high demand along with Varanasi and Guwahati as people travelling between Kolkata and the cities like Delhi and Mumbai are now changing flights to reach their destinations. We are also trying to guide our clients through the best available route in case they have to make an essential travel,” said a travel agent with multiple offices in the city. Some fliers are also planning long road trips to travel back home. Take for example the techie Ipsita Banerjee and her husband Mainak who are set to take a 1,500-km road travel from Delhi in two days to head back to their Baguiati home as her elderly father had fallen ill on Saturday evening. “My mother is extremely tensed and considering the present situation, we cannot ask relatives to take care of my parents at this point of time. With flights suspended, we are planning to drive from Delhi to Kolkata this week and stay with my parents for some time. It is going to be hectic but we have no other option,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/second-time-cancelled-flyers-seek-refund-from-airlines/articleshow/77056509.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 20, 2020||Goa||Online counselling for PG seats from July 25 onwards||Panaji: For the academic year 2020-21, Goa University has accepted admission forms for postgraduate programmes offered at the university as well as affiliated colleges through an online process. While this process ended on July 16, Goa University will also be conducting counselling sessions for students for admissions through the online mode this year. The counseling will be held from July 25 to 30, GU has said. Earlier, GU had asked students, who had appeared for Round I and II of Goa University Admission Ranking Test (GU-ART), to apply for admissions by July 16. “In view of the COVID-19 pandemic social distancing norms, the University has decided to conduct online counseling for admissions to PG programmes which are offered at both the University Department/School and at affiliated College/s,” it has said in a circular. The university also has a helpline number to resolve students’ queries. The number will be operational between 10am and 1pm and from 2.30pm to 4.30pm from Monday to Friday. Students, who have answered either Round I or II of GU-ART for a respective programme, have been made to fill an online Google form with basic information. The students have to then proceed to the institutions in the order of their preference. Based on the availability of seats and preference indicated by the candidates in the form, seats will be allotted by the counsellors, GU has said. Admissions to the PG programmes are based entirely on GU-ART and marks obtained by students while graduating will only be used to ascertain their eligibility for the programme. Goa University will be conducting a third round of GU-ART on July 20 and 21, the varsity has announced, adding that detailed guidelines for the test will however been issued subsequently. The result of the GU-ART Round III will be declared on July 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-counselling-for-pg-seats-from-july-25-onwards/articleshow/77057124.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: More cops on road, people comply with lockdown||BHOPAL: Amidst spiralling coronavirus cases in the city, Bhopal observed lockdown on Sunday with people responding overwhelmingly to the administration’s call to remain indoors and help in containing the spread of the deadly virus. On Sunday, as many as 149 people were found to be corona positive. This is the highest one-day tally of the district. At his coronavirus review meeting on Saturday, chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, had expressed concern over the spurt in COVID-19 cases in Bhopal and announced additional curbs like closure of markets at 8 pm in place of 10 pm and allowing only 50% attendance in private offices. On July 19, the second Sunday lockdown in the city, the response was near complete, like the first lockdown the previous Sunday. There were more police personnel on the roads and more pickets than the previous Sunday to check traffic. However, people didn't give them much work as there were very few vehicles on the roads. How empty were the roads could be gauged by the fact that some people used the opportunity to give driving lessons to their children on the road. The police were more visible in old Bhopal area, which is supposed to be difficult in terms of “crowd management”. Police teams were there at all the major points in the area -- Bus stand, Moti Masjid, Bhopal Talkies, Quazi Camp, Sindhi Colony and several others. The entry and exit points from old Bhopal to new Bhopal was possible through Kamla Park and Jehangirabad only, and at both the places, cops were in place with pickets restricting the movement of vehicles and allowing people to pass only after taking down their name, address and purpose of their visit outside their homes. In new Bhopal, Kolar and BHEL township, police presence was less but they were effectively placed to keep things undet control even as people complied with the lockdown order willingly. There was thicker police presence near the dam sites -- Kerva, Kaliasot -- which atrract a lot of crowd on holidays. Medical shops and Sanchi milk parlours were open. However, many of the petrol pumps remained closed despite exemption from the lockdown Though the people have been compliant with the Sunday lockdown order of the district administration, sceptics feel that in the wake of spiralling coronavirus cases, one day of lockdown would not have the desired impact. “This week, the cases each day were more than 100 mostly and they are rising each day. The administration should put the city under lockdown for a week to bring down the numbers. If you have a lockdown on Sunday, you may perhaps save 100 people from contracting the infection, but it is not enough at this stage,” said a doctor on the condition of anonymity. Head of department, pulmonary medicine, Gandhi Medical Ccollege, Dr Lokendra Dave, however, said, “The Sunday lockdown may have symbolical importance. It may not actually stop the imfection from spreading, but it sends out a critical message that people need to be responsible even now. Remind them how they have lived in three months of the lockdown. Something, which they were forgetting in the course of unlocking. The message is more important here than the effect. Sunday is the right choice because on other six days of the week, people are engaged in economic activities. Without hampering that, if people can be asked to remain home, it is Sunday.” The district collector, while justifying the Sunday lockdown, said, “It is to stop crowding at public places, which is commom on holidays. You can close the market but who will stop people from crowding at dam sites -- Kerva or Kaliasot? Besides, it sends a strong message across that the problem is very much alive and everyone has to be cautious to protect himself/herself from infection. Wear mask, observe social distancing to remain safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-cops-on-road-people-comply-with-lockdown/articleshow/77055818.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Call off end semester exams: SFI||Coimbatore: Students organisations in the city have demanded the ministry of human resource development to accept Tamil Nadu’s stance that states should be granted freedom to decide on end semester exams. Considering the pandemic situation, they said the exams should be called off and students should be awarded marks based on their performance in internal exams. Members of Students Federation of India (SFI) said while the University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked higher education institutions to hold end semester exams within September, the state has said it would not be possible, considering the pandemic situation. The UGC should accept this and give up the decision to hold exams,” said M Dhinesh Raja, district secretary of SFI. They said if online exams are to be held, it would be unfair for those who can’t afford smart phones, laptops, or computers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/call-off-end-semester-exams-sfi/articleshow/77056525.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Covid cases may soon rise in rural areas: Experts||MUMBAI: While cities across India are going through various phases of the Covid-19 pandemic, experts now believe that the numbers may soon rise in smaller towns and villages. K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government of India who was a speaker at the PAN-IIT Alumni Foundation e-conclave in which he talked about the several issues our country is facing due to the pandemic. The conclave focused on the topic, “Converging Samaj, Sarkar, Bazaar”. “The result of the post-lockdown phase is interesting. Covid cases are rising in major cities and these will spread to the rural areas and the smaller towns. But what is unusual about India is our death rate or case mortality rate is very low,” said Raghavan. “I think that is because of our young demographic and our ability to learn on the job and our capable medics and medical researchers.” Looking forward, he added that as a part of a body called Global Preparedness Monitoring Board, warnings were given in 2019 regarding “respiratory pathogens”. “But in an economy driven world, where profits matter, the tendency is to not invest in a seat belt. The argument is that I am driving well, why do I need a seat belt. The seatbelt here is monitoring virus spread in virology, research in ecology, research in environmental sciences, public health. Now this is a wake up call for us.” “We need a government-supported and regulated quality backbone so that every person has a health identity card and whether rich or poor, has access to good healthcare. This can be achieved by the Indian IT industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-cases-may-soon-rise-in-rural-areas-experts/articleshow/77056924.cms||Hemali Chhapia
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Masked faces, closed doors make life difficult for special kids||KOLKATA: Aurindam Das, who is challenged with intellectual disability, is a gifted singer. During the pandemic, he called up the founder-director of his day care centre to say he has been praying daily to “ask God to take him back”. Thirty-eight-year-old Das is among the many with special needs in the city, who can’t understand what a pandemic is and believe it is not worth living anymore. Autistic kids often follow expressions of people around them and it is now difficult to process emotions with faces covered by masks. Those with hearing disabilities feel challenged because they can no longer comprehend by reading lips that are hidden behind masks and shields. Those used to going for regular outings are feeling stifled at home 24X7 with no outdoor activities. In many families, parents have to double up as physiotherapists without being professionally well-versed with a child’s anatomy. They are taking lessons over phone. But that certainly can’t compensate the massage a therapist does. Ishita Sanyal, founder-director of the mental rehabilitation organization, Turning Point, said, “If their aggression has increased, so has their suicidal tendencies. I would get late-night calls from some asking when the day care centre would open.” The abrupt closure of many day care centres has taken a serious toll on their mental health. Spending time at these day care centres gave their life a sense of discipline and structure. The caregivers were an extension of their family members. “Lockdown meant the sudden disappearance of this support system. In many cases, I noticed an increased evidence of self-harm. Some banged their heads against walls or had teeth marks on their fists. To channelize their inner-aggression, they would try to put their hands inside their mouth and bite the fist,” said psychiatrist Dr Sabyasachi Mitra. According to Sanyal, those with mental illness like schizophrenia, manic depressive psychosis or obsessive compulsive disorder can at least fathom what a pandemic is and what needs to be done. “We run online classes for them and some of those children have even composed a song on the pandemic. But the problem is severe for those who can’t attend those classes,” Sanyal said. Das’ mother takes down the lessons over phone as he doesn’t attend the online classes. “He will suddenly say he wants to go to the school because he misses the social interaction. For a while, he understands when I say everything is shut. But by evening, he is back to making the same request. These days he has started crying aloud and says he will go out and crush corona to death,” she said, adding that her son now refuses to let her go out of sight. Mitra has also noticed how parents are also suffering. “There is a slow-burn happening. Unfortunately, they can’t even share this trauma with anyone for the fear of being misunderstood,” said Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/masked-faces-closed-doors-make-life-difficult-for-spl-kids/articleshow/77056522.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 20, 2020||Pune||Teachers surveying containment zones worry about bringing the infection home||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Government employed teachers have had to take up surveying containment zones during the pandemic as academic duties have taken a back seat, but it leaves them worried about the well-being of their immediate families. “This is the third time that teachers have been told to survey containment zones since March when the first Covid-19 case was detected. A fresh order about another survey was issued on June 24. Teaching faculty members with families are really stressed these days. The administration needs to assign the duties to non-teaching staff as well to alleviate some of the stress,” a teacher with a municipal school said. Similarly, for his wife, also a teacher with a school in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, life has become more hectic with piling chores and two children in the house. “We have two children and my visits to the containment zone on a daily basis worries me,” the man said, adding that his wife, too, was initially recruited for surveys but has been relieved of the job presently. “I generally finish surveying around 100 homes by 1.30pm. Before I can go back home I have to call my wife to ask her to keep hot water ready for a bath and keep the children away in another room,” he said. According to him, there are many married couples who are teachers and have been assigned survey work. Sometimes, both husband and wife, have to report for work. Another woman, who works as a teacher in a private school in PCMC limits, has been told to return to school and start work on academics. “There have been training sessions without any social distancing being maintained. I fear for her safety and that of others as well,” her mother said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-surveying-containment-zones-worry-about-bringing-the-infection-home/articleshow/77056922.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Counsellors allay Covid fear among prisoners in city jail||Nagpur: The prison authorities, with help from district administration and state health department, have started counselling the prisoners of the Nagpur Central Jail following panic after the Covid outbreak inside the premises. A five-doctor team is also learnt to be visiting the prison everyday for testing and treating the patients. On Sunday, state home minister Anil Deshmukh paid a sudden visit to the jail to review the situation as 219 prisoners and 59 jail staffers have already tested positive. Deshmukh, who was on his second visit to the jail in less than a fortnight’s time, had a meeting with additional DG, prisons, Sunil Ramanand, DIG Swati Sathe and SP prison Anupkumar Kumre. He also spoke to a couple of prisoners also to know their grievances, it is learnt. District collector Ravindra Thakare, who had briefed Deshmukh during the meeting related to law and order at divisional commissioner’s office last week, said the team of counsellors were engaged in creating awareness regarding Covid-19 among the prisoners so as to ensure they did not panic but remained morally and psychologically strong. “We have now been sending team of doctors to the jails who are engaged in screening and treating the prisoners,” he said. According to sources, 55 jail staffers and 77 prisoners have already recovered in the last couple of days. A few prisoners are learnt to be recuperating at different government hospitals while the rest are at the Covid care centre in the home guard premises. It is reliably learnt that the jail authorities have requested the home department to refer their proposal to the high power committee, set up by the high court, to consider allowing parole or furlough to those prisoners who had reported back in time after having stepped out on such special leaves once. At present, a prisoner is qualified for special leave due to pandemic after having returned at least twice on time after being released. Following the existing norms, around 11,000 prisoners could be released from jails across the state due to the pandemic. If cleared, an official stated that 11,000 to 12,000 more prisoners could be released leading to more option for Covid distancing inside the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/counsellors-allay-covid-fear-among-prisoners-in-city-jail/articleshow/77056533.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Last date to apply for EWS, LIG flats extended||Jaipur: After failing to attract buyers once again, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has extended the date of accepting applications for the proposed economic weaker section (EWS) and lower income group (LIG) category houses in its three schemes.  As per the TOI records, in the past one month, only 764 application were received against the proposed 1,448 houses. Now, the date of receiving applications has been extended till August 4. From June 15, JDA started accepting applications for flats which will be developed in three separate schemes — Anand Vihar (zone-12), Surya Nagar (zone-14) and Kheda Jaganath Pura (zone-14).  Sources said, these houses will be developed under provision 4 A (I) of the Chief Minister Jan Awaas Yojana, 2015. The scheme will be developed on Public Private Partnership (PPP) model where construction will be done by a private developer. However, the applications were being invited without finalising the developers. A JDA source said, “As there is no clarity on the scheme, investors did not show interest. In the past too, JDA made attempts to lure the developers. However, not many showed interest in the project. Under Awaas Yojana provision, 4 A (I), a pre-meeting bid was held on July 1, 2016, in which five developers participated. But, no one turned up,” said a source. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/last-date-to-apply-for-ews-lig-flats-extended/articleshow/77056923.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||The sky is falling: A piece of 19th-century history comes crashing||NEW DELHI: Mohammad Zahid, the muezzin, was in his room at 6.45am on Sunday when he heard a loud noise “as if the sky had fallen”. He rushed to the courtyard and was aghast to see that the 19th century iconic mosque of Mubarak Begum had lost its central dome. “It must have been lightning because rain, no matter how strong, cannot do this to the 200-year-old mosque that is repaired periodically. The rubble was scattered across the courtyard, suggesting the dome broke with a lot of force,” said Zahid, who has been the muezzin since 2004. Despite this, prayers took place on Sunday as hundreds turned up to see the destruction. But there was a time when the mosque was boycotted and hardly anyone prayed there. Historian Rana Safvi said it was one of the few structures in Delhi that was built by a woman. Referred to as a “courtesan’s mosque”, the structure stands in the middle of Hauz Qazi Chowk, a stone’s throw from Chawri Bazaar metro station. The mosque was given the name due to its association with Mubarak Begum. While not much is known about her, it is said that she was one of the wives of Sir David Ochterlony, the first British resident of Delhi, and that she was a tawaif (courtesan) from Pune who, perhaps, converted to Islam. According to ASI, the mosque doesn’t come within its purview. Sabir Ansari, a member of the mosque’s committee, said, “The mosque’s repair must be done soon to preserve its heritage value .” He added that it is maintained by Delhi Waqf Board. Himal Akhtar, a member of the waqf board, told TOI, “We will send our engineers and architects to assess the damage and soon initiate repairs.” However, a resident of Old Delhi, Abu Sufyan, expressed worry that the repairs could lead to the structure being rebuilt in a modern design. “The mosque might lose its heritage value,” he added. Intach convener Swapna Liddle said, “It’s important to conserve old monuments using original materials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-sky-is-falling-a-piece-of-19th-century-history-comes-crashing/articleshow/77056529.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 20, 2020||Vijayawada||In 2 months, 7 die after drinking hand sanitizer in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: At least seven people have died in the city in the last two months after they drank hand sanitizer, according to sources in Vijayawada government hospital. However, these deaths went unreported as none of the family members approached the police. But, it is not just in Vijayawada; this trend has cropped up across the state since Covid-19 broke out. Earlier this month, a mother and her son died after consuming hand sanitizer in Kadapa district. A study of the socio-economic background of the deceased show these deaths are most prevalent among daily-wage earners. In Vijayawada, ‘death by hand sanitizer’ is rising among rickshaw drivers and residents of hilly areas in One Town where unperfumed sanitisers are freely available. A case in point is Pothina Durga Rao (52), who died recently after consuming hand sanitizer. He was addicted to liquor for the last 20 years, said his family. Speaking to TOI, Durga Rao’s brother-in-law, S Ramakrishna, said although the family members tried to warn him not to drink sanitizer, he went on to consume the locally-made sanitizer by mixing it with water. On July 7, he became unconscious after drinking sanitizer. He was rushed to the hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. Durga Rao is not alone. People are buying cheap hand sanitizers available for less than Rs 100 in the market. The locally-made sanitizers are unperfumed and contain more than 70% alcohol. Speaking to locals in One Town, TOI found out that high liquor prices and the easy availability of hand sanitizers are the main reasons driving poor people to it. Vice-president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Vijayawada chapter, Dr Brundavanam Sreenivsacharya said sanitizers contain 70% concentrated alcohol, which is harmful to the human body. “Even if it is diluted, it will immediately damage liver functioning. Other constituents in sanitizers lead to hepatotoxicity, gastric toxicity and cardiac problems. Consumption of sanitizers may cause immediate death in some persons due to the level of toxicity they develop and may lead to slow death in others. It is based on their resistance. In any case, consumption of sanitizers will lead to serious health problems,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-2-months-7-die-after-drinking-hand-sanitizer-in-vijayawada/articleshow/77055828.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris sees 78 Covid cases in highest single-day spike||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 78 people testing positive for the virus. With this, the district’s Covid-19 tally has touched 486, of which 312 are active cases. Among the new cases were two men with travel histories, and a 10-year-old girl and a seven-year-old boy. The T.Oranalli cluster continued to grow bigger with 10 more cases, while another 10 cases were linked to the public relations officer of the needle manufacturing company.Badaga villages such as Kalinganatty, Melur Hosahatty, Bikkole, Kerbetta, Mel Thoraihatty, Kenthorai, and T.Manihatty also reported new cases and they have been cordoned off as containment zones.According to Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health, there are around 130 containment zones in the Nilgiris, which has set up 12 Covid care centres in private schools and a hostel. Symptomatic patients and those in the vulnerable categories are, however, sent to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital.While at least nine Covid-19 patients from the district have died so far, the state bulletin has only recorded two of them.Asked about the delay in recording Covid-19 deaths in the district, Dr Balusamy said, “Case sheets of the patients who died are being evaluated by an audit team formed by the government. The process is underway.”Meanwhile, the first Covid-19 patient from T.Oranalli received a warm welcome back home on her return from ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, where she had been undergoing treatment. She was discharged on Saturday. Her source of infection seems to be the 65-year-old woman from Mulligoor village who visited her, despite having symptoms.The woman has to now remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Her son Sivasamy said, “My mother is good and taking care of herself. She exhibited a sense of grit while in the hospital. That gave me solace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-sees-78-covid-cases-in-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/77056527.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Married teen, youth end lives in Bhilwara||JAIPUR: An couple allegedly committed suicide in Bhilwara on Sunday and according to preliminary investigation, the two were in an illicit relationship as the minor girl was already married. The two had gone missing from their homes two days ago. The deceased youth was identified as 20-year-old Raju Keer while the 16-year-old girl’s name was not divulged by the cops. Vikarm Sevawat, SHO, Shakhargarh police station, where the case was registered said, “The two had been missing for the last two days and their bodies were found in the field in their village on Sunday morning. Prima facie, the two died after consuming a poisonous substance, though the autopsy report will confirm the cause of death.” Cops found no suicide note and the official said, “The girl was married and seems that the two were in an extramarital relationship though the family has not been able to confirm the same.” While cops are investigating the case, they are yet to find any concrete reason behind the double suicide. “We will question the families of both the deceased as well as other villagers to get more details. As the girl was already married, the most possible cause behind the double suicide appears to be the fact that they could not continue their relationship. Also, both were from the same community,” the SHO said. Cops found nothing suspicious in the deaths as yet to indicate that there was foul play involved, though police claimed that they are not ruling out any possibilities. The official further added that the families of both the deceased denied any knowledge about the alleged relationship and have not raised any suspicions that it could be murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/married-teen-youth-end-lives-in-bhilwara/articleshow/77056929.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal sees 136 Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths||BHOPAL: Yet another high of daily Covid-19 cases were reported in the state capital on Sunday. As many as 136 people tested positive for the deadly infection in a day. So far, 4,402 people have tested positive and 135 deaths have been attributed to Covid-19 in Bhopal. Five deaths were reported in Bhopal in the last 24 hours, according to the health department. Shahpura, Arera Colony, Kolar and Misrod once again reported a spurt in cases. The district administration has set up a special task force in the zones to oversee measures to curb the spread of infection. Bairagarh reported nine more cases. E1 and E2 Arera colony also reported new infections. Nine members in a family in Arera colony tested positive. In Chandan Nagar, four members from the same family tested positive. A hosteller in AIIMS was diagnosed with the infection. Four staffers from Asha Niketan have been admitted to a private hospital after testing positive for the infection. 29 positive cases were reported from Kolar and Misrod. The old hotspots — Jehangirabad, Aishbagh and Kotwali — together reported 25 cases. Three traders in Chowk Bazaar have also tested positive. On Saturday, the MP capital reported its highest daily infection figure when 140 people tested positive, according to health department reports. MP Nagar tehsildar Manish Sharma said, “Awadhpuri has reported three positive cases. MP Nagar and Anna Nagar reported one positive case each. Piplani reported three positive cases. Arera Colony, Shahpura and Kolar areas have reported a sizeable number of positive cases. The administration is taking preventive measures to curb the spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-136-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77055835.cms||---
July 20, 2020||India||Plot to undermine report: Panel head on Char Dham road||NEW DELHI/DEHRADUN: Alleging that there is a “miserable conspiracy” to undermine his report on the Char Dham road project, the chairman of the Supreme Court-appointed committee has informed the environment and forest ministry that he would apprise the apex court about what all has transpired. The charge has been rejected by the panel’s member secretary. TOI on Sunday reported how two separate reports – one authored by chairman Ravi Chopra and the other by majority members of the panel — were submitted to the ministry. The groups were primarily divided over the issue of road width. The chairman’s report supported widening of the road to 5.5 metres in stretches where work has not been sanctioned, while the majority members are in favour of 10 metres. In a letter to the ministry’s secretary on Thursday, Chopra said that he was outraged at the “subterfuge presumably practiced” by the Uttarakhand government through the panel’s member secretary, H S Chugh. He has said ignoring his written direction of July 14 to forward the “Final Report” to the environment and forest ministry , Chugh had forwarded the altered report prepared by the other group. Chugh rejected the charges saying he had received the report from the majority team on July 10 and had asked Chopra to conduct a meeting so that a single report could be made based on majority’s vote. “And it was thrice that I had asked him to call a meeting for this purpose. Eventually, I had to submit the report presented by the majority comprising 21 members to the ministry on July 14.” On being asked why the chairman’s report was not taken into account, he added, “The minority team’s report was emailed to me on the evening of July 14. He himself had also emailed it to the ministry; therefore I didn’t send it again.” Chugh, who is also a member in the panel, said he decided to be a part of the 21-member team after seeing the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/plot-to-undermine-report-panel-head-on-char-dham-road/articleshow/77057272.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 20, 2020||Bhopal||No shortage of fertiliser in MP: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Amid reports of fertliser shortage in state, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday that Madhya Pradesh has sufficient availability of urea and other fertilizer for farmers in Seva Sahakari Samitis and marketing federations in all districts. Farmers can fertilizer from the samitis of marketing federation centres as per their requirement, he said. Till July 13 in this kharif year, 10.26 lakh metric tonnes of urea has been distributed in the state, which is 3.03 lakh metric tonnes more compared to last year. Last year, 4.7 lakh metric tonnes of urea was distributed through marketing federations and 2.44 lakh metric tonnes from cooperative sector till this period. At the same time, this year 6.17 lakh metric tonne urea has been distributed to farmers from marketing federation centres and 4.09 lakh metric tonne urea from cooperative seva kendras, he said. The chief minister also said that fertilizer has been supplied by the state government to all districts in excess last year. Centre has allocated 2.06 lakh metric tonnes of urea for the month of July to the state. Centre has also provided information about additional allocation, according to 11.4 thousand metric tonnes of indigenous and 31.764 thousand metric tonnes of imported urea will be provided to the state. The demand for additional urea for the month of July has been received from 15 districts, according to which the supply is being processed, he said. The chief minister said, in a meeting with the Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadanand Gowda in New Delhi on July 6, a request has been made, which the Union Minister accepted and has agreed to increase the quota and increase the number of rake points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-no-shortage-of-fertiliser-in-mp/articleshow/77055842.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Panel moots converting private hospitals into rural FLTCs||KOCHI: With the government’s resource crunch bringing to the fore difficulties in setting up and running Covid first-line treatment centres (FLTCs), the expert health committee headed by Dr B Eqbal has recommended converting one or two private hospitals in each panchayat into FLTCs. According to the committee, this will take care of two things: human resource and facilities – that are presently the government's worry -- to manage patients at the panchayat level. The health department has been asked to rope in one or two such hospitals -- with 10 to 50 beds -- in each panchayat. “If we get a minimum 25 beds in each panchayat, then we will have about 25,000 FLTC beds with doctors and nurses available across the state,” the committee said. Currently, all asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms are being admitted to FLTCs in each district. Even patients with moderate and severe symptoms, once they recover, are shifted to FLTCs, if they continue to return positive results in RT-PCR tests even after 10 days. The health department is in talks with private hospitals. “Small and medium-sized hospitals should become testing and treatment centres. Antigen testing kits, PPE and medicines have to be provided by the government along with regular disinfection activity by the local body, while the staff and infrastructure will be of the hospital. We are working on the remuneration now,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India. Hospital managements are seeking Rs 1,200 per ward bed, Rs 2,200 for a high dependency unit (HDU) bed and Rs 3,200 for an ICU bed, but the government is yet to agree to this. Health experts say that once daily cases reported cross 1,500, then this tie-up with private hospitals will be key. “There are 1.75 lakh nursing graduates and around 80,000 registered doctors in Kerala. But the problem is that the majority of them are in private hospitals. Now we have to utilize their services to fight Covid-19,” said Dr A Althaf, associate professor, community medicine, Manjeri medical college. Furthermore, if there is an uncontrolled surge in cases and the government decides to move asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms into home quarantine, instead of hospitalization, then as per the present discussion, health department want these hospitals to also function as monitoring centres for Covid patients -- testing them as per the protocol and referring them to a Covid hospital if they develop moderate or severe symptoms. “In the fight against Covid-19, both public and private hospitals have to work together. Now we can’t delay this partnership any further as by month-end the cases may surge manifold in the state,” said government public health expert Dr S S Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panel-moots-converting-pvt-hospitals-into-rural-fltcs/articleshow/77054905.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||IAS officer Tina Dabi appointed BRICS panel honorary advisor||Jaipur: IAS officer and Ganganagar Zila Parishad CEO Tina Dabi has been appointed honorary advisor to the BRICS CCI Young Leaders (India) Steering Committee. She is the only IAS officer to have been given the role of an honorary advisor to the committee. Dabi, topper of 2015 UPSC civil services examinations, will hold the post for three years (up to 2023). BRICS CCI is a registered body under Societies Registration Act 1860, Government of India, and empanelled with NITI Aayog (highest policy-making body of Govt of India) and recognized by United Nations. “BRICS CCI has launched a young leaders’ initiative to connect the youth of the five countries – Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. In order to conduct various activities, they have formed a steering committee and I have been given the role of an honorary advisor,” said Dabi. “I look at it as a wonderful opportunity since it is with regard to youth leadership programme, which was launched on July 15. They took me on board on July 17. The initiative is one of a kind because rarely had such initiatives been taken up at international level. Moreover, all these countries are developing countries who are trying to boost their economies and collective contributions to GDP. Since youth is the future, we are tapping into huge potential. So, let’s see how it pans out,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ias-officer-tina-dabi-appointed-brics-panel-honorary-advisor/articleshow/77056932.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||‘Show 21 Indian languages on school website’||Panaji: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked schools to pick up sentences translated into 21 different Indian languages from NITI Aayog website and display them on the school website. The instructions come under a national campaign to encourage children to learn other Indian languages. “It has been decided that to encourage faculty/students and staff of institutions to learn other Indian langauges, one sentence with its translation in 21 different languages should be uploaded every day on each institution websites,” the DoE has said in a circular to schools. “The same are being displayed as one sentence everyday with its translation in 21 different Indian languages on the Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat website,” DoE said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/show-21-indian-languages-on-school-website/articleshow/77057128.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||‘Isolation, fear of disease causing mental stress’||Kolkata: Lockdown-induced isolation is leading to more stress and anxiety. Besides, the fear of the disease is also leading to stress, according to psychiatrists. “We are going through an overwhelming situation, where the mind is bombarded with anxieties and worries for the family members who are vulnerable. But if we react in a controlled manner and focus on creative and recreational activities and eat nutritious food, we can feel better,” said senior psychiatrist and psychotherapist Tanmaini Das. She was in a webinar organized by CII IWN, Emotional Wellness: A Mindful Musing. “With every 1 out of 7 persons facing some sort of mental issues, India is touted as the most depressed country in the world, according to reports,” she added. Sucharita Basu, CII IWN chairwoman and partner, Aquilaw, presented statistics on people facing mental illness. Also she spoke on the legal perspectives of domestic violence. But implementation of such laws and victims’ access to concerned facilities have to be ensured, she said. “The governments, NGOs and private entities need to work hand in hand during this time to protect the vulnerable from mental illness,” she added. Sarmishtha Chakrabarti, consultant psychiatrist and chairperson of Women’s Mental Health, Indian Psychiatric Society, pointed out that the world is amidst a devastating health crisis which is not only causing major economic and societal disruptions, but also threatening everyone's mental health caused by the uncertainties of unknown future. Indrani Lodh, gynaecologist and founder director, Urvaraa IVF, said that extra care should be taken of pregnant women, who are more susceptible to the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/isolation-fear-of-disease-causing-mental-stress/articleshow/77056537.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Nimtolla becomes second Kolkata facility for cremation of Covid victims||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has identified the old complex of Nimtolla burning ghat as the second facility for cremation of Covid victims. Sources in the KMC health department confirmed that cremation of bodies at Nimtolla old complex has started from middle of last week. “We have dedicated the old complex of Nimtolla burning ghat for cremation of Covid patients. There are two furnaces in the old complex that can be made operational since morning and thus the burning ghat will help us clear backlog of bodies,” said a KMC health department official. According to him, besides cremating Covid victims, the civic body will also allow cremation of unclaimed bodies at the old complex of Nimtolla burning ghat. At a time when the KMC health department was struggling to cremate bodies of large number of Covid victims at Dhapa crematorium, the only Covid-designated crematorium, this decision will take the load of the Dhapa. “We started cremation of bodes at Nimtolla a few days ago. We are keeping close contacts with city’s government and private hospitals and asking them to intimate us about the list of the victims. Accordingly, we will send some bodies to Nimtolla so that the problem of backlogs at hospitals can be addressed,” said a KMC health department official. On Saturday night, the civic brass had arranged for the cremation of a KMC health department official at Nimtolla old complex, who died of Covid-19 on Friday. However, the KMC health department has adopted several safety measures to ensure that the new complex of Nimtolla burning ghat, which has six furnaces and takes load of cremation of bodies from across north and central Kolkata, does not get affected. “We have made arrangements that have separated these two complexes to eliminate the risk of infection. We have made separate entries and exits to these two complexes so that people do not panic unnecessarily,” said a KMC official. Sources in the KMC conceded that the decision to introduce cremation of Covid victims at the old complex of Nimtolla burning was taken out of desperation as there was a heavy rush of bodies at Dhapa crematorium where one of the two furnaces is malfunctioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nimtolla-becomes-2nd-kol-facility-for-cremation-of-covid-victims/articleshow/77056530.cms||Saikat Ray
July 20, 2020||Mysuru||Medical waste dumped on road side cleared by Mysuru City Corporation staff||Mysuru: That disposal and management of solid waste remains the biggest challenge confronting urban local bodies is a given. The Covid-19 crisis has added another dimension to this already onerous task: Disposal of medical waste, including the huge volume of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits used by healthcare personnel. After being alerted by The Times of India on Sunday morning, officials of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) swung into action and within hours, the medical waste was promptly removed from the side of the road. The PPE kits and other protective equipment had been found dumped in Vijayanagar III Stage on a road leading to the police station in the locality. Disposing the PPE materials used by the front line Covid 19 warriors is one of the biggest challenges faced by the local government agencies. In many places, it was alleged that PPEs are not disposed scientifically. In the first of its kind allegation surfaced in the city, residents of upmarket Vijayanagar 3rd stage alleged that for the last two days medical wastes including PPEs were found dumped on police station road in the area. Residents who alerted TOI to the unscientific disposal of the PPE gear said that, the pourakarmikas, while collecting and disposing of garbage, had not collected medical waste, which had been discarded in isolated areas. “Since there was light rain in the area on Saturday, we were worried about the health hazards that undisposed medical waste could pose,” said a resident. Rakshita A said that the unscientific disposal of PPE kits indicated the apathetic attitude prevailing among the public despite the concerted efforts of the government to raise awareness about the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/medical-waste-dumped-on-road-side-cleared-by-mysuru-city-corporation-staff/articleshow/77055973.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Four docs, six staff test +ve at Lakeshore Hospital||Kochi: Fifty employees of VPS Lakeshore Hospital have been sent to quarantine after 10 health workers of the hospital, including four doctors and two nurses, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The hospital will be partially shut for two days for disinfection. While outpatient services will be closed, casualty department will remain open and inpatients will continue receiving treatment. “Of the 10 employees who tested positive for the virus, there are four doctors and two nurses. The rest are physician assistants. We are trying to trace the patients and bystanders who might have come into contact with them,” said an official who is part of Covid control programme in Ernakulam. “In order to further raise our safety standards, we are undertaking a total disinfection campaign in our facilities, medical equipment and premises on Monday and Tuesday,” the hospital stated on its social media page. The district administration had declared wards 23, 24 and 25 in Maradu Municipality as containment zones. The VPS Lakeshore Hospital is in ward 24. “As the number of coronavirus cases increases in the state, we are likely to hear about many more doctors and medical staff testing positive for Covid. Hospitals are also likely to close down for disinfection. There are too many asymptomatic Covid positive persons with no travel history visiting hospitals. Two asymptomatic persons had visited VPS Lakeshore Hospital for consultancy and tested positive after a few days,” said a manager of a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/four-docs-six-staff-test-ve-at-lakeshore-hospital/articleshow/77054920.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Three minors abduct, rape 5-year-old girl in Baran||KOTA: Three minor boys, aged between 10 and 13 years, allegedly abducted and raped a 5-year-old girl under Nahargarh police station of Baran district on Friday evening. The incident sent shockwaves across the district. According to police, the three boys tempted their neighbour’s daughter with Rs 5 and took her to a nearby field where they took turns to allegedly rape her and left her bleeding. Police on Friday night registered a case of abduction and gangrape under sections of IPC and Pocso Act against the three minor accused and conducted medical examination of the survivor on Saturday. The girl was playing outside her house, while her mother was inside the house at the time of incident, said SHO Dalpat Singh on Sunday morning. When the family members found her missing and launched a search, the mother spotted her crying and bleeding heading home from the field, he said. The minor was bleeding, however, she did not sustain any major injury, he added. The mother along, with the minor daughter, reached the police station and lodged a case of abduction, gang-rape against the three minor boys, he further said. A three-member board carried out medical examination upon the survivor on Saturday at Baran district hospital and her statements under Section 164 before the magistrate would be recorded on Monday, the SHO said. The three minor accused, who are currently absconding, would be nabbed very soon, he said, and added further investigation into the matter has been forwarded to DSP and circle officer Kajodmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-minors-abduct-rape-5-year-old-girl-in-baran/articleshow/77056936.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur cos in bank unions’ defaulters list owe Rs 2,500 crore||NAGPUR: Over half a dozen companies from Nagpur feature in the list of wilful defaulters in public sector banks, released by the staff union — All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA). The list shows that the total loans owed by the Nagpur companies come to over Rs2,500 crore, while all the defaulters together owe over Rs1 lakh crore. The list issued on the occasion of Bank Nationalization Day includes big names like Winsome Diamonds, Gitanjali Gems, Ruchi Soya and Kingfisher Airlines. From Nagpur, the biggest share is of the companies under the Padmesh Gupta headed Gupta Group, at over Rs1,800 crore, followed by the Abhijeet Group, Topworth, Murli Industries, and Rasoya Proteins. AIBEA has compiled the list into loans worth over Rs5 crore, Rs200 crore and Rs500 crore. The banks that have doled out finances to the companies have also been named in the list. AIBEA sources here said the list is yet to be analysed at the local level. A case-wise comment can only be made after thorough analysis. Among the companies from Nagpur, Gupta Coal Private Limited owes Rs704 crore and Rs319 crore to Bank of India and Punjab National Bank (PNB) respectively. These are followed by Jas Infra and Power Limited of Abhijeet Group headed by Manoj Jayaswal, already in the news for bank defaults of over Rs10,000 crore. Jas Infra had its power project at Banka district in Bihar. According to the list the company has been declared a wilful defaulter for an amount of Rs630 crore from PNB and UCO Bank. Another Abhijeet Group company, Corporate Power Limited, with a loan of Rs200 crore from Allahabad Bank is also in the list. Varron Aluminum, which features in the list with a loan of over Rs292 crore, has a plant run by its group company Varron Autokast in Nagpur. The loans by other companies are in the range of Rs20 crore to Rs150 crore. A borrower is classified as a wilful defaulter after due process laid down by the RBI. In such cases, incidents like diversion of loan amount, siphoning of funds or sale of mortgaged assets without bank consent has to be detected. AIBEA general secretary TS Venkatachalam said even as these borrowers have been declared as wilful defaulters after following the due RBI process, the banks continue to treat them as regular defaulters. He demanded that criminal action should be taken against promoters, and if needed an ordinance should be passed to ensure such action. Subhash Sawant, a member of Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), said he had taken out a rally in 2014 on the basis of a similar list put out by his organization — Central Bank of India, demanding action against defaulters. However, he was charge-sheeted by the management and the case continues. Sawant said simply issuing the list will not be enough and AIBEA should take up the cases vigorously. TOI could contact a source in Topworth Group among the Nagpur companies. “Our loans ended up in default due to the alleged coal block allocation cases. The coal blocks were withdrawn, after which the banks stopped further funding, leading to the debacle,” said the source requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-cos-in-bank-unions-defaulters-list-owe-rs2500-cr/articleshow/77056851.cms||Shishir Arya
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||10-yr-old boy swept away in nullah, body untraced||NAGPUR: Nehal Meshram, aged about 10, could not be traced till late on Sunday evening after being swept away in the strong current of a nullah between Gulmohar Nagar and Laxmi Nagar at Bharatwada, on the outskirts of the city. The boy had fallen into the nullah at around 2pm while crossing it using an electric pole laid across as a bridge. Despite at least four hours of search operations on Sunday, the fire brigade will have to resume search operations on Monday to find the boy. Nehal, a student of standard V, was heading to his residence at Laxmi Nagar from Gulmohar Nagar when the incident took place. The strong current and numerous snakes in the water posed a major challenge for the fire brigade team conducting search under the supervision of chief fire officer Rajendra Uchhke. Nehal is thought to have lost his balance after slipping on the cement electric pole laid across the nullah, and falling into the gushing storm waters. The nullah joins the Nag river around 800 meters away at Pawangaon. It’s learnt that a cow and a pig too had fallen into the nullah but managed to swim out. Nehal was spotted being swept away in the strong current by some other children who had been playing with him. Nehal’s friends alerted the victim’s family, who had raised an alarm in the neighbourhood, and police and fire brigade were alerted. Cops from Kalamna police station and fire tenders from Ganjipeth, Sakkardara and Kalamna rushed to the spot. Senior PI Sunil Chavan of Kalamna police station, who was at the spot, said Mouda police have also been alerted. “The nullah join Nag river, which later has a confluence with Pilli river near Mouda,” he said. Social worker Ravinish Pandey has demanded Rs5 lakh compensation for the family of the victim. “The authorities are to be blamed as they should have constructed a bridge across the nullah instead of allowing citizens to cross on an electric pole,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-yr-old-boy-swept-away-in-nullah-body-untraced/articleshow/77056841.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s biggest single-day Covid-19 spike with 392 cases||LUCKNOW: The biggest single-day spike of 392 new cases on Sunday zoomed the number of ‘active’ Covid-19 patients in the city to 2,509 with an average of 10 cases every hour in the last three days. The death toll rose to 50 with three more deaths on Sunday. The new cases included eight policemen, an officer of UP State Road Transport Corporation and two employees each of UP government secretariat, KGMU registrar office and LMC. The number of fresh cases recorded in Lucknow in the past 24 hours were not only the highest in the state for the ninth consecutive day, it also propelled the overall case load to 4,009 since the pandemic outbreak on March 11. To put things in perspective, the cases which were earlier trickling are now galloping — the first 2,000 cases were recorded in 109 days, while the next 2,000 in just nine days, of which 1,000 surfaced since July 16. Though 1,453 patients have been discharged after recovery so far, 47 could not survive. The only relief is that 80% of the total cases in the city are asymptomatic. However, nearly 75% of about 3,500 beds in the 17 hospitals selected for Covid-19 treatment are occupied. The critical care facilities in top hospitals were almost working to the capacity. Eight policemen that tested positive included three constables deployed in the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad and a sub-inspector and four constables of Naka Hindola police station. ATS officials said that the Sarojininagar office,where the constables were posted,has been sealed and is being sanitized. Those who came in contact with the trio were being identified with the help of CCTV cameras installed in the premises. The two secretariat employees diagnosed with the virus got themselves tested after one of their colleagues tested positive two days ago. President of the secretariat employees’ association, Yadvendra Mishra, said, “Covid-19 safety protocols and roster guidelines are not being followed in the secretariat. Even an ambulance was not provided, hence one of the employees testing positive had to drive to the hospital to himself admitted. We will lodge a complaint with the chief minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-biggest-single-day-covid-spike-with-392-cases/articleshow/77056941.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 20, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses plea against demolition of illegal temple||Madurai: Dismissing a plea, which sought not to demolish an unauthorised temple, the Madurai bench of Madras high court has observed that citizens are expected to abide by the rule of law and not create any law and order situation claiming that their religious sentiments will be hurt.The court was hearing a petition filed by Sivanraj who sought a directive to forbear the authorities from demolishing Sree Selva Ganapathy and Mariamman Thirukoil in Tuticorin district. The petitioner said the temple was in existence for more than 40 years. Since Tuticorin corporation decided to construct a sewage canal, it demolished the old temple. Subsequently, a new temple was built near the place.Counsel for the authorities submitted that the new temple is of recent origin abutting the main road and is an unauthorised religious structure. When steps were taken to remove it , devotees objected. On perusal of the submissions, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam observed that no citizen can put up an unauthorised structure on a land either belonging to the government or the local body and cannot claim that its demolition would hurt the sentiments of devotees. “In these kinds of situations, sentiments have no role to play and it is expected that every citizen is to abide by the rule of law and cannot create any law and order or public order problem under the guise that their religious sentiments would be affected,” observed the judges.If the devotees want to build a temple, they can do it on their private land after obtaining necessary permission, the judge said, adding it is always open to the authorities to follow the due process of law and remove unauthorised religious structures by taking care of the law and order problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-against-demolition-of-illegal-temple/articleshow/77056927.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Completion of Gosikhurd project delayed by 2 years||Nagpur: The Gosikhurd irrigation project that will change the lives of farmers of Nagpur, Bhandara and Chandrapur districts, has got delayed again due to lack of state government funds. The deadline for completion of the project was December 2021. However, the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) has advanced it to the end of the year 2023.Chief engineer JM Sheikh said the project needed Rs2,000 crore every year. “We had sought Rs1,500 crore this year but received Rs500 crore only. Therefore, we have pushed back the deadline for the completion of the project. Moreover, the pace of work has slowed down due to Covid-19,” he told TOI.The full tank level of the dam is 245.5 metres. “At present, the dam’s level is 243m. We will take it to 245m by this year end,” said Sheikh.The storage capacity of the dam is 1,146 million cubic metres (mm3). It has the potential to irrigate 2.5 lakh hectare land — 89,856 Ha in Bhandara district, 19,481 Ha in Nagpur and 1,41,463 Ha in Chandrapur. It is situated on Wainganga River.The project has two main canals — right bank canal (RBC) and left bank canal (LBC) having irrigation potential of 14,060 Ha and 12,200 Ha respectively. It has four lift irrigation schemes at Ambhora, Nerla, Mokhabardi, and Tekepar.The Water Resources Department (WRD) had admitted in its own ‘White Paper on Irrigation’ released in December 2012 that it took as many as 14 years for the dam work to actually begin since the date of bhoomipujan! By the year 2011-12, as per the official records, Rs6,074 crore had been spent on the project.After 2014, things started to improve for the Gosikhurd project which had been accorded the status of a ‘national’ project by then. The estimated cost of the project also had been revised by then to Rs13,739 crore. Work on the project made rapid progress only in the past few years. At the end of March 2019, the amount spent on Gosikhurd project works was Rs11,483 crore. While the issues pertaining to cost escalation, addition of components, rehabilitation of project-affected persons etc were being sorted out, the project cost was further revised to Rs18,495 crore in September 2016.Work on the project was also delayed after 2014, when the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) began a probe into allegations of irregularities in the project. The first information reports (FIRs) were registered against many VIDC officials and contractors. This created an atmosphere of fear among engineers and contractors and the work suffered.TIMELINE * Original estimated cost (March 1983) — Rs372 crore* First revised approval (July 1999) — Rs2,091 crore* Second revised approval (November 2007) — Rs5,659 crore* Central Water Commission (CWC) approval (February 2008) — Rs7,778 crore* Third revised approval (March 2012) — Rs13,739 crore* Fourth revised approval (September 2016) — Rs18,495 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/completion-of-gosikhurd-project-delayed-by-2-years/articleshow/77056835.cms||Ashish Roy
July 20, 2020||Mysuru||Cluster case redux: 50 employees of a Mysuru-based firm test positive||Mysuru: It was in Mysuru district that India’s first ‘cluster case’ of Covid-19 infection was reported after several employees of a Nanjangud pharmaceutical firm tested positive for the novel coronavirus through March and April. Now, three months after the district managed to combat the ‘cluster case’ successfully, there is a distressing encore to that episode, with as many as 50 employees of a tyre factory in Mysuru being confirmed infected. Joint director of the District Industries Centre DK Lingaraju said that the tyre company had closed down all the three units in Mysuru, including its research and development wing till Tuesday. “It was on July 10 that the company had its first employee confirmed infected. However, since the patient was not home at that juncture, we were not informed about it. We learnt about the employee being infected later,” Lingaraju said. He added that the department of industries had issued no directions to the company’s management to close its units. “The company in question has tied up with two private hospitals to provide treatment to employees, in addition to testing their primary and secondary contacts. There are more than 6,500 employees working at the firm in Mysuru,” added Lingaraju. The department had received assurance from the management of the company that all primary and secondary contacts of the infected patients would be traced and subsequently tested. “The management has assured us of taking all steps and implementing all safety measures to contain the infection,” Lingaraju added. Sources in the department of industries said that a team, comprising officials from their department and the health department had visited the units of the company to assess the situation on the ground. “The district administration is being kept informed of the developments,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cluster-case-redux-50-employees-of-a-mysuru-based-firm-test-positive/articleshow/77055881.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bhopal||Pyare Mian may be taken to Indore||Bhopal: On third day of his interrogation, accused Pyare Mian requested cops to let him sleep as he was ‘tired of answering questions’. The 68-year-old is accused of raping minors. Considering his age and health issues, police accepted his request and allowed him to take rest. Police said, Pyare Mian may soon be taken to Indore for further investigation. So far, the accused has maintained that he did not know that the girls minor. Police is investigating his Kashmir links. The accused was arrested in Kashmir on July 14 and brought to Bhopal from Srinagar on July 16. During interrogation, Pyare’s links with drug mafia Babu Billod, whose poppy husk warehouse was busted in October 2017 at Eintkheri, came to light, said police. Cops are primarily focusing on gathering evidence and details of properties owned by Pyare. Pyare Mian, accused of rape and sexual exploitation of minor girls, was produced in court on Friday and remanded in police custody for five days. The Bhopal police on Tuesday set up a special investigation team (SIT) to inquire into cases relating to a newspaper owner allegedly raping minor girls repeatedly and running a sex racket. The racket had come to light when five minor girls were found by a police patrolling team in an intoxicated state around 3 a.m. on Sunday near Ratibad village on the outskirts of Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-mian-may-be-taken-to-indore/articleshow/77055848.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hubballi||Smart City project: Suggestions on Unkal Raj Nala invited||Hubballi: Unkal Raj Nala, which has been posing flood threat to many areas in Hubballi, will turn a picnic spot in the coming years. Thanks to to the initiative of Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Ltd (HDSCL), the nala will turn Green Mobility Corridor (GMC). HDSCL, which has prepared a tentative plan for the GMC, has invited suggestions from the public to make it more people-friendly. HDSCL special officer S H Naregal told TOI that the public can take part in the survey for the proposed GMC. “We have shared the tentative plan on social platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp and twitter, seeking suggestions from the public,” he said. The tentative plan incorporates 2m bicycle track and a pedestrians’ path on 8.50km-long nala. “As it involves flow of sewage and Unlak Lake water, we have planned to connect the lake water to Sewage Treatment Plant in Gabbur. We will link the sewage water to the underground drainage to avoid foul smell in the vicinity. We have already tested the water quality. The corridor involves amenities like drinking water and urinals for the benefit of walkers and cyclists,” he explained. The GMC will have a contribution of Rs 80 crore from France, and Rs 50 crore from the Smart City project. The Rs 130 crore project has two mentors — domestic in Vidya, an urban planner from Chennai, and international in Amith Pirtot from Singapore (on behalf of National Institute of Urban Affairs). Having visited the spot, they are taking stock of the situation online. Apart from the online survey, Bhagirathi organisation from Dharwad has been assigned house-to-house survey and their volunteers visit about 10,000 houses located on the bank of the nala once the lockdown is over. We will consolidate all suggestions and try to incorporate possible suggestions in the final Detailed Project Report. It will be finetuned till the final stage of tender,” he stated. Ottilie Anbunkumar, who was involved in citizen discussions on this issue earlier, said that the GMC has won the prestigious CITIIS Challenge and it will help the city in several ways. “It removes encroachments and curbs dumping of solid and liquid waste into the nala,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/smart-city-project-suggestions-on-unkal-raj-nala-invited/articleshow/77055614.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Covid care centre set up in Godhra mosque||Vadodara: For so long, since the time of the pandemic outbreak, this mosque in Godhra, the second biggest in town had been offering prayers for Covid-19 patients. However, it has now taken its services a step ahead and turned the place of worship for all positive patients. What’s more, its healing touch does not discriminate against patients by their religion or social status! Opened last week, this facility is already facilitating treatment to nine positive patients from different communities. The ground floor of Aadam mosque on Sheikh Majaawar Road, which was designed to accommodate female haj pilgrims, has now been converted into a designated Covid-19 care centre. The decision by the mosque’s managing trust was inspired by the rise in the number of cases in the region. “Godhra Muslim Samaj, our maulvis and group of Muslim doctors got together and decided to offer the hall on the ground floor as Covid-19 treatment centre. We sought permission from the district collector and chief district health officer for a 50-bed facility, and after they permitted us for a 32-bed one, we started the facility on July 11,” said Dr Anwar Kachba. “Of these 32 beds, 16 are for patients to be kept in isolation while the other 16 are for positive patients,” Kachba said. In the past too, the mosque had wanted to set up a similar facility for chikungunya cases, but failed. “We had bought hospital furniture from a hospital in Ahmedabad which was closing down. This is helping us offer treatment to all,” said Abdul Kadir Hayaat, mosque’s managing trustee. “Whatever we do not have is being supplied by the Godhra civil hospital,” said Hayaat, adding that the hospital is also looking after the treatment of the patients here. So far 11 suspected patients who tested negative were discharged from this facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-care-centre-set-up-in-godhra-mosque/articleshow/77055439.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Highest 11 Covid-19 deaths in a day as Vidarbha crosses 9,000 cases||NAGPUR: On a day Vidarbha saw the worst ever daily toll of 11 Covid-19 deaths, the region also passed the 9,000-case mark on Sunday. Over 4,500 of those have come in 19 days of July. Five deaths were recorded in Nagpur, two each in Amravati and Buldhana, and one each in Washim and Akola. This was for the first time that daily toll was in double digits. Before Sunday, highest daily toll was eight, registered twice in the month of July itself. Nagpur’s five deaths include 66-year-old woman from Civil Lines, 65-year-old woman from Juni Mangalwari, 72-year-old woman from Kamptee, 53-year-old man from Wardha Road, and 86-year-old man from Subhedar Layout. A 57-year-old man from Amravati died in GMCH Nagpur, while a 56-year-old man from Anjangaon Surji died during treatment in Amravati taking total Covid-19 death toll of Amravati to 41. In Buldhana, a 47-year-old man from Motala tehsil died at Buldhana while a 56-year-old man from Khamgaon died during treatment. A 60-year-old man from Murjizapur died in Akola during treatment while a 70-year-old woman from Washim who had tested positive during the rapid antigen test died on late Saturday night. With 256 Covid-19 deaths till date, Vidarbha’s case fatality rate is 2.78, slightly higher than national average of 2.6%. On Sunday, Vidarbha once again reported more than 300 cases. With contribution from Nagpur (83), Akola (69), Amravati (49), Buldhana (39), Chandrapur (16), Washim (15), Yavatmal (10), Gadchiroli (8), Bhandara (8), Gondia (3), and Wardha (2), Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 cases reached 9186. On a positive note, record number of patients recovered on Sunday. Total 276 patients were discharged for the first time. Earlier highest was 204 on July 10. Sunday’s recoveries include Nagpur (83), Akola (47), Amravati (41), Gadchiroli (27), Buldhana (27), Washim (18), Chandrapur (11), Yavatmal (8), Bhandara (7), and Gondia (7). With this, 5,976 patients have recovered from Vidarbha which is 65% of the total cases. AMRAVATI: Two Covid-19 deaths and a spike of 49 cases on Sunday took the Amravati’s Covid toll to 41 and case count to 1,277. A discharge of 41 patients took the count of recovered patients to 800. This has left 436 patients under treatment. These include 16 taking treatment at Nagpur. An official report said a 57-year-old man from Asiad Colony in Amravati who had tested positive on July 3, died at Nagpur during treatment while a 56-year-old man from Anjangaon Surji, who had tested positive on July 15, died at Covid hospital in Amravati. This was second death from the town and the fourth from rural parts, which today posted 12 cases to take their count to 213. BULDHANA: Two patients died during treatment in Buldhana district on July 19 taking total Covid-19 toll of this district to 22. A 47-year-old man from Gulbheli village in Motala tehsil died at Buldhana while a 56-year-oldman from Jalka Bhadang village in Khamgaon died at Khamgaon. Buldhana received 200 reports on July 19 out of which 39 were positive. These include 34 from rapid antigen testing. List of positive patients include four people aged over 75. Total Covid-19 cases in district are now 742. On the same day, 27 recovered. Two of them were above 70 years of age. This took total number of recovered patients to 353. Buldhana has 367 patients under treatment. AKOLA: A 60-year-old man from Murtizapur died during treatment in Akola on July 18 late night taking total toll to 102. He was admitted on July 16. Rapid antigen testing is going on in full swing in Akola district. Total 69 patients, including 22 of them from rapid antigen testing were found positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Number of cases in district reached 2,134 – second highest in the region after Nagpur. These include 1,729 patients recovered. WASHIM: A woman from Malegaon tehsil in Washim district died during treatment on July 18 night. She had tested positive in rapid antigen test conducted on July 11. She was suffering from pneumonia. This was 9th Covid-19 death in Washim. The district now has 366 cases including 159 recovered and nine deaths. CHANDRAPUR: Chandrapur recorded 16 more patients of coronavirus taking the total to 276 on Sunday. However, 11 patients were cured and were discharged from the hospital. So far a total of 159 patients have recovered while 117 are under treatment. Officials claimed 48 patients belong to other state or district. The outsiders include 19 jawans of SRPF, 14 Bihar-based rice mill workers and others. Newly detected 16 patients include two more rice mill workers from Mul. Earlier, 12 workers were detected positive in same mill. A Bihar resident who had traveled by train was found positive. Three more jawans of SRPF tested positive. GONDIA: Three fresh positive cases were reported here. Of these, two are natives of Gondia tehsil and one is from Tirora. They are returnees from Ratnagiri, Mumbai and Oman respectively. Seven patients recovered and were discharged. Gondia’s total is now 233 cases. Total 30 patients are under treatment. Interestingly, 31 of the 200 patients who recovered from here are ready to donate plasma to others. BHANDARA: Eight patients tested positive while seven recovered here. This took total number of Covid-19 cases here to 198. Of these, 107 have recovered and two have died. Bhandara has 89 patients under treatment. WARDHA: Two positive cases of Covid-19 were found on Sunday. A 34-year-old employee of Kasturba hospital and a 44-year-old guest who arrived from Nagpur on Saturday morning at his father-in-law’s home at Deoli tested positive. On the same day, his mother was found positive in Nagpur. Wardha now has 34 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Four CRPF Jawans and five civilians were found infected with Covid-19 in Gadchiroli on Sunday. This took total number of cases in the district to 338 including 140 recoveries and one death which happened in Telangana state. Total 197 patients are under treatment. YAVATMAL: Ten new positive Covid-19 cases reported in Yavatmal on Sunday. However, eight others recovered. Now, 158 patients are under treatment at GMCH while 128 others are admitted in the isolation ward as presumptive cases. Of them, 84 swab samples were sent to lab on Sunday. Total 234 reports are awaited in Yavatmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/highest-11-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day-as-vid-crosses-9k-cases/articleshow/77056845.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||180 sq km forest lost to coal mining, encroachments in Satpuda-Pench corridor||Nagpur: Even as government is going ahead with its auction of coal blocks, latest study on land use land cover (LULC) change in the wildlife corridor connecting the Pench and Satpuda tiger reserves reveals a systematic loss of 180 sq km forest including 10,377ha (103 sq km) dense and 7,406ha (74 sq km) open forests to coal mining and encroachments. The lost area is equivalent to the size of Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary. The study analysed data for 17-year period between April 2002-2019 using GIS and remote sensing techniques. As per the study, a net area of 2,055 sq km of forests was diverted for agriculture indicating extensive encroachment of forest land. Water bodies have reduced by 26% indicating shrinkage in water bodies in the period under study. The study ‘Land use change and wildlife conservation — case analysis of Pench-Satpuda wildlife corridor’ — was conducted by Sujoy Banerjee, an IFS officer, Tuomo Kauranne, Finland, and Mirja Mikkila, department of sustainability sciences, LUT-University, Finland. It has been recently published in a reputable international journal. “Tiger reserves of Central India have been islanded by human habitation and are interconnected by narrow ‘wildlife corridors’ for migration of wildlife,” says the study whose lead author is Banerjee, who as a DFO earlier in the MoEF’s regional office here had also insisted on mitigation steps on NH6 and NH7 passing through Pench. Pench-Satpuda wildlife corridor is one of critical wildlife corridors. LULC is crucial for proper land use planning, which eventually impacts biological diversity. Banerjee’s study is the first to analyse the LULC changes and land use planning in this corridor. Camera trapping undertaken by Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT) in the area established presence of tigers and is a viable wildlife corridor regularly used by wildlife to migrate between Pench and Satpuda. Data from forest department reveal substantial man-wildlife conflict in the study area, further confirming regular presence of wildlife. The 2,133 sq km Satpuda Tiger Reserve (STR) forms a vital link for spillover/migrating populations of the 2,769 sq km Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) located in the south-west and the 1,180 sq km Pench in the south-east, which eventually connect to the 2,052 sq km Kanha reserve. The study area falls in Chhindwara district and at present, there are 17 coal mines operational in it including six open cast, nine underground, and two mixed. The production of open cast mines is four times that of underground mines. The length of the corridor is roughly 90km and average width is about 22km. It encompasses forest lands, private lands, agriculture, villages, roads, railways etc. This corridor linkage is extremely precarious with forests intermittently disrupted by agriculture and habitation. Banerjee said, “The Pench-Kanha wildlife corridor overlays a wide-ranging coal belt with promising deposits. Active mines exist both to the east and west of the corridor. The negative environmental impacts of mining, especially open cast mining, are tremendous and will result in total degradation of the corridor and loss of connectivity in case the area is opened to coal mining.” The corridor is vital for population of over 700 tigers and its viability is critical to long-term migration of wildlife in the landscape. The study found large-scale degradation of the forests, shrinkage of water bodies, and an increase in the area under agriculture due to illegal encroachment over forest lands by local communities which might eventually lead to a total disruption of the corridor, in the case preventive measures are not taken in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/180-sq-km-forest-lost-to-coal-mining-encroachments-in-satpuda-pench-corridor/articleshow/77056854.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Drone gets stuck in tree in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: A drone deployed to destroy locusts in Jaisalmer developed a technical snag and got entangled in a tree in Ramdeora area on Sunday. Later, the locust control staff took down the device from the tree. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said that around 10pm on Friday, locusts from Jodhpur reached Jaisalmer’s villages along with rain and wind. Operations to destroy them were started on Saturday morning by deploying two drones and four vehicles. During the operation, a drone, whose software was updated, developed some technical problem and hit a neem tree and got entangled in the branches. Besides, Modi has directed to activate 10 forward base camps to provide timely information about locusts. Locust control department officer Rajesh Kumar said that the teams have been sent to many areas for survey of pests. On the other hand, revenue minister Harish Choudhary in a video conference directed the officers of Barmer district to make fool-proof arrangements for cent percent control of locust attacks. In Barmer, locust control work has been done on around 782 hectares. According to Barmer collector Vishram Meena, pesticides have been sprayed on 34,953 hectares in 14 tehsils of the district. He said that locust control operations are carried out on getting information about attacks. Union MoS for agriculture and farmer welfare Kailash Choudhary said that Centre has taken locust control measures on 1,72,325 hectares in various states including Rajasthan, MP, Punjab, Gujarat, UP and Haryana for which over 200 employees and 79 control teams have been deployed. Chaudhary added that on July 16, night control campaign was launched in Rajasthan, Gujarat and UP. Indian Air Force’s helicopter was used on Friday in Ramsar area of Barmer to control locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drone-gets-stuck-in-tree-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77056934.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bhopal||Bhargava protests tribal man’s death, stages dharna in Sagar||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh minister for public works department, Gopal Bhargava, staged a sit-in in Sagar district, demanding action against a forest ranger for harassing a tribal — husband of a sarpanch — who died of heart attack later. He said the forest officer had seized his tractor and was harassing him that led to his death. After his dharna, the district administration ordered a magisterial inquiry against the forest ranger. Meanwhile, Congress was quick to latch on to the situation attributing it to internal strife in BJP. Former minister Govind Singh said, “ BJP has sidelined Bhargava and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has reduced his position to number 3 in the party. He is venting out his frustration by sitting on dharna.” After the death of the tribal, his family along with other villagers staged a protest along with the dead body. They demanded the immediate arrest of the ranger. Soon, Bharvaga joined them. He threatened the administration to mobilise 10,000 people to launch a bigger protest and called the district collector and the superintendent of police. After district collector Deepak Singh ordered a magisterial inquiry, the minister gave up the protest. Social distancing norms were violated again when the minister staged the protest along with villagers. Bhargava said that the forest ranger had confiscated the tractor of Maniram Gond . He alleged that the ranger demanded Rs 1 lakh bribe to release the tractor but the tribal was ready to pay Rs30,000. Forest department sources in Sagar denied the allegations and said that the tribal had encroached upon forest land and action was initiated accordingly. As the village is located in Bhargava’s constituency, he joined the villagers in protest. The minister said on a Facebook post, ”I joined the protest after I learnt about the death. I also talked to CM Chouhan and he ordered financial help to the family of the victim .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhargava-protests-tribal-mans-death-stages-dharna-in-sagar/articleshow/77055872.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Madurai||Check illegal sand mining in Tuticorin: Plea||Madurai: A plea was filed before Madras high court to prevent illegal mining in the waterbodies and patta lands in Tuticorin district. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam issued notices to the authorities in a public interest litigation filed by S M A Pon Gandhimathi Nathan, a resident of Tuticorin district. The case was adjourned to a further date for hearing. The petitioner stated that officials from the mines and minerals department and tahsildars of Vilathikulam, Ottapidaram and Tiruchendur taluks granted permission to a person to remove silt for agricultural purposes. Under this guise, he is mining sand illegally. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/check-illegal-sand-mining-in-tuticorin-plea/articleshow/77056931.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal sees spurt in deaths with co-morbidities; hypertension and diabetes major factors||KOLKATA: Bengal is witnessing a sharp spike in Covid deaths of people with co-morbidities. Nearly a month-and-a-half ago on June 8, in 65.6% of Covid deaths, the patients had co-morbidities. On Saturday, in 82.6% Covid deaths, the patients had co-morbid conditions. Likewise, there has been a sharp drop in deaths among people who did not have co-morbidities — from 26.6% on June 8 to 17.4% on Saturday. Since July 9, the death figure due to co-rmobidities has been staying above the 80%-mark. Among the primary underlying co-morbidities contributing to Covid deaths in Bengal are hypertension, diabetes and other co-morbid factors. Cardiac arrests, chronic kidney disease (CKD), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), even malignancy have led to lesser deaths. The data provided by the state health department shows the contributing factors have not undergone significant changes since June 8. The co-morbid conditions are impacting people of all age groups. Initially, according to the state data, about 36.4% of deaths among Covid patients in Bengal have been in the age group of 60 and above. Among them, those who were 75 and above were more at risk, contributing to 21.1% of all deaths of Covid patients in the state. According to the data released on Saturday, Covid deaths in the 60+ age-group stood at 24.6%. The 75+ age group continues to remain at risk — contributing to 16% of Covid deaths. However, there appears to be a marked decline. One aspect, however, has remained constant. The fatalities have been the least in the 16-30 age-group, which experts said was due to high immunity levels. The other facet that came out in the study dealt with deaths in women where hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases and CKD were present in 79% of cases. In men, these were present in 75% of cases. On Saturday, these factors also showed a decline. In females, these four co-morbidities led to 67.8% of Covid deaths; in males, the percentage was 66.6. The reason appeared to be the sharp fall in Covid deaths in patients who have cardiac ailments. Covid deaths in cardiac patients has dropped from 19% in males to 13.2% and 18% in females to 11% now. Bengal’s 1,076 Covid deaths reported till Saturday are lower than Uttar Pradesh (1,108), Karnataka (1,240), Gujarat (2,122), Tamil Nadu (2,403), Delhi (3,597) and Maharashtra (11,596), according to the Union health ministry data. Teams of experts have been constantly visiting Covid facilities in Bengal and issuing advisories. On Sunday, in a fresh advisory, it was said that the experts visited some “private Covid hospitals and noted certain irregularities in practice which need urgent rectification”.  Experts suggested that oxygen blood-saturation levels should be maintained, ventilation strategy should be displayed and properly followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-sees-spurt-in-deaths-with-co-morbidities-hypertension-and-diabetes-major-factors/articleshow/77056542.cms||Saibal Sen
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Heavy rainfall at many places in Raj, Met forecasts a wet fortnight||JAIPUR: Many places in the state witnessed moderate to heavy rainfall which guided the mercury to take a dip. A rainfall of 60mm was recorded in Dausa which was highest in the state on Sunday. Jaipur Meteorological office said that the ongoing third phase will bring good amount of rainfall across the state for the next fortnight. People at many districts in the state, including Jaipur, woke up amid overnight rainfall. Many places saw torrential rainfall that affected normal life and vehicular traffic. Heavy rainfall was witnessed in Kota, Bundi, Jhalwar, Dausa, Karauli and Alwar districts. Showers lashed Pink City in the morning, however, in the afternoon, the weather became sultry. Though rainfall was moderate, it was spread across the city. Many low-lying areas, including, Shastri Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Raja Park and others witnessed water-logging. Majority of the places witnessed a dip in the mercury as maximum temperatures across the state were below 40°C except for Sriganganagar where 42.1°C was recorded. The Met office said that the third spell of the southwest monsoon is likely to bring good rainfall.  “The first two spells did not go well with the state as a deficit of 20% rainfall was recorded. Since humidity levels are above 90% across Rajasthan, there is a possibility of good rainfall. Also, during the ongoing third spell that will last for a fortnight heavy rainfall is likely in the Udaipur and Kota divisions of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heavy-rainfall-at-many-places-in-raj-met-forecasts-a-wet-fortnight/articleshow/77056946.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Madurai||Milk co-op society fund swindling was red-flagged in Jan||Madurai: They swindled depositors’ money by pre-closing fixed deposits without their knowledge, disbursed money twice for the same deposit bond and misappropriated funds without maintaining proper records or accounts. The tainted office-bearers of Madurai Milk Co-Operative Credit Society swindled Rs 7.9 crores of depositors’ money through these procedures, according to the recovery process notice issued to them by the deputy registrar of co-operative department in February.The scam tumbled out during the audit conducted by the co-operative department in January and 17 past and present office-bearers were named in the notice initiating recovery process under section 87 of The Tamil Nadu Co-operatives Societies Act, 1983. Although the audit report was submitted on January 10, there was no action for one-and-a-half months. A case has been registered by the commercial crime investigation wing police against S Mathalaiyappan (secretary), M Jegadeeswaran (accountant), R G Gangadaran (deputy secretary) and president K Pandi for cheating to the tune of 6.4 crore. The secretary and accountant have been arrested while the others are absconding. There are more than 800 A class members (serving employees) and about 400 B class members (retired employees) with the society. The misappropriation, which took place during 2017-18, tumbled out when the society started defaulting payments to depositors upon maturity of bonds in mid-2019, and were given the option to extend the deposit period. The co-operative department swung into action only after depositors started staging protests. While fixed deposits continued to be accepted, office-bearers stopped issuing loans in the last 18 months though the credit society does not have any substantial bad debts, say members. The notice to recover swindled money was served by deputy registrar S Sathish Kumar on the day the Madurai bench of the Madras high court suo motu impleaded RBI in a case filed by co-operative employees’ union. “The general body meeting was not conducted fearing questions would be raised regarding lack of accounts and non-maintenance of records. It was conducted last in 2017, that too without submitting audit details,” said S Karthick, a retired Aavin official who has a deposit of 14.5 lakh. G Karunanidhi, a retired Aavin manager (administration), said there is a provision in the act to appoint an official from the co-operative department as MD when the transaction of a society is more than 5 crore, which was also not followed in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/milk-co-op-society-fund-swindling-was-red-flagged-in-jan/articleshow/77056935.cms||V Devanathan
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Experts raise alarms on ICU capacity||Kochi: As the number of people critically ill with coronavirus is likely to increase by August or September experts have raised alarms about the intensive-care-unit (ICU) capacity in the state. “Kerala is semi-urban in character, where population density is high unlike other states and countries where only urban areas have a high density of population. Except a few panchayats in the hilly areas, the entire state is an urban rural continuum. This increases the chances of the disease spreading more rapidly. So, we should be prepared for the worst,” an official with the health department said. If the number of critically ill patients shoots up all of a sudden, the government may not be able to arrange the required ICU facilities at a short notice. “Several countries and states which reported a large number of casualties faced such a problem. In the case of Mumbai, the authorities were working hard to set up Covid first-line treatment centres when there was a spike in the number of infections. First-line treatment centres are meant for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms. By the time, the authorities acknowledged the gravity of the situation and started measures to arrange adequately equipped ICUs, a large number of patients were already critically ill. Many patients were deprived of critical care leading to large number of fatalities,” said Dr Santhosh Kumar S S, deputy superintendent, Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, who led a team of doctors and nurses which assisted doctors in Mumbai fight Covid-19. “It will take at least three months for us to upgrade ICUs to cater to the specific needs of Covid-19 patients. Going by the current rate of spread, the number of cases in the next three months’ time are likely to be high. Of the total cases, up to five percent of patients are expected to be critically ill,” Santhosh Kumar said. “So, measures should be taken to arrange critical care facilities as early as possible,” he said. Shortage of intensivists (physicians who provides special care for critically ill patients) is another problem the state will face once the number of cases shoots up. “Though there are around 5,000 doctors with the health department in Kerala, but only a few intensivists. We should start training doctors to handle the duties of intensivists,” an official with the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/experts-raise-alarms-on-icu-capacity/articleshow/77054929.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Madurai||Cop’s plea in missing pistol case dismissed||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed a policeman’s plea to quash the charge sheet filed against him before the trial court in connection with a missing pistol and six bullets from a police station in Ramanathapuram district. Petitioner R Rajkumar was sub inspector at Thondi station in 2012 when he took his pistol and six bullets for vehicle checks at the Thondi check post. However, when the inspector of police conducted a surprise inspection, he found the pistol and bullets missing. Disciplinary proceedings were initiated after the charges were proven and stoppage of increment was awarded. Case was also registered against him and charge-sheet filed before the Thiruvadanai judicial magistrate court, which Rajkumar contested in the high court Madurai bench. Justice B Pugalendhi observed that the Arms Committee had submitted a report holding the petitioner responsible for the missing objects. The investigation officer found that the petitioner had stealthily taken away the pistol and bullets, fraudulently concealed them and also induced the prime witnesses to depose before the investigating officer as if he had returned them the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-plea-in-missing-pistol-case-dismissed/articleshow/77056930.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 20, 2020||Aurangabad||9,000 traders tested, 184 found +ve||Aurangabad: With civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey making it mandatory for traders to undergo antigen tests before opening their shops and businesses, around 9,000 of them took the tests on Sunday. Of them, 184 tested positive. A senior civic official said the traders are being asked to undergo tests so that they do not become a source of infection after opening their shops. Meanwhile, a total of 399 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 10,803. Also, 155 people were discharged from various hospitals across the district. The number of active cases stands at 4,266.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/9000-traders-tested-184-found-ve/articleshow/77054964.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Give nat’l tag to canal project: CM urges PM||CM Ashok Gehlot on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging that the state’s ambitious East Rajasthan Canal Project (ERCP) be declared a national project. Gehlot said, the project, costing about Rs 37,247 crore, will ensure availability of sufficient drinking water in 13 districts of state by 2051 and irrigation to 2.8 lakh hectares of land. He stated in the letter that a detailed project report (DPR) of ERCP was sent to central water commission for approval in November 2017. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/give-natl-tag-to-canal-project-cm-urges-pm/articleshow/77056943.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||In a first, rare Eulophia obtusa orchid bearing fruits spotted in Dudhwa||BAREILLY: Almost 118 years after it was rediscovered inside the dense forests of the Dudhwa reserve, a specimen of the rare Eulophia obtusa orchid bearing fruits (seeds) has been spotted, giving much hope of its pollination and captive breeding. According to earlier studies, the plant's fruit has never been photographed or sighted by any researcher. A few weeks ago, a team led by field director Sanjay Pathak and deputy director Manoj Sonkar spotted this rare orchid in Dudhwa’s core area for the first time and photographed it. This discovery was shared with Bangladesh-based botanist Mohammed Sharif Hossain Sourav, who is currently pursuing research work on various species of orchids in Germany. This orchid species is listed as “critically endangered” in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. Pathak told TOI, “Researcher Hossain had requested us to look for the plant which bears fruit as during his research in Bangladesh, he was unable to find a single one with fruits. After intensive search, we were able to locate a plant which had both flowers and fruits. We have collected specimens and it has opened the path for further research on this species.” When TOI contacted Hossain over the phone, he said, “Unfortunately in Bangladesh, I did not find any fruit of Eulophia obtuse for further studies, but I did study its underground corm or rhizome, which remains fresh under the ground for many years. After the first rainfall in May, each corm produces one single plant every year. Therefore, underground corm is very important for future new plants. Even for tissue culture, the corm may be helpful. Now, with the discovery of the fruits -- which bear orchid seeds upon ripening -- will pave the way for further studies on the germination process of this orchid species. We need to identify whether it blooms annually or takes more than a year." Hossain also hoped that Indian orchid researchers and botanists conduct studies on seed germination as well as tissue culture from underground corm for future horticulture value and ex-situ conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-rare-eulophia-obtusa-orchid-bearing-fruits-spotted-in-dudhwa/articleshow/77054283.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘Proper management of chronic ailments can reduce Covid-19 burden on hospitals’||Nagpur: The spread of the novel coronavirus is now rampant in India, especially since the lockdown was lifted. The increasing number of patients and the alarming spike in the number of Covid-19 deaths are bringing health manpower and health infrastructure under immense pressure. A recent data analysis conducted by the Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA) shows that proper management of patients with chronic illnesses can bring down the number of Covid-19 deaths as well as the number of patients needing hospitalization. This will eventually bring down the pressure on hospitals and health manpower. “We have analyzed more than 14 lakh Covid-19 cases worldwide, including 3 lakh cases in India. Patients with chronic illnesses often require early hospitalization and many of them need special care like oxygen and ventilator support,” said Dr Ashok Arbat, president of VHA, an association of private hospitals in Vidarbha. Some private hospitals from the region have also started Covid-19 treatment. The others are treating non-Covid patients on a priority basis. Chronic illnesses include bronchial asthma, COPD, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, TB, Lung disorders, lung fibrosis, allergic rhinitis (hay fever), heart diseases, hypertension, diabetes, and others. People having these diseases are more likely to get infected and they need hospitalization to get cured. Those who don’t have these illnesses may recover at home without any special medical care. “If people having chronic illnesses take care of themselves and stay away from infection by observing covid distancing, using masks and following hand hygiene, we can reduce the burden on hospitals and doctors significantly,” said Dr Arbat, adding, the process will also enable the government to curtail its expenses on Covid-19 management. “We have advised patients to keep a watch on their health parameters. They must follow their medicine and exercise schedule very strictly and keep themselves fit to avoid getting infected by Covid-19. If they experience any Covid symptoms, they should report the matter to a doctor without any delay,” said Dr Arbat. As far as Vidarbha is concerned, the region has reported 240 Covid-19 deaths so far. Out of these, almost every deceased was suffering from some or the other serious chronic illness. In Nagpur, out of 1031 patients under treatment, more than 700 are asymptomatic and require no hospitalization. They can be treated at Covid Care Centers. Most of those who require hospitalization are having chronic illnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/proper-management-of-chronic-ailments-can-reduce-covid-19-burden-on-hospitals/articleshow/77056547.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA stops rowing at Kolkata's Rabindra Sarobar||KOLKATA: Rowing has been stopped at Rabindra Sarobar as was mentioned by Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA), custodian of the man-made lake, considered as the lungs of the city’s southern parts, in a notification issued recently. Amid the lockdown restrictions, rowing had resumed at Rabindra Sarobar with single-scullers on July 2, a day after the 192-acre water body complex had reopened its gates to morning walkers. The water-based sport was being practised at Bengal Rowing Club (BRC), one of the lake rowing clubs, in line with the Covid-lockdown guidance that advised the members to maintain social distancing norms. Single-sculling requires only one rower to be in the boat and manoeuvre the oars. So there was no risk of physical proximity. “With the spread of the virus, it doesn’t seem feasible to allow rowing,” said a KMDA official. Environmentalist S M Ghosh, a daily morning walker at Rabindra Sarobar, told TOI, “The decision to stop rowing doesn’t seem logical because single-sculling doesn’t compromise with social distancing norms. The Covid outbreak is not linked to outdoor sporting activities.” Another morning walker, Suchandra Barman, said, “My grandson was enjoying his daily rowing at the BRC during the Unlock phase. Now he has nothing to look forward to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rowing-stopped-at-rabindra-sarobar/articleshow/77056561.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 20, 2020||Agra||Missing men found dead, killed over suspicion of being informers||AGRA: Two men - missing for 48 hours - were found dead in Mathura’s Mehrana village on Sunday. The duo was allegedly strangled to death by their neighbours over suspicion of being police informers after one of the neighbours was booked under the Excise Act in April this year, police said. The deceased were identified as Chandan and Pappu. Their bodies were found 3 km from their house in the forest and were sent for post-mortem, police said. The duo went missing on Friday. Their family lodged a complaint under IPC section 364 (kidnapping) against two neighbours, Rohtas and Birju. Police said that Rohtas, who was arrested on April 23 for transporting illegal liquor, was released on bail on June 9. He hatched a plan to kill the duo with the help of his friend Birju. He suspected that the duo were informers and had tipped the police about his whereabouts. Rohtas invited Chandan and Pappu for drinks and when the duo was completely drunk, the accused strangled them to death. Talking to TOI, superintendent of police (rural) Shrish Chandra said Rohtas and Birju have been sent to judicial custody. The matter is being investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/missing-men-found-dead-killed-over-suspicion-of-being-informers/articleshow/77054958.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||Malayali couple innovates with virtual art gallery||ALAPPUZHA: Going virtual is the only way to showcase your creativity during Covid-19. A young Malayali couple living in Dubai is earning accolades after turning to virtual art exhibitions to break out of the stagnation caused by the pandemic.  Jesno Jackson, a native of Kollam, and her husband Rengi Cherian, hailing from Pathanamthitta are curating the ‘Mother Nature’ virtual exhibition with paintings of 15 international artists, organized by Dubai Municipality in association with Art4You Gallery founded by Jesno. The couple got settled in Dubai nine years ago after their marriage. An artist and art instructor, Jesno said like many others they were forced to utilize the digital platform for their activities due to the outbreak of Covid-19. “We also turned to the online platform for organizing the exhibitions of Art4You Gallery from May to August this year. The first exhibition ‘Defeat Covid-19, Heal the world’ was held in May and it got overwhelming response. Seeing our event, the Dubai municipal authorities approached us for organizing the ongoing exhibition. We are organizing this virtual exhibition with the support of Dubai Municipality’s environment department,” said Jesno. The virtual gallery was designed and curated by Jesno with the creative support of her son Jenson Rengi. Jesno said the virtual tour was aimed at raising awareness for the protection of the environment and biodiversity in communities around the world. “The exhibition sheds light on the environmental changes since the outbreak of Covid-19. This will help improve the functioning of municipalities and environmental organizations around the world focusing on biodiversity. The UAE residents along with the rest of the world can view the paintings through the FB page of Art4You Gallery or through artsteps app or link,” she said. The exhibition, which began on World Environment Day on June 5, will be on till July 30. The event included a virtual tour of 60 paintings featuring wildlife and plants, highlighting the importance of continuing to interact with nature. “Virtual tours are available throughout the day,” Jesno added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-couple-innovates-with-virtual-art-gallery/articleshow/77054942.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Virudhunagar cop suspended for taking bribe||MADURAI: A Virudhunagar West police inspector was placed under suspension for having received Rs 16,000 as bribe in a suicide case. A woman named Kogila had committed suicide in January due to a family dispute. Since she died within seven years of marriage, a case was registered under CrPC 174 (3) based on a complaint from her family members. Gandhi, who conducted an inquiry with the woman’s husband Ajithkumar, demanded Rs 25,000 for not implicating him in the case, and he received Rs 16,000. As the information reached higher officials, an ASP-level officer was asked to investigate. Based on his report, DIG (Madurai range) S Rajendran placed the inspector under suspension and departmental inquiry is pending against him. Though the investigating officer in such cases is deputy superintendent of police, the inspector needlessly intervened in the case and took money. In ASP’s report, four people have given testimony confirming the bribe received by the inspector including Ajithkumar, the DIG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-official-suspended-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/77056937.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||Tobacco manufacturer among 16 booked for violating lockdown norms||PILIBHIT: A manufacturer of chewing tobacco (khaini) was among 16 people, who were booked on Saturday night for violating weekend lockdown norms. When police inspected the company’s workshed at Kamalle crossing in Pilibhit city under Pilibhit Kotwali police station, the manufacture and packing of khaini was found in progress, despite lockdown-related prohibition. In his complaint, Pilibhit Kotwali sub-inspector Dile Rampal stated that during the monitoring of compliance with lockdown norms by citizens, as many as 10 workers were found engaged in the processing and packing of chewing tobacco, while the company’s godown was found open. Defying the assigned safety measures, workers neither had face masks nor gloves on them, a criminal act, he said. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said police booked six named accused, including company promoter Zafar Hussain, along with 9-10 unidentified persons, under sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, and sections 3, 4 of Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tobacco-manufacturer-among-16-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/77053562.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Aurangabad||6 Parbhani cops face action for links with bootleggers||Aurangabad: Taking cognizance of findings of the departmental inquiry against the policemen for their proximity to bootleggers and helping them out in their illicit trades, Parbhani superintendent of police Krushnakant Upadhyay has suspended four more personnel, dismissed one and transferred another.So far, 10 policemen, including those from local crime branch, have faced stringent action with a few of them getting dismissed from the service.The orders were issued after the inquiry against these five policemen was carried out by IPS Shravan Dutt who is currently heading charge of Jintur sub-division. All these policemen have been charged with dereliction of duty, indiscipline and questions have also been raised over their integrity.Jintur police station’s assistant sub-inspector has been dismissed, a constable has been shunted out to Parbhani while four other constables have been suspended.Departmental inquiry against these policemen was initiated after two men caught transporting illicit liquor were found to be constantly in touch with them, including those from the special squad formed by Upadhyay to bring a check on illicit businesses in the district.As a part of the probe, mobile phones of these suspects were seized only find audio call recordings revealing the connivance of the bootleggers with the policemen. Probe also found that the suspects even transferred some money to the bank account of a policeman.Sources said that the departmental inquiry followed by action against the policemen has stunned many with some of them already opting for medical leave. “However the role of these policemen on medical leave has not yet surfaced, but the fear of getting nailed, is visible,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-parbhani-cops-face-action-for-links-with-bootleggers/articleshow/77054979.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||Virus claims 3 more lives, toll touches 50||Lucknow: The Covid-19 death toll in the city mounted to 50 with three more patients, including an elderly, said to be Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh pracharak, succumbing to the infection on Sunday. Of total causalities so far, 29 have taken place in the past 15 days -- almost with an average of two daily. The 84-year-old elderly died in Balrampur hospital where he was admitted on Friday with breathing difficulty and very low blood oxygen levels. He died due to lung failure on Sunday. The test report that arrived after the death confirmed that he had Covid-19, said Dr Rajiv Lochan, director, Balrampur hospital. The swab samples of the people who came in contact with him have been sent for tests, he added. A 55-year-old woman from Udayganj died due to respiratory failure because of Covid-19 in KGMU. “She was admitted with breathing difficulty,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, KGMUspokesperson. The third death was reported from RMLIMS where a 64-year-old resident of Mulshipulia died during treatment. He was admitted on July 14 with breathing difficulty and was on ventilator support since then. He also had diabetes and high blood pressure and died due cardiac pulmonary arrest," said institute’s spokesperson Dr Srikesh Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-claims-3-more-lives-toll-touches-50/articleshow/77056948.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Portuguese-era building collapses in Panaji, three rescued from structure||PANAJI: A Portuguese-era building adjacent to the Azad Maidan came crashing down in the early hours of Sunday. Three persons trapped inside the building were escaped unhurt, according to sources. The collapsed portion of the building caused damage to Prakash lodge and cafe, a popular joint among the city’s oldies, frequented by politcos, social activists and mediapersons. “At about 2.45am, I received a call about the incident. Immediately, I reached the spot informed police and fire services,” said tenant Prakash Sakhalkar. “The rescued were from other states and had been residing since the last two months. They chose to stay at the lodge since it was in the proximity of their work place,” Sakhalkar said. The lodge is located on the first floor and the café on the ground floor. “It was set up by my father nearly 70 years ago,” he said, adding, “after managing the business throughout my lifetime, I have now passed it on to my son.” Prior to its collapse, the lodge portion shared the building with renowned designer, Ritu Kumar’s boutique, Radio Mundial showroom and office of the Goa Congress. “The CCP must look after all the old buildings in Panaji,” Sakhalkar said. The debris could not be cleared on Sunday due to the unavailability of excavator operator. The CCP however said it would start the operation of clearing the debris by Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/portuguese-era-building-collapses-in-panaji-three-rescued-from-structure/articleshow/77057129.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Swab test camps in sensitive zones||KOLKATA: From a slum in a Ultadanga locality to a high-rise in a Ballygunge neighbourhood, the laboratory technicians and health workers from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation have been running across the city to get Covid-prime contacts and suspects tested. According to a KMC health department official, the swab test that the civic body is conducting in association with the state government hospitals, including SSKM, has become so demanding, particularly in the Covid-sensitive areas across the city that the civic laboratory technicians are collecting 450-500 samples a day and sending them to SSKM for testing. The steep rise in Covid-positive cases has necessitated organizing camps for collection of swab, particularly in the worst affected Covid containment zones, said a KMC health department official. Besides, the KMC team of technicians are also visiting high-rises for collection of swab from the prime contacts of Covid-positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swab-test-camps-in-sensitive-zones/articleshow/77056556.cms||Saikat Ray
July 20, 2020||Bhopal||More Cong MLAs likely to join BJP, says Rampal Singh||Bhopal: Amid the political tussle between BJP and Congress ahead of bypolls, former BJP minister and close confidant of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan — Rampal Singh — claimed that more Congress MLAs are likely to join the saffron party after Pradyumna Singh Lodhi and Sumitra Devi Kasdekar. Singh further said that BJP leaders were facing problems in adjusting the former Congress leaders in the party, but they were being welcomed. “The 15-month old Congress government failed to work and recognise its own public representatives. This resulted in the resignation of 22 MLAs. There are several lawmakers who are meeting us and saying that they are disgusted. This is an internal matter of Congress but, it is true that several Congress MLAs are in touch with us,” said Rampal on Saturday. The six-time MLA from Silwani (Raisen) constituency, who failed to make in to the cabinet after being dropped by the party leadership to accommodate Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists, also admitted that there were problems before the BJP leaders in adjusting the newcomers. “After Congress rebels joined BJP, many MLAs are facing problems to adjust to the circumstances. Still, we are welcoming and admiring them (Congress rebels). They are also worried about the development in their constituencies,” said Rampal. The BJP leader’s statement came after the recent claim by cabinet minister Arvind Bhadoria, who was instrumental in bringing Kasdekar to BJP fold, that several other Congress lawmakers are ready to join BJP. “Several MLAs who are in constant touch with us, feel upset over the poor performance of their party. The Congress government during its tenure did nothing for development. The (Congress) MLAs have no alternative,” said Rampal. On allegations of resentment brewing in BJP as several leaders, including those from Raisen and Sanchi, who have expressed anguish over the appointment of Congress rebels to plum posts in the state government, Rampal said, “All leaders have joined hands to win the elections. They are campaigning in their areas. We are working like a team. The contest has turned one-sided as there is no challenge or a strong opponent from the Congress.” Rampal also alleged that funds meant for schools and roads were diverted to Chhindwara by the Kamal Nath government. “Congress failed to waive farm loans and cheated the unemployed in the name of stipends. It is sinking and leaders are nervous ahead of bypolls,” he said. Congress reacted sharply and said that BJP was trying to murder democracy through money power. “BJP is trying to bait lawmakers through money power but, the public is aware and would give a befitting reply,” said Congress state spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-cong-mlas-likely-to-join-bjp-says-rampal-singh/articleshow/77055884.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Audio-tape mastermind in police net; ‘letter war’ continues||Nagpur: The alleged mastermind behind the honeytrap audio tape, Sahil Sayyed, was arrested by crime branch on Sunday even as state home minister Anil Deshmukh through his latest letter challenged leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis by stating that the government is ready to appoint any agency or officer the ex-CM would suggest to probe the case. Deshmukh, clarifying that Sayyed was not part of his political outfit NCP, in the letter has mentioned about handing over the probe to joint CP (Nilesh Bharne). Earlier in the day, Deshmukh had also reviewed the case progress. The honeytrap audio clip, first reported by TOI, has triggered a letter war between Deshmukh and Fadnavis. In the latest letter dated July 19, Deshmukh also has held Fadnavis responsible “for catapulting a police case to a political issue by attaching it extraordinary importance at a time when everyone has joined hands in the fight against coronavirus”. “Even we would like to know his (Sayyed’s) activities in the last few years”, Deshmukh has written. Sayyed was arrested by a special team from his residence at Baghdadiya Nagar near Zingabai Takli. After the audio-tape had gone viral, Sayyed and his accomplices were booked in back-to-back four cases, including one at Tehsil police station following the complaint lodged by BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari. Tiwari’s name, along with another stalwart BJP leader, was mentioned in the audio tape regarding honeytrap plan to shield a senior health official. After the audio-leak, Fadnavis had on July 14 written to Deshmukh stating that a high-level probe was warranted in the case as the audio tape mentioned goons being motivated while referring to the home minister’s name. On July 17, Deshmukh had claimed in his letter that Sayyed was a BJP member, a charge Fadnavis refuted the same day in the second letter threatening to send the audio-clip to the chief justice of the high court and registrar if a fair probe is not done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/audio-tape-mastermind-in-police-net-letter-war-continues/articleshow/77056557.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 20, 2020||Chennai||School closed, nutrition’s absent from the plate||Chennai: Twelve-year-old Archana M and two of her siblings, aged 8 and 6, are eagerly waiting for their school to reopen. Not just to meet their friends and get back to studies after being at their makeshift home along Rattan Street in Chennai’s Broadway for the past four months, but also for the one-square meal they get at school at noon five days a week. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/indias-first-mid-day-meal-was-served-here-but-now-it-is-in-lockdown/articleshow/77060005.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/school-closed-nutritions-absent-from-the-plate/articleshow/77057290.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Antibodies may drop, but immunity remains in survivors’||Lucknow: After a few international researchers found a significant decline in antibodies in Covid-19 patients after recovery, King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has also found evidence to support the findings. KGMU’s transfusion medicine department, which has been collecting plasma from Covid patients after recovery, has found that in at least two plasma donations, antibodies dropped down by 75% in less than three months. A team, led by the head of KGMU’s transfusion medicine department Prof Tulika Chandra, has found 25% of plasma donors had negative antibodies which means they did not have any antibody against the virus, but tested negative after hospitalised treatment. “We have had 18 plasma donations till Tuesday. In two cases, we took plasma again after over two months from the time of infection. We found a significant decline in antibodies. The two plasma units had just 25% antibodies left,” Prof Chandra told TOI. She, however, clarified that decrease in antibodies did not mean that immunity was lost too. “In case of Covid, no reinfection has been reported in any part of the world. Possibly, once antibodies against coronavirus develop in the body, memory cells in our bodies are sensitised and they get activated against the virus if it tries to enter the body again,” she said. She gave the example of chickenpox in which, once infected, a patient develops lifelong immunity against it. “In testing, you don’t find antibodies against chickenpox in a person. Every virus behaves differently and there is still much that we need to know about coronavirus,” she added. “Even though Covid survivors may have low antibodies, they will have immunity against reinfection and their plasma would still save another patient’s life,” Prof Chandra said. “We have also had plasma donors who had negative antibodies. This could mean that they were either false positive cases as no test can give 100% confirmation, or that they had the virus but were asymptomatic and traced through contact testing. After treatment, they would have tested negative in just a couple of days. We are still learning about the virus,” she said. “More patients should come forward to donate plasma after recovery to save lives of other patients. Their immunity will not get affected by donation,” said Prof Chandra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/antibodies-may-drop-but-immunity-remains-in-survivors/articleshow/77056956.cms||Yusra Husain
July 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad hosps warned against artificial bed shortage||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district collector Uday Choudhary, citing alleged artificial shortage of bed availability created by hospitals within the limits of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), on Sunday warned of stringent action against such health centres.Choudhary, while asking the hospitals to upgrade their infra for treating Covid-19 patients, stated that no asymptomatic patient or patient with mild symptoms should be admitted to Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC).“In the wake of rising number of cases in the district and specifically in the municipal corporation areas and surrounding urban areas, it has been observed that there is artificial shortage of bed availability in the hospitals in city that have been identified, designated and permitted to admit Covid-19 patients. It is observed that many asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients, who do not need hospitalization or 24X7 medical attention, are also been admitted in the hospital set up creating shortage of bed for patients with moderate or severe symptoms,” read the order.The letter clearly states that it is expected that only when asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patient develops moderate symptomatic conditions, they should be referred to DCHC run by the state, private parties or trusts.Addressing the issue of some people influencing the hospital administration to admit asymptomatic patients, Choudhary said that such people should be informed about this order and immediately be referred to covid care centres of the AMC or zilla parishad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-hosps-warned-against-artificial-bed-shortage/articleshow/77054990.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||NMC plans to ban entry, exit from city in 15-day lockdown||Nagpur: Apart from shutting down even essential businesses like grocery and vegetables, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is reportedly planning to restrict all movement of people into or out of the city during the proposed 15-day full lockdown with curfew. The civic body is likely to start planning for this along with the police department and other government agencies from Monday. NMC sources told TOI municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe spoke of his plan to ban entry of people into the city and also exit of people from the city during the full lockdown in front of home minister Anil Deshmukh and guardian minister Nitin Raut in the meeting on Saturday. “Mundhe said full lockdown with curfew for containing spread of Covid-19 would be successful only with ban on movement of people into and out of the city. The ministers asked Mundhe to work out details along with police department,” sources said. Though they agreed to full lockdown with curfew in city, the ministers did not approve it for Nagpur Rural as collector Ravindra Thakre and Ramtek MP Krupal Tumane denied there was a need for this in rural areas. Mundhe had warned of a full lockdown with curfew citing violations of Covid-19 guidelines by people in public places, private establishments and markets. Mayor Sandip Joshi had started inspection of markets. Reacting to this, president of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (Camit) Dipen Agrawal said, “It is painful to hear NMC allegations that traders are responsible for spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths. The allegations are made without a study or analysis by experts. NMC has conveniently ignored other reasons for people to get infected. Air and rail travellers are checked on arrival, but there is no check on people coming by road from other districts and states. Violations in government offices too are overlooked.” Calling the decision to impose full lockdown with curfew draconian, Camit said even increase in fine will encourage inspector raj and corruption. “The administration should first set right basic things before going in for such steps, to ensure distressed traders survive this pandemic,” he said. Retired NMC deputy director (health) Dr KB Tumane, also a chest physician, said, “More deaths than Covid-19 will happen due to full lockdown with curfew. Health and economy should go parallel. In pandemic, every infected person is passing on the infection to people around. But Covid-19 mortality is only 1-3%, infectivity is 2-4 and over 60% are recovering. This is true for any simple infection. So if the symptoms are just like flu, we just need to focus on social distancing and masking. Also, reliability of diagnostic tests like RT-PCR is doubtful. So, why is the government giving so much importance to this infection.” Dr Tumane, who worked to control tuberculosis (TB) through out his service in city, also said, “There was no need for big containment zones, and they should be restricted to the family with an infected person. We had protected a large number of TB patients from other infections with a simple turmeric therapy. It is successful even in Covid-19 like symptoms. Therefore, economy and employment should not be prohibited citing Covid,” he said. Dr Tumane is the elder brother of Ramtek MP Krupal Tumane, who has ensured there will not be a full lockdown with curfew in Nagpur Rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-plans-to-ban-entry-exit-from-city-in-15-day-lockdown/articleshow/77056578.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||Rainwater gushes through ceiling of Covid facility in Bareilly, patients watch helplessly||Bareilly: In a video clip which has been widely shared, patients at a Covid-19 hospital in Bareilly district were seen sitting helplessly even as rainwater started pouring into the ward from the ceiling. The patients were later shifted to another ward. The incident that occurred on Sunday attracted criticism from the opposition which targeted the Uttar Pradesh government. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted the video and raised questions on the facilities being provided to patients by the Yogi Adityanath government. According to officials, there was some construction work going on, which caused the rainwater to enter through the hospital’s roof. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We came to know about the issue through a viral video. When we contacted the officials of the medical college, they said that a pipe had broken during heavy rainfall. Prima facie, it was an accident and the medical college staff immediately shifted the patients to another ward. No action would be taken against them as of now.” Dr Arjun Singh, medical superintendent of the private medical college, said, “Rainwater poured into the isolation ward because of a leakage in the ceiling when it was raining heavily. After getting the information, we immediately shifted all the patients to another ward and the leakage was fixed soon afterwards. None of the patients here have any complaints.” Joint magistrate Ishan Pratap Singh said, “The nodal officer of the administration inspected the medical college on Sunday. The problem was caused due to a plumbing failure and the patients were immediately shifted to another ward. The feedback of the patient has been taken.” The video was shared by the relative of a patient who is under treatment at the isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rainwater-gushes-through-ceiling-of-covid-facility-in-bareilly-patients-watch-helplessly/articleshow/77054294.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 20, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 tally crosses 1,500 mark in Agra district||AGRA: At least 15 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Sunday, taking the district tally to 1,501. These included two kidney patients, two patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, a patient of SARI and one of coronary artery infection. Also, 16 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 1,501 cases, 82.94% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 161 active cases in the district. Chief medical officer (CMO) RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,245 people have recovered.” Moreover, at least 17 people, including a journalist, a photographer and a jeweller, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Sunday, taking the total tally to 1,737. Furthermore, three new deaths took the toll to 82, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. Two elderly women died due to Covid-19 while 37 were tested positive in Bareilly district on Sunday. The total death toll in Bareilly has increased to 30 now. Four more cases were reported from Shahjahanpur and five positive cases in Budaun district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-tally-crosses-1500-mark-in-agra-dist/articleshow/77054988.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||‘Repairs of old bldgs caught in legal web’||Panaji: The collapse of an old building adjacent to the Azad Maidan early Sunday morning has yet again brought forth the question of safety of occupants. Even after the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) identified 18 buildings in the city which were weak, a few years ago, their repairs are yet to see the light of day. This is due to the non-cooperation from the property owners despite the insistence of tenants to repair it, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “Many of these old buildings still practice the old rent system. While the tenants want CCP to repair the building, the owners refuse to grant us a no-objection certificate to do so,” he said. House repair licence can't be given to the tenant. it has to be given to the owners. Qualified engineers were brought on board to assess the stability of these buildings, one of which is the premises of the CCP office. CCP is now seeking legal advice on how to go ahead with the repairs. “We have floated a tender two weeks ago to prepare a stability report of the CCP office building. We will also take legal recourse to obtain a repair licence for other old buildings,” he said. Ketak Nachinolkar, a conservation architect, said the rent control act is a complicated law but structures undergoing deterioration must be protected. “Any building that shows signs of collapse like leakages, cracks or deteriorating wood must be evaluated as per its criteria in the interest of safety. Certain buildings are approaching 150 years and as such the need to evaluate them is important,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repairs-of-old-bldgs-caught-in-legal-web/articleshow/77057131.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Madurai||Man, 25, riding bike killed, kin injured||MADURAI: A 25-year-old man from Alanganallur was hacked to death when he was travelling on a bike along with his relative at Kallanai on Sunday morning. The relative was injured in the attack . The victim, identified as R Vignesh, 25, used to work at a departmental store in the city. He had recently left the job and had started working at a poultry farm along with his brother. On Sunday morning he was headed to attend a function in Sikkandarchavady. He went to Palamedu to pick up his aunt, K Jamuna, 35 and while on the way to Sikkaranchavady, a gang which came on bikes intercepted him and attacked him using sharp weapons. Jamuna suffered multiple cut injuries on her hands, thighs and head when she tried to save him. While Vignesh died on the spot, the woman was shifted to a hospital, where she is undergoing treatment. The Madurai range deputy inspector general of police, S Rajendran, and the district superintendent of police, Sujit Kumar, visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. Based on a complaint a case was registered with the Alanganallur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-25-riding-bike-killedkin-injured/articleshow/77056952.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Large containment zones out of bounds for 5 days from Monday||LUCKNOW: All areas coming under four police stations — Indiranagar, Aashiana, Sarojininagar and Ghazipur — will be turned into large containment zones for five days beginning Monday. The restrictions in these areas will come into effect at 5am on Monday and continue till 10pm Friday (July 24). The decision has been taken in the wake of a spike in Covid cases in the city. The number of small containment zones created after a patient was reported from a locality is high in these four areas in comparison to other parts of the city, making it difficult for the authorities to restrict public movement. As a result, it was decided to convert the entire police station area into a containment zone encompassing all the small zones, making enforcement of Covid-19 regulations easier, said district magistrate Abhishek Prakash in the guidelines issued on Sunday. According to the guidelines, haats, markets, mandis and other commercial units in the large containment zones will remain closed till Friday. However, those in essential services such as grocery, dairy, vegetable, fruits, health and fuel will remain open, besides places of worship with safety protocol and guidelines issued specifically for them earlier. Besides, media services, banks and industrial units including IT and IT enabled services will operate. In addition, construction of large scale projects, expressway, bridges, roads, government buildings and private construction will continue as before. However, all the work places will have to follow infection control safety protocols. Further, private units allowed to work will have to set up Covid-19 help desk as prescribed by the district administration in their premises. The private units can call maximum upto 50% of the workforce and have been advised to encourage employees to work from home. International and domestic travelers will face no restriction in reaching their homes. Railway passengers will be provided bus service from the stations for the large containment zones. The traffic on state and national highways in these zones will be allowed. UPSRTC buses and eateries on highways will be allowed to operate. Residents of these area will allowed to venture out within the zones or outside only in case of emergency or to buy essentials. Similarly, people from other parts of the city outside the containment zones can travel into these areas only for emergencies like health. But restrictions around the houses and offices of Covid patients in these areas will continue without any relaxation. “We have advised offices in other parts of the area to adjust the employee roster of workers from containment zones. Work from home module should be applied to maximum possibility for both private and public sector,” divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram told TOI. Violators will be booked as per the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/large-containment-zones-out-of-bounds-for-5-days-from-today/articleshow/77056969.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Govt official, wife held for harassing tenant BDO||HOOGHLY: A government official and his school teacher wife were arrested by Arambagh police under the Disaster Management Act for allegedly assaulting their tenant — the Goghat Block I BDO Surashi Pal — and preventing her from entering the rented house. Pal was prevented because several persons in the BDO office have recently tested positive for Covid. The BDO could finally enter the house after police resorted to lathi-charge. Six of her neighbours were also arrested. Pal had been to her office and while returning home, she was stopped by some neighbours and house owners, Ananda Saha, an agriculture development officer, and his wife Mousumi Mondal ,a teacher of Arambagh Girls’ High School. The residents of the Nabapally area of Arambagh also tried to resist her entry. They claimed that Manoranjan Pal, Sabhapati of Goghat Block I panchayat samity and several others had tested positive. As the BDO shares the same office space with them, they did not want to allow her an entry. Pal, along with her eight-year-old daughter and other family members, stay in the rented house. They were asked to shift to some government accommodation. Soon, the war of words took an ugly turn and some people allegedly pushed her to stop her from entering the house. The neighbours supported Saha as they too claimed that the BDO might be a carrier of the virus. Soon, police were informed. They requested the neighbours to allow the BDO to enter the house and assured them of providing all help. Still, Pal was not allowed entry. The cops then resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the mob. The BDO’s landlord and his wife were arrested along with six neighbours. The SDPO of Arambagh, Nirmal Kumar Das, said the way the BDO had been heckled and stopped from entering her rented house is an act of disgrace as she is a Covid warrior. For this, eight persons have been charged under the Disaster Management Act. They would be produced in the court on Monday. Swapan Nandi, chairman, Arambagh Municipality, said such an act towards a woman is condemnable and here it was reportedly done by another government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-official-wife-held-for-harassing-tenant-bdo/articleshow/77056598.cms||Falguni Banerjee
July 20, 2020||Madurai||Driver says cops beat him up||Madurai: A driver has lodged a complaint against Delta police team for manhandling and beating him up without any provocation on Saturday night. The injured, M Aravindraj, 24, is a native of Ulaganeri and is the driver of S Baskarmathuram, a high court lawyer. Aravindraj was coming out of a shop at Uthangudi after purchasing liquor for his friends. Five police personnel in civil dress intercepted and questioned him. Since he was not aware that they were police personnel, he questioned them for blocking him that has led to an argument, said S Baskarmathuram. He added that later the police personnel took him to a police vehicle and beat him up. They also allegedly took away money from Aravindraj. “Aravindraj suffered injuries on his lips and face. When he has not committed any offence, why did the police unleash violence on him,” asked the lawyer. City police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said that DCP Shiva Prasad has been asked to probe the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/driver-says-cops-beat-him-up/articleshow/77056949.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Madurai||NGO releases art manual for kids to overcome lockdown stress||MADURAI: As this lockdown has affected children physically and mentally with their outdoor activities coming to a halt, a non-governmental organization (NGO) has released an art manual to help the children overcome lockdown stress. The 126-page manual was released by the Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay on Friday. The NGO, centre for education development and action and research (Cedar), has been working with children, especially the ones from economically weaker sections of the society living in places like Meenambalpuram, Ambedkar Colony, Tallakulam, Jawaharpuram and Pannangudi in Madurai and pockets in Thanjavur and Tuticorin districts, who are prone to child labour. Dr Chinnaraj Joseph Jaikumar, managing trustee of the NGO, said that children were suffering physically as they get less nutrition and mentally due to this compulsory vacation imposed on them. Jaikumar said that noting this, a highly child-centred humanitarian relief kit has been developed by their team, in coordination with Paper Boat Charity, UK to help children spend their time usefully and overcome stress. The kit along with dry rations and nutritional material also contains art material with a 126-page manual. It is being given free of cost to the children. Jaikumar said that the idea of providing the art manual is to address the digital divide and help the poor children to creatively engage in artistic activities during this crisis period. It is in Tamil. They are reaching out to 1,050 families to distribute this kit. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ngo-releases-art-manual-for-kids-to-overcome-lockdown-stress/articleshow/77056955.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chennai||Cine wigmaker now dresses up ‘corona devils’||Chennai: Till March 24, cine wigmaker B Natesan was busy inside his tiny shop on Kodambakkam Main Road working on the tresses that would adorn heroes, heroines and character actors, today he is making wigs for different kind of a ‘villain’ who has affected all our lives — ‘Corona devils’. As part of the awareness drive against the deadly pandemic, NGOs and other organisations approached Natesan for wigs that suit Yama, god of death. A popular wigmaker, Natesan has done wigs for yesteryear stars like MGR and Sivaji Ganesan. Since there are no customers since lockdown, Natesan decided to make wigs for Yama as it would also earn him some money. “The money that I make by selling such wigs is less, but I am doing something for society and that makes me happy,” he said.Natesan has been making wigs for the last three decades, but it’s the first time that he made one for a social cause. “It was the time when a friend asked me whether I could make a wig for his son who wanted to act as Yama in an awareness drive against the pandemic outbreak that I made the first such wig,” he said. The requirement this time was to make wigs that look like the coronavirus. “Many asked me whether I could make a wig that looks like coronavirus. I told them I can, but it takes time. I suggested the wigs for devils and they became a huge hit,” he said.Natesan doesn’t know when the good-old days will come back, but he knows one thing: It’s our job to obey the safety measures to reduce the spread of Covid-19 and he is happy to contribute in his own way. Though Natesan is a popular cine-wig maker, his wigs are also known in the political circles as well. Wigs of Narendra Modi, Rahul Gandhi and the chignon wigs of ‘Amma’ (Jayalalithaa) have been popular during the elections. “I used to charge Rs 1,500 to Rs 6,000 for each wig. But today, it’s a difficult time and I am running out of money. We must fight the virus. I am happy if my wigs are having a role in that fight,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cine-wigmaker-now-dresses-up-corona-devils/articleshow/77057292.cms||M T Saju
July 20, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka finally does 1 million Covid-19 tests. But is it enough?||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which tested 3.7 lakh samples in 19 days this month at a daily average of over 20,000 tests, on Sunday crossed the 1-million milestone. However, it compares poorly among the big states. On Sunday, the state tested 35,834 samples, of which 28,929 returned negative. Of tests on the day, 166,548 and 13,054 were tests done on CBNAAT, TrueNat and antigen, respectively. At the end of June, the cumulative tests done in the state were 6.2 lakh, also a significant improvement from May 31 when the total number was just 2.9 lakh. Of 3.7 lakh tests in July, 1.9 lakh came in the past week, while the first 12 days saw 1.8 lakh samples tested. The state, in fact, is testing better than the national average going by the tests per million (TPM) data. “There are 85 laboratories in the state and 25 more will be set up soon as we’re targeting 50,000 tests per day. Now, only a few states are ahead of us. The World Health Organisation recommends 140 tests per million per day and we’re doing more than 300 tests. We’ll procure 10 lakh antigen test kits,” medical education minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday. Karnataka’s TPM now is over 15,500 compared to about 9,700 at June-end. But compares poorly with other big states. Delhi, with 46,387 TPM, tops the table, while Karnataka is in ninth place. An epidemiologist in the state Covid-19 task force said the government must now focus on reducing turnaround time at labs given increasing number of cases and deaths. BH Anil Kumar, who was replaced on Saturday as BBMP commissioner, had also admitted that labs, in some cases, take as many as 10 days to give results. Rakesh Sharma, CTO, Comofi Medtech, who along with other partners, is working on a mathematical model on testing, said: “Karnataka deserves congratulations on improved testing, but it must look at pooling samples as it will allow labs to test 500 samples in the time taken to now test 100. This will allow us to plan better.” Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka state Covid-19 task force, said Karnataka is not looking at sample pooling. “We did that in May when influx of returnees was significant. Now, if at all, we can do it in places where prevalence is less,” he said. Sharma, however, argued that pooling at this stage is not for areas, but labs. “If a particular lab has a prevelance of less than 15% pooling must be done there and not a lab with more than 20%. That’s what we’re suggesting,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/with-3-7-lakh-tests-in-july-ktaka-does-1-million-but-is-it-enough/articleshow/77057912.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka finally does 1 million Covid-19 tests. But is it enough?||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which tested 3.7 lakh samples in 19 days this month at a daily average of over 20,000 tests, on Sunday crossed the 1-million milestone. However, it compares poorly among the big states. On Sunday, the state tested 35,834 samples, of which 28,929 returned negative. Of tests on the day, 166,548 and 13,054 were tests done on CBNAAT, TrueNat and antigen, respectively. At the end of June, the cumulative tests done in the state were 6.2 lakh, also a significant improvement from May 31 when the total number was just 2.9 lakh. Of 3.7 lakh tests in July, 1.9 lakh came in the past week, while the first 12 days saw 1.8 lakh samples tested. The state, in fact, is testing better than the national average going by the tests per million (TPM) data. “There are 85 laboratories in the state and 25 more will be set up soon as we’re targeting 50,000 tests per day. Now, only a few states are ahead of us. The World Health Organisation recommends 140 tests per million per day and we’re doing more than 300 tests. We’ll procure 10 lakh antigen test kits,” medical education minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday. Karnataka’s TPM now is over 15,500 compared to about 9,700 at June-end. But compares poorly with other big states. Delhi, with 46,387 TPM, tops the table, while Karnataka is in ninth place. An epidemiologist in the state Covid-19 task force said the government must now focus on reducing turnaround time at labs given increasing number of cases and deaths. BH Anil Kumar, who was replaced on Saturday as BBMP commissioner, had also admitted that labs, in some cases, take as many as 10 days to give results. Rakesh Sharma, CTO, Comofi Medtech, who along with other partners, is working on a mathematical model on testing, said: “Karnataka deserves congratulations on improved testing, but it must look at pooling samples as it will allow labs to test 500 samples in the time taken to now test 100. This will allow us to plan better.” Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka state Covid-19 task force, said Karnataka is not looking at sample pooling. “We did that in May when influx of returnees was significant. Now, if at all, we can do it in places where prevalence is less,” he said. Sharma, however, argued that pooling at this stage is not for areas, but labs. “If a particular lab has a prevelance of less than 15% pooling must be done there and not a lab with more than 20%. That’s what we’re suggesting,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/with-3-7-lakh-tests-in-july-ktaka-does-1-million-but-is-it-enough/articleshow/77057911.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Madurai||VAO learns from brother’s death, offers free ambulance service to Covid patients||MADURAI: A village administrative officer (VAO) in Virudhunagar, has extended a helping hand to Covid patients by providing free ambulance service. The official’s altruistic act has been of great help for patients. D Prithiviraj, 35, the VAO of Kanchanayakkanpatti near Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district, says he has been into social service for a long time. ``I got this job on compassionate grounds, after my father Duraipandian, died while in service, nine years ago. But even before that I was an active social worker,’’ he said. He says that has been trying to do his bit for the society through blood donations and other social service activities for the past 15 years. Prithviraj says that it was his brother’s death after a fatal accident that made him determined to own an ambulance. ``We could not take him to hospital on time, as we were not able to get an ambulance. We also could not take his body home in time for the same reason. So I decided that an ambulance would be the first vehicle I would own, when I start earning,’’ he said. He also runs a charitable trust, Rajesh Uthavum Karangal Trust, in the name of his late brother. With his savings he was able to purchase an ambulance in 2018. The ambulance is being operated free of cost for pregnancies and for poor people. ``There are good Samaritans who are ready to bear the cost of the diesel,’’ said Prithiviraj. He said that the volunteers in his trust also give a decent burial for unclaimed dead bodies. Seventeen such bodies have been buried in the last three years, he added. On coming to know of his social service, a well-wisher in South Africa donated a second-hand four-bedded ambulance, this month. ``This was a God-send,” says Prithiviraj, as he had wanted to help Covid-19 patients but did not have an ambulance to spare as the one he owned was always on the run for pregnancies and other emergencies,’’ he said. Now, the new ambulance has started functioning from Saturday, to help people with Covid-19 reach hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vao-learns-from-brothers-death-offers-free-ambulance-service-to-covid-patients/articleshow/77056962.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka finally does 1 million Covid-19 tests. But is it enough?||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which tested 3.7 lakh samples in 19 days this month at a daily average of over 20,000 tests, on Sunday crossed the 1-million milestone. However, it compares poorly among the big states. On Sunday, the state tested 35,834 samples, of which 28,929 returned negative. Of tests on the day, 166,548 and 13,054 were tests done on CBNAAT, TrueNat and antigen, respectively. At the end of June, the cumulative tests done in the state were 6.2 lakh, also a significant improvement from May 31 when the total number was just 2.9 lakh. Of 3.7 lakh tests in July, 1.9 lakh came in the past week, while the first 12 days saw 1.8 lakh samples tested. The state, in fact, is testing better than the national average going by the tests per million (TPM) data. “There are 85 laboratories in the state and 25 more will be set up soon as we’re targeting 50,000 tests per day. Now, only a few states are ahead of us. The World Health Organisation recommends 140 tests per million per day and we’re doing more than 300 tests. We’ll procure 10 lakh antigen test kits,” medical education minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday. Karnataka’s TPM now is over 15,500 compared to about 9,700 at June-end. But compares poorly with other big states. Delhi, with 46,387 TPM, tops the table, while Karnataka is in ninth place. An epidemiologist in the state Covid-19 task force said the government must now focus on reducing turnaround time at labs given increasing number of cases and deaths. BH Anil Kumar, who was replaced on Saturday as BBMP commissioner, had also admitted that labs, in some cases, take as many as 10 days to give results. Rakesh Sharma, CTO, Comofi Medtech, who along with other partners, is working on a mathematical model on testing, said: “Karnataka deserves congratulations on improved testing, but it must look at pooling samples as it will allow labs to test 500 samples in the time taken to now test 100. This will allow us to plan better.” Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka state Covid-19 task force, said Karnataka is not looking at sample pooling. “We did that in May when influx of returnees was significant. Now, if at all, we can do it in places where prevalence is less,” he said. Sharma, however, argued that pooling at this stage is not for areas, but labs. “If a particular lab has a prevelance of less than 15% pooling must be done there and not a lab with more than 20%. That’s what we’re suggesting,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/with-3-7-lakh-tests-in-july-ktaka-does-1-million-but-is-it-enough/articleshow/77057913.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Jibanananda Setu load test ends today||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority-led (KMDA) load test of Jibanananda Setu to assess its structural condition will get completed by Monday. The bridge is scheduled to open for traffic on Tuesday morning. The bridge that connects Prince Anwar Shah Connector with Jadavpur police station crossing, has been kept closed since Friday night for load test and allied repair works. The authorities had recently started repair work of a subsidence on the Kolkata-bound flank of Durgapur bridge, which connects Ultadanga with VIP Road. KMDA is also taking up some minor patchwork on the road surface of Sealdah flyover and Aurobindo Setu. NKDA also plans to cover up potholes on the carriageway of Ultadanga flyover using cold mix. Officials said they want to complete these relatively minor work before taking up major repair and strengthening work of four flyovers, Ultadanga flyover, Baghajatin ROB, Chinrighata flyover and Kalighat Setu on priority basis from next month onwards. The authorities are also preparing tender documents for the repair work. After Jibanananda setu, the next bridges that would be lined up for load test would be Durgapur bridge at Alipore, followed by Ambedkar bridge and Dhakuria bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jibanananda-setu-load-test-ends-today/articleshow/77056585.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Many inside hotspots await tests||Aurangabad: The local civic body has decided to implement the mandatory antigen tests for traders and different vendors. This, when most people living in the containment zones are still waiting for Covid-19 tests. While 27 testing points and 15 mobile units have been constituted to cover different groups, many citizens in the containment zones remain outside the cover. A senior citizen from a containment zone said the civic body must arrange for a door-to-door testing facility in the hotspots. “A testing camp was held, but it was far from our home. Fearing that there would be crowding and we may be exposed risk of infection, we did not go,” said a homemaker from the N-11 sector. A senior competent authority responsible for the management of containment zones, said the testing camps were de-centralised in adequate numbers as per geographical spread. “The testing teams wear PPE suits and carry testing kits. It is not possible for them to visit each house,” he said, adding that satisfactory testing is being done in the zones.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/many-inside-hotspots-await-tests/articleshow/77055034.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Madurai||Aadi Amavasai fest in Dindigul temple to be held without devotees||MADURAI: Aadi Amavasai festival, one of the most celebrated festivals in the Sadaiyandi temple in Athoor in Dindigul, will be celebrated without the devotees this year. This decision was taken after a peace committee meeting held on Saturday. Thousands of devotees visit the ancient temple every year for the Aadi Amavasai festival, as it is the family deity for many. This year, it was announced by the temple that devotees would not be allowed into the temple, due to the Covid-19 crisis. Maintaining social distancing at this this festival would be impossible, sources said. However, the temple’s announcement was opposed by the people, following which a peace committee meeting, headed by the Athoor tahsildar Pavithra, was held in the Athoor union office. Executive officer of the temple Ganapathy Murugan, Sempatti police inspector Rajendran and village committee members from Akkarapatti, Malaiyapuram, and village administrative officers from the neighbouring villages participated. After much convincing, the people agreed to allow the rituals to be conducted in their absence in the temple. It was decided to barricade the main entrance to the temple to prevent people from entering the temple and place flex boards announcing the decision at important roads. However, the rituals would be performed, the temple’s executive officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aadi-amavasai-fest-in-dindigul-temple-to-be-held-without-devotees/articleshow/77056959.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka finally does 1 million Covid-19 tests. But is it enough?||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which tested 3.7 lakh samples in 19 days this month at a daily average of over 20,000 tests, on Sunday crossed the 1-million milestone. However, it compares poorly among the big states. On Sunday, the state tested 35,834 samples, of which 28,929 returned negative. Of tests on the day, 166,548 and 13,054 were tests done on CBNAAT, TrueNat and antigen, respectively. At the end of June, the cumulative tests done in the state were 6.2 lakh, also a significant improvement from May 31 when the total number was just 2.9 lakh. Of 3.7 lakh tests in July, 1.9 lakh came in the past week, while the first 12 days saw 1.8 lakh samples tested. The state, in fact, is testing better than the national average going by the tests per million (TPM) data. “There are 85 laboratories in the state and 25 more will be set up soon as we’re targeting 50,000 tests per day. Now, only a few states are ahead of us. The World Health Organisation recommends 140 tests per million per day and we’re doing more than 300 tests. We’ll procure 10 lakh antigen test kits,” medical education minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday. Karnataka’s TPM now is over 15,500 compared to about 9,700 at June-end. But compares poorly with other big states. Delhi, with 46,387 TPM, tops the table, while Karnataka is in ninth place. An epidemiologist in the state Covid-19 task force said the government must now focus on reducing turnaround time at labs given increasing number of cases and deaths. BH Anil Kumar, who was replaced on Saturday as BBMP commissioner, had also admitted that labs, in some cases, take as many as 10 days to give results. Rakesh Sharma, CTO, Comofi Medtech, who along with other partners, is working on a mathematical model on testing, said: “Karnataka deserves congratulations on improved testing, but it must look at pooling samples as it will allow labs to test 500 samples in the time taken to now test 100. This will allow us to plan better.” Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka state Covid-19 task force, said Karnataka is not looking at sample pooling. “We did that in May when influx of returnees was significant. Now, if at all, we can do it in places where prevalence is less,” he said. Sharma, however, argued that pooling at this stage is not for areas, but labs. “If a particular lab has a prevelance of less than 15% pooling must be done there and not a lab with more than 20%. That’s what we’re suggesting,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-3-7-lakh-tests-in-july-ktaka-does-1-million-but-is-it-enough/articleshow/77055895.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Chennai||TN: Food caterers struggle to keep home kitchen fires burning||CHENNAI: A Radhakrishnan used to earn a livelihood by supplying food for about 300 people everyday before the lockdown, now the food caterer of Annachi Mess is struggling to feed his family. The likes of him and nearly 20 other caterers, who are members of South India Cine Artistes’ Catering Workers Union, are now staring at a life of uncertainty. It has been more than four months since all film shootings were cancelled due to the lockdown announced to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Catering is one of the 24 crafts that form part of the Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI). “Even though there are 20 caterers, only around 10 of us were active and used to get regular work. Prior to lockdown, at least 15-20 film shootings and 10-15 shootings for television serials used to happen in and around the city every day,” said Radhakrishnan, president of the Catering Workers’ Union, popularly known as ‘Nalabagam Union’. These caterers together employed around 170-180 workers, all members of the union, besides 300 non-members. While shooting for a television serial would involve around 40-60 people on an average, the number of people involved in a film shooting would be anywhere from 70-80 for small films and 500-1,000 for big banners. While one set of caterers used to service food for shootings in and around Chennai, others used to focus on outdoor shootings. “Ours is more an unorganised industry. When the going was good, we used to earn and settle wages the same day. With all work halted for four months, we have nothing left with us and no one is even willing to lend us money to buy provisions,” says Kannan Kathirvel of Kannan Mess. Even though shootings for television serials have resumed, most of them have resorted to buying food packets from nearby hotels. “We know no other trade. With marriage halls and regular restaurants too shut, we cannot seek work anywhere,” Kannan said. While FEFSI as well as state government (as part of dole for unorganised sector labour) gave Rs1,000 each, the federation also distributed dry ration. That was hardly enough to last such a long period. “Even during the film industry strike, we lived in the hope that it will end soon and got back to work. But now there is only uncertainty,” Radhakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/food-caterers-struggle-to-keep-home-kitchen-fires-burning/articleshow/77057293.cms||D Govardan
July 20, 2020||Nashik||More than 1,000 patients recover in Ahmednagar||Nashik: The total number of recovered Covid-19 patients has crossed the 1,000-mark in Ahmednagar distrirct with 105 patients discharged from various hospitals on Sunday. With this, the total number of patients discharged went up to 1,025. So far, 1,578 people have contracted the infection and 38 have succumbed. Ahmednagar was the first district in the Nashik divisional commissionarate to report Covid-19 cases way back in mid-March. However, unlike other districts including Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon, Ahmednagar did not have large number of cases. According to district officials, Ahmednagar city and Sangamner are the two major Covid-19 hotspots in the district reporting the bulk of new cases. Pathardi taluka of the district, too has been registering quite a few cases off late. “Our teams are constantly working to trace the high-risk contacts of the positive patients and are conducting swab tests. This is helping us treat the positive patients early,” said officials. Covid +ve doctor succumbs to infection A doctor from Nevasa taluka, who had tested positive for Covid-19, passed away at a private hospital on Sunday. Local government officials said the doctor was not involved in treating Covid patients. “Somehow he got infected with the virus. A couple of days back, he had consulted another doctor who asked him to visit the civil hospital in Ahmednagar city as he suspected it to be a case of Covid. But, the doctor got himself tested at a private lab, the reports of which arrived on Saturday. He was admitted to a local private hospital and was undergoing treatment. We were informed by the lab authorities about the doctor testing positive,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-than-1000-patients-recover-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/77055038.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||Only EC or guv can verify teachers’ documents: LUTA||Lucknow: After opposition from the Lucknow University Associated College Teachers’ Association (LUACTA) against the government decision of document verification of teachers of university and colleges, LU Teachers’ Association also raised their objection to the move on Sunday. The government had ordered a probe into the recruitment of all teachers of higher education after the case of Anamika Shukla, a teacher of basic, who was found to be employed in 25 schools and had earned a salary of Rs 1 crore in just 13 months, had surfaced. The government made a team of teachers to probe appointments in universities and colleges. The Lucknow University Teachers’ Association (LUTA) wrote to vice-chancellor Prof AK Rai requesting him to communicate to the government that the university is an autonomous body and only its apex body — executive council or chancellor — can verify teachers’ documents and probe whether their appointment is right or not. “We are not against the probe or verification of teachers’ documents, but it should be done through a proper channel,” said LUTA president Vineet Verma. Recently, LUACTA had also opposed the move appealing to all teachers of 176 colleges associated with LU not to go to colleges for document verification. “We have two major objections. One, in the time of Covid, teachers are asked to report to the district administration in some districts or come to college. Two, the team made by the government has people who are much junior to many serving professors. It’s humiliating that a professor who is a vice-chancellor or a senior is probed by a junior,” LUACTA president Manoj Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/only-ec-or-guv-can-verify-teachers-documents-luta/articleshow/77056978.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||‘Fix accountability for sub-standard work’||Panaji: With pictures of potholes on Atal Setu being shared on social media, Congress said it is clear from the low quality of work that the bridge was hurriedly inaugurated. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat demanded that the government fix responsibility and accountability for the sub-standard work. “The government must declare the actual expenditure , with exact dates of when the bridge will be fully operationalfor vehicular traffic movement on all the side arms of the bridge,” he said. State Congress president Girish Chodankar demanded that Union minister Nitin Gadkari take note of the potholes on Atal Setu. “The present condition of the third Mandovi bridge named as Atal Setu exposes the fact that the josh of hurriedly inaugurating the bridge was not in proper hosh,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fix-accountability-for-sub-standard-work/articleshow/77057132.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Trichy||1,411 new cases, 20 deaths in south Tamil Nadu, 333 fresh cases in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 1,411 fresh Covid-19 cases, which include 1,399 local cases, were reported in the 10 southern districts of the state on Sunday. With this, the total cases in the region have climbed to 29,175 of which 14,851 (50.9%) are active cases. A total of 13,958 people (47.8%) have recovered from the disease so far. Meanwhile, the Central region of the state has recorded 333 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 6,876. As per the bulletin, the total number of deaths as on Sunday was 73 with Trichy recording one casuality. Twenty deaths were reported in the southern region on Sunday, taking the toll to 366. This is 14.8% of the 2,481 deaths in the state. The average death rate in the South is 1.3%, which is less than the state’s death rate of 1.5%. The 20 deaths on Sunday were recorded in Madurai (8), Dindigul (3), Kanyakumari (3), Theni (2), Ramanathapuram (1), Tuticorin (1) and Virudhunagar (1). All of them had various co-morbid conditions. The eight deaths in Madurai, including five at private hospitals and three at Government Rajaji Hospital, took the total deaths in the district to 155. The deaths also included a 22-year-old man from Madurai with chronic kidney disease. Virudhunagar (265) and Madurai (206) recorded more than 200 cases on Sunday. Madurai has the 4th highest number of total cases, 3rd highest active cases and the 4th highest deaths in the state. The 206 cases on Sunday in Madurai included 76 Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 90 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 11 frontline workers, six pregnant women, and 21 others who underwent self-testing or testing before undergoing a medical procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1411-new-cases-20-deaths-in-south-tn-333-fresh-cases-in-central-dists/articleshow/77062484.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolhapur||176 fresh cases & 7 deaths in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The district has reported 176 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven deaths due to the infection on Sunday, taking the total the number of cases to 2,276 and the death toll to 53. This is the highest number of Covid deaths recorded in a single day so far in the district. There are 1,224 active cases. Of the fresh cases, 22 are reported in Kolhapur city. One of the Covid patients had returned from Hyderabad in a flight. His mother also tested positive for Covid-19. ZP employee tests positive Senior office bearer of Kolhapur Zilla Parishad has tested positive for coronavirus. He had earlier tested negative after one of the ZP staffer tested Covid positive. But later he tested positive. According to the officials, the senior office bearer had come in contact with a large number of people due to his presence in several functions. The health officials have asked the people who came in contact to home quarantine themselves for 14 days.  Sangli reports 63 cases Sangli district has reported 63 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday with five casualties due to Covid-19. The total number of cases has reached 1,013 with the 33 deaths so far. Sangli and Miraj cities have reported 25 and 15 Covid-19 cases, respectively so far. 85 cases in Satara district Satara has reported 85 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday till 6pm. A 90-year-old patient from Khandala died while undergoing treatment. Solapur rural reports 260 Rural Solapur reported 260 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 1,823. The death toll rose to 44 with one death on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/176-fresh-cases-7-deaths-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77055051.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Four years on, Sabarmati jail still in 4G jam||AHMEDABAD: Eight year after installing cellphone jammers at the Ahmedabad Sabarmati Central Jail, the authorities had decided in 2016 to set up 4G jammers in the jail. However, four years on, even with the allotment of a Rs 2-3 crore budget, 4G jammers are yet to be put up in the jail. In 2016 the additional DGP, jails, at the time T S Bisht, had said that with the advent of 4G it had become imperative to install appropriate jammers in the jail. He had said that the jammers in use in the jail then were incapable of blocking 4G signals. The need for advanced jammers was highlighted by the case involving the UP gangster Vishal Goswami. He and his gang members became the first people to be charged under the GCTOC (Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime) Act in January 2020. They were charged after it was discovered that they ran an extortion racket from within the Sabarmati jail premises. “At the time two android phones, one basic phone, sim cards, and a notebook containing the names of extortion targets were found in the jail,” a police official said. “This makes the installation of 4G jammers a top priority.” To stop the illegal use of phones in the jail, a team of the special operations group (SOG) was deployed. It periodically conducts search operations in the jail. “On average every year, 35 cellphones including smartphones are either recovered from the inmates or found abandoned in the jail,” said an SOG official. The current additional DGP, jails, K L N Rao said the project to install 4G jammers is in the pipeline. “A survey has been conducted already. We have to upgrade and raise the height of other jammers in the jail,” he said. “But due to the Covid-19 crisis, the work has been stalled temporarily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-years-on-sabarmati-jail-still-in-4g-jam/articleshow/77055911.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
July 20, 2020||Madurai||MKU starts issuing applications for PG courses||MADURAI: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has started issuing applications for post graduate (PG) courses for the academic year 2020-2021 and has received 2,000 applications so far. However, the last date for applying is yet to be fixed. “We have already started advertising for PG admissions and started receiving applications. We consider only the marks for five semesters so final year exams not being completed is also not an issue. But, only when we fix the last date for applying, admissions can begin,” said MKU vice chancellor Dr M Krishnan. The VC added that a date is likely to be decided upon and fixed in the next couple of days. Further, on Sunday, registration for the common entrance test for M Phil and Ph.D courses for the academic year 2020-2021 was opened online on the official website of MKU. Interested candidates can register for the exam with their name, mobile number and email ID. MKU constituent colleges, meanwhile, are set to start issuing applications for UG courses for the next academic year from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-starts-issuing-applications-for-pg-courses/articleshow/77056970.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Madurai||More discharges than active cases in Madurai dist of late||MADURAI: In the last four days, Madurai district has been witnessing more Covid-19 patients being discharged than active cases, say official data. However, with relaxations in lockdown, officials remain vigilant over the possibility of a rise again. On Sunday, the total Covid-19 cases in the district stood at 8,251 cases, including 155 deaths. Monitoring officer for Madurai district B Chandramohan said the district has been testing 4,000 people a day. On Saturday, results came for nearly 3,200 samples of which 185 (5.8%) were positive. On Sunday, results were obtained for nearly 4,000 samples, of which 206 (5.1%) were positive. The backlog for which results are awaited is about 4,000, which is equal to the number of samples collected in a day, he said. “There could be a spike in cases when results for these samples in addition to a day’s samples are declared. It could take a couple of days to obtain results for the pending samples,” Chandramohan said. At the same time, since July 15, active Covid-19 cases in Madurai have been less than discharged cases. As of Sunday, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Madurai was 3,273 and discharged was 4,823. Chandramohan added that there is less than 50% occupancy in the Covid-19 facilities in the district. “This is a good sign,” he said, adding that the occupancy rate could go down soon. Further, there has also been a small change in the spread of cases reported. Between July 1-10, cases in Madurai comprised 51% Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases without direct contact or travel history including those from fever screening, 26% contact cases and 11% frontline workers. However, during the past week, since July 11, the percentage of ILI cases has come down to 40% whereas 44% are through contacts and 5% were frontline workers. The remaining 7% were those who underwent self-testing or were set to undergo medical procedures. Health officials in Madurai district said efforts to set up fever clinics and intensifying targeted testing across the district during lockdown have helped in stabilising the spurt in cases. “Things have stabilised but we cannot let our guard down as in no way we are seeing a declining trend. As we expect increase in movement due to relaxations in lockdown, the public is urged to follow all precautions,” said a senior district health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-discharges-than-active-cases-in-madurai-dist-of-late/articleshow/77056963.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 20, 2020||Madurai||1,411 new cases, 20 deaths in south Tamil Nadu, 333 fresh cases in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 1,411 fresh Covid-19 cases, which include 1,399 local cases, were reported in the 10 southern districts of the state on Sunday. With this, the total cases in the region have climbed to 29,175 of which 14,851 (50.9%) are active cases. A total of 13,958 people (47.8%) have recovered from the disease so far. Meanwhile, the Central region of the state has recorded 333 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 6,876. As per the bulletin, the total number of deaths as on Sunday was 73 with Trichy recording one casuality. Twenty deaths were reported in the southern region on Sunday, taking the toll to 366. This is 14.8% of the 2,481 deaths in the state. The average death rate in the South is 1.3%, which is less than the state’s death rate of 1.5%. The 20 deaths on Sunday were recorded in Madurai (8), Dindigul (3), Kanyakumari (3), Theni (2), Ramanathapuram (1), Tuticorin (1) and Virudhunagar (1). All of them had various co-morbid conditions. The eight deaths in Madurai, including five at private hospitals and three at Government Rajaji Hospital, took the total deaths in the district to 155. The deaths also included a 22-year-old man from Madurai with chronic kidney disease. Virudhunagar (265) and Madurai (206) recorded more than 200 cases on Sunday. Madurai has the 4th highest number of total cases, 3rd highest active cases and the 4th highest deaths in the state. The 206 cases on Sunday in Madurai included 76 Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 90 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 11 frontline workers, six pregnant women, and 21 others who underwent self-testing or testing before undergoing a medical procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1411-new-cases-20-deaths-in-south-tn-333-fresh-cases-in-central-dists/articleshow/77056974.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat reports record 965 Covid cases in a day||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat recorded yet another high daily tally with 965 cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Sunday, taking the state's caseload to 48,441. It's the state's seventh consecutive day of 900-plus cases and 17th highest daily tally in July. The state also recorded deaths of 20 Covid-19 patients in 24 hours, taking the death toll to 2,147. It was the state's highest daily death toll in the past fortnight. The new cases included 285 from Surat, 212 from Ahmedabad, 79 from Vadodara and 49 from Rajkot. The deaths included nine from Surat, six from Ahmedabad, two from Dahod and one each from Bhavnagar, Gir Somnath and Jamnagar. With the update, the state now has 11,412 active cases, which are 23.6% of total cases. The share of discharged and deceased patients in total tally is 72% and 4.4%. Analysis of the cases of the past one week reveals that it was the highest ever weekly tally for the state with addition of 6,535 cases - at an average of 933 cases daily. Share of the regions in the weekly tally was - Kutch 1.3%, north Gujarat 9.3%, central-east Gujarat 34%, Saurashtra 20.4% and south Gujarat 35%. About 4L in Guj in quarantineComparedtolastweek’s102 deaths, this week recorded 100 whereas overall 13% rise in cases was recorded. The highest rise in cases was recordedin Saurashtra –from 17% share in overall tally to 20%, whereas south Gujarat increased its share in weekly deaths from 32.3% to 46% this week. A total of 877 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 34,882. The discharges include 207 from Surat, 167 from Ahmedabad, 161 from Bhavnagar and 160 from Vadodara Gujarat carried out12,323 tests in the past 24 hours to find new Covid-19 positive patients, taking the total to 5.36 lakh. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat has 3.96 lakh persons under quarantine,including 3.94lakhunder home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-reports-record-965-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77057296.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Coronavirus patient collapses on road, body left unattended||VIJAYAWADA: A 63-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 collapsed and died while he was trying to reach a hospital in an autorickshaw at Sattenapalli in Guntur district on Sunday. His body was left unattended on the road for more than two hours as his family members were scared of contracting the virus. According to Sattenapalli town inspector, S Vijay Chandra, the man went for a test on Saturday and was declared positive on Sunday. The man hired an auto to go to a private hospital but as soon as he boarded the auto he collapsed and died. It was then the auto driver came to know the man was Covid-19 positive from his family. He moved the body from his auto and left the scene. The family members and other relatives left the body in the middle of the road. Later, police reached the spot and informed municipal authorities for assistance to shift the body. The SI said it took some time for sanitation workers to reach the spot with all safety precautions to shift the body. As it was already known that he was a patient, the family members and others cannot go near the body as they might as well contract the virus. The sanitation workers with proper safety gear shifted the body to the burial ground to perform last rites. In Nellore, a Covid-19 positive woman was forced to wait outside her rented house as the landlord denied her entry with her husband admitted in a hospital. She was turned away from the hospital since according to hospital authorities they did not have enough beds. Her mother-in-law (85) also prevented her from entering the home. The woman was sitting in front of the house for the last three days. She said one of her children lives in Bangalore and other one in Hyderabad. They could not come due to restrictions, she said and pleaded with the officials to admit her in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/coronavirus-patient-collapses-on-road-body-left-unattended/articleshow/77055930.cms||Srikanth Aluri
July 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur citizens stock up on groceries and fuel||KOLHAPUR: People across Kolhapur stepped out of their homes in large numbers to buy groceries, fuel and other essential supplies a day before the seven-day lockdown was to be enforced across the district . On Sunday, due to panic buying, the fuel stations ran dry and prices of essentials and groceries went up drastically. Tomatoes that earlier were priced at Rs 40 per kg, were sold for Rs 70 per kg on Sunday. Also, those who wanted to by non-vegetarian food were left disappointed as the stock got over in no time. Rashmi Chaugule, a resident of Kadamwadi, said, “I have never seen tomatoe prices rise so much in Kolhapur. Leafy vegetables were also unavailable. The market here had only radish and potatoes.” Long queues outside grocery stores were also seen across Kolhapur. Many stores, including ration shops, closed by the evening as the available stock had sold out. With so much happening, the laid norms like maintaining physical distancing went for a toss. As per district collector Daulat Desai’s order, during lockdown, petrol and diesel will be made available to government and emergency medical vehicles and not to any private vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-citizens-stock-up-on-groceries-fuel/articleshow/77055074.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Jamia violence: Local politician gets bail in two cases||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has granted bail to local politician Ashu Khan in two cases related to Jamia violence that took place in December 2019. The court observed that the investigation in these cases was complete and “no useful purpose would be served” if he continued to remain in jail. “Chargesheet has been filed and other four accused persons have been enlarged on bail, the applicant/accused has been in judicial custody since April 4, 2020 and he is no longer required for further custodial interrogation. Therefore, on the ground of parity... case for bail is made out,” said additional district judge Lalit Kumar. Advocate Asghar Khan, who sought bail for Khan, submitted that his client had nothing to do with the alleged incident. He further argued that Khan had been in custody since April 4, 2020 and as a result his family was facing great hardship. It was also argued that no recovery was made from the accused’s possession besides the investigation had already culminated in a chargesheet. Khan’s bail was also sought on the ground of parity as it was asserted that other accused had been granted bail. Additional public prosecutor Abdul Ansari opposed the bail plea arguing that Khan was an “active member of an unlawful assembly” that hurled stones and brickbats at vehicles, damaging public and private property. The prosecutor was apprehensive about Khan jumping bail if released on bail. The prosecutor added that Khan was involved in four other cases, while admitting that he was no longer required for custodial interrogation. Khan was later directed to furnish a personal bond of Rs 25,000 with one surety besides being ordered not to influence or threaten anyone privy to the case or tamper with evidence. The two FIRs against Khan were registered for alleged offences of unlawful assembly, rioting and criminal conspiracy among others after violence erupted in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-violence-local-politician-gets-bail-in-two-cases/articleshow/77056612.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Agra||Agra’s Ambedkar bridge needs urgent repair again||AGRA: For want of urgent repair, Agra's strategically located Ambedkar bridge has been hanging precariously across the Yamuna posing a serious safety threat to commuters who use it daily. The extent of the damage is such that a 10 cm gap has surfaced between the joints, apart from several potholes on the structure. The lanter is also exposed at various places. And the bridge's condition has only worsened after the recent rainfall. Tourists often use this bridge to visit the Taj Mahal and the city's other historical monuments, and at least 15,000 vehicles cross over every day. The bridge that was constructed only 12 years ago and has witnessed many repairs also connects the Yamuna Expressway with the city. The vehicles heading towards Gwalior Road use it too. “The bridge is in a dilapidated condition and can cause a major accident any moment. It needs proper repair urgently. The 12-year-old bridge has been repaired several times in the past. However, the quality of work remains substandard," Vimal Verma, a local resident, said. Heavy vehicles are prohibited on Ambedkar bridge from 6am to 9pm. But, locals alleged that even overloaded heavy vehicles are sometimes allowed to pass during the no-entry period. “Our plan to repair Ambedkar bridge was delayed due to lockdown. All the damages on the bridge will be repaired in a time-bound manner after getting permission for traffic diversion from police. Regular movement of heavy vehicles is the main reason behind the repeated damages on this bridge," Dinesh Kumar Gupta, chief project manager of Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation Limited (UPSBCL) for Agra zone, said on Sunday. The Ambedkar bridge was built during Mayawati's rule. On October 9, 2008, the then chief minister had laid its foundation stone. Two years later, vehicles were allowed to cross over the Rs 30 crore structure. And within a year, it developed its first major crack for which the UPSBCL had to close it for seven days. In 2016, a large portion of the bridge collapsed, and it was again shut for 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agras-ambedkar-bridge-needs-urgent-repair-again/articleshow/77055067.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 20, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Accident victims being counted as coronavirus deaths||BELAGAVI: Tests on swab samples of people dying in road accidents and of snakebite in many North Karnataka districts are showing up positive for Covid-19, an indication that not enough tests are being conducted and, possibly, the virus is now in community transmission. Bizarrely though, these deaths are being attributed to the virus and are being counted as Covid-19 deaths by the health department although these people are dying on non-Covid causes. Swab samples are being taken and tested as a matter of protocol. Until Sunday morning, Bidar had 54 deaths chalked up against the pandemic, but at least three died in road accidents and one of snakebite. All four were brought dead to Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences (BRIMS). Tests on their samples showed the presence of the virus. The health department, however, listed these deaths under Covid, resulting in the tally of Covid-19 deaths in the state being inflated. Bidar district health officer (DHO) VG Reddy admitted at least 10 deaths were not due to the virus. “Since RT-PCR tests on swab samples taken from these victims show the presence of SARS-Cov-2, they are being categorized as Covid deaths,” Reddy said. “The virus appears to be in the community which is why bodies are showing presence of the virus.” B Devanand, director of Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Ballari, said an accident patient admitted to VIMS a few days ago, tested positive for the virus. He said the test was conducted to rule out infection as surgery had to be conducted. He went on to say other patients visiting the hospital for consults on different ailments are also testing positive. “We conduct tests on the dead to contain the spread and as a safety measure,” Devanand said. “Since brought dead cases are turning up positive, deaths are more in absolute numbers,” he said. Ballari has reported 57 Covid-19 deaths so far. Belagavi DHO Shashikanth Muniyal said in his district too, which has seen 24 Covid deaths, there are instances of people being brought dead – they died due to non-Covid reasons – testing positive. While he did not divulge the exact number, Muniyal suggested there may be five to eight such cases in the district. “Anyone dying with the presence of virus is being categorized as a Covid death,” he said. Dr Chakrapani M, a Mangaluru-based general physician, said in Dakshina Kannada (DK) a patient died a week ago due to gangrene, but his death was recorded as a Covid-19 fatality. “The administration in the state should understand that there is a difference between people dying due to the virus and people dying with the virus,” Chakrapani said. He said the death audit which happens in every district should bifurcate such cases to obtain a true picture of deaths caused by the virus. So far, a total of 60 deaths have been attribute to the virus in DK district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/accident-snakebite-victims-being-counted-as-virus-deaths/articleshow/77055923.cms||Shreyas HS
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||New Town Kolkata Development Authority plans FASTag for parking fee collection||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is planning to introduce FASTag system for paying fees in the paid parking zones in New Town. The authorities recently held a video conference with representatives of National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) to discuss on the issue. Presently, NKDA is operating about 10 paid parking zones in New Town such as the ones near Tata Medical Centre, Eco Park and at shopping malls. The authorities, on an average, collect about Rs 20,000 per day from parking fees before the Covid outbreak broke out and the lockdown was enforced. Officials said they had been planning for a quick and easy method of collecting parking fees without any human contact. “The concept of toll collection on the road and parking fee collection in the parking lots are similar. The advantage with a FASTag-registered vehicle is it can just drive into the fee parking zone without stopping at the entry kiosk,” said an NKDA official. Officials said they have just explored the idea with the FASTag authorities and it would take some time to get the necessary technology and the right apps before the system could be introduced. Officials said that as per the concept, the tag would work the same way as it presently works in the toll plaza gates on the national highways. “The only difference would be that instead of the toll gate, the vehicle’s FASTag would be debited at the exit gate of the parking lots and only the time of entry of a car would be scanned while it passes the entry gate,” said an official. “We are exploring the concept of contactless payment in New Town and hoping to be one of the firsts in the country to execute this system for collecting parking fees by the end of this year,” an official said. Earlier, the authorities worked on having sensor-based parking apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nkda-plans-fastag-for-parking-fee-collection/articleshow/77056602.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana got 431 Covid-19 cases per day after unlocking||CHANDIGARH: In the last around 48 days of announcing Unlock 1.0, commencing from June 8, when almost every sector was opened up to revive the economy that suffered massive losses in the initial three months of Covid-19 pandemic, Haryana seems to have become worst suffering state in the region. The state has received 20,693 cases of people infected with the coronavirus between June 8 and July 18. That makes it 431 cases per day on an average. A total of 4,845 cases were recorded in the state till June 8. But the figure reached 25,547 till Saturday evening. As far as deaths are concerned, the state lost 316 persons during this period. Prior to that, from March 15 — when recording of the cases related to Covid-19 started in Haryana — till June 7, about 4,448 cases were reported in the state in 84 days, with an average of around 53 cases every day. As far as recoveries are concerned, 1,474 persons recovered in the state till June 7. However, post Unlock 1.0, from June 8 till Saturday, the total recoveries in the state reached 19,318 cases. In the last 48 days, during the Unlock 1.0 period, a total of 17,844 persons have recovered Till June 7, 28 persons had died due to Covid-19. The death toll reached 344 till Saturday. While 1,45,722 were tested by the state till June 7, the total number of tests in Haryana reached 4,36,535 till Saturday. It means, a total of 2,90,813 tests were conducted in Haryana since Unlock 1.0.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-got-431-cases-per-day-after-unlocking/articleshow/77056617.cms||Ajay Sura
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Higher tariff revocation to reduce power rate: Gujarat government||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government's move to cancel its December 2018 Government Resolution (GR), which allowed higher tariffs to Adani Power, Tata Power and Essar Power, and issuance of new guidelines will reduce power tariff for supplemental power purchase agreement (PPA) currently under implementation, the state government claimed on Sunday. Stating that the revocation of the GR was 'in the interest of consumers', the state government claimed the new guidelines issued last month post cancellation of the GR are expected to bring electricity tariff by around 30 paise per unit for supplemental PPA. "The reduction is noteworthy as compared to the tariff under GR dated December 1, 2018," the government said in a statement. The new guidelines take into consideration the change in Indonesian coal price trend post 2018 and have now included other reputed coal market indexes for computation of coal prices. "This will ensure procurement of coal by project developers in competitive manner at the lowest possible rates and the benefit of reduced coal price would be passed on to the consumers from time to time," the state government said in statement issued on Sunday. Several modifications suggested by the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) while approving the supplemental power purchase agreement (PPA) with Essar Power Gujarat Limited (EPGL) have also been incorporated into new guidelines. New order to reduce power tariff: GovtThese modifications, aimed at ensuring superior operational parameters by the project developers, include disallowance of transit loss and other charges (at 3%), reduction in ceiling of Indonesian index for coal price from USD 110/metric tonne to USD 90/metric tonne for allowing higher tariff and review of ceiling price to be done only after GERC approval. “Under this new mechanism, project developers are required to procure coal in prudent and transparent manner through competitive bidding which will enable reduction in tariff and the consumers of the state would be benefited through availability of power at reasonable rates for balance PPA tenure of around 15 years,” the government said. The cancelled order pertained to three imported coal based power projects located in the state of Gujarat for which earlier four PPAs were executed.Supplemental PPA with Tata Power’s Coastal Gujarat Power Limited has not been signed due to lack of consensus amongst other procurer states. In case of Essar Power Gujarat Limited, GERC has approved the supplemental PPA with certain modifications which has been challenged by Essar before the appellate tribunal and thus Supplemental PPA has not materialized. “As regard to supplemental PPA with Adani Power, GUVNL has filed a recall petition before Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) as Adani has violated the fundamental condition of GR dated December 1, 2018 regarding absorption of past losses by project developers, which is subjudice. Therefore, none of the project developers are entitled to avail benefit under GR dated December 1, 2018,” the state government added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/higher-tariff-revocation-to-reduce-power-rate-gujarat-government/articleshow/77057299.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Spiralling situation: In Punjab, 40% corona cases, 38% fatalities reported in just 17 days||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 is spreading fast in Punjab, with the state reporting over 40% of its total positive cases in the last 17 days. Much to the dismay of health experts, this period has also accounted for about 38% of the total deaths. As the number of positive cases as well as deaths spiral, the state government is struggling to control the situation. Punjab reported its first Covid-19 case on March 1 and it took 37 days to touch the 100 figure mark. Over the next 30 days, 1,064 cases were reported, followed by 964 cases and 4,141 cases in the subsequent periods. After May 30, the state government started lifting restrictions gradually, allowing industrial activities, free movement of individuals, inter-state and intra-state travel and domestic air travel. The government also allowed opening of malls, restaurants, hotels and religious places, subject to conditions. However, with the easing of restrictions from June 1 came a cascade of fresh cases, 7,179 in all, and 194 deaths across the state. This translated into over 197 cases and more than five deaths on an average per day. The daily number of new cases rarely fell below 100 after June 1. A large number of people returning from other states have tested positive. According to the health department, 2.34 lakh people entered Punjab after relaxations, of whom 75,148 (32%) tested positive for Covid-19. So far, 1,353 travellers have tested positive, accounting for over 14% of the total cases. Last week, the government imposed stringent curbs in the state, including restrictions on social, public and family gatherings. Wearing of masks at all times, even while working, was made mandatory but no decision has been taken on extension of lockdown, which is enforced only on Sundays as of now. Despite repeated appeals and sustained awareness drives, the state government finds it difficult to make people follow guidelines and take precautions like wearing masks and maintaining proper distance. On June 11, an irate Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh posted a message on a social media platform, saying, “I feel sad that we need to fine our people for not wearing masks & not observing other precautions against #Covid19. Govt alone cannot win the fight against #Covid19. I seek support of all. Don’t take any flu-like symptom lightly and see your doctor immediately.” Punjab Police, on an average, is challaning about 4,000 people every day for not wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and spitting in public places. Most of the cases are being reported from big districts with large urban population and extensive public movement. A total of 5,964 cases out of 9,442 (63%) and 168 out of 239 (70%) are from five districts, including the industrial town of Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur. Out of 150 high priority zones identified by the health department, 113 fall in these five districts. There are only two districts, Mansa and Barnala, where the number of cases is below 100 while in 15 districts, the count is below 500. In the last one month, there has been an increase in the number of infected patients requiring oxygen and ventilator support, putting the already limited health infrastructure under stress. Health department data reveals that only three patients required oxygen support, while five were put on ventilators. However, during the period from June 1 to July 17, 110 patients required oxygen and 50 needed ventilator support. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar stated that the situation is under control and there is no need to panic. However, he reiterated the need for people to take precautions and follow government guidelines, failing which things could deteriorate fast. Dr Bhaskar also attributed increase in the number of cases to the high rate of testing in the state. The state government has been making earnest efforts to increase testing. Testing rate of the state stands at 14,204 tests per million population against the national average of 9,705 tests per million population. Punjab’s testing rate on March 16 was four tests per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spiralling-situation-in-punjab-40-corona-cases-38-fatalities-reported-in-just-17-days/articleshow/77056622.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 cases in Haryana breach 26,000-mark, 5 deaths take toll to 349||CHANDIGARH: A total of 617 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths in Haryana took the state’s count for the virus to 26,164 and 349 fatalities on Sunday. With 475 more patients recovering from the coronavirus, the total number of recoveries reached 19,793. Now, the recovery are is 76.65%. Haryana has 6,022 active cases, with 106 of these patients being in a critical condition. NCR districts continued to dominate overall figures. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday cited the spike in cases to improved testing facilities in the state. “Testing is a major way to prevent the spread of this disease. Hence, cases might have swell in NCR. But, this has helped in detection of cases when there was no suspicion. At the same time, we have an impressive recovery rate. We are quite satisfied with the arrangement so far,’’ said Khattar. Khattar, however, maintained that strict adherence to social distancing and wearing masks were the most effective precautions. “We have identified pockets and converted them into micro-containment zones for the purpose of screening and testing,” he added. Gurgaon got 154 new cases and two deaths, taking the number of cases in the district to 7,748 patients and deaths to 116. Faridabad got 115 new patients and one death. Its tally rose to 6,465 patients and 110 deaths. Panipat emerged as a new hotspot with 72 new patients. Sonipat recorded fourth highest number of cases during the day with 42 new patients. Its tally has risen to 2,386 cases. Ambala got 40 new patients and one death. So far, it has reported 872 cases with nine deaths. There were 35 new cases in Hisar, 28 in Karnal, 26 in Jhajjar, 22 in Kurukshetra, 19 in Rohtak, 14 in Palwal, 13 in Mahendergarh, 12 in Nuh, seven each in Panchkula and Charkhi Dadri, five in Sirsa, two each in Yamuanangar and Kaithal, and one each in Jind and Fatehabad. Yamunnangar had one death as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-cases-in-haryana-breach-26k-mark-5-deaths-take-toll-to-349/articleshow/77056630.cms||Manvir Saini
July 20, 2020||Goa||More farmers take to growing turmeric, ICAR’s new unit eases processing work||Panaji: Not too long ago, a variety of plants boasting dual use - culinary and medicinal - such as turmeric, would be grown in abundance in the state. Then, like many others, the cultivation of turmeric significantly dwindled. This year, interestingly, an increasing number of farmers have opted to cultivate this golden root. “There is a huge demand for turmeric seed rhizomes,” director of ICAR-CCARI, EB Chakurkar said. Between May and June, the institute sold two tons of turmeric seed rhizomes, at Rs 80 per kg, to interested buyers. “Last year, we had to procure seed rhizomes from other states. Moreover, it took a lot of convincing to get farmers to plant them. This year, we managed to use the lockdown period to source the rhizomes locally and prepare them for distribution,” Chakurkar said. The Pratibha variety of turmeric is being cultivated on a large scale by the North Goa wing of Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA). In addition, 100 kg of the seed rhizomes have been given to the agriculture department for distribution among farmers. While the lockdown may have spurred many to grow their own food, thus pushing up demand, the establishment of Adding impetus is the turmeric processing unit set up at ICAR’s Old Goa premises, which has made it more convenient for farmers to get the roots processed and ground into powder. TOI had reported in January that the ICAR-CCARI will be taking up this initiative in the current financial year in a bid to propagate turmeric cultivation in the state.The processing unit includes a boiler where freshly harvested turmeric roots are boiled or steamed. These are then either sun-dried or oven-dried after which they are polished to rid them off the skin. They are then ground up to make turmeric powder. “It has enabled farmers to grow their own turmeric crop and come to ICAR-CCARI to get it processed,” Chakurkar said. Scientists from the institute say the turmeric crop doesn’t necessarily require a separate area for cultivation. It can be grown as an inter-crop in cashew orchards, thus bringing additional income to farmers. A very low-maintenance crop, it requires minimal care and can till the roots are ready for harvesting. Moreover, it boasts a high success rate of withstand water stagnation. Home gardeners are also taking keen interest in growing turmeric, especially due to the pandemic. However, for the roots to properly flourish, the institute’s experts suggest that they be grown on open land instead of pots.For Goans, the turmeric use of the turmeric plant is not restricted to just the roots. The leaves, which appear only during the rainy season, are of special interest as they are a vital component in the preparation of some monsoon-special sweet delicacies such as patoleo as well as godshem made using freshly harvested rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-farmers-take-to-growing-turmeric-icars-new-unit-eases-processing-work/articleshow/77057133.cms||Nida Sayed
July 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu testing 48,000 a day, highest among states, CM tells PM||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday said the state has been conducting 48,000 Covid-19 tests daily. "This is the highest among all states," Palaniswami informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi when the latter called him over the phone. Modi spoke to Palaniswami to take stock of measures being taken by the state government in its fight against Covid-19 and the medical treatment being provided to those affected. The chief minister said Tamil Nadu was going "all out to contain the spread of the virus". Palaniswami assured the Prime Minister that the state was taking all "necessary steps" to ensure normalcy returns to the state. "While the chief minister had mentioned about the average, the number of tests per day crossed the 50,000 mark on Saturday and the tests conducted exceeded 52,000 on Sunday. Right from the beginning, the strategy behind Tamil Nadu was aggressive testing. Without that, we will not be getting numbers in excess of 50,000 and it will continue," a senior official in the state government told TOI. The tests being conducted are fairly distributed across the state and also to cover all segments of the society and not just frontline workers, he said. "The focus has been on increasing fever camps and identify patients with symptoms, besides following all the ICMR protocols. We are focusing on effective controls in containment zones to address the problem," the official said. While the number of Covid tests conducted in Chennai has now crossed 13,000 a day, it is increasing in the districts. "While we were doing 250 – 300 tests a day in Madurai, it has crossed 4,500. In the case of Thiruvallur district, the number of tests has crossed 5,000," the official said. Other states have undertaking a mix of RT-PCR tests and antibody tests. For instance, if Delhi conducts 20,000 tests a day, around 5,000 of that will be antibody tests. "But in Tamil Nadu, we have been carrying out tests using RT-PCR kits," the official said. To determine the number of tests to be conducted in a day in a district, Tamil Nadu has worked out a formula, the official said. " After arriving at the average number of positives per day for the past seven days of a week, we aim at conducting a minimum of 10 times that number of tests in that district," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-testing-48k-a-day-highest-among-states-cm-tells-pm/articleshow/77056619.cms||D Govardan
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Islamia to be next Covid hospital||KOLKATA: A day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that the state was taking over the Islamia Hospital to convert it into a full Covid hospital, the work at its Bowbazar branch — a 10-storey set up located on Central Avenue — gathered pace as the managing committee of the hospital promised to hand it over “in the quickest possible time.” The building that was shut down three years ago for renovation is almost ready to resume operations. The new facility is expected to have 300 beds with at least 30 doctors. The hospital’s other smaller unit at Park Circus will continue to treat the patients as usual. The new facility that will have ICU along with ventilators is likely to admit patients in the next 60 to 75 days. “This hospital is still under reconstruction with some floor work left. But then, our work across all 10 floors is almost nearing completion and we expect all civil work to end in a month. Firhad Hakim, chairman of the KMC board of administrators, is also the president of our trust,” said Rajya Sabha MP, Md Nadimul Haque who had approached the CMO last week with the suggestion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/islamia-to-be-next-covid-hosp/articleshow/77056611.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||367 policemen in Covid clutch in a month||Lucknow: UP Police has been bearing the brunt of novel coronavirus infection as its 367 Covid warriors, including two IPS officers, have tested positive in the last one month while being at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic. Overall, 1,350 cops have tested positive in the last five months even as director general of police HC Awasthy had issued instructions not Vedic priests to place silver brick at ‘garbh griha’ to mark ‘bhoomi pujan’ to deploy cops above 50 years of age on frontline duty and had made proper safety kit compulsory while manning hotspots and containment zones. With five more personnel of Naka Hindola police station in the state capital testing positive, the total number of infected personnel from Lucknow Police surged to 69. Lucknow Police commissioner Sujeet Pandey said most infected personnel in the commissionerate were asymptomatic while safety kits and surplus amount of sanitiser have been given to all police stations and offices. “We also ensured a nutritious diet in the mess for our personnel after due consultation with doctors,” he added. According to a report shared by UP DGP headquarters, though 1,350 cops have been infected, currently 490 are positive. Officials in DGP headquarters said the maximum number of personnel who were positive were from PAC. Samples of 5,000 cops across the state have been sent for test and reports are awaited. Additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar said, “Due to our efforts and the measures we adopted, fewer cops contracted infection than compared to personnel in other states.” “We imparted basic training to our personnel on wearing PPE kits,” he said. Almost all wings and establishments of police have Covid-19 care centres. Strict instructions have been issued to all the district police chiefs that cops returning from leave must be tested at the Covid care centre before resuming duty, he added. Meanwhile, 163 cops from other police wings, including Government Railway Police (GRP), Railway Protection Force (RPF) deployed in the city have tested positive till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/367-policemen-in-covid-clutch-in-a-month/articleshow/77056988.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||Husband-wife swept away by Ganga,woman rescued, man feared drowned||Bareilly: A 22-year-man feared drowned while his wife was rescued after the husband-wife duo, who had gone to take a holy dip in the Ganga at Isampur ghaat in Sambhalon Sunday, was swept away by the river in a spate. Locals managed to rescue the woman by the time police reached. Later, police launched a rescue operation with the help of professional divers to find the man. The incident took place when Girish (22) and his wife Rajta (in her 20s) had gone to take a holy dip in the Ganga at Raghuveerdas Baba Ashram ghaat in Isampur village. They lost balance and were swept away by the river. With restrictions imposed on several ghaats, including Rajghat Babrala, Sisauna and Sadhumani, due to the high water level in the Ganga, scores of people visit Raghuveerdas Baba Ashram in Isampur village to take a dip, said locals. The authorities concerned have not put a restriction on visiting the Isampur ghaat despite the increasing water level, alleged locals. Gunnaur police station SHO Divendra K Sharma told TOI, “The family took the woman home. Her condition is stable. However, the rescue operation to find the man is still underway and several divers have been deployed since the afternoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/husband-wife-swept-away-by-gangawoman-rescued-man-feared-drowned/articleshow/77053628.cms||Maria Khan
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Usual suspects: Showers choke Delhi yet again||NEW DELHI: Overnight rain causing waterlogging on the arterial roads choked the national capital on Sunday. This happened despite a police “warning” issued to the civic bodies in May. Traffic police officers told TOI that waterlogging mainly took place in low-lying areas and the stretches where construction work was under way. TOI had earlier reported about a reminder that the traffic police had sent to the city’s civic agencies to rectify 82 spots that were prone to waterlogging. The list of such spots also included Minto Road and the Zakhira underpass that were found to be worst affected on Sunday. The heavy showers choked almost all the underpasses across the city, including at/near Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, Dhaula Kuan, New Delhi Railway station, Minto Road, Azad Market, the Moolchand hospital, Modi Mill and the Zakhira underpass. At least, 26 cars suffered engine damages. The cops had to divert traffic from Bhairon Road after the bank of a drain broke, washing away a few houses. The water kept flowing towards Ring Road and nearby areas of Vikas Bhawan, including IP Marg, submerging the entire 500-metre stretch of the road. The stretch is expected to remain shut even on Monday as the road seems to have suffered damage due to the strong flow of water. Snarls were reported at Mathura Road, Outer Ring Road and Mehrauli-Badarpur Road throughout the day due to waterlogging. The police control received more than 150 distress calls. Near Pragati Maidan, Ashram and New Friends Colony too, water had accumulated due to incomplete construction projects. Traffic jams were reported near the IIT, Delhi’s campus and Munirka flyover due to waterlogging near a construction site on the way to the airport. Waterlogging was also reported from Rao Tula Ram Marg. Major traffic jams occurred on Mehrauli-Badarpur Road due to waterlogging near Devli. Vehicles moved slowly near Sarai Kale Khan and at the mouth of Signature Bridge. Traffic was also affected on NH-24 due to the mayhem at ITO. Low-lying areas on Ring Road and Outer Ring Road in south Delhi were severely affected. Heavy traffic was reported on different roads till late afternoon hours. Waterlogging caused snarls around Maharani Bagh, Model Town, Nigambodh Ghat and the IP flyover too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/usual-suspects-showers-choke-delhi-yet-again/articleshow/77056643.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Bank head offices to stay open, factories in rural areas can work with 50% staff||Kolhapur: Head offices of the banks will remain open, industries in the rural areas will operate at 50% capacity and milk collection and transportation will be as on normal days, said the amended lockdown order for Kolhapur district. District collector Daulat Desai gave clarification on some of the guidelines in the order he issued on Saturday. In the original order, banks were to remain shut during the lockdown. However, in an amended order, the head offices of the banks will remain open with limited staff. Desai said ATMs and work of cash replenishing agencies will remain operational. Earlier, collection and transportation of milk by dairies and agencies were limited to morning and evening hours. Desai said no such time restriction will be there for these activities now. After the complaints from the industrialists, the staff strength in the factories in rural has been increased from 25% to 50%. Desai, however, said no industries in the urban area will be allowed to operate. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bank-head-offices-to-stay-open-factories-in-rural-areas-can-work-with-50-staff/articleshow/77055093.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Senior official in Guntur administration tests +ve||Guntur: A senior IAS officer leading the district administration in Guntur has tested positive for Covid-19. His wife and son, too, were tested positive. All the three have opted for home quarantine. Sources said that none of them had any symptoms and health issues. A team of doctors has been tasked to monitor the health of the top official. The family members of the IAS officer underwent test after some of the staff members in the district collectorate tested positive last week. The test results of the IAS officer’s family turned positive on Sunday. The senior official had been conducting review meetings with several officials, including joint collectors, RDOs, health officers and municipal commissioners. Almost all the senior officials and district heads of departments were primary and secondary contacts of the IAS officer as they attended review meetings with the top official. Sources said that the state government has directed all the senior officials who came into contact with the district administration head to get tested for Covid-19 immediately. The officer who tested positive for Covid-19 had interacted with several legislators as he had attended programmes with them. The senior official visited several constituencies to inspect land for house-sites programme along with legislators and tehsildars. While majority of the legislators are in home quarantine, mandal-level tehsildars are in a tricky position as they have to carry out day-to-day administration at field- level. Sources said that of the tehsildars have chosen to attend duties from home as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, another YSRC legislator tested positive in the district. The legislator representing a constituency in the Krishna delta has been in the field for the last three months inspecting developmental activities in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/senior-official-in-guntur-administration-tests-ve/articleshow/77055952.cms||Samdani MN
July 20, 2020||Chennai||Parties tighten purse strings on Covid doles in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: With the ruling AIADMK controlling much of the public outreach programmes in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, opposition parties had to dip into their kitty to hand out doles to the affected public. Having undertaken the distribution of relief material, including dry ration, two months ago since the lockdown, functionaries of several political parties are under pressure to find resources to sustain their efforts. This has forced the functionaries of Dravidian parties and its allies to slow down or wind up their humanitarian efforts. Several functionaries of the ruling and opposition parties said they have called off their initiatives. Members of the Rajini Makkal Mandram, Kamal Haasan’s MNM and other political parties have cited “financial difficulties” in continuing the welfare measures. “We pooled in money and resources to distribute three to four rounds of relief kits including rice and other essentials before April-end for the homeless, auto drivers, and domestic workers in our area,” said Rajkumar, member of AIADMK’s legal wing in North Chennai. He added they stopped the relief measures two weeks ago as the overall situation had improved somewhat. Sources in the AIADMK headquarters, however, said several party functionaries across the state stopped the distribution of relief materials, citing financial difficulties. “With limited resources, it is difficult to continue relief activities. Party functionaries in districts and at the union level have spent a few lakhs of rupees from their own pockets,” said a former district secretary close to commercial taxes minister K C Veeramani. Keeping pace with their arch-rival, the DMK functionaries distributed welfare kits and rice bags, sanitizers and other essentials. They have now stopped distribution for want of financial backing. “Being an opposition party, we have done our best. Now, it is up to the government to increase financial support from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000,” said Tirupattur DMK MLA A Nallathambi. He added that he spent around Rs 30 lakh from his own pocket to distribute relief measures in his constituency. Several other DMK functionaries said they spent as much as they could afford, but could not continue further. A Rajini Makkal Mantram’s Sholinghur district functionary said he and a few other members spent Rs 7 lakh towards distribution of groceries and rice bags to the affected people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/political-parties-tighten-their-purse-strings-on-covid-expenditure/articleshow/77056632.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Factories closed after labourer deaths||AHMEDABAD: After six labourers died in two incidents, including two in Vatva GIDC on Friday night, and four in a denim manufacturing firm in Dholka on Saturday afternoon, the state government swung into action on Sunday and ordered the two factories closed. Director Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), which functions under the state labour and employment department has issued an order to close Vishal Denims, Dholka, and Shri Shakti Chemicals, Vatva, after the major accidents in ETP tank and vessels-cleaning at their factories, states a release by the state government. Vatva GIDC police of Ahmedabad city and Koth police of Ahmedabad district have respectively lodged FIRs in the incidents. The FIR filed with Vatva GIDC police charged the supervisor of the chemical unit, Raju Patel and company owners Navneet Babariya and Himmat Bhuva under IPC Sections 304-A for causing death by negligence and 284 for negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance and Section 114 for abetment of crime. The FIR filed by Koth police charged a labour contractor, Ramesh Vaghela, under IPC Section 304 which pertains to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. No one else from Vishal Denims was booked by cops. Following the incident, the Director of Industrial Safety and Health conducted the primary inquiries into the incidents and issued an order to shut down both units on Sunday under Section 40(2) of Factories Act. “We have issued a closure order to the facility so that more lives are not put at risk. We will review the safety aspects before allowing resumption of manufacturing operations,” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment. Also, immediate relief was ordered as ex-gratia compensation to the next of kin of each deceased worker, added Mittra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/factories-closed-after-labourer-deaths/articleshow/77055941.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Godhra mosque a Covid centre now||VADODARA: For so long, since the time of the pandemic outbreak, this mosque in Godhra, the second biggest in town had been offering prayers for Covid-19 patients. However, it has now taken its services a step ahead and turned the place of worship into a care centre for all positive patients. What’s more, its healing touch does not discriminate against patients by their religion or social status! Opened last week, this facility is now facilitating treatment to nine positive patients from different communities. The ground floor of Aadam mosque on Sheikh Majaawar Road, which was designed to accommodate female haj pilgrims, has now been converted into a designated Covid-19 care centre. The decision by the mosque’s managing trust was inspired by the rise in the number of cases in the region. “Godhra Muslim Samaj, our maulvis and group of Muslim doctors got together and decided to offer the hall on the ground floor as Covid-19 treatment centre. We sought permission from the district collector and chief district health officer for a 50-bed facility, and after they allowed a 32-bed one, we started the facility on July 11,” said Dr Anwar Kachba. “Of these 32 beds, 16 are for patients to be kept in isolation while the other 16 are for positive patients,” Kachba added. In the past too, the mosque had wanted to set up a similar facility for chikungunya cases, but failed. “We had bought hospital furniture from a hospital in Ahmedabad which was closing down. This is helping us offer treatment to all,” said Abdul Kadir Hayaat, mosque’s managing trustee. “Whatever we do not have is being supplied by the Godhra civil hospital,” said Hayaat, adding that the civil hospital is also looking after the medical treatment of the patients here. So far 11 suspected patients who tested negative have been discharged from this facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/godhra-mosque-turns-one-floor-into-covid-care-unit/articleshow/77057301.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 20, 2020||Aurangabad||SP suspends cop over sand mafia links||Aurangabad: Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya has suspended a senior police officer’s bodyguard, a police constable by designation, after a preliminary inquiry revealed his connections with the sand mafia in the district.The probe has revealed that constable Devidas Jadhav, along with a police team, had nabbed a heavy-vehicle carrying illegally mined sand earlier this month. This bodyguard, citing that he is calling from superintendent of police’s office, dialled a call to the police team asking them to settle the issue without filing an offence and release the truck.On July 8, Ghansawngi police had detained a highway truck for carrying illegally mined sand. After the heavy vehicle’s owner failed to convince the police to release the vehicle, he allegedly alerted Jadhav who dialled a call to the police station officer.After Jadhav’s request made to budge the police station officer, he allegedly pressurized him, resulting in to heated argument between the two. This was followed by the Ghansawngi police taking the incident on record by mentioning it in the police station diary.Eventually, superintendent of police learnt about the incident and ordered an internal inquiry. A report in this regard was submitted a couple of days back, following which S Chaitanya issued an order suspending Jadhav who would double up as radio-talkie police constable of the senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sp-suspends-cop-over-sand-mafia-links/articleshow/77186255.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chennai||Shops in Chennai's Saidapet to shut by 3pm from today||CHENNAI: With residents crowding city markets, a section of traders in Saidapet has come forward to shut their shops three hours before the time prescribed by the government from Monday. The Mettupalayam Traders’ Association with shops in Mettupalayam and Jones Road neighbourhoods, which fall under the Kumaran Nagar police limits, has over 500 shops as members. After a series of meetings with police and civic authorities, traders arrived at a consensus to shut shops by 3pm. After the fortnight’s total lockdown, when the city reopened, the government announced that markets and individual shopkeepers can run business from 6am to 6pm. Saidapet falls under the Kodambakkam range which has been recording high percentage of active cases even after the lifting of total lockdown. Of the 14,997 active cases in the city as on Sunday, the maximum were in Kodambakkam (2,082), followed by Anna Nagar (1,561) and Teynampet (1,345), according to Chennai corporation data. "In Kodambakkam zone, Saidapet range seems to record high cases and we suggested the shopkeepers to consider our request to shut shop early than the allowed time as our findings pointed that there was more crowd gathering in the market areas," said Kalai Arasan, inspector, Kumaran Nagar. Police had suggested that the shops shut by 2pm while the traders wanted to extend at least until 4pm. After discussions with senior officials, the traders agreed to down shutters by 3pm. The arrangement will be in place until July 31, authorities said. "The traders are co-operative and have agreed to the suggestion considering the larger good," said Arasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shops-in-saidapet-to-shut-by-3pm/articleshow/77056647.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Overflowing rivulet floods three wards in Agonda||POINGUINIM: Fear gripped the residents of Tambddem, Igrejawada and Desaiwada in Agonda village of Canacona on Saturday night after water from an overflowing rivulet flooded the areas around their houses. Around 13 houses were affected by the flooding and residents had to stay awake the entire night, fearing water might enter their homes. “I have inspected the rivulet and it has not only been blocked in some places but has been narrowed down in a few areas in the name of development,” said Canacona mamlatdar Vimod Dalal. Dalal requisitioned an earthmoving machine on Sunday and got trenches dug in the flooded areas so that stagnated water drained out. While water entered five houses, no major loss was incurred. “Every year, during the monsoon the areas surrounding our houses get submerged, but authorities do not care for our well-being. I hope at least now a permanent solution is found and the problem is fixed,” Claudia Afonso from Tambddem, told TOI. Another affected person, Clemente Pereira said, “Every person has a right to development but this development shouldn’t be at the cost of creating problems for others”. Meanwhile, people living in the low-lying area of Carroi, Mashem, were alarmed when water suddenly entered their houses on Saturday. An electricity transformer also got submerged and had to be switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/overflowing-rivulet-floods-three-wards-in-agonda/articleshow/77057141.cms||Albert Fernandes
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt allows paid isolation facility in all districts||LUCKNOW: Not more than Rs 1,500 can be charged against a single room at hotels turned into paid Covid care centres, according to orders issued by the state government. On July 17, the UP government allowed paid hotel quarantine for asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients under the scheme called Level-1 Plus Covid care facility. “After successful implementation in Lucknow and Ghaziabad, the facility has been extended to entire state following demand from other districts,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad on Sunday. He said district authorities will select the hotels to be converted into level-1 plus centres, but they will have to ensure that no person is made to pay more than Rs 2,000 per double occupancy. “The cost will include food and lodging. Patients will also have to pay one-time medical fees of Rs 2000,” he said. Prasad said elderly above 65 years of age, pregnant women, children below 10 years and those with comorbid conditions will not be able to avail the facility. “Those in the vulnerable group will have to undergo management at government isolation centres,” he said. As per the orders, paid Covid care centres will have 25% single rooms meant for women, children and those between 50 and 65 years of age. The remaining will be double rooms meant for others. The order also said that hotels cannot charge more than Rs 1,500 for single occupancy. The order said that medical teams will be posted in eight hourly shifts at these hotels. Each team will comprise one doctor (MBBS or AYUSH), two nurses and a pharmacist. They will have to follow and keep track of patients as per protocol. Six oxygen cylinders are also to be kept in reserve at the hotels to attend emergencies. Patients would be shifted to L2 or L3 centres if need be.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-allows-paid-isolation-facility-in-all-districts/articleshow/77057000.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 20, 2020||Bengaluru||IISc, Narayana team track aerosols||Bengaluru: Arguing that there is growing evidence that SARS-CoV-2 could spread through aerosols ‒ tiny droplets that can remain suspended in the air for hours in closed spaces, researchers from Indian Institute of Science (IISc) say aerosols generated during surgeries and out-patient procedures can be risky for healthcare workers. To investigate how aerosols are generated during routine eye procedures, doctors at Narayana Nethralaya collaborated with IISc researchers. The team used high-speed imaging and aerodynamic models to visualise the generation of droplets during procedures such as cataract and Lasik surgeries. “We identified the size of the droplets, and also calculated the speed and distance to which they travel,” says Saptarshi Basu, professor, department of mechanical engineering, IISc, and co-author of two papers published in the Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. The studies showed that during most procedures, aerosols are not generated, he adds. The first study focused on phacoemulsification, a type of cataract surgery where an ultrasonic needle is used to break up the cataract. “In the study ‒ conducted during surgeries on humans and animal in a closed chamber ‒ researchers employed a technique called shadowgraphy, which uses a light source to track droplets through a high-speed camera,” IISc said. As long as the probe was restricted to the inner layer of the eye called anterior chamber – a protocol normally followed – no aerosols were generated. Aerosols were formed only when the probe was exposed to the salt solution on the eye’s outer surface called cornea. The second study investigated aerosol generation during LASIK surgery, performed to correct near- or far-sightedness. Researchers found that, as the blade cut through to the stroma, some droplets were generated, likely due to the balanced salt solution used as a lubricant prior to the procedure. “However, most of the droplets were found to be large in size (>90 micrometers) and therefore likely to settle down fast, reducing the risk that they will become aerosolized. Because the droplets were found to travel up to 1.8m in a simulated surgery setting, adequate precautions and protective equipment should be adopted by doctors, the researchers suggest,” IISc added. Studies on other eye procedures such as glaucoma screening have also been carried out, and will be published shortly, says Basu. Based on these findings, the hospital has identified and implemented specific safety protocols, says corresponding author Abhijit Sinha Roy, chief scientist at Narayana Nethralaya Foundation. It has also put together videos to educate patients, medical staff and the general public, to make them feel more at ease about resuming routine procedures. “Because of Covid-19, a lot of other surgical procedures are getting delayed. Our concern is that patients should not end up compromising their vision just because they delayed getting the appropriate healthcare they needed. They should feel at ease after seeing these robust studies and safety measures implemented in our eye clinics,” he says. And, the IISc team says similar studies are also planned for orthopaedic and heart surgeries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/iisc-narayana-team-track-aerosols/articleshow/77055946.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Govt thinking of refunding exam fees’||Kolhapur: Minister for technical and higher education Uday Samant on Sunday said the state government is thinking about refunding the examination fee already paid by students as the final- year exam will no longer be conducted in Maharashtra. Samant had come to Shivaji University to discuss the plans to set up an educational complex for students from Karnataka-Maharashtra border areas. “Universities are leading in the fight against Covid. For instance, three hostels of Shivaji University are dedicated for treating Covid patients. We are presenting these facts to UGC and request again to not to hold exams for final year students. Maharashtra government is thinking over to repay the exam fees paid by the students. Also, fees for next academic year will not be increased at any cost,” he said. Samant added that the opposition parties are demoralising students by terming the process as ‘Covid Pass’. “For setting up of educational complex, three sites have been identified in Chandgad tehsil. At two villages, two complexes will be built for which the directions have been given to the university. The border areas have large number of Marathi speaking people. The new educational complex will work as sub-centre of Shivaji University,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-thinking-of-refunding-exam-fees/articleshow/77055113.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Army men protest jawan’s detention||VADODARA: Retired and in-service defence personnel protested outside the office of superintendent of police at Chhota Udepur on Saturday against the detention of army jawan, Anish Rathwa, by the cops and demanding action against a sub inspector. Rathwa was taken into custody on July 16 in Chhota Udepur town after he had a brawl with the cops when they stopped him as his pillion rider was found not wearing a face mask. When Rathwa even denied showing them his driving license and bike’s registration card, both sides resorted to exchange of words which escalated to a brawl. A video of this became viral on social media and defence staffers from the district gathered to protest the detention. The personnel alleged that Rathwa was forcibly taken to police station where he was beaten up in custody despite them being informed that he is a soldier. The protesters also demanded suspending the sub-inspector who insulted Rathwa. Later, the group submitted a memorandum to the district collector, Sujal Mayatra. Cops formally arrested Rathwa on Saturday as his coronavirus report turned out to be negative. Rathwa was later produced before a local court on Saturday from where he was released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/army-men-protest-jawans-detention/articleshow/77055461.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Nigerians held in Hyderabad, 104g cocaine seized||HYDERABAD: Excise sleuths arrested two Nigerian peddlers and seized 104 grams of cocaine worth Rs 8 lakh from their possession at Tarnaka on Sunday. Acting on an alert, the excise enforcement team intercepted the duo travelling on a bike at Tarnaka X Roads and arrested Jideofor alias Zadi Pascal, 35, of Nagarjuna Nagar Colony in Tarnaka, and his girlfriend Chukwudi Ebere Monica, 30, from Andheri East in Mumbai. The excise team seized 104 grams of cocaine, Rs 1.64 lakh cash, a bike and four cell phones from the offenders. “Four days ago, one Aric sent cocaine from Mumbai through Chukwudi Ebera Monica. She went to Zadi Pascal, who lives in a rented house at Nagarjunagar Colony, Tarnaka. Zadi has been directly delivering cocaine for Rs 8,000 a gram,” assistant excise superintendent N Anji Reddy. The accused along with the seized contraband were handed over to prohibition & excise station, Musheerabad for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-nigerians-held-104g-cocaine-seized/articleshow/77056645.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Woman, two minor daughters found murdered in west Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old woman and her two daughters, aged 6 and 9, were found murdered at their west Delhi home on Sunday. The woman’s husband is missing since the incident came to fore and is the prime suspect, police have said. The trio has blunt force injuries on their heads, faces and other parts. A hammer was used among other things in the murder, police added. The woman, Preeti, lived with her husband, Gagan, and daughters, Bir and Srishti, in Shivram Park locality of Nihar Vihar area. Preeti’s parents lived nearby and the couple had taken a rented accommodation in the area just a month ago. Preeti’s mother called her up on Sunday morning, but nobody answered the calls. Preeti’s father later visited her house and found the main door ajar. He walked into only to find a blood-splattered house and the three bodies. He screamed for help after which neighbours gathered and called up police. The cops filed an FIR and mounted a search for Gagan. The bodies were shifted to the mortuary for postmortem and the crime scene was inspected by forensic officials. In their statement to the cops, Preeti’s parents said that the couple fought often and Gagan pressured Preeti to ask for money from her parents. Police said the murders were likely committed on Saturday late night and the trio might have been killed in their sleep. Gagan earlier worked for a contractor dealing in marble, but was unemployed of late. He had hammers and other tools for work and allegedly used them as a murder weapon. Raids are being conducted to nab Gagan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-two-minor-daughters-found-murdered-in-west-delhi/articleshow/77056640.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Lockdown survey on vulnerable sections yet to take off||Bengaluru: Having received serious backlash over how it handled the nationwide lockdown and the way it treated – or rather completely overlooked – the plight of migrant workers, the government this time decided to introduce mitigation measures. A day after the week-long lockdown kicked in, the revenue department, on July 15, issued an order asking all districts under lockdown to conduct a fresh survey of people from economically vulnerable sections. Six districts are under lockdown – Bengaluru Urban and Rural, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad and Kalaburagi. The aim was to identify them and provide them with food and shelter. With no accurate numbers on the poor, homeless and migrants, the government has been grappling in the dark over how to provide assistance for them. In its order, the department had asked district commissioners and BBMP to coordinate with gram panchayats and urban local bodies to “track individual/households and provide requisite help”. “We wanted to ensure vulnerable sections in the six districts do not face problems of the past in terms of shelter and food,” said revenue secretary, and now BBMP commissioner, N Manjunatha Prasad. However, halfway into the lockdown, barring Bidar, none have undertaken the fresh survey ordered by the government. Prasad said he is yet to receive a report on how many were surveyed, while Bengaluru Rural deputy commissioner PN Ravindra said he has not yet seen the order. “At present we do not have too many migrants or vulnerable sections of society clamouring for shelter and rations. Moreover, most of our hostels and other accommodations have been converted into Covid care centres,” said Ravindra. His DK counterpart, Sindhu B Rupesh, said her administration is yet to embark on the survey and is currently relying on previous numbers identified during initial health surveys. “We will conduct the survey in a day or two, but in DK most of our migrant force has left the district on Shramik trains during the first phase of the lockdown. We had already had shelter homes for them. We may consider the same facilities for present requirements,” Sindhu said. In Bidar, DC R Ramachandran said action has been initiated and advertisements have been issued asking those requiring assistance to come to mustering centres. “With only 1/4th of the district under lockdown, there is not much of a concern for livelihood. People can have gainful employment since we have allowed industries, MNREGA and farming activity to continue,” Ramachandran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-survey-on-vulnerable-sections-yet-to-take-off/articleshow/77055962.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
July 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Paroda bridge submerged after Kushavati overflows||QUEPEM: Kushavati breached its banks at the usual spot, for the first time this monsoon, on Sunday. The water level in Kushavati started rising on Saturday night after heavy rainfall till Sunday morning. The bridge that links Avedem-Cotombi to the Margao-Quepem road was submerged on Saturday night. An area of Paroda from the bridge to the Parvat road junction, about one km to the west, was also flooded. Traffic from Margao to Quepem, Curchorem and Sanguem was diverted through Chandor till Sunday morning. Some villagers risked their lives retrieving coconuts floating on the water over the bridge. Since a part of the bridge comes under Avedem-Cotombi-Chaifi, the panchayat had passed a resolution a few years ago to construct a new bridge, around 200m away from the existing one. “The resolution was taken under the disaster management committee. The government had sanctioned the amount for its construction, but the money was diverted due to floods in Canacona and the new bridge remains a dream,” sarpanch Alelluiah Afonso said. “Then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had inspected the submerged bridge and had assured us that a new bridge would be built at the same site, but at a higher level. However, nothing has happened till date,” Afonso said. The Paroda bridge was built post-Liberation during Dayanand Bandodkar’s first three-member ministry’s tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/paroda-bridge-submerged-after-kushavati-overflows/articleshow/77057142.cms||Johnny M
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man booked for attacking father in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 70-year-old man from Memnagar area of the city on Sunday filed a complaint with Gujarat University police station alleging that his son had thrashed him and his caretaker over petty brawl and later threatened to kill him if the elderly man did not transfer his house to him. In his FIR, Sudarshan Brahmbhatt, a resident of Raopura society in Memnagar, states that he has been living a retired life and has two sons and two daughters in his family. His wife had died around 25 years ago, whereas his elder son lives in London and his two daughters live in Ghatlodia and Navrangpura areas respectively. The accused in this case is his younger son, Vishal (40), who lives with his wife and two sons in Ghatlodia. Brahmbhatt stays in Memnagar along with his caretaker Shankar Kahari, who is from Rajasthan. Late on Saturday night, when Brahmbhatt and Kahari were sleeping, Vishal allegedly barged into his house in Memnagar, roughed up Kahari and began abusing loudly. To save himself, Kahari ran towards his employer Brahmbhatt who tried to save him from his furious son. But rather than leaving Kahari, Vishal began thrashing and abusing Brahmbhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-attacking-father/articleshow/77055965.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Eight complaints of cyber cheating in one day||AHMEDABAD: Eight complaints of cyber fraud were lodged in different police stations of the city on Saturday. In view of the rising number of complaints of cyber fraud, DGP Shivanand Jha on Sunday issued a notification for police stations across the state to act swiftly on such complaints. In the notification, Jha said that the staff of the cybercrime police station will be increased and applications and FIRs related to cybercrime should be dealt with urgency. “The victims of cybercrime can approach police through control room number 100 and 112 and through helpline numbers 155-260, 1800-1800-191 and e-mails of local police stations,” reads the notification. Among those who filed complaints on Saturday was Ranjan Prajapati, 42, of Kubernagar. Prajapati stated in his complaint with Sardarnagar police that in May 2020 a caller identifying himself as Siddiq Shaikh called her up and,on the pretext of updating her Paytm KYC, siphoned off Rs 40,000 from her bank account. Hareshkumar Ganvani lodged a complaint with Sardarnagar police alleging that an unknown caller identifying himself as an e-wallet company employee made him download an application and siphoned off Rs 28,000 from his bank account. The third complaint was lodged at the airport police station. One Lavji Dodiya was cheated of Rs 24,000 from his bank account. In the fourth complaint lodged with Krishnanagar police, Hiteshkumar Shah, 49, was cheated of Rs 58,000 on returnable basis and did not return it. In the fifth complaint lodged with Krishnanagar police, Rajnikant Patel, 35, of Krishnanagar was made to pay Rs 40,000 on the pretext of getting job. Two other complaints were lodged with Meghaninagar police station on Saturday. Mukesh Prajapati, 22, of Meghaninagar alleged in his complaint that from June 10 to June 19, two callers identifying themselves as Nandi and Satyam Bhargav cheated him by making him pay Rs 13,000 with the promise of getting him a job in an airlines company. In another complaint lodged with Meghaninagar police station, Arvinsinh Chauhan, 25, of Meghaningar alleged that on July 15 he had got a call from two unknown numbers. The caller identified himself as one Shrikant Verma. He offered him a prize of a mobile phone and made him pay Rs 14,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-plaints-of-cyber-cheating-in-1-day/articleshow/77055954.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Spike in dengue, malaria cases a new challenge amid Covid in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With 59 dengue and 74 malaria cases reported in little over a month, between June 1 and July 13, and a further spurt in vector borne diseases expected in the next few weeks, the already overburdened healthcare sector will have to handle more pressure as the rainy season gathers steam. While hospitals and staff are already grappling with an overload of Covid-19 cases, there is a silent spike in dengue and malaria cases across the twin cities. “Since it has started to rain, the cases are bound to increase further. These vector-borne diseases stem from water-borne sanitation problems. While dengue spreading Aedes Agypti mosquitoes breed in clean stagnated water , malaria spreading mosquitoes breed in dirty stagnated water. So any kind of stagnated water causes mosquitoes to grow and multiply,” said Dr Chaitanya Challa, senior consultant general medicine, Care hospitals, who has seen four dengue cases this month. The official dengue and malaria season has just begun. “The cases began to trickle in. As of now we are getting one or two cases per week but there are chances that the numbers might increase in the coming days due to the change of season, waterlogging and contamination of drinking water,” said Dr Rahul Agarwal, senior consultant, Medicover Hospitals. The number of dengue and malaria cases during the corresponding period last year was higher than this year as per records. While there were 97 cases of malaria last year, dengue cases were 396 between June 1 and July 13 in 2019. However, the fact that this year testing has not been adequate due to the lockdown and later due to Covid-19 cases, means many cases might have gone unnoticed. “Even now a lot of people are scared of going to labs and hospitals unless it becomes an absolute necessity. As a result many who are having symptoms of these diseases are not seeking immediate intervention which can be quite dangerous. We have suggested hospitals to increase vigilance for dengue and malaria symptoms,” said a state health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spike-in-dengue-malaria-cases-a-new-challenge-amid-covid/articleshow/77056677.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 20, 2020||Chennai||Positivity rate down in north Chennai, high at 20% in central zones||CHENNAI: Covid-19 positivity rate, the percentage of people tested found to have the infection, has come down to 5%-8% in the North Chennai zones of Tondiarpet and Royapuram, said Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash on Sunday. Tondiarpet and Royapuram were the worst affected zones earlier. “In North Chennai, we brought in detailed interventions as there were larger number of slums there. The condition has stabilised now. We did an analysis of the positivity with all zonal health officers yesterday,” he said. The positivity rate is 20% in Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam and Adyar zones. “Our aim is to bring down positivity rate to 8% in the city by end of July,” he said. The city’s overall positivity rate was 9.5% as of yesterday. The commissioner said GCC has begun disbursing Rs 1,000 relief promised to people with disabilities. “By July-end, GCC will get a database of every person with disability. Our ground level staff are enumerating it ward-wise. The data will be shared with the state commissionerate of differently abled,” Prakash said. Around 59,679 persons are likely to benefit from this. GCC has also distributed Rs 1,000 to 14,663 street vendors, Prakash said. “Many others have left for their home town”. Prakash said Chennai has witnessed 12,709 people coming in from foreign countries via flights since May 8. Everybody had to undergo RT-PCR tests for Covid-19, of which 381 were tested positive. “As many as 11,406 have completed mandatory institutional quarantine in hotels,” he said. They were particular that the returnees did not mingle with the rest of the population without being tested and quarantined, Prakash said. “They were kept in paid quarantine facilities in hotels. After a week, they were tested again and if the results returned negative, they were sent home. All positive patients were brought into the treatment cycle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/positivity-rate-down-in-n-chennai-high-at-20-in-central-zones/articleshow/77056637.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Not the time for blame game: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: With Delhi witnessing inundation and chaos in many areas within a few hours of rain on Sunday morning, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that this is not the time for blame game but to work collectively. “This year, all agencies, whether those of the Delhi government or MCD, have been busy with containing the coronavirus outbreak. They had to face a lot of difficulties due to coronavirus. This is not the time to blame each other. Everyone has to collectively fulfil their responsibilities,” Kejriwal tweeted. “We will try to clear out water immediately wherever there is waterlogging,” he added. Kejriwal further tweeted that waterlogging at Minto Bridge has been cleared and he has been in touch with the agencies since morning and monitoring the work to get the waterlogged area cleared off. “We are monitoring other such areas in Delhi too. Wherever there has been waterlogging, water is being pumped out immediately,” he tweeted. Talking to the media, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that he had been talking to engineers and getting reports since morning. “Minto Bridge witnesses waterlogging every year and every year, pump is operated. This time also, water has been pumped out,” he said. Commenting on some shanties getting washed away in Anna Nagar area near ITO, Sisodia said a rescue team has been working in the area and everyone will be compensated for their loss. He also said that measures will be taken so that such an incident doesn’t recur. “The coronavirus situation in Delhi was very bad and all agencies were working on that and working on this too,” he said, adding that he will like to tell leaders of BJP that this is the time to work together and not to blame each other. “Instead of identifying shortcomings of each other’s departments, if Delhi government and municipal corporations work together, it will be better for Delhi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-the-time-for-blame-game-cm/articleshow/77056673.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Amended investment act may bring in deemed approvals||Panaji: To transform Goa Investment Promotion Board (IPB) into a true single-window system and make it easier for investment projects to obtain permissions, the state has begun identifying steps to amend the Goa Investment Promotion Act. One of the key proposals that the industries department is considering is the possibility of deemed approvals if departments do not dispose off permissions within a stipulated time frame. The Goa government took the decision to amend the IPB act in October last year to improve the ease of doing business and facilitate implementation of single window system, officials said. “The state is bringing in a lot of amendments to see that IPB is industry-friendly and so that permissions that don’t come from certain departments should be considered as deemed permissions given to the particular company or agency,” said a senior government official. The state government has constituted an 11-member task force committee headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai to recommend changes in the IPB Act. Goan industrialist Shrinivas Dempo is the vice chairman with Aakash Khaunte, Damodar Kochkar, Atrey Sawant, Adv Maria Corria, Dean Menezes, Swati Salgaonkar, Ralph de Souza as members on the committee. The state has already brought several government processes online to enable industries to apply for permissions online through a single portal. Once the board clears an investment project, the onus to get the required permissions will rest with the IPB chief executive officer. The industry has long complained that Goa IPB does not function as a single-window system in the real sense as investors have to approach several departments to obtain clearances. The industries department has also tasked GIDC with the responsibility of mapping all industrial land. Goa is part of the first phase of a nationwide project to map all industrial land. The department for promotion of Industry and Internal Trade has developed the Industrial Information System portal, a GIS-enabled database of industrial areas and clusters across the country. Data about Goa’s industrial land will be hosted on the IIS portal so that investors can access information about land availability, distance from key logistic hubs and other details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amended-investment-act-may-bring-in-deemed-approvals/articleshow/77057145.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: GST recovery orders during lockdown nixed||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has recently quashed GST department's recovery orders because they were passed after the firms and traders failed to remain present for hearing during the lockdown period imposed by the government due to Covid-19 pandemic. One Remankhan Belim said that he could not go to the state GST office on May 14 following the summons because there was complete lockdown in Ahmedabad. Another litigant told the high court that the central GST department had summoned him on May 7, but the office of the department itself was closed. In both the cases, the departments issued orders for recovery on the ground that they did not remain present for hearing upon notice. The HC quashed the GST department's orders and asked them to decide the issue afresh after granting proper hearing opportunity to people. The HC said that the state GST officials passed a payment order against Belim on the very day he could not attend the hearing. It said that the order "smacks of vice of principles of natural justice". The department was ordered to issue fresh notice to Belim and grant him an opportunity to present his case properly. Offices were closed during lockdownAnother case involved Hitech Projects Pvt Ltd and one of its partners, Tejas Dalal. The firm was facing a proceeding for excise duty amounting over Rs 27 lakh since 2016 under Section 11A(4) of the Central Excise Act, 1944. Last year, the firm opted for Sabka Vishwas (Legacy Dispute Resolution) Scheme, 2019. As the department scheduled a hearing and Dalal was summoned on May 7, but the government office was closed because of the lockdown. The department later raised Form SVLDRS-3, which is an order for the defaulter to pay the amount within 30 days. The department’s act led the firm to the HC complaining that they did not get an opportunity to explain how much money had been paid earlier . But this could not happen because of the closed office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-gst-recovery-orders-during-lockdown-nixed/articleshow/77057308.cms||Saeed Khan
July 20, 2020||Pune||A visible decline in fatalities on Pune-Mumbai expressway in the first half of this year||PUNE: A combination of lockdown restrictions from the last week of March and sustained action against overspeeding has caused a significant dip in the number of accident-related deaths on the Pune-Mumbai expressway stretch between Kiwali and the now-demolished Amrutanjan bridge. According to data of Pune rural police, whose jurisdiction covers this 49km stretch, six people died in fatal accidents in this stretch between January and June this year. In the same period last year, the police had recorded 19 deaths. Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) officials told TOI that six people died in five separate accidents on this stretch since January, while the number of serious accidents too has declined. “There is an overall decline in the number of accidents on this stretch and so far, we have recorded only six fatalities on the stretch from January to June, this year,” HSP deputy superintendent Pritam Yavalkar said. He said there was not a single accident during April and May, as the number of vehicles had come down drastically on the expressway because of strict enforcement of the lockdown. “Three people died in different accidents after the lockdown norms were relaxed and cars or other light commercial vehicles came on the expressway,” he said. “Prior to the announcement of lockdown, there were three fatalities on the expressway,” he further added. “Since the arrival of interceptor vehicles, which are armed with speed guns, police have caught and fined many speeding drivers. The regular action against these overspeeding vehicles has also resulted in fewer accidents,” he said. He said a majority of the accidents had occurred place during the night hours and on the shoulder lanes of the expressway. “Vehicles which develop technical snag while travelling on the expressway remain parked on the shoulder lane. In the night time, the drivers of the vehicles sometimes become drowsy and move onto the shoulder lane. They ram into these stationary vehicles at a high speed, which results in casualties,” he said. According to the HSP, this year, only one fatal accident occurred in the central lane of the expressway, while four others took place on the shoulder lanes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-visible-decline-in-fatalities-on-eway-in-the-first-half-of-this-year/articleshow/77056683.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Shimla||HP gets 64 new cases, 29 recover||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh recorded 64 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 1,521, of which 436 are active cases. Also, 29 patients recovered during the day. Out of the new cases, 26 each were reported from Sirmaur and Solan districts, five from Kangra, four from Una, two from Hamirpur and one from Mandi district. Among the cured patients, 17 were from Solan district, five from Kangra, three each from Hamirpur and Mandi, and one from Una district. The number of recovered patients in the state stands at 1,059. Kangra district has reported maximum 334 positive cases, of which 38 are active cases, 292 recovered and two died, while two migrated out of the state. Second-highest 332 positive cases have been recorded in Solan district, out of which 196 are active cases, 130 recovered and six migrated out of the state. Hamirpur district has reported third-highest 281 positive cases, of which 11 are active cases, 267 recovered and three died. Una district has total 162 positive cases, of which 39 are active, while 123 recovered. Bilaspur district has seen 63 positive cases, of which 16 are active, while 47 have recovered. Chamba has reported 78 positive cases, of which 21 are active and 56 have recovered. Kinnaur has recorded 39 positive cases, of which 18 are active, while 21 recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-gets-64-new-cases-29-recover/articleshow/77056687.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Shimla||Denied entry into Himachal Pradesh, man drags cop on car bonnet||PARWANOO: The police on Sunday arrested a resident of Punjab for dragging a constable on the bonnet of his car and injuring him after he was denied entry into Himachal Pradesh for want of valid papers. According to information, accused Rahul Arora, a resident of Khanna, along his family in the car, was on way to Himachal Pradesh. He was stopped at the Himachal border at Parwanoo for checking of entry papers, but he failed to produce any. Denied entry, he started creating ruckus at the check point and tried to intimidate them with his political links. Later, as he started his car and tried to forcibly cross the check point, an HP Police constable, Ajay Kumar, came in front of his car to stop him. But, instead of stopping, Rahul allegedly dragged the cop on his car’s bonnet for couple of metres, causing him multiple injuries. Confirming the incident, Parwanoo SHO inspector Ravinder Kumar said based on the constable's statement, a case under various sections of the IPC has been registered against the accused and he has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/denied-entry-into-hp-man-drags-cop-on-car-bonnet/articleshow/77056684.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 20, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana home department to discuss state border closing on Monday||CHANDIGARH: Adoption of strict Covid containment measures in NCR districts, especially Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, is likely to be discussed during the home department meeting on Monday. Home minister Anil Vij will chair the meeting, which is being convened to review the progress of establishment of the Narcotics Control Cell in the state and update operations against drug menace. Sources in home minister’s office confirmed that measures in NCR districts to prevent spread of Covid-19 will be discussed. If required, Vij may call upon CM Manohar Lal Khattar to discuss the issue further, sources said. The issue came up during a crisis management meeting chaired by the CM in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Those who attended the meeting on Friday included chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, ACS, Health Rajiv Arora, health minister Anil Vij and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. This issue of strict measures remained inconclusive as CM Khattar advocated strong awareness drives on social distancing and need to wear masks. On Saturday, the Covid count of Haryana crossed the 25,000 mark with 344 deaths. For the past one week, an average of 600 new patients are being detected every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-home-dept-to-discuss-state-border-closing-today/articleshow/77060294.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Pune||Colleges get ready for semester with online classes, labs||PUNE: From buying licensed software to sourcing open source networks to finding content, many colleges and universities are gearing up to go completely online for the upcoming semester. Some institutes are training their teachers, students and parents to set up a dedicated workspace so that the students are focussed.  R M Jalnekar, director of Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, said,“In the past two months, we have trained them under the technical domain and best use of digital platforms, developing digital content and how to deal with digital strain.” Chancellor of Bharati Vidyapeeth (deemed to be) University, Shivaji Kadam, said they are ready for the online academic year. “Our faculty members have started creating e-modules. We may have the first semester online, but the next three months are going to be crucial,” he said. The university has prepared a schedule of every class which will be given to students much in advance so that they are ready to live stream. Principal of Cummins College of Engineering for Women Madhuri Khambete said the first-semester teaching course will be online. The laboratory work is being done partly via simulation and partly by asking students to visit the college, batch-wise in a staggered manner. Principal of Abasaheb Garware College PB Buchade said, “Online education has several loopholes, but we are opting for it. Our faculty members are creating digital modules. We do not want students to suffer,” he said. Savitribai Phule Pune University vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar is looking at a blended approach. Training of teachers and producing online content has begun, he said. The universty’s International Centre plans to go completely online for the first semester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-get-ready-for-semester-with-online-classes-labs/articleshow/77056689.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Mahila Congress Committee comes to the rescue of poor||Nagpur: The scheduled caste department (SCD) of Maharashtra Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee under the leadership of national president of Mahila Rashtriya Congress Committee (MRCC) Ritu Choudhary undertook various initiatives during Covid-19 pandemic to help poor people. The drive was held under the guidance of state president of MRCC SCD Pratima Uke where the poor people were provided grocery, food grains. The committee also gave temporary ration card to some below poverty line (BPL) families. Besides, the Mahila Congress Committee also felicitated health care employees, sanitation workers and police officers with shawl, bouquet, mask, sanitizer in various districts of Maharashtra. Nayana Zade coordinated the distribution process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahila-congress-committee-comes-to-the-rescue-of-poor/articleshow/77068621.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 23-year-old woman strangled by co-worker||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old woman was strangled to death by a co-worker after she raised an alarm because he made sexual advances towards her. Hemalatha, who used to work as a house keeping staff at a clinic in Kukatpally, joined Family Care Centre in LB Nagar on Friday as a home care service executive. On Saturday, Chandrasekhar Reddy, owner of Family Care Centre, informed Hemalatha that she will have to report for work from Saturday night at a client’s place. Other workers went to their assigned clients by Saturday afternoon and only Hemalatha was at the office along with the employer. At around 2 pm, another employee Venkateswara Rao, a native of Kothapet, AP, returned to office after completing his assignment at a client’s house. After coming to office, Venkateswara Rao asked his employer to give him some money so that he could go to his native place. Reddy gave him some cash and transferred rest of the amount to his bank account, LB Nagar inspector Ashok Reddy said. Rao then went out and consumed liquor. After Rao returned to the office, Reddy went to a garments showroom in Dilsukhnagar on some personal work at around 6 pm. “When Reddy returned to his office at 6.30 pm, he found Hemalatha lying dead on the kitchen floor. Reddy spoke to Rao over the phone and the latter told him that he misbehaved with Hemalatha and when she raised an alarm, fearing that there will be a police case, he hit her on the face and strangled her with a stole,” the inspector said. Reddy alerted police and convinced Rao to meet him near Sitara Hotel in LB Nagar. Police with the help of Reddy and locals nabbed Rao on Saturday night. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-23-year-old-woman-strangled-by-co-worker/articleshow/77056686.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Speak on ‘bonding’ with dera head: Jakhar to SAD chief||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday dared the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to make his “bonding” with Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh clear and explain why the Akali government had taken a U-turn in the court to protect him. The Congress leader said had the Akali government acted sternly against the dera chief for wearing the attire like Guru Gobind Singh in 2007, neither the incidents like sacrilege would have taken place nor would have been the firing incident at Behbal Kalan in 2015. Addressing media persons here, Jakhar, accompanied by cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, claimed that there were documents pertaining to the “secret pacts” between Sukhbir and the dera chief, due to which the then SAD-BJP government had taken the U-turn in the court. He said the dera followers have now admitted that they had supported SAD during the 2017 assembly polls. Jakhar said from May 11 to 13, 2007, the dera chief had visited Salabatpura in Bathinda district and there he had hurt feelings of every Sikh by wearing the attire similar to that of Guru Gobind Singh and by offering Jaam-e-Insaan to his followers. Thereafter, an FIR was lodged against the dera chief after investigation by the Patiala IG with the consent of Punjab governor. He said when the dera chief made efforts for cancellation of FIR, the Akali government had filed two affidavits in the court, stating that any action against him would incite religious feelings, and gave a free hand to the dera chief’s henchmen to assault his critics. Jakhar said though in 2008, the high court had allowed filing of challan, the matter was kept in limbo for four years as after fresh delimitation, Bathinda Lok Sabha seat was de-reserved and the Badal family was eyeing the seat for general elections in 2009. Jakhar added that due to this, SAD’s trading started with the dera chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/speak-on-bonding-with-dera-head-jakhar-to-sad-chief/articleshow/77056688.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana home department to discuss state border closing on Monday||CHANDIGARH: Adoption of strict Covid containment measures in NCR districts, especially Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, is likely to be discussed during the home department meeting on Monday. Home minister Anil Vij will chair the meeting, which is being convened to review the progress of establishment of the Narcotics Control Cell in the state and update operations against drug menace. Sources in home minister’s office confirmed that measures in NCR districts to prevent spread of Covid-19 will be discussed. If required, Vij may call upon CM Manohar Lal Khattar to discuss the issue further, sources said. The issue came up during a crisis management meeting chaired by the CM in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Those who attended the meeting on Friday included chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, ACS, Health Rajiv Arora, health minister Anil Vij and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. This issue of strict measures remained inconclusive as CM Khattar advocated strong awareness drives on social distancing and need to wear masks. On Saturday, the Covid count of Haryana crossed the 25,000 mark with 344 deaths. For the past one week, an average of 600 new patients are being detected every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-home-dept-to-discuss-state-border-closing-today/articleshow/77060292.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana home department to discuss state border closing on Monday||CHANDIGARH: Adoption of strict Covid containment measures in NCR districts, especially Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, is likely to be discussed during the home department meeting on Monday. Home minister Anil Vij will chair the meeting, which is being convened to review the progress of establishment of the Narcotics Control Cell in the state and update operations against drug menace. Sources in home minister’s office confirmed that measures in NCR districts to prevent spread of Covid-19 will be discussed. If required, Vij may call upon CM Manohar Lal Khattar to discuss the issue further, sources said. The issue came up during a crisis management meeting chaired by the CM in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Those who attended the meeting on Friday included chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, ACS, Health Rajiv Arora, health minister Anil Vij and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. This issue of strict measures remained inconclusive as CM Khattar advocated strong awareness drives on social distancing and need to wear masks. On Saturday, the Covid count of Haryana crossed the 25,000 mark with 344 deaths. For the past one week, an average of 600 new patients are being detected every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-home-dept-to-discuss-state-border-closing-today/articleshow/77056680.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||Husband-wife swept away by Ganga, woman rescued, man feared drowned||BAREILLY: A 22-year-man feared drowned while his wife was rescued after the husband-wife duo, who had gone to take a holy dip in the Ganga at Isampur ghaat in Sambhal on Sunday, was swept away by the river in a spate. Locals managed to rescue the woman by the time police reached. Later, police launched a rescue operation with the help of professional divers to find the man. The incident took place when Girish (22) and his wife Rajta (in her 20s) had gone to take a holy dip in the Ganga at Raghuveerdas Baba Ashram ghaat in Isampur village. They lost balance and were swept away by the river. With restrictions imposed on several ghaats, including Rajghat Babrala, Sisauna and Sadhumani, due to the high water level in the Ganga, scores of people visit Raghuveerdas Baba Ashram in Isampur village to take a dip, said locals. The authorities concerned have not put a restriction on visiting the Isampur ghaat despite the increasing water level, alleged locals. Gunnaur police station SHO Divendra K Sharma told TOI, “The family took the woman home. Her condition is stable. However, the rescue operation to find the man is still underway and several divers have been deployed since the afternoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/husband-wife-swept-away-by-gangawoman-rescued-man-feared-drowned/articleshow/77053746.cms||Maria Khan
July 20, 2020||Nashik||Covid scenario in Nashik city not alarming, says civic chief||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Sunday maintained that the Covid-19 scenario in Nashik city is not alarming. Game pointed out that the city has a healthy recovery rate of 65% and a bulk of the new patients are asymptomatic. Addressing citizens via social media on Sunday, the civic chief ruled out the possibility of any reintroduction of a lockdown. Game also answered citizens’ questions on the overall Covid scenario, number of beds, tests, medicines, containment areas etc. The municipal commissioner said though there is no need for a lockdown in the city, people should not go out of their homes unnecessarily any way and they should maintain safety protocols. Although the number of Covid-19 patients is increasing, there is no reason to worry as the recovery rate has also improved. “We are continuously keeping an eye on the rising number of patients and their recovery,” said Game. “People panic if any of their family members test positive. It should be noted that 85% of the people tested positive are asymptomatic and they get cured without treatment. Therefore, there is no need to worry. Only 15% of the patients require treatment in the hospital and 5% of them require ventilators,” he added. As per new guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), asymptomatic patients can be isolated and treated at their homes if they have the facilities. “We have adequate numbers of beds in NMC and private hospitals in case the number of cases rises. Moreover, we do have specialised Covid drugs and have ordered for more. The state government has fixed the rates of drugs like Remdesivir,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-scenario-in-nashik-city-not-alarming-says-civic-chief/articleshow/77055155.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||No major rainfall likely in next 5 days||AHMEDABAD: In a forecast on Sunday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) mentioned that there could be light to moderate rainfall in several districts of Gujarat on Monday. From Tuesday to Thursday, it could be light rainfall in parts of eastern and southern districts of Gujarat, as a cyclonic circulation is prevalent over south-west Rajasthan. Ahmedabad city and district can expect light showers, but there is no forecast of major rainfall. The city recorded a rise in temperature with cloudy atmosphere. On Sunday, the maximum temperature was 36.1 degrees Celsius, which was 3.2 degrees higher than the normal, whereas the minimum temperature was 26.8 degrees, which was 0.9 degrees higher than the normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-major-rainfall-likely-in-next-5-days/articleshow/77055982.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nepal cops fire at Kishanganj man who crossed border||PATNA: A man received bullet injuries when a team of Nepal’s armed police force (APF) opened fire on him when he crossed over the border in Kishanganj district late on Saturday evening to catch his ox that had fled to the neighbouring country. Victim Jitan Kumar Singh (31), a resident of Mafi Tola under Khaniabad panchayat, is undergoing treatment at Purnia sadar hospital where his condition is stated to be critical due to excess bleeding. This is the second such incident along the India-Nepal border in the last one-and-a-half months. On June 12, an Indian citizen, Vikas Rai (22), was killed and two others were injured when Nepal APF opened fire on a mob between Jankinagar in Sitamarhi district and Sarlahi in Nepal. Saturday’s incident took place around 7.30pm when Jitan was returning home from his agricultural field close to the international border near Fatehpur border outpost in Kishanganj district. One of his two oxen fled towards Nepal, crossed no man’s land and entered Nepal’s territory. Jitan crossed the porous border and entered Nepal to catch hold of his ox. Suspecting Jitan to be a cattle smuggler, one of the members of the APF opened fire, causing grievous injuries to him. Jitan was, however, rescued by locals. The locals said they tried to convince the APF personnel that Jitan was a farmer and not a cattle smuggler, but in vain. “The APF fired three rounds to scare away the mob. One of the bullets hit Jitan’s armpit,” they said. On getting information about the incident, commandant of 12th battalion of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) Lalit Kumar rushed to the spot and pacified the villagers, who were shouting slogans against Nepal police. The commandant said the incident took place between border pillar numbers 151 and 152 near Fatehpur. “We are in touch with our counterparts in Nepal. Such incidents should not have taken place. A meeting with the officials of the Nepal police and the local residents will be held soon to settle the issue. Most residents of the area have their agricultural land close to the international border,” the deputy commandant said, adding the situation was under control. Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish said on Sunday that the SSB officials were trying to settle the issue. “The local police officers have been asked to assist the SSB in maintenance of law and order at the border,” the SP added. This is the second such incident along the India-Nepal border in the last one-and-a-half months. On June 12, an Indian citizen, Vikas Rai (22), was killed and two others — Uday Thakur and Umesh Ram — were injured when Nepal APF opened fire on a mob between Jankinagar in Sitamarhi district and Sarlahi in Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nepal-cops-fire-at-kganj-man-who-crossed-border/articleshow/77056013.cms||Ramashankar
July 20, 2020||Delhi||DU receives maximum 1.2 lakh UG applications from Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has extended its registration process twice this admission season. According to the latest circular issued by the varsity in this regard, the registration process has been extended till July 31 to accommodate candidates from states where Class XII board exam results are not yet out. Till Sunday, Delhi University had received the highest number of applications (1,27,714) for its UG courses from the national capital. The second highest number of registrations came from Uttar Pradesh, shows data shared by the varsity. Most of the applicants this year are from north Indian states, such as Haryana, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh. Kerala is the only south Indian state in the top ten of the registration list. It is placed at the tenth position with 3,672 registrations. Gurpreet Singh Tuteja, former deputy dean (student welfare), however, claimed that “it may look that the number of applications from outside Delhi has reduced, but by the time the second extension ends on July 31, it may rise up manifold.” “The available data does not give a clear picture as many candidates might have filled multiple forms,” Tuteja added. This was evident from UG registration numbers too. Till 6pm on Sunday, the number of such registrations was 4,49,096, while the total paid applications were only 2,95,704. A member of the DU’s admission branch said that many candidates might have filled multiple forms to correct mistakes made by them while entering details. Tuteja believes that “if DU allows for ECA admissions, then the registration numbers will rise up further.” The DU’s data, meanwhile, suggests that maximum 2,46,430 applicants are from CBSE, followed by a distant 9,892 from CISCE. The UP and Haryana boards follow with 7,238 and 7,172 applications, respectively. The registration process was earlier supposed to be over by July 18. Watch DU receives maximum 1.2 lakh UG applications from Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-receives-max-1-2-lakh-ug-applications-from-city/articleshow/77056665.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||2 MLAs test positive, as Punjab tally hits 10,100||Chandigarh: After Punjab rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa tested positive for Covid-19 on July 16, the incumbent Congress’s two more MLAs — Phagwara’s Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal and Tarn Taran’s Dharambir Agnihotri — tested positive on Sunday. In all, Punjab reported a total 310 new positive cases on Sunday besides eight deaths. With this, the total number of patients tested positive in the state reached 10,100 and as many as 254 patients lost their lives while fighting Covid-19. Four patients breathed their last on Sunday in Ludhiana district, two in Hoshiarpur district and one each in Amritsar and Mohali districts. Ludhiana witnessed the highest number of 76 Covid-19 positive patients on Sunday, followed by 60 in Jalandhar, 40 in Patiala, 28 in Amritsar, 25 in Mohali, 13 in Ferozepur and 12 in Sangrur. Out of the total 310 patients, 15 persons had a source of infection from outside Punjab. Two new positive cases of Border Security Force personnel have been reported from Fazilka. Four police personnel have been found positive in Sangrur, three in Mohali and two in Amritsar. Five positive cases of healthcare workers were reported from Ludhiana, two in Tarn Taran and one in Mohali district. At the same time, a total of 81 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various hospitals of the state after recovery. Out of the total 3,311 Covid-19 active cases in Punjab, Jalandhar is at the top with 757 cases, followed by Ludhiana (702 cases), Patiala (536), Amritsar (229), Mohali (184), Ferozepur (123) and Nawanshahr (110). Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 64 Covid deaths till now, followed by 46 in Ludhiana, 33 in Jalandhar, 21 in Sangrur, 15 in Patiala, 11 in Mohali and 10 each in Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur. Punjab government has demarcated seven containment zones across the state in which total 22,806 people have been quarantined. Similarly, there are 13 micro containment zones containing 24,211 people. Punjab’s Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said two persons from other states had got themselves tested for Covid-19 in Mohali district and their reports came positive on Sunday.  “We will inform their respective states about reports so that they can be institutionally quarantined,” said Dr Bhaskar, explaining the discrepancy in the final Punjab tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-mlas-test-positive-as-punjab-tally-hits-10100/articleshow/77056690.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Pune||Pune district set to receive light rainfall till tomorrow, says IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department on Sunday forecast light rainfall over Pune district till Tuesday. The district was likely to receive light to moderate rainfall from Wednesday till Saturday. “At present there is no system present in the atmosphere. On Wednesday, the upper air circulation is likely to form in the atmosphere that will bring moisture over South Central Maharashtra from the Arabian Sea because of which the district was likely to receive light to moderate rainfall,” said Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather forecast division of IMD Pune. On Sunday, the weather condition across the district mostly remained overcast and sunny. The Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 31.7°C and 31.5°C day temperatures, which were above normal by 2.8 degrees Celsius and 2.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. “The ghat areas of the district have received moderate to heavy rainfall because of which the water level of dams in these area are increasing,” Kashyapi added. He said the district had received 16% excess rainfall till Sunday. Pune has recorded 263.2mm rainfallthis season, so far. The normal rainfall of the district was 251.6mm. A senior official from the district agriculture office told TOI, “The lack of rainfall in the district has affected plantation of rice at some places. The monsoon rainfall is necessary for healthy growth of sugarcane, otherwise sugarcane farmers are forced to water their crops using motor pumps.” “As far as state rainfall is concerned, only Nandurbar and Gondia have received deficit rainfall this season, so far. The remaining districts across the state have received average rainfall, so far,” Kashyapi added. Barring Mahabaleshwar (10mm) in Satara district and Malegaon (4mm) in Nashik district, no other station in Madhya Maharashtra received rain on Sunday. Chandrapur district in Vidarbha region received the highest rainfall of 39mm in the state on Sunday, said met official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-district-set-to-receive-light-rainfall-till-tomorrow-says-imd/articleshow/77056696.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||20 years of Kali Bein revolution: When community brought rivulet back to life||JALANDHAR: The work for rejuvenation of historic Kali Bein rivulet has completed 20 years. It was started in July of 2000 and for the next few years, the rural folks led by environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal cleaned its 160-km-long stretch, and a dried up rivulet, which had been turned into a sewer drain at places despite its historical importance, came back to life with fresh water flowing in it. The rejuvenation of the rivulet became a novel example in the country, which was quoted by then President APJ Abdul Kalam at several international and national forums as he pushed for replication of the model across the country. The project also set an example of using religious idiom and devotion for environmental cause. Founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak had got enlightenment at this Bein. But, the municipal bodies of around half dozen towns, including Sultanpur Lodhi and Kapurthala, and around four dozen villages were releasing their dirty water into it apart from dumping other waste. Even the waste water from Gurdwara Ber Sahib was being released into the rivulet. “We started the Kar Sewa of cleaning the Bein on Sangraand of Saawan month (first day of Saawan month according to lunar calendar) in 2000. We used to celebrate its anniversary every year, but this year due to Covid-19 pandemic, we held very small religious function on July 16 and streamed it live,” said Baba Seechewal. Then water resources minister Uma Bharti during the visit to the Bein at Sultanpur Lodhi said it was Guru Asthaan and for cleaning of Ganga river, she started a project of sending panchayats of villages along the river to see the place and also to Seechewal village to learn about their handling of waste water without polluting the river. “So far panchayats of around 750 villages have already visited from UP, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal,” said Gurwinder Singh, who has also been involved in the cleaning of rivulet from the beginning. Areas along its upstream stretch were water logged and after those were cleaned, the farmers received a huge relief as their fields were cleared of water logging. In the downstream areas, the water table was recharged. Later, the Punjab government started releasing water from Mukerian hydel channel. “After 20 years, while the flow of dirty water has been stopped from most of the places, at a couple of places it is still being released into the Bein,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/20-years-of-kali-bein-revolution-when-community-brought-rivulet-back-to-life/articleshow/77056691.cms||IP Singh
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Doctors help raise funds for kid’s transplant in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 10-year-old girl suffering from a genetic disorder called Wilson’s disease underwent a liver transplant at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital recently. The girl had reached the hospital from West Bengal in a critical condition, which required an immediate transplant. Though the family members could not afford the treatment, the doctors with the help of NGOs raised funds and treated the child. The doctors intervened on time and performed the surgery to save her life. The girl was even provided post-treatment care and arrangements were made for her family’s stay in Delhi during the lockdown. The girl is now doing fine and the family will return to their native village on Tuesday. Dr Nishant Wadhwa, consultant and chief, division of paediatric gastroenterology and liver transplantation at the hospital, said that the family visited the hospital in the third week of March. “The coronavirus crisis had then just begun, but her condition was critical. The surgery went on for around 10-12 hours with the entire team of nurses and paramedics focused to save her. It was risky, but the positive attitude of her parents gave us the hope and we went ahead,” recalled Wadhwa. When Rohini (name changed) reached the hospital, she was on a stretcher and had to be immediately shifted to an ICU and put on a ventilator. She was not even able to speak then. She needed a living donor liver transplant without which she could not have been saved. “The child’s mother donated a part of her liver and multispecialty teams involving paediatric hepatology, paediatric intensive care and liver transplant unit coordinated to successfully perform the liver transplant surgery. She was removed from the ventilator the very next day after the surgery and shifted to ward after five days of ICU stay where she recovered well and was later discharged,” explained Wadhwa. Post-surgery care for Rohini played an important role in her treatment as she was prone to infections. “We arranged for an accommodation close to the hospital so that her health could be monitored on a weekly basis. Now, we all feel so happy to see her walking and moving around on her own. She is even speaking fluently,” added Wadhwa. Watch Doctors help raise funds for kid’s transplant in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-help-raise-funds-for-kids-transplant/articleshow/77056700.cms||Sakshi Chand
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Accidents see spike during lockdown, fatalities dip by 23%||HYDERABAD: Over 89,000 cases were booked against offenders in Hyderabad police commissionerate limits for driving rashly and dangerously till June this year. Ironically, the cases have tripled in the area, which was under lockdown for 77 days, compared to last year during the same period. Last year, close to 26,000 cases of rash driving were booked until June. Though the number of accidents increased, fatalities dropped by 23% so far this year. Traffic police say majority of accidents happen due to negligent driving. “During the lockdown, several individuals were booked for speeding and negligent driving because of the relatively empty roads in the city. We have observed that most accidents occur due to riders/drivers own negligence,” Hyderabad additional commissioner of police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said. According to officials, the number of accident-related death dropped by 23% this year as enforcement was intensified against violations. According to the officer, this year 106 accident deaths had occurred till June. Of which, 92 were due to speeding and negligent driving. “In July first week, four fatal accidents took place of which three were due to the negligence by the driver. In one case, the accident occurred because the driver applied a sudden brake due to that the pillion rider fell and died of injuries,” the Additional CP said. Recently, a traffic safety awareness programme ‘Wecop’ was launched by Hyderabad police in collaboration with the Hyderabad City Security Council (HCSC) for schoolchildren to educate them about traffic rules. “We also share Dos and Don’ts on social media, share video footages of negligent driving in order to educate people about the dangers related to the carelessness on roads,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accidents-see-spike-during-lockdown-fatalities-dip-by-23/articleshow/77056694.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab’s Covid casualty rate goes past nat’l average||Bathinda: Punjab’s Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has yet again surpassed the national mortality rate against total cases. Till Sunday evening, the state had recorded a case fatality rate of 2.51%, against 2.48% recorded at the national level. Punjab has reported 254 Covid fatalities, against a total 10,100 cases. In India, there have been 26,951 Covid fatalities, against 10,86,476 cases. The global mortality rate was 4.19% on Sunday, with 6,05,813 of the total 1,44,65,612 people who have contracted the infection dying. In nearly four months, this is the first time Punjab’s fatality rate for Covid-19 has crossed the national average. Health authorities in Punjab blame the fatality rate on the likelihood of more Punjabis having comorbidities. Earlier, with nearly three weeks into lockdown to stop spread of coronavirus, Punjab had a fatality rate of 7.58% till April 10. By then, only 132 cases had been reported so far, while 10 patients had died. It was much higher than the fatality rate of neighbouring states, nation and world. Then, the national mortality rate was 3.1% and world fatality rate was 5.97%. However, Punjab has the consolation of higher recovery rate than national and world rate. With 6,535 persons out of total 10,100 positive cases getting recovered, Punjab has a recovery rate of 64.70%. The national recovery rate is 63.01%, with 684662 persons recovering out of over 10.86 lakh cases. The global recovery rate is 59.79%, with 86,49,075 persons overcoming the virus, of the total 1.44 crore cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjabs-covid-casualty-rate-goes-past-natl-average/articleshow/77056695.cms||Neel Kamal
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now circular to prevent gau rakshaks’ ‘hooliganism’||AHMEDABAD: CID (Crime), Gujarat, has issued a circular to prevent the alleged ‘hooliganism’ by self-styled Gau rakshaks. The circular instructs all the cops to ensure that no one is extorted or harassed in the garb of cow vigilantism ahead of Eid-Ul-Zuha or Bakri Eid on July 31. The circular issued by additional director general of police, CID (Crime), Dr Shamsher Singh states that the anti-social elements extort money and harass people who carry livestock in their trucks or other vehicles by threatening them with police cases. “In coming times when Bakri Eid festival will be celebrated, certain anti-social elements in the garb of Gau Rakshaks are likely to stop trucks carrying livestock which mainly include goat and sheep on national highway. They extort money from the persons (who carry livestock) accusing them of carrying beef ,” states the circular. The circular adds that the anti-social elements try to term buffalo meat as cow beef and extort money from the carrier with the threat of a police case. “So, it is instructed to ensure proper vigilance against these elements and use stricter laws against them, if they are found harassing, stopping and threatening any livestock carrier illegally,” says the circular. The circular has been sent to all the police commissionerates, SP offices, DySP offices and also to the police inspectors across the state. Sources in the police said that there are various incidents in the past where self-styled Gau rakshaks or cow vigilantes had attacked carriers of livestock. In July 2016, four Dalit youths were attacked by self-styled cow vigilantes in Una of Gir Somnath district when they were skinning a dead cow. In September 2016, one Mohammed Ayyub (29) was beaten to death by Gau rakshaks on SG highway in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-circular-to-prevent-gau-rakshaks-hooliganism/articleshow/77056015.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Amritsar||New book on Udham Singh by Akademi awardee Baldev Singh Sadaknama||BATHINDA: With two weeks to go to the 80th martyrdom day of freedom fighter Udham Singh, Sahitya Akademi Award winner Baldev Singh Sadaknama has written another book shedding light on historic perspectives. ‘Suraj Kade Marda Nahi’ (sun never dies) is on the life of Udham Singh, whose 80th death anniversary will fall on July 31. Udham Singh was hanged on July 31, 1940 for the killing of former lieutenant governor of Punjab Michael O’ Dwyer on March 13, 1940, at Caxton Hall, London. Sadaknama has written about historical events, including hosting Colonel Reginal Dyer, also known as butcher of Jallianwala bagh, at the residence of a prominent political family of Punjab and him being given a siropa at Harmandar Sahib after Jallianwala Bagh massacre. The mention could evoke sharp political reactions as earlier too the issue had been hotly debated in Punjab few months ago. Three years ago, when Sadaknama wrote the novel ‘Suraj Di Aakh’, which was on the life of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, activists of a number of Sikh organisations had objected to the writing. Some threats were also made to Sadaknama. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) had announced to engage Sadaknama in legal battle. Sadaknama (77), who won Sahitya Akademi Award in 2011 for his novel ‘Dhaawan Dilli De Kingre’, belongs to Chand Nawaa village in Moga. Though Suraj Kade Marda Nahi has been released, it will be formally launched on July 31, in a webinar to be attended by some writers and historians from London. Sadaknama said he had written on the many aspects of Udham Singh’s life and also on some facts pertaining to Reginald Dyer, which might not be liked by some. “The facts about how Udham Singh killed Michael O’ Dwyer and how bravely he faced trial, have been covered in the book,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/new-book-on-udham-singh-by-akademi-awardee-baldev-singh-sadaknama/articleshow/77056693.cms||Neel Kamal
July 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Guntur GGH chief goes into home quarantine||GUNTUR: A day after conducting a high-level review meeting with all heads of departments to ready the plan to tackle the Covid-19 situation, superintendent of Government General Hospital (GGH), Dr K Sudhakar went into home quarantine. He has decided to keep away from the office from Sunday after a security guard in the office tested positive for Covid-19. The state government has asked deputy superintendent Dr Markandeyulu to act as in-charge superintendent till Sudhakar resumes duty. Sources said that at least two doctors, two PG students and four staffers from GGH have also been tested positive for Covid-19. Already, the district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr J Yasmin went into self-quarantine after several officials in her office tested positive. The state government appointed district TB officer Dr Ramesh as in-charge DMHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ggh-chief-goes-into-home-quarantine/articleshow/77056030.cms||Samdani MN
July 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Records of all government school teachers set to go online||GURUGRAM: In an attempt to avoid duplicity and data forgery, the state government has decided to digitise records of all government school teachers. The education department has asked all the officials to start uploading the data on the human resource management system (HRMS)portal. The education department has sent out a circular to all the education officers across 22 districts to implement the data digitisation drive at the block level. Nodal officers have also been appointed to overlook the exercise and ensure that all teachers are covered and the portal is duly updated. All teachers and officials have been cautioned that without updating HRMS they won’t be able to draw their salaries. “Digitisation of records is one of the many initiatives that the state government has undertaken to streamline the functioning of every department. It’s a much-needed move to reduce the delay or any manipulation in handling of the records,” said Ritu Chaudhary, deputy DEO and district project officer. Leaves too have to applied and approved through this portal. “It’s a great move. The department will now have access to all required data. For teachers too, it will be helpful if they misplace their original documents. A copy of it will be available online,” said district elementary education officer Premlata. Similar order has also been issued for government college teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/records-of-all-government-school-teachers-set-to-go-online/articleshow/77057005.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
July 20, 2020||Nashik||20 mobile clinics to check patients with comorbidities||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to deploy mobile clinics at 20 different locations in the city to examine co-morbid patients.These mobile clinics will conduct antigen tests of co-morbid patients for early detection of Covid-19. This will help the NMC find out positive patients and provide early treatment. In addition, the municipal corporation is also prepared to start online allotment of beds for Covid patients in private hospitals. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game said that this new system will will be made operational within the next two days to help city residents to get beds in private hospitals through NMC helpline. “City residents find it difficult to get beds in private hospitals. There are also complaints by people of not getting beds. Hence, we are starting online allotment of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals within the next two days,” said Game.NMC helpline for Covid-19 patientsThe Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started three helpline numbers for people to seek help related to Covid-19. These helpline numbers are – 9796 07432233, 7030 300300 and 0253-2317292.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/20-mobile-clinics-to-check-patients-with-comorbidities/articleshow/77055163.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Residents’ active participation keeps Undri almost Covid-19 free||PUNE: At a time when the entire city is struggling to arrest the Covid-19 spread, Undri has emerged a bright spot with just 11 cases and no death since the start of the epidemic. Health officials attributed this feat to the proactive role by most housing societies in the area, besides preventive measures initiated by the civic authorities. “Undri, a newly merged suburb in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), has few cases as its residents are strictly adhering to the advisory issued by the district administration like maintaining social distance, wearing masks and using sanitisers. The 11 cases reported include one in March, three in April, one in May and six in July,” Kondhwa-Yeolewadi civic ward office health inspector Sachin Igave told TOI. “We have collected 50 swab samples and covered 150 housing societies, bungalows, row houses and lower middle class localities for conducting door-to-door survey, but there has been no opposition,” he said. Mandeep Dua, a senior banking official and Undri resident, said the most important step the residents took was avoided unnecessary movements. “Each society initiated measures like availability of major vendors at the gates with basic necessities. Dependencies on home delivery for groceries from retail chain helped. Residents were vigilant if anyone in the surrounding was not keeping well. Awareness camps on society premises for better understanding and finding the way ahead in case of any contingency helped too,” he said. Another Undri resident Swapnil Prakash Yeole, an IT professional , said, “Undri has a well-educated group of professionals living in well-distanced societies, which makes it easy for efficient adherence to social distancing. Overall awareness is high, which shows in the number of cases here.” PMC zonal medical officer Dinesh Bhende also attributed the few cases in the area to public participation. “For instance, people are not gathering in large numbers and maintaining social distance and taking other measures for preventing the virus from spreading further,” he said. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad from Kondhwa police said, “If positive case is reported in Undri, we get help from localities for contact tracing, sealing the infected place and quarantining affected persons. We have used public address system for creating awareness among the people.” Activist Sachin Ghule said since the lockdown was announced in March, over 25,000 residents took a call to strictly implement government advisory. “Residents have formed groups and are coordinating to contain the virus spread. They are not allowing outsiders to stay here for the time being. They are also assisting health staffers in sanitising and fumigating housing societies and other places,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-active-participation-keeps-undri-almost-ncov-free/articleshow/77056692.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Warning signages indicating Covid-19 hotspots leading to discrimination, says H D Kumaraswamy||BENGALURU: Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday urged the government to remove signages or boards indicating Covid-19 hotspots in urban areas. He said there is negative stigma attached to it and people residing in the area are being discriminated against. Kumaraswamy said because of the red posters which state ‘Warning — Covid-19 cases ahead’, people who are trying to recover from the virus are being singled out. “Instead, the government should ensure their health and Asha workers should visit their homes and the vicinity and sensitise people about the virus. Also, it is the responsibility of these workers to ensure infected people do not step out of their homes,” he said in a tweet. On another note, the JD(S) legislature party leader said the government should not be aggressive when dealing with private medical colleges or threaten to cancel their licences. “Only MCI has the power to cancel their licences,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/warning-signages-leading-to-discrimination-says-kumaraswamy/articleshow/77056022.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 'Doctor, my wife empties water tank'||AHMEDABAD: Recently, a frantic husband called 1100 telemedicine helpline complaining his wife is using a lot of water. "How is it a problem?" asked the attending psychiatrist. "Well, she empties the whole 500 litres of water tank daily. She washes the floor of the house three times a day and wipes clean all surfaces - cupboards, tables, storage boxes and even shoe racks-- to prevent coronavirus from entering our house"! He sought help when neighbours complained. "The husband was at his wits' end as his wife did not allow entry to anybody inside the house without a rigorous disinfection regimen, walking on a designated path and taking a bath even if it was only stepping out to meet the neighbour," said Dr Ramashanker Yadav, psychiatrist associated with the helpline. The doctors cautioned her - she was exhibiting signs of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Since launch in mid-May, the 1100 helpline by the state government has received nearly 12,000 calls attended by psychiatrists and psychologists. Helpline co-ordinator Dr Ajay Chauhan, medical superintendent of Hospital for Mental Health (HMH), said the number of calls has declined as compared to lockdown by nearly 50%. "During lockdown, most callers complained of anxiety or sought information about Covid. During unlock, calls are serious in nature complaining depression, OCD and issues needing intervention," he said. City-based psychiatrists say prolonged Covid-19 fear has triggered OCD in anxious people and worsened obsessive symptoms in existing patients. These include a man wearing a mask for 15 days even in his sleep and bath. "The man in his 50s said he read coronavirus spreads through air so he decided to wear a mask non-stop," says psychiatrist Dr Hansal Bhachech. "A 40-year-old businessman's wife sought help after he started wearing PPE kit at home when one Covid-positive case was diagnosed in his society. The man said he was the sole-breadwinner and did not want to risk getting infected and jeopardizing his family," said Dr Bhachech. Another woman used two liters of sanitizer a day rubbing it in her hands and feet till the skin broke. Psychiatrist Dr Mrugesh Vaishnav says fear of disease, death and battling disease is paramount in minds of people. While frequent hand washing is recommended, some are following it to extremes. "These are tough times and people need counselling to follow safety measures in moderation," says Dr Vaishnav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-doctor-my-wife-empties-water-tank/articleshow/77057309.cms||Parth Shastri
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Replace faulty street lamps in tiger reserve, tribals tell govt||Coimbatore: Tribals from Anaimalai Tiger Reserve have urged the district administration to replace faulty solar street lamps in their settlements to ward off perils of encountering wild animals, whose movements they say have gone up in their locality of late. The tribal settlements do not have power connections as yet. “As the solar powered street lamps were installed close to a decade ago, they have become defunct in five to six settlements including Kumatti, Erumaiparai and Nedunkundru. Despite several requests to replace them, no steps have been taken,” said V S Paramasivam, district president of TN Tribal People Association. “With the movement of wild animals including leopards and tigers around the settlements, it has become difficult for residents to sleep peacefully. To ensure wild animals do not enter the settlements, residents take turns to guard the area. Every night, a few of them sit around firecamps,” he explained. A couple of days ago, a wild animal had tried to enter a settlement in Kumatti, but it was sent back in the nick of time. As people live in huts, it is difficult to safeguard themselves if animals enter unnoticed, Paramasivam said. The association is planning to petition both the district collector’s office and chief minister’s office requesting them to repair the faulty lamps and install new ones at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/replace-faulty-street-lamps-in-tiger-reserve-tribals-tell-govt/articleshow/77056701.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Fines for not wearing masks at Arpora||Saligao: The Arpora-Nagoa panchayat has stated that fines would be imposed by the police on those without masks and not observing social distancing in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Anjuna police have instructed the panchayat to create awareness before the cops begin imposing fines on those not wearing masks. The panchayat has commenced house-to-house sanitisation drive while also making the villagers aware about the importance of wearing masks and observing social distancing. Sarpanch Rajesh Morajkar said that most of the youth and members of the fishing community were hesitant to wear face masks and no social distancing was being maintained. “In the initial days of the lockdown, the people were in fear, but now most are not wearing face masks. Since we do not want the virus to spread in the village, we have taken the decision to start imposing fines,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fines-for-not-wearing-masks-at-arpora/articleshow/77057011.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman loses Rs 99,000 to KYC update fraud||PUNE: A 21-year-old youth from Koregaon Park on Saturday lodged an FIR with cyber police station stating a fraudster siphoned Rs 99,000 from her mother’s bank account under the pretext of updating her e-wallet account. Inspector of the cyber police station, Santosh Barge, said on July 16, the cybercrook contacted the complainant’s mother and told her he was an executive of the payment application installed on her cellphone. “He told her to update her KYC details to continue using her e-wallet,” he said. The suspect took her bank account details and told her to download two apps. The fraudster got remote access to the woman’s cellphone and siphoned the amount from her account. Barge has made an appeal to the people they should not share details of their bank accounts. “E-walle companies or banks never ask for your account details over call,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-loses-rs-99k-to-kyc-update-fraud/articleshow/77056702.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Vadodara||Banyan City to document its unique centurion trees||VADODARA: When the century-old Baobab tree came crashing down in the Subhanpura recently, most locals had no idea about the rarity of this African variety which was one of its kind in the city. But Baobab wasn’t the only rare tree standing tall in the Banyan City that is home to many such unique trees. Now, two Barodians have taken it on themselves to document each such rare tree in the city limits. “Baobab was in the city for over 125 years but very few knew about this giant tree that was 50 foot tall. If the civic body had knowledge about it would have made efforts to conserve the tree. We have begun documenting such rare trees with unique qualities,” said Dr Jitendra Gavali, director of Community Science Centre (CSC). Gavali and another environmental activist, Hitarth Pandya are studying each tree, measuring its height, girth, location, flowering season and importance along with its native place. “Once we document these trees, we will initiate a movement to conserve them. As the locals aren’t aware of the uniqueness of such trees, they usually prefer to cut them ,” Gavali told TOI. He said Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) did not respond to their proposal to take up this study under Smart City earlier. “We have already documented about 20% of the rare trees. It is a first-of-its-kind exercise in the city that has one of the densest green cover in the state. Some of these trees have medicinal value too, Pandya said. Many centurion trees in the city have been chopped off due to ignorance of locals and apathy of the civic body over the years. One such century-old neem tree near Kirti Mandir was pruned and later cut down three years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/banyan-city-to-document-its-unique-centurion-trees/articleshow/77055484.cms||Tushar Tere
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man catches two with 300kg meat; FSL team called in||AHMEDABAD: Even as the CID (Crime) Gujarat issued a circular to ensure that no Gau rakshak take law in their hands, a self-styled gau rakshak from Vatva on Saturday wee hours nabbed two men for allegedly ferrying beef weighing 300 kg. The gau rakshak identified as Dinesh Amode (30), a resident of Vatva, caught two men from Kadi town of Mehsana district — Moinsha Abdal (23) and Shahrukh Kalal (21). Amode took the action at around 5 am on Saturday when the curfew was imposed on the city. According to an FIR filed with Ghatlodia police station, Amode, who is the Ahmedabad district secretary of Bhartiya Gau Raksha Mahasangh, said that he along with his friend Manoj Baraiya were going to a Hanuman temple in Kadi. At that time, he spotted an autorickshaw near Sola bridge and Amode began chasing it. He stopped the rickshaw at Bhuyangdev crossroads in Ghatlodia, states the FIR. “When I checked the autoriockshaw, a person carrying four sacks was sitting on the passengers’ seat. I suspected it was cow beef, so I nabbed him and the auto driver and called up the police control room,” said Amode in the FIR. Later, a police van reached there and Amode too went to Ghatlodia police station to ensure that an FIR was registered against the two persons. They were booked under the charges of cruelty to animals act along with relevant sections of BPMC act for not producing pass or permit to sell or possess meat. A team of FSL was also called to check whether the two men were carrying cow beef or something else. However, sources in the police said that the two men were carrying 300 kg of buffalo meat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-catches-two-with-300kg-meat-fsl-team-called-in/articleshow/77056024.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Nashik||Rainfall damage makes vegetables costlier, tomato price goes up 60% in Nashik||NASHIK: The prices of tomatoes and other vegetables have shot up in the city in the past fortnight as the rainfall has affected the supply to the local markets. There has almost been a 60% rise in the price of tomatoes in the past few days. While good quality tomatoes are being sold for Rs 50/kg against Rs 30/kg around a fortnight ago, sub-standard tomatoes are also selling for Rs 40/kg. Currently, tomatoes are coming from Narayangaon. The harvest of tomatoes in the Nashik district starts only by mid-August. “The crop has been damaged at large in the tomato-growing pockets in the state due to rain. Moreover, the quality of the tomatoes arriving in the market is also poor due to the rain. The shortage of supply has led to a rise in the tomato price,” said Bhikchand Parak, tomato trader and exporter. “The prices of tomatoes will be on the higher side until fresh harvest begins in the Nashik district in the second half of August,” said Parakh. Apart from tomatoes, prices of other vegetables have also increased up to 20-35% in the past two to three weeks due to short supply. “The supply of vegetables has dropped for the past few days due to rain that in turn has led to an increase in the prices. The supply is expected to increase by the second or third week of August,” said officials from Nashik APMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rainfall-damage-makes-vegetables-costlier-tomato-price-goes-up-60/articleshow/77055171.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||During pandemic, cyber attackers leverage Darknet||MANGALURU: The use of darknet, an overlay network within the Internet that can only be accessed with specific software, configurations, or authorisation, has increased following the lockdown. Cyber experts have noted that at least 50 lakh CVV and credit card dumps are available on the darknet. The details have been revealed in the Indian Financial Hack-2020, presented by Cyber Safe Bangalore, a firm that offers security assessment, cybercrime and darknet investigation solutions. Gagan Jain, CEO, Cyber Safe Bangaluru said, “Our investigation has revealed that following a cyber-attack in February, more than 50 lakh CVV and credit cards have been dumped on the darknet. These stolen credit cards and debit card details are sold online.” Further, he said, there has been a recent rise in One Time Password frauds that can be attributed to the data available on darknet. “There is no doubt the use of darknet has increased following the lockdown. From getting Covid-19 vaccines to lockdown passes and to ‘Hash’, darknet is thriving,” he added. The dark web or darknet is a small part of the deep web. Its contents are not accessible through search engines and it is the anonymous Internet. Within the darknet, both web surfers and website publishers are entirely anonymous. One can buy a variety of drugs including cannabis, stimulants, ecstasy, opioid, benzos, psychedelics, and even prescriptions and steroids here. Bank related stuff like CVV/cards, dumps, guides tutorials, fraud software, malware, product keys, driving licenses, software that will help social account hacking, ransomware campaign, and other related stuff are also available, Jain said. “ It only gets deeper,” he said. There is an anonymity network in which one may find difficulty in accessing and understanding initially, but once in, there are also some great tools that will even help one set up a hidden blog. “It is based on blockchain technology and allows for anonymous publishing and browsing of content and has a social network-style homepage that lets one follow other users, share content with followers, and tip the creators of content you like. This means that you can maintain a list of trusted peers and either connect to them only or connect to them in preference to less trusted peers,” Jain added. A senior officer from Bengaluru cybercrime station said darknet is a parallel world and dark web crimes are on the rise due to rapid digitalisation. You name it, you have it on the darknet. People need to come forward and report if they face cybercrimes, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/during-pandemic-cyber-attackers-leverage-darknet/articleshow/77055815.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||In 1998, cops were assaulted for trying to arrest don & bro||Lucknow: The guerilla-style ambush on police team on July 2 night by gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen was not a first for Bikru village as cops were attacked in the past too for trying to arrest the don. While tracing the criminal record of Dubey, investigators have stumbled on a case when Dubey and his relatives had attacked a police team when it reached Bikru to arrest him in 1998. In the FIR lodged at Shivli police station, Vikas Dubey, his brothers Deepu and Avinash, wife Sona, mother Sarla Devi and 15 unidentified people were charged with rioting, rioting with deadly weapons, and obstructing work of a public servant. According to the general diary entry (TOI is in possession of a copy) of Chaubeypur police station, Chaubeypur police came to know on on ay 9 that Vikas Dubey, then gram pradhan of Bikru, and his brother Deepu Dubey had come to their house in the village. The two brothers were accused in two cases of attempt to murder and holding a person hostage. A police team led by senior sub-inspector Brijendra Singh left for Bikru to nab the brothers. “As soon as the police team arrested Vikas and Deepu, 15 armed men confronted the cops. When cops refused to let them off, the criminals brutally assaulted them and tore their uniform,” home guard Jagannath Sharma said in his statement. “We asked for reinforcement but villagers came out in Dubey’s support due to which cops could not use force against them,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-1998-cops-were-assaulted-for-trying-to-arrest-don-bro/articleshow/77057008.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: With 397 new cases, highest single-day spike in Krishna||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district registered 397 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, the highest single-day spike in the district till date. A total of 3,548 cases have been reported in the district, of which 2,270 patients have been discharged and 1,240 patients are under treatment. Seven deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the death toll to 101. The district stands second after Kurnool in terms of number of deaths. The administration has alerted gram panchayats and urban local bodies to strictly implement containment norms. With the spread of the virus in rural areas, officials have instructed farmers busy with the kharif crop to maintain social distancing rather than work in close proximity. On Sunday, city police and the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) imposed fines on vendors flouting social distancing norms at marketplaces while district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz monitored the situation at the Covid-19 centre at Vijayawada GGH which is housing high-risk patients. “We are focusing all our efforts on better treatment for Covid-19 patients. We have launched three Sanjeevani mobile Covid-19 testing centres on Sunday. Along with 10 iMASQ centres, these vehicles will collect samples at high-risk areas. Early detection of Covid-19 will reduce complications. One should leave apprehensions and come forward for testing,” Imtiaz said. “As cases are rising every day, we have decided to rope in private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. One can use Aarogyasri and get treatment in corporate hospitals,” Imtiaz added. Meanwhile, Machilipatnam revenue divisional officer (RDO) Kaza Valli requested the public to stay home. The outbreak is worsening in rural areas of Challapalli mandal, the RDO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-397-new-cases-highest-single-day-spike-in-krishna/articleshow/77056038.cms||Venu Lanka
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||165 people booked for participating infuneral procession of priest in Kheri||BAREILLY: As many as 165 people were booked for participating in the funeral procession of a priest of a Valmiki temple in Palia town of Lakhimpur Kheri district. The 80-year-old priest died on Friday and was cremated the same day. Initially, police didn’t take action despite the social distancing norm was ignored during the funeral procession, but an FIR was registered after a video of the procession went viral. The news of the death of the Valmiki temple’s head priest attracted devotees from nearby districts as well. The priest used to give sermons to the devotees of the community for the past fifty years. Palia police station SHO Vidyashankar Shukla told TOI, “We have registered an FIR against 165 people, 15 identified and 150 unidentified, under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for participating in the funeral procession despite restrictions. Most of the people were from other districts and we are trying to identify them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/165-people-booked-for-participating-infuneral-procession-of-priest-in-kheri/articleshow/77051780.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Fisherman’s family worried as hill behind their house poses danger||Karwar: With monsoon intensifying in coastal Karnataka, the threat of landslides is looming large. A family of a fisherman at Khandyali in Keravadi village of Karwar taluk is spending sleepless nights as the hill behind their house is slowly slipping. Fisherman Rama Pagi owns the piece of land on the banks of Kali river, where he and his family members are living since the past 34 years. One side the land is being eroded by the river and the hill on the other side is slowly giving in. The family of six is facing a piquant situation as they cannot rebuild the house as it falls in the CRZ-II area. Since the past three days there is incessant rain the area and the family is running from pillar to post to get the help from the authorities. The water level in the Kali River is increasing. Coconut trees belonging to the family have washed away. Water had entered the house during the unprecedented floods last year. The family members said that though the nodal officer and local PDO visited their house after receiving their complaint, no compensation has been given to them. They urged the administration to give them a piece of land in a safer place to build a house. However, local revenue officials said that the administration, after last year’s floods, had drawn a plan to shift the families living on the Kali bank to a safer place and Rama Pagi’s family is also included in it. The process is in progress, the officials said. Local people alleged that blasting in the quarries is the main reason behind the landslides. They have urged the government to stop blasting in quarries or any development work. (PIC: 1. Pagi family 2. The landslide)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fishermans-family-worried-as-hill-behind-their-house-poses-danger/articleshow/77055299.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
July 20, 2020||Mysuru||Each assembly segment in Mysuru city will have a dedicated task force||Mysuru: Stepping up its efforts to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, the Mysuru district administration has constituted as many as four task forces – one each for the four assembly constituencies of Krishnaraja, Chamaraja, Narasimharaja and Chamundeshwari. Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar said that the teams would get to work from Monday. In addition to arresting the spike in the number of cases in the city, Somashekar met with senior officials and elected representatives of the Mysuru zilla panchayat to deliberate on the measures needed to be adopted to curb the transmission of the novel coronavirus across the district. “The MLA of the respective constituency will head the corresponding task force. Since Narasimharaja MLA Tanveer Sait is unwell, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has been entrusted the responsibility of overseeing the activities of the taskforce of that segment. Assistant commissioners, deputy commissioners and assistant commissioners of police, tahsildars and officials of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) will be among the members of the task force, each of which will also comprise 10 volunteers,” Somashekar said. The minister said that the members of the task force would meet every day, and discuss the necessary steps needed to be taken to combat the spread of the pandemic. “The task force will monitor the arrangements being made to supply food to infected patients receiving treatment. The officials, meanwhile, will keep a track of admission to private hospitals and ensure that infected patients are admitted to hospitals as soon as possible. We will assign three additional ambulances to each assembly constituency,” said Somashekar, adding that deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar had been directed to distribute booklets with telephone numbers of task force members to all residents. Meanwhile, the Mysuru district health and family welfare department has been training nurses and healthcare personnel of private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. Around 20 healthcare personnel including nurses from private institutions were imparted training. Meanwhile, Gopala Gowda Shanthaveri Memorial Hospital managing director Dr Santhrupthi HV, who also heads the Mysore Association of Hospitals, Nursing Homes, Diagnostic Centres and Clinics, announced that corona warriors who had been confirmed infected with Covid-19 would be offered free treatment. MAHAN has been entrusted with the treatment of corona warriors by the district administration, which has selected a defunct hospital in Yadavagiri to house the infected healthcare personnel. Mysore Urban Development Authority commissioner DB Natesh has been named the hospital’s nodal officer. Mysuru district health education officer Prakash told TOI that MAHAN had reserved 25 beds at the Yadavagiri hospital for the specific purpose. Mysuru DHO Dr R Venkatesh said that the facility, on the whole, had 100 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/each-assembly-segment-in-mysuru-city-will-have-a-dedicated-task-force/articleshow/77055937.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Panaji’s mangrove boardwalk picked by NITI Aayog to highlight sustainble city initiatives||Panaji: The mangrove boardwalk behind central library at Patto has been picked by Niti Aayog for its India Voluntary National Review (VNR) 2020 report on sustainable development goals. Niti Aayog’s VNR report will be submitted to the United Nations High Level Political Forum highlighting the progress made by the country towards the 17 sustainable development goals (SDG) identified by the United Nations Development Programme. Panaji’s mangrove boardwalk and Bhubaneshwar’s GIS-mapping system to deliver location-based services have been highlighted as good practices for other states to emulate towards SDG 11, which aims at sustainable cities and communities by 2030. “Panaji Smart City has developed a boardwalk in the midst of mangroves in the city under AMRUT. This has become quite popular with citizens and visitors to give them beautiful ecological experience,” secretary for the ministry of housing & urban affairs Durga Shanker Mishra said. The mangrove boardwalk project was executed by Imagine Panaji Smart City Development limited (IPSCDL) with the aims to create ecologically sustainable green spaces in the city. The boardwalk benefits tourists visiting the state, as well as the locals by providing a safe environment to relax and enjoy the mangroves along the Rua de Ourem creek. The boardwalk, which is made entirely of wood, was designed by architect Gerard da Cunha in 2018 and was built at a total cost of Rs 2.5 crore. The VNR 2020 report is a comprehensive document on the country’s efforts towards attaining the SDGs. India has fully adopted the UN’s SDG framework and aligned local development priorities with the global goals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panajis-mangrove-boardwalk-picked-by-niti-aayog-to-highlight-sustainble-city-initiatives/articleshow/77057146.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chennai||Gang rape accused, 2 more arrested for rape of four minors||Chennai: Police on Saturday arrested a 36-year-old murder case accused and charged him with raping his daughter and the daughter of his live-in partner, both minors, at Tirunindravur. The arrested man, who is also involved in a gang rape case, has been sent to jail, a police officer said. The suspect, a history-sheeter, lived with his partner and her three children. He had two children from his marriage. Every day, over the past few months, he raped his 16-year-old daughter and the woman’s 13-year-old girl, wooing them with fried rice and chocolates, the officer said. The children who was upset over his act, complained to their mother. She lodged a complaint with the Avadi all-women police. Investigations revealed that he had a gang rape case pending against him at the Tiruvallur all-women police station and a double murder case in Tondiarpet. “He has been booked under the Pocso Act and will soon be detained under the Goondas Act,” said an officer. In another case, the Ayanavaram police arrested a 21-year-old for kidnapping a 15-year-old girl and raping her. He kept the girl confined to a room in Tiruttani and took her to Renigunta and Tirupati. The railway police picked him up at Tiruttani and handed over to the Ayanaravam all-women police. Her grandmother had lodged a missing complaint two months ago. The accused, Tiruttani resident G Venkatesh, was remanded in judicial custody. In another incident, a 60-year-old resident of a village Uthiramerur in Kancheepuram district was arrested for raping and impregnating a Class VII girl. The 12-year-old girl, was alone at home when Gunasekaran, her neighbor, came in and raped her. He repeated the act several times. The incident came to light when the girl’s parents found her unwell and doctors revealed she was pregnant. The girl then narrated what had happened and her parents lodged a complaint with the Uthiramerur police. Gunasekaran is now in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gang-rape-accused-2-more-arrested-for-rape-of-four-minors/articleshow/77056706.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Demands in for CBI’s withdrawal||Bathinda: A day before the special CBI court takes up the CBI application on restraining the state government-appointed special investigation team (SIT) from conducting parallel investigations into sacrilege cases, demands for withdrawal of the central agency from the probe are growing strident. After the protest by hardline organisations and political parties in Bargari on July 17, Shukrana Divas (thanksgiving day) was organised by various organisations at the gurdwara in Mallke village, Moga for nomination of Dera Saccha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in the Bir theft case. They urged the Union government to recall the CBI and allow SIT to conduct investigations. Meanwhile, political parties have also intensified their fight. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar accused the previous SAD-BJP government of protecting those accused of sacrilege in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/demands-in-for-cbis-withdrawal/articleshow/77056697.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Restaurateurs adapt menus, go vocal for local||By: Anjali.Jhangiani PUNE: With restaurants having to adopt the delivery and takeaway model during the lockdown, there is a silver lining for vendors of local produce. Restaurants that were known to use imported spices, fruits, vegetables or meats, are now turning to local vendors and changing the menu items accordingly. Dishant Pritamani, founder and owner of The Daily All Day, said the restaurant has made changes to delivery menus primarily due to shortage of ingredients. “A lot of our dishes had imported ingredients, these will have no place on the menu in the short term. We’re relying on local ingredients as much as possible. We will be making the menus shorter to achieve more efficiency with fewer staff,” she said. Karan Khilnani, a partner at Elephant & Co, said the delivery menu has been shortened to reduce inventory of raw materials. He said once dine-in services resume, hand-held menus would have to go. “QR codes that would allow patrons to view menu on their own cell phones would be in place,” he said. Rachel Goenka, founder and CEO of The Chocolate Spoon Company that runs a number of restaurants in the city, shared their menus had to be truncated due to large disruptions to the supply chain. “To lower wastage and spoilage, we have been focusing on best sellers and smaller delivery menus. One positive to emerge from this crisis is the increased dependence on local ingredients, which has enabled all restaurants to reduce their carbon footprint,” she said. The dining out experience also includes the way the food is presented, which can hardly be reconstructed in a takeaway box. Therefore, some restaurants have changed their menus to avoid disappointing customers. Abhijeet Sagare, owner of Marmalade Gourmet & Grapes, said, “Being a fine-dine restaurant, we had to adopt a menu that can be easily packed and delivered fast, without losing quality. “ The restaurant’s plan to survive includes connecting with the guest and customizing the menu to their liking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurateurs-adapt-menus-go-vocal-for-local/articleshow/77056699.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||Army jawan dies in mine blast while patrolling India-China border in Ladakh||Nainital: Dev Bahadur, a 24-year-old Army jawan from Uttarakhand, who was on patrol duty along the India-China border in Ladakh, died on Saturday after he accidentally stepped on a land mine. He hailed from Kichha area of Udham Singh Nagar district. His brother Krishna Bahadur told TOI, “The village pradhan got a call from the Army on Saturday night that Dev had died after tripping on a land mine. We were told that he was patrolling the area and clearing snow when the mine went off.” He added that Dev Bahadur had joined the Gorkha Regiment in 2017 and was posted at Ranikhet briefly before being transferred to Ladakh. “My brother had returned to his unit only last month,” added Krishna Bahadur, who is also an Army jawan posted in Gwalior. He said that he returned to his native place as soon as he received information about his brother’s death. Meanwhile, the local officials said that the deceased soldier’s body would reach his village by Monday where he would be accorded a funeral with state honours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-jawan-dies-in-mine-blast-while-patrolling-india-china-border-in-ladakh/articleshow/77055180.cms||Prashant Jha
July 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Pedda Jeeyar Swamy stable||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams’ Pedda Jeeyar Swamy, who tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago, was discharged from Sri Padmavathi State Covid hospital and moved to home quarantine at Sri Pedda Jeeyar mutt on Sunday. Doctors treating the 70-year-old Sri Satagopa Ramanuja Pedda Jeeyar Swamy said, his condition is stable and that he was showing improvement and there was nothing to worry about. He has appealed to devotees of Lord Venkateswara through his doctors and disciples as to not believe in rumours about his health circulated on social media and clarified he has mild symptoms and will remain in home isolation. Former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu wished Pedda Jeeyar Swamy a speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pedda-jeeyar-swamy-stable/articleshow/77056047.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rakhis to masks, self-help groups being trained to tide over the crisis||NEW DELHI: While Delhi government is exploring options on how to revive economic activity in the city through reforms and demand creation, the district authorities too have begun initiatives to kickstart livelihoods disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. In some slums of New Delhi district, a women’s self-help group has been trained to make rakhis, with the raw material and working space provided by the district administration. The Central district has also created a self-help group of women to make and sell face masks. Named ‘Ummeed Ki Rakhi - Fight against Covid 19’, the New Delhi initiative in the slums of Budh Nagar, Inderpuri and adjoining areas has resulted in around 100 people, mainly women, receiving training to make rakhis. District officials believe the fabrication of the decorative wrist bands will provide employment to lockdown-affected families. “We are working on the formation of self-help groups,” said Tanvi Garg, district magistrate, New Delhi. There is also a National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM) programme for such groups.” She told TOI that the groups would first save money over three months and then build on that. “This is a new beginning aimed at employment generation,” Garg added. The DM said that while battling the health crisis, district officials had noticed how people were struggling to earn a livelihood. “We discussed this problem with such people,” Garg said. “We then motivated and assisted them in starting this initiative,” she said, adding that if those in the self-help group finds this helpful, they might continue and create a more formal structure. Garg said that there was no specific space earmarked for these groups, but working areas are arranged based on need and availability. According to Nitin Shakya, district nodal officer on Covid, “Local NGOs have been mobilised to provide raw material and to undertake the sale of the rakhis. The district administration and NULM will promote these among their staff and motivate others to help these self-help groups.” The proceeds from the sale of rakhis will be offered to the self-help group after deducting the cost of raw materials and sale expenses. Garg is also hoping to extend the Central district’s initiative on face masks to her district. She said that they were working to motivate the formation of self-help groups in other districts as well and offered the help of the New Delhi district administration given its experience of such groups. Nidhi Srivastava, DM, Central, said, “We believe mask-making will provide substantial return to self-help groups because masks are set to become the new normal. For our self-help groups, are also trying to get in touch with organisations involved in the making of agarbatti (incense stick) and candles, which can generate employment opportunities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rakhis-to-masks-self-help-groups-being-trained-to-tide-over-the-crisis/articleshow/77056709.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 20, 2020||Meerut||3 teens from Kairana drown in Yamuna||Meerut: Three teenagers aged between 13 and 17 years, drowned in river Yamuna in Kairana, Shamli district, near the UP-Haryana border, Their bodies were fished out after a massive search on Saturday night, said SP Vinnet Jaisawal.According to police, the three, hailing from Kairana, had gone for a swim on Saturday evening, when the accident took place. Some locals fishing in the area spotted the trio being swept away.While onlookers tried to rescue them, local police were alerted. But by the time help arrived, the three had drowned.Police immediately launched a rescue operation. In the absence of proper lighting, head lights of tractors were used to aid the search operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-teens-from-kairana-drown-in-yamuna/articleshow/77056054.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Nashik||Food and drugs administration warns against black marketing of Covid drugs in Nashik||NASHIK: The food and drugs administration (FDA) of Nashik has warned against black marketing of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab medicines required in Covid-19 treatment. Joint commissioner of FDA Dushyant Bhamre has said that the stocks of both medicines were adequately available in the district and, hence, any attempts to overcharge for the same or selling them in the black market will not be tolerated under any circumstances. Bhamre has also appealed to the people to dial 1800 2223 65 if they have any information about black marketing of these medicines. He said that cabinet minister for food and drugs administration Rajendra Shingne had conducted a meeting of government officials and pharma manufacturers to get an idea of the stock of medicines across the state. “The minister held a meeting with pharma companies who have assured that there was no dearth of medicines in the state and, hence, anybody found black marketing these medicines will be prosecuted,” the officer said. For Maharashtra, 21,500 vials of Remdesivir will be made available soon. Also, enought stock of Tocilizumab medicines will also be made available in appropriate quantity, said Bhamre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fda-warns-against-black-marketing-of-covid-drugs/articleshow/77055182.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops seize liquor worth over Rs 83,000||PUNE: The Pune city crime branch officials on Sunday arrested four persons for possession of the liquor and seized alcohol worth over Rs83,000 from them at a spot located in Sahakarnagar. A patrolling team headed by police inspector Vaishali Chandgude nabbed the four persons while they were trying the sell the country-made liquor and beer bottles following a tip-off in this regard. Police suspect that the four men, identified as Vitthal Sawaji, Bablu Shrivastav, Kalidas Misale, and Dheeraj Pardeshi, were out to sell alcohol to the people who wanted to celebrate Gatari. Police said they wanted to finish selling the alcohol before dawn. The liquor shops are shut due to freshly imposed lockdown and these men had hoarded the alcohol earlier, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-seize-liquor-worth-over-rs-83000/articleshow/77056704.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two German Shepherds injure man in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 51-year-old man was attacked by two German Shepherd dogs near Somajiguda. The victim, Shed Ahmed, a resident of Somajiguda was walking near Jaya Garden function hall when the dogs injured him. “The gate of the function hall was not locked. When the man was walking near the area, the two dogs attacked him,” said Panjagutta inspector, M Niranjan Reddy. The victim, a private employee, sustained severe injuries on the left thigh and hands. The left hand was fractured. He was rushed to the ESIC hospital. A case was registered against the owner under section 289 (Negligent conduct with respect to animal) and 337 (Whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of others) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-german-shepherds-injure-man/articleshow/77056708.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Lab technician held in Hyderabad after wife alleges triple talaq||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old housewife approached the Rachakonda police alleging triple talaq by her husband after harassing her for additional dowry. Though the husband was arrested on Thursday, the case came to light on Sunday. The victim, a resident of LB Nagar got married to Abdul Shamee, 36, a lab technician, from Mallepally in Mahbubnagar district in 2017. “The couple moved to Omkar Nagar colony in LB Nagar from the district soon after. In 2018, she gave birth to a baby boy in critical and emergency situation, and went to her parent’s home in Rajendranagar limits for a couple of months after the delivery,” said a police officer from LB Nagar police station. According to officials, during that period, Abdul and his family allegedly stole all her gold and sold it. “When she questioned them, they allegedly beat her up and locked her in a room for three months. They did not let her speak to anyone,” said the officer. She had reportedly approached the Saroornagar women police station earlier and lodged a dowry harassment case. However, the harassment continued. “The accused harassed her mentally asking her to commit suicide or injure herself so that he can escape the marriage,” said the officer. According to LB Nagar police, Abdul on March 25, during the lockdown, gave triple talaq verbally to the victim and made her leave the house. “Because she had no support, she could only approach the cops on June 26 and lodged a complaint. The case was then, transferred to LB Nagar police station,” said Venkateshwarlu, Vanasthalipuram SI. Abdul was arrested under Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lab-technician-held-after-wife-alleges-triple-talaq/articleshow/77056703.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris recommends 4K organic farmers for scope certification||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris has the highest number of farmers practising organic farming in the state. At least 4,800 farmers in the district, under the collective farming scheme, have registered for scope certification from the Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department (TNOCD). The farmers belong to 48 farmer producers’ groups. Each group has 100 farmers.Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department, said, “To encourage organic farming, we have recommended the farmer producers’ groups for scope certification.”According to him, it would take at least three years for the soil to get converted into organic. “It requires continuous biofertilization or vermicompost manuring.”After three continuous years of organic farming, the farmers will receive organic certificate for their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-recommends-4k-organic-farmers-for-scope-certification/articleshow/77056716.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt asks DMs to clear building material stock||LUCKNOW: Expediting construction activities hitherto hit by coronavirus pandemic, the UP government has set a deadline of September 30 to clear 90% of construction and mining material stock in the state. In a communiqué to all district magistrates, secretary, mining and geology, Roshan Jacob has directed them to ensure that supply of construction material, essentially sand and ‘maurang’ (coarse sand) is made without any interruption during monsoon period. Jacob said district authorities should regularly monitor the supply of construction material and report it on the department’s portal. The portal has the provision of monitoring transportation of mined material from store houses to construction site. The officials would be able to assess the quantity of construction material being released from the store by logging into the portal from a designated ID. Notably, the storage of minerals has increased by almost 1.30 lakh cubic metre, officials said. “Sand and coarse sand have been stored in adequate quantity during ongoing monsoon season,” an official said. The state government is speeding up construction activities to provide employment to people, mainly migrants who returned to the state during coronavirus lockdown. Earlier, the state government had issued more licences for storage of construction material to boost construction activity. Accordingly, the number of licences for riverbed material (RBM) has recorded an increase from 11 in 2019 to 96 this year. Licences for storage of mined material increased from 221 in 2019 to 370 this year which is a rise of over 67%. Records show that licences issued for storage of sand increased from 102 in 2019 to 107 this year. Officials said the department has made adequate arrangements to ensure transparency in transportation and storage of construction material. All district magistrates have been asked to put up signboards at all storage centres and ensure geo-tagging, e-receipts and installation of CCTV cameras to keep maintain vigil on the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-asks-dms-to-clear-building-material-stock/articleshow/77057014.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops on patrol, those visiting mortuaries told to wear PPEs||HYDERABAD: The novel coronavirus induced revolutionary changes not only in the lifestyle of the residents but it has also redefined the manner police approach a crime scene, interrogate an accused and nab a culprit. A few days back, Cyberabad commissioner VC Sajjanar instructed cops to wear personal protection equipment (PPE) when they visit a mortuary and handle accident cases. “As a number of police personnel are contracting Covid-19, commissioner’s message regarding PPEs was shared with all the staff members, especially those who are with the patrolling team and those visiting mortuaries,” said a senior police official from Cyberabad. Another tricky issue faced by the police is regarding the health status of the accused and visitors. Cops are facing a tough time as they have to take precautions like maintaining physical distance, wearing masks, using sanitizers while questioning as well as receiving complaints. In a bid to reduce the workload of police, who are already burdened with the pandemic situation, the authorities eased the norms and now only the accused, related to offences that may result in imprisonment of more than seven years, are being produced before the magistrate. “Before we take an accused to a magistrate, the doctors have to certify that he is not a Covid-19 patient. Only then the accused will be admitted into the state prison. For all other minor offences, police themselves are granting bail. This has been a part of the Standard Operating Procedure due to pandemic,” a Hyderabad police officer said. The incident in Warangal, a few days back, explains the challenges faced by cops while dealing with a Covid-19 suspect. The escort policemen, who accompanied an accused to MGM hospital, faced a torrid time. The accused gave a slip to the police and though they got a chance to nab him, they feared to touch him as he is a Covid-19 suspect. Till now, at least 10 Telangana policemen succumbed to the virus in the line of duty. One positive aspect is that the movement of interstate gangs has come down. With several restrictions on travel, gangs are finding it difficult to come to the state. Only local criminals are involved in crimes now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-on-patrol-those-visiting-mortuaries-told-to-wear-ppes/articleshow/77056715.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||+ve Siolim man gets results after 4 days||Saligao: The first Covid-19 case was detected in Siolim-Sodiem panchayat’s jurisdiction on Saturday after a 30-year-old man working at the Kundaim industrial estate tested positive. Health officer of Siolim primary health centre (PHC), Dr Sadhana Shetye, said the Sodiem resident had undergone the test on Monday. However, he was not intimated about the results till Saturday morning, following which he approached the health centre and learnt he had contracted the virus. “We have started contact tracing in Sodiem and throat swab samples will be collected. He has been shifted to the quarantine facility in Calangute,” Shetye said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ve-siolim-man-gets-results-after-4-days/articleshow/77057030.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||SP Crime: Will take illegal mining cases to logical end||Panaji: Crime branch SP Shobhit Saxena said on Saturday that the special investigation team (SIT) would take the illegal mining cases to their logical end. Saxena, who recently took charge of the crime branch, told TOI that “appropriate action would be taken in mining cases”. The SIT has been probing these cases for the past five years, but there hasn’t been much progress. Saxena also said the SIT is studying the documents submitted by the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) with regards to 126 mining leases as part of its investigation into the Rs 35,000 crore scam. He added that the SIT is coordinating with other departments to collect more documents. Police distributed the investigation of the 126 mining leases to four PIs. The SIT had sought answers to 19 questions from the DMG about the leases, which were operational from 2007 to 2012. The documents provided to the SIT include environmental clearances (EC) to the leases, quantity-related papers, and EC limits. On July 26, 2013, the mines department had filed a criminal complaint in the case with the crime branch, seeking that it fixes criminal liability against those involved. It had also requested police to file an FIR against persons identified in the reports of the SC-appointed Central Empowered Committee, the Shah Commission and the Public Accounts Committee. On August 19, 2013, the crime branch registered an FIR against politicians, bureaucrats, mine owners, mines department officials and others identified in three reports, it was later transferred to the SIT.  The SIT is studying the documents submitted by the directorate of mines with regards to 126 mining leases as part of its investigation into the Rs 35,000cr scam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sp-crime-will-take-illegal-mining-cases-to-logical-end/articleshow/77057147.cms||Murari Shetye
July 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, Srikakulam tracks locals’ health through colour codes||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Srikakulam district administration has started a 49-day health surveillance programme termed Sapta Varnalu (seven colours)-Sapta Vaaralu (seven weeks) to check the Covid-19 outbreak through collecting health data of all households in the district. Each of the seven colours of a rainbow (Vibgyor) will mark each week of the programme. The initiative has been conceptualised by district collector J Nivas. The first week of the survey has already been completed and violet stickers pasted on doors of houses covered under the survey. “We will come to the next colour, indigo, starting this Monday, July 20,” said M Chenchaiah, district medical and health officer. “We will cover 8.32 lakh households in the district every seven days, seven times in the programme. Our health surveyor teams will collect details of every individual in the prgramme,” Chenchaiah told TOI. Each volunteer will cover around 50 households, with support from health workers. The team will record any health problem reported by a respondent. Meanwhile, district officials said the administration has geared up to test nearly 4,000 samples every day. Collector J Nivas appealed to people to voluntarily come forward for Covid-19 testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-srikakulam-tracks-locals-health-through-colour-codes/articleshow/77056062.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 20, 2020||Amritsar||Probe into swapping of bodies||Amritsar: Relatives of Covid-19 patient Padma (37), whose body was swapped with Pritam Singh (92), another Covid-19 patient, was cremated by her relatives on Sunday amid protests. Due to negligence of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital staff, the body of Padma, a resident of Damganj in Amritsar, was swapped with that of Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur. Padma’s relatives didn’t see the body which was wrapped in a bag and cremated Singh. However, when Pritam’s relatives checked, they were surprised to find a woman’s body and complained to hospital authorities. On Sunday, Padma’s body was brought from Hoshiarpur and handed over to her relatives for last rites. They alleged of gross negligence on the part of hospital authorities and claimed that the jewellery which Padma was wearing during her treatment was missing. District magistrate Shivdular Singh Dhillon has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the swapping of bodies. Sub-divisional magistrate Shivraj Singh Bal is conducting the inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/probe-into-swapping-of-bodies/articleshow/77056710.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Vedic priests to place silver brick at ‘garbh griha’ to mark ‘bhoomi pujan’||AYODHYA: From the security blueprint to minutest Vedic details of ‘bhoomi pujan’, elaborate preparations have begun in Ayodhya for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s likely visit to Ramjanmabhoomi on August 5. Sources in the Ram temple trust said, the PM will touch down in Ayodhya between 11-11:30am and lay the foundation of the temple at 12:13pm — an auspicious time drawn by priests after detailed calculation of planetary configurations. Vedic rituals, recital of hymns and mantras will begin at 8am and continue till 1:10pm, said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, spokesman of temple trust president Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. The rituals, however, will span three days from August 3 and culminate in the ‘bhoomi pujan’ with the placing of a 40 kg silver brick at the garbh grih (sanctum sanctorum) by Vedic scholars and priests from Varanasi, he said.“Since the shifting of Ram Lalla idols in March from the makeshift structure to the current abode was done by Kashi priests, the bhoomi pujan too will be performed by them. The Ramacharya puja will be conducted on August 4,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das told TOI. “Going by the tentative information received by us, the prime minister will visit Ayodhya on August 5. The ceremony will be ‘bhoomi pujan’, not ‘shilanyas’, which was already performed in 1989 by current Trust member Kameshwar Chaupal during the tenure of then PM Rajiv Gandhi,” said Triloki Nath Pandey, decree holder of Ramjanmabhoomi. Anil Mishra, a member of Trust said that a formal invite has been sent to the PM, but there was no official confirmation of his schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vedic-priests-to-place-silver-brick-at-garbh-griha-to-mark-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77057023.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Gandhinagar's growth stagnated, says study||AHMEDABAD: Even as Gandhinagar municipal limits grew in size by a little over149 sq km, from an eight-ward municipal corporation to now 11 recently, the city faces a crucial problem that restricts its growth. It’s one of the few cities in the country which is governed by multiple civic agencies — Capital Projects Division(GCPD), Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) and Gandhinagar Notified Area Committee (GNAC), often leading to conflicts. Recently a study by the department of political science, Auburn University, US, identified several crucial aspects that has been restricting the capital city’s growth since its inception. To cite an example, the study claims that the retail growth for the capital has been so sluggish that only 20% of planned commercial areas developed after nearly four decades. It claims how restricted development, a tightly controlled land market, and regulated prices resulted in artificial land scarcity, unrealistically high property prices, and overall stagnation as other reasons. “In 1997, over 7,500 lots (about 930 ha) were vacant that had capacity to accommodate additional 56,500 residents, and 15% land remained to be plotted, auctioned, or allotted,” claims Associate Professor, Sweta Byahut of department of political science, Auburn University, US. She added that initially, Gandhinagar was planned to accommodate 1.5 lakh residents, but in 1974, the target population for 2015 was increased to 3.5 lakh. “Given the slow city growth, the revised target population is unlikely to be achieved even by 2031,” claims Byahut. In 1996, Byahut says in her study, seven villages were identified as nucleus villages for their growth potential, as they were strategically near highways and to Gandhinagar city, and had village infrastructure, and market demand. Between 2001 and 2011, the study claims, Gandhinagar city’s population, increased by less than 7,000, but Gandhinagar Urban Area Development (GUDA) population outside the city increased by over 46,000. “In spite of the periphery control, or perhaps due to it, the highly desirable area between Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar experienced an intense demand for land from private sector leading to large-scale speculative investments in the 1990s,” claims Byahut in her study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gnagar-growth-stagnated-study/articleshow/77056084.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||New law may be hit by staff crunch at consumer forums||VISAKHAPATNAM: Severe manpower crunch in the district consumer forums and the state legal metrology department has raised apprehensions over the implementation of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which is expected to come into effect from Monday. Under the new Act, the scope of cases at the district forums will increase. Senior officials, however, point out that the 17 district consumer forums in the state have only 14 members at present. “As per law, each forum should have at least three members, including a president (judge). The 17 forums should have 51 members, but at present there are only 14 members,” a senior official from the consumer affairs department told TOI. At the legal metrology department, there has been no fresh recruitment since 2006, even as several employees have resigned in the interim. “In February, there was an amendment making it compulsory for sweet shops and bakeries to have MRPs for the products they sell. This amendment was scheduled to come into effect from June. We could not implement it in the state owing to shortage of manpower. Despite this shortage we are one of the leading states in the country to impose fines against errant shopkeepers,” said a senior official from the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-law-may-be-hit-by-staff-crunch-at-consumer-forums/articleshow/77056081.cms||Arpit Basu
July 20, 2020||Nashik||FIR registered against 3 for forging documents||Nashik: A bank has lodged a complaint with the police against three people after customers raised concerns regarding changing beneficiaries of a bank account without their consent. The Upanagar police have filed an FIR against the accused. According to the police, the accused had given their identities and forged papers with a request to change beneficiaries of a bank account without the consent of the actual NRI account holders. The accused, identified as Santosh Sangle, Kishore Desle and Lalit Nikamon, on June 25 presented their papers along with forged documents to the bank with the request to add them as a beneficiary to the account held by Dr Gemini Dave and Madhavi Dave. Police said the accused had also requested to change the phone number and the email ID of the account. After receiving the request and the documents, the bank alerted the customers for the change in beneficiary accounts – which is a standard procedure so that the customers can confirm the changes required. Following which, the customers informed the bank that no such request has been made by them. Then the bank officials registered a complaint with the police. Police have registered a case under sections 420 and others of the Indian Penal Code for cheating the bank with forged documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fir-registered-against-3-for-forging-documents/articleshow/77055201.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||5,000 remdesivir vials arrive in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Nearly 5,000 vials, the first batch of the crucial Covid-19 life-saving injectable drug remdesivir manufactured in India, arrived on Sunday in Gujarat and has been disembarked in Ahmedabad. On July 6, the manufacturer Mylan NV had announced that the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had approved its remdesivir 100mg vial for restricted emergency use in India. Mylan has the licence to launch the generic version of remdesivir in India. “Mylan had manufactured these vials at its Bengaluru facility and its first batch arrived in Gujarat after they were permitted by DCGI in early July,” said a senior state health official. The drug will be provided at 80 per cent less cost. Last month, two other Indian drugmakers, Cipla Ltd and privately-held Hetero Labs Ltd, also launched generic versions of the treatment. “Remdesivir drug is approved for the treatment of suspected or laboratory confirmed incidences of Covid-19 in adults and children hospitalized with severe presentations of the disease,” claimed a Mylan press release. The two drugs, tocilizumab and remdesivir, have shown some promise in their efficacy in treating Covid-19 patients. “Since April, a total of 6,400 tocilizumab injections had been supplied to Gujarat by the Sweden-based company, nearly 50% of vials supplied are with the government health system. Even till this date nearly 80% of the tocilizumab injections are administered to patients in government facilities. There should not be any shortage in the private sector,” said the senior health official. The current batch of remdesivir drug, the official said should be a big respite for patients under treatment in various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5k-remdesivir-vials-arrive-in-state/articleshow/77056111.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Income dips, Manali operators sell taxis||MANALI: With sources of income dried up due to coronavirus crisis, the social media platforms are abuzz with messages from taxi operators from Himachal Pradesh, who are offering to sell their vehicles at attractive prices. The tourism industry, which is one of the major sources of income for lakhs of people in the state, has been hit hard by Covid-19. While some in industry are getting conditional loan from the banks, small scale businesses, including taxi operators have not received any relief. Unable to pay EMIs, they are selling their vehicles. A taxi operator Leeladhar said, “I have three taxis and I owe a lot of money to the banks. I am availing EMI moratorium till August, but how will I survive till next tourism season that starts in April. Tourists are our main source of income and it may take one more year for tourism industry to come back on track. We have to survive till then. I sold one of my taxis a few days ago and have offered to sell another. Keeping them standing till we get customers next year and paying EMIs out of our pocket is foolishness.” A large number of people and travel agencies had purchased new taxis in the winter, just before the beginning of summer tourism season. Unfortunately for them, tourism activities have remained closed from March, even during the peak tourist season from April to June. Thousands of operators are now worried for their future. “It is better to be rid of liability by selling the taxi before banks serve notice for non-payment of EMI. Given the demand from tourists, I sold my small car and bought a luxury car in February. I had no idea that this will prove to be a wrong decision. So I circulated its photos with price on WhatsApp so that I could find a direct buyer. Many of my friends are also doing the same,” another taxi operator Rajender Kumar said. According to Sushil Thakur, who deals in used cars, a large number of people are approaching him to sell their vehicles. “The number of sellers has gone up multiple times in June and July. Both taxis and private vehicles owners are contacting me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/income-dips-manali-operators-sell-taxis/articleshow/77056719.cms||Suresh Sharma
July 20, 2020||Dehradun||PM Modi dials Uttarakhand CM on hearing of 100 Army men testing Covid-19 +ve in Doon in 4 days||Dehradun: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and enquired about the Armymen who have contracted Covid-19 in the state. CM Rawat had on Saturday said that a total of 120 Army personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far, over 100 of them in the last four days. On Sunday, 13 more Army men and two CISF personnel tested positive for the coronavirus, according to the health department. Over a phone call with the CM, PM Modi wished for their speedy recovery and urged the state government and Army officers to co-ordinate and ensure proper treatment of all infected soldiers. “It’s a cause of concern for all of us. However, tracing the origin of the infection and their contacts will not be a problem as the travel of Army jawans remains specified,” said CM Rawat. The CM added that “the state government is in regular contact with the Army and every necessary facility is being provided for the soldiers’ treatment.” The CM apprised the PM of the state’s coronavirus situation, saying the state has strengthened its health infrastructure to deal with the rising coronavirus cases. PM Modi also told Rawat that in view of the on-going rainy season, special attention should be paid to disaster management in the Himalayan state. He assured all possible support to the state from the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pm-modi-dials-uttarakhand-cm-on-hearing-of-100-army-men-testing-covid-19-ve-in-doon-in-4-days/articleshow/77055219.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit admin revives turtle rescue centre project||PILIBHIT: After a gap of two years, Pilibhit administration is planning to revive the turtle rescue centre project, proposed to be set up near Phulhar lake at Madhotanda village. The project was proposed in November 2018 by a US-based international organization, Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA), after Pilibhit-Kheri region was identified as one of the five-most sensitive areas in UP vulnerable to turtle poaching and illicit trading by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). The rescued turtles will be kept there till they are released in their original habitats. Pilibhit is home to 12 turtle species, including six enlisted in schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The Phulhar lake has sizable population of the Indian soft shell turtles, one of the schedule I species. Two years ago, the then DM, Akhilesh Mishra, had sought an approval and a sum of Rs 1.06 crore from the principal secretary of forest, UP government, for the project aimed at protecting turtles. Now, present DM, Vaibhav Shrivastav, has sought details about the project from the SDM of Kalinagar tehsil and the status of the1.5 acre plot needed for setting up the rescue centre. “A suitable plot near Phulhar lake will be an added attraction for tourists who visit the place of river Gomti's origin," the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-admin-revives-turtle-rescue-centre-project/articleshow/77052922.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Drones used for manning high-tension cables||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) has started using drones for manning network of its high-tension wires across the state. A total of 16 drones have been deployed in different parts of the state. The number of drones is likely to go up further as per the availability of trained manpower. Claiming it to be the first power utility in India to adopt such advanced technology, MSETCL said that the drones are laced with advanced technology that can also detect flaws in the network. Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut and MSETCL chairman Dinesh Waghmare pursued the demand for using drones with the Centre, following which the Ministry of Civil Aviation granted the necessary clearance. "The MSETCL is the largest power distribution company in the country having a large network of 48,321 km circuit network of power cables. The use of drones is highly beneficial in remote areas and costal areas among other parts of Maharashtra," an official release said quoting Waghmare. Ground patrolling, tower top patrolling and survey are some of the identified activities that will be carried out by MSETCL using drones. The advanced technology is expected to speed up the maintenance work of high-tension cables with optimum use of resources. The drones have video-cameras and thermo-vision cameras which are expected to help in accurate trouble-shooting. "These drones can reach very near to the towers and, therefore, emerged as effective diagnostic tool. The movement of drones and target works can be effectively monitored by top officials by getting real-time updates," MSETCL authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/drones-used-for-manning-high-tension-cables/articleshow/77055211.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Vaccination programme for children hit in Himachal||Shimla: The Covid-19 pandemic hindered the routine vaccination programme for children in Himachal Pradesh, especially during March-April, as the parents feared that their child would get the coronavirus infection. Besides, the lockdown and curfew were the other reasons that came in the way of the programme. The gap was, however, covered in May and June, claimed the health authorities in the state. Under the universal immunisation programme, vaccination is done to protect children from diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, measles, severe form of childhood tuberculosis, hepatitis B, haemophilus influenza type b (Hib) and diarrhoea. Kangra chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said initially, in the months of March-April, there was a dip in vaccination as parents were panicky about the coronavirus infection and refused to bring their children to hospital for immunisation. But, they were educated about the importance of vaccination and informed that instead of going to a major hospital for immunisation, they can avail the facility at their nearest health centre by following social distancing norms for the safety of children. Hamirpur CMO Dr Archana Soni said the health department arranged special buses of HRTC to create awareness among parents in both urban and rural areas of the district. “Now we have covered most of the children under the universal immunisation programme,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccination-programme-for-children-hit-in-himachal/articleshow/77056729.cms||Anand Bodh
July 20, 2020||Shimla||Vaccination programme for children hit in Himachal||Shimla: The Covid-19 pandemic hindered the routine vaccination programme for children in Himachal Pradesh, especially during March-April, as the parents feared that their child would get the coronavirus infection. Besides, the lockdown and curfew were the other reasons that came in the way of the programme. The gap was, however, covered in May and June, claimed the health authorities in the state. Under the universal immunisation programme, vaccination is done to protect children from diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, measles, severe form of childhood tuberculosis, hepatitis B, haemophilus influenza type b (Hib) and diarrhoea. Kangra chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said initially, in the months of March-April, there was a dip in vaccination as parents were panicky about the coronavirus infection and refused to bring their children to hospital for immunisation. But, they were educated about the importance of vaccination and informed that instead of going to a major hospital for immunisation, they can avail the facility at their nearest health centre by following social distancing norms for the safety of children. Hamirpur CMO Dr Archana Soni said the health department arranged special buses of HRTC to create awareness among parents in both urban and rural areas of the district. “Now we have covered most of the children under the universal immunisation programme,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/vaccination-programme-for-children-hit-in-himachal/articleshow/77056729.cms||Anand Bodh
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC fines woman for second bail plea||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has imposed fine of Rs 10,000 on a woman for filing anticipatory bail for the second time after withdrawing it last month in connection with a quarrel with neighbours in Savarkundla town of Amreli. Mumtajben Sumra and her daughter, along with five others were booked in February after a violent feud with neighbours. The mother-daughter duo approached the high court in June for pre-arrest bail. The court granted bail to the daughter, but was not inclined to extend legal protection for the mother looking at the charges levelled against her. She withdrew her anticipatory bail plea. Last week, Sumra filed another anticipatory bail plea. This led the HC to cite a judgment on this issue by the Rajasthan HC and comment, “It has been rightly observed in the referred judgment that provisions of anticipatory bail should not be put to abuse at the instance of unscrupulous petitioners.” The HC termed the second anticipatory bail plea as total abuse of process of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-fines-woman-for-2nd-bail-plea/articleshow/77056107.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Ramjanmabhoomi to house museum of excavated artefacts||LUCKNOW: Besides a magnificent temple of Lord Ram, visitors to Ayodhya will also be able to see archaeological artefacts excavated from Ramjanmabhoomi that played a crucial role in establishing Hindu claim on the site. Some of these artefacts are already on display at Ramkatha Sangrahalaya. Officials of Archaeological Survey of India, who have been the custodian of the legacy, say there are over 400 centuries-old artefacts housed inside a 25x50 sqft shed on the site. Also, there are scores of pottery and antiques in Manas Bhavan, the control room of Ramjanmabhoomi. Permanent member of Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, Anil Mishra said: “A world-class museum would come up on the temple campus and its details will shared soon.” Sources said, architects engaged by the Trust are already working on the blueprint. “Directives to build a museum are there in the deed handed over to the Trust,” said a senior officer with the Trust. Point (b) of the Section on Aims and Objectives in Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust deed states: “The trust is settled to obtain and achieve construction and maintenance of amenities like parking space, infrastructure for pilgrims, separate areas for security, appropriate arrangements for circumambulation (parikrama), including annakshetras, kitchens, gaushalas, exhibition, museums, sarai and other facilities for pilgrims visiting Ayodhya from across the world.” Senior ASI officials, including Neeraj Sinha, who was part of the team which undertook excavation at the Ramjanmabhoomi site recently met Ayodhya commissioner, also a Trust member. “The property excavated by the ASI is of historical value and deserves to be showcased. A museum on the site of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya will attract historians and archaeologists from across the world, besides drawing pilgrims,” Neeraj Sinha told TOI, adding that the Allahabad High Court judgment on Ayodhya had quoted the ASI excavation in detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ramjanmabhoomi-to-house-museum-of-excavated-artefacts/articleshow/77057037.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Deepender demands withdrawal of agri ordinances||Rohtak: Demanding immediate withdrawal of the three ordinances pertaining to the agriculture sector, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda on Sunday said these laws are anti-farmer and will ruin the agrarian community. Addressing a press conference, Deepender said the Farmer’s (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, which deals with contract farming, would trap the farmer in a poverty cycle and he would become a labourer in his own farm. He said that the Centre has issued a contract farming guideline that does not mention the minimum support price (MSP) of crops anywhere. He said in the constituent assembly, his grandfather Ranbir Singh Hooda was the first to raise the issue of MSP and “now, I will raise the voice of farmers in Parliament”. Speaking on the issue of unemployment, Deepender said the situation has become frightening as currently, 33.6% youth of the state are facing unemployment. “Unfortunately, the state has surpassed all other states of the country in terms of unemployment, including UP and Bihar. And this is when Haryana is surrounded by the national capital from three sides,” he added. Further slamming the state’s BJP-JJP government, Deepender said while on the one hand unemployment is increasing, on the other, crime rate is soaring like never before. “Every day there are reports of murder, robbery and theft from across the state, especially from Rohtak, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Bhiwani and Jind. The NCRB figures for the year 2018 show that three to four murders, four rapes and 14 kidnappings occurred every day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/deepender-demands-withdrawal-of-agri-ordinances/articleshow/77056725.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Beed cops raid gambling den run on premises of Shiv Sena district president||AURANGABAD: The local crime branch of Beed police carried out a raid in the jurisdiction of Shivaji Nagar police station and busted a gambling den late on Saturday night. As many as 28 people, including some workers attached to political parties,were arrested. Preliminary probe has revealed that the premises where the gambling den was being run is owned by Beed district president of Shiv Sena. A senior police officer privy to the raid said that it was a cross-raid due to which a officer from Shivaji Nagar police station would be served a showcause notice. Further action would be taken depending on the findings. Superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “We received information about a gambling den in the precincts of Beed city. A squad of the local crime branch carried out a raid and seized Rs 1.25 lakh cash from the spot.” It was only after information about the gambling den reached higher ups that the raid was carried out at a shade in the vicinity of a leading English medium school. Source said the suspects made all possible attempts convincing the raiding team to let them go but in vain. Inspector at Shivaji Nagar police station Gajanan Jadhav said that apart from booking under relevant sections of The Public Gambling Act, 1867, the suspects have been slapped with section 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC. The officer said that though the accused have been released on bail, police would be initiating preventive action against them .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-cops-raid-gambling-den-run-on-premises-of-sena-district-prez/articleshow/77055223.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fisheries institutes wary of rising cases among fisherfolk||VISAKHAPATNAM:With key staff of the state fisheries department contracting Covid-19 and in isolation, central fisheries research institutes such as Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) and Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), which work in coordination with the fisheries department are apprehensive about spread of the virus. Several Covid-19 cases have been reported among the fishing community but representatives of the community continue to visit the research institutes, enhancing the risk of transmission. Recently, two senior officials of the state fisheries department tested positive and around 20 staffers have displayed symptoms of the virus. The department, located near Fishing Harbour, a Covid-19 hotspot, remains open. Joint director of AP fisheries, K Phani Prakash, also in isolation, said, “We cannot close the office and have to function as per the instructions from the government and commissionerate. Very few staff are working now while most of them are awaiting Covid-19 test results.” Speaking to TOI, R Raghu Prakash, principal scientist and scientist-in-charge of Visakhapatnam CIFT Research Centre, said, “There are around 100 staff working in the two fisheries research institutes housed in the same building and we are concerned about their safety in light of the increasing number of positive cases in the fishing sector. Though ICAR-CIFT had issued an advisory for mitigation of Covid-19 for fishing activities, none of these guidelines are being followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fisheries-institutes-wary-of-rising-cases-among-fisherfolk/articleshow/77056091.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 20, 2020||Meerut||DJs in UP face the music as weddings go low-key & ‘kanwar yatra’ scrapped||Meerut: From spinning chartbusters during weddings to lifting the spirits of tired devotees during 'kanwar yatra’, the ubiquitous DJs used to strike a chord with everyone in UP. Most of the DJs and their crew minted money during the wedding seasons and also when they were hired for the kanwar, twice a year.Coronavirus changed it all. First the hushed-up weddings-- where the number of guests was capped at 20-- snatched their earning. And the final blow came when the 'kanwar' pilgrimage was cancelled.Vicky Kumar of Raja Sound says, “During these seasons, we earned through renting out our DJs. Every few months there were wedding seasons. Then there were kirtans (religious function). And then the ‘kanwar yatras’. Lockdown has wiped out all earnings.”According to rough estimates, DJ operators earned about 40% of their annual income from ‘kanwar yatra’ alone while the rest was from weddings and religious processions. As pilgrims walked hundreds of kilometres to Haridwar alongside colorful tableaus depicting life and times of Lord Shiva, loudspeakers played religious music to keep spirits high during their arduous journey. But this year with the yatra called off, DJs across UP have lost a major chunk of their income.While no solid estimates are available for this unorganised industry, in Meerut alone, DJ operators generate a business worth Rs 3 crore. Similarly, Bijnor has 300 DJ providers who generate Rs 2 crore annually.Raja Ram, one of the biggest names in the industry in West UP who runs the company Raja Sound System, told TOI, “Each system for ‘kanwar yatra’ is provided for anywhere between Rs 20,000 and Rs 2 lakh depending upon the size of the DJ and the attendants required to manage it throughout the route. But this season there are hundreds of operators without any work since March. Some have even sold their speakers to junk dealers.”Muzaffarnagar-based Naveen Goyal said, “There are close to 150 operators in the district and around six assistants attached to each one of them. On an average, each operator generated Rs 2-3 lakh business per annum. But now operators are struggling hard to make both ends meet while their assistants are forced to take up odd jobs.”SSP Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav said that since the yatra was cancelled directions were given to music system owners not to rent our any loudspeakers for the purpose.‘Kanwar yatra’ is a biannual pilgrimage undertaken by devotees of Lord Shiva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/djs-in-up-face-the-music-as-weddings-go-low-key-kanwar-yatra-scrapped/articleshow/77055254.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||SSLC student dies of electrocution in Udupi||Mangaluru: A standard X student was electrocuted while helping his neighbours to lift an inoperative electric water pump from a well in Srinivasnagar under Malpe police station limits in Udupi on Friday night. According to police, the incident took place around 7.30pm when victim Gautam Nayak,15, who recently appeared for the SSLC examination and was waiting for his results, was electrocuted. Police explained that Gautam used to go to his neighbour’s house to play every day. On Friday, minutes before he was about to return home, Gautam joined his neighbour to help lift the non-functional electric pump from the well located in the courtyard. Police added that while lifting the water pump, he got electrocuted and died on the spot. A case has been registered at the Brahmavar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sslc-student-dies-of-electrocution-in-udupi/articleshow/77043004.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||‘Sawant stalled auction of mining leases’||Panaji: Goa Foundation has filed a complaint before Prime Minister Narendra Modi against chief minister Pramod Sawant for failing to recover over Rs 3,431 crore from several former mining leaseholders. In a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office, director of Goa Foundation Claude Alvares stated that the department of mines and geology (DMG) issued several show cause demand notices to former mining leaseholders for recovery of various sums as per the report prepared by the team of chartered accountants that was submitted in 2016. “The team was set up by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar to calculate the dues for carrying out excessive extraction of mining ore in violation of environment norms. The amount to be recovered is Rs 1,508 crore,” states the complaint. Goa Foundation said that DMG thereafter issued several demand notices in 2017 for recovery of other sums under various heads as per the report of the auditor general, Goa, in 2016. “These total dues amount to over Rs 1,922 crore,” he said. Alvares stated that in February 2018, when the Supreme Court delivered its judgment cancelling approval of second renewal to 88 mining leases by the Goa government, it had given a specific direction for expeditious recovery of these amounts for which demand notices had been issued. “As you know, the state of Goa is bankrupt, and the government is regularly issuing security bonds to raise money for salaries. It goes without saying that if the sum of Rs 3,431 crore is recovered, many of the financial problems facing the state would find relief,” he said. Alvares said the second issue in this complaint relates to the restart of mining operations in the state and Sawant’s specific role in ensuring this does not happen as per the requirements of law introduced by the central government when it amended the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act in 2015. Goa Foundation stated that despite clear directions provided in three judgements from three different benches of the Supreme Court, Sawant has successfully stalled the process of mineral lease auctions by lobbying for the former mining leaseholders. “It is amply clear that from the day he took charge, Sawant has been pursuing a hopeless, dead-end strategy for restart of mining operations based on returning the right and privilege to extract minerals exclusively to former leaseholders – all of whom have lost total credibility,” Alvares said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-stalled-auction-of-mining-leases/articleshow/77057151.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||Cyclist mowed down by unidentified vehicle in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 70-year-old cyclist, who sustained grievous injuries after being knocked down by an unidentified vehicle on Bhind-Lipulekh highway near Aidwara village of Pilibhit district, succumbed on Sunday morning. The victim Hajari Mandan of Aidwara was hit by a speeding vehicle on Saturday and was rushed to a nearby hospital from where he was referred to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. However, he died on Sunday and the body was sent for postmortem. Neuria station house officer Kheem Singh Jalal said that they have not received any complaint in this regard so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cyclist-mowed-down-by-unidentified-vehicle-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77053830.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||Reforms triggered record power supply, says UP minister Shrikant Sharma||LUCKNOW: Major reforms in the power sector and cooperation of engineering staff have for the first time resulted in record supply of over 23,400MW this week in the state, claimed energy minister Shrikant Sharma. This is about 7,000 MW more than the supply peak recorded by the previous Samajwadi Party government. Talking to TOI here on Sunday, Sharma said that the highest supply the Akhilesh government had recorded was about 16,000MW, while the average supply during the SP regime was around 14,500 MW. Now, the state has managed to increase the supply peak by over 7,000 MW and this was not possible without the engineers' cooperation and reforms introduced by the power ministry in the three-and-a-half-year of the Yogi government. Highlighting steps initiated by his ministry to improve the overall power situation in the state,Sharma said that on the basis of line losses he had classified feeders in three categories – red, orange and green. From engineers to chairman of the power corporation all were made guardians of feeders and were asked to put an effective curb on line losses. Besides, the power ministry launched a scheme to give relief to consumers on the basis of decline in the AT and C losses, the minister added. “I also introduced separate feeders for agriculture purpose to ensure uninterrupted supply to farmers. It was done to achieve a target set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for doubling the farmers' income in the country,” Sharma said, adding that the UPPCL could not have supplied the record 23,400MW had the department not consolidated the power transmission infrastructure well in advance. The minister further said that the Yogi government was not only providing uninterrupted power supply to its people, but was also ensuring that they were not burdened by heavy rates. The SP government had done public-private agreements (PPAs) at the rate of Rs 11.09 per unit, while the BJP government had fixed the PPAs' upper limit to Rs 4.19 per unit, he added. “Farmers are now getting power at Rs 1.10 per unit and no longer they are required to wake up throughout the night to irrigate their fields as was a normal practice during the previous government due to availability of electricity only in nights,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/reforms-triggered-record-power-supply-says-minister/articleshow/77057048.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||Supply scare resurfaces with closure of markets in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Supply issues have resurfaced in the city with some retail markets imposing self-lockdown periodically as a Covid-prevention measure while others are getting shut down by the district administration to break the infection chain. Some haats — where farmers sell their produce to wholesalers — are also being shut down by the administration after some Covid-19 patients were detected in the markets. The city’s big retail markets, like in Maniktala in the north and Bijoygarh in the south, will be remain closed for the next 72 hours for sanitization. Similarly, markets in Kalindi, Gora Bazar, Nagerbazar in the north and Azadgarh, Baghajatin in the south will be periodically closed. “This is perhaps the only way to stem the spread of the infection at the markets,” said Anshuman Sinha, a market association member in north Kolkata. However, more than the closure of retail markets, the shutting down of haats has caused greater concern. “The wholesale markets source vegetables from these haats. Bitari Haat near Maslandapur is one of the biggest haats from where Koley Market sources 10% of the vegetables. This haat will now be closed for seven days, creating a big problem for farmers and wholesalers. The city markets will have a huge shortage of vegetables if these closures continue,” said Kamal Dey, market task force member and president of West Bengal Vegetable Vendors’ Association. Koley Market, the city’s biggest vegetable wholesale market, was spared the closure courtesy of daily sanitisation drives. KMC conducts it every morning after the night-long wholesale market ends around 5.30am, Dey said. Meanwhile, the Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations (CWBTA) has urged its member associations, numbering over 60, to keep their establishments shut from July 22 to 27 as a safety measure to disrupt the transmission of the virus.Several businessmen in many pockets of the city have already downed the shut-ters of their establishments prioritizing personal safety over business. “We will have to realize that this year is probably more for focussing on our personal safety than earning money. We will review the decision on July 28,” said Sushil Poddar, president of the CWBTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/supply-scare-resurfaces-with-closure-of-markets/articleshow/77056731.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath for exhaustive contact tracing in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Amid spike in Covid-19 cases in the state capital, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday pressed for an exhaustive contact tracing to contain the pandemic. Alarmed over the rise in cases, the CM summoned top officials of district administration, health and municipal corporation at his official residence. CM Yogi warned officials not to be callous in conducting door-to-door survey to assess the pandemic. He underlined the need to constitute an integrated command and control centre in the city, which would swiftly assess the situation. He also underlined the need for direct transfer of coronavirus patients to Sanjay Gandhi Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Ram Manohar Lohia, L1, L2 or L3 hospitals according to their conditions. He asked the medical team headed by chief medical officer to send patients to hospitals accordingly. He also directed the officials to increase the number of Covid beds in Lok Bandhu hospitals to 200 and arrange additional paramedic staff according to the need. Yogi gathered the information about the prevailing situation from chief medical superintendents of Civil hospital, Balrampur and Lohia hospitals. “People come to Lucknow from various parts of the state for treatment. There is a need for extra precaution in the wake of monsoon,” Yogi told the officials. The CM also asked the police officials of Lucknow to conduct an enforcement drive in all 110 municipal wards besides carrying out a campaign to apprise people about the importance of masks and social distancing. Yogi stressed on making face covers/masks mandatory for employees at petrol pumps and commercial establishments. At the same time, the administration should ensure public address system in various places of the state capital, while carrying out a sanitation drive on Saturdays and Sundays, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-for-exhaustive-contact-tracing-in-city/articleshow/77057058.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Meerut||Fearing husband's encounter,UP gangster's wife goes to SC||MEERUT: Pushpa Devi, wife of incarcerated gangster Udham Singh, has moved the apex court stating fears of a staged encounter of her husband. Udham, a notorious criminal wanted in several cases of murder and extortion, is currently lodged in Azamgarh district jail. "We have filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court on behalf of Pushpa Devi expressing apprehension of her husband Udham Singh's encounter in transit either during jail transfer or court hearings. There have been several attacks on my client in the past and his name features on STF's list of 25 criminals," Amar Pal Singh Bhattal, a Meerut-based lawyer said. Notably, the STF in March this year had reportedly come up with a list of 25 dreaded criminals lodged in various jails and its status of progress in cases by respective district police on the inputs gathered by the special unit. In the aftermath of the Kanpur encounter, the list had surfaced on several forums of social media. In her written complaint to Meerut superintendent of police, Pushpa, resident of Meerut's Saroorpur area, claimed her husband's name was unnecessarily dragged in the press following the Kanpur encounter and is allegedly on the "hit list". "On December 2, last year, STF tried to carry out a fake encounter in Kithore area when he was being taken back to Azamgarh jail after a hearing in Meerut. I fear that the police might bump him off in an encounter under police custody while in transit," Pushpa said in her complaint. The STF had then categorically denied any involvement in the incident. She also alleged that several attempts have been made on her husband's life in the past. Her husband has been in jail for nine years. In police records, Uddham is a dreaded criminal with over 40 cases of murder, extortion and kidnapping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fearing-husbands-encounterup-gangsters-wife-goes-to-sc/articleshow/77055267.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Meerut||UP offers paid hotel isolation in all its districts||Meerut: People with mild symptoms of Covid-19 can now spend their isolation period in decent hotels across Uttar Pradesh as the state government has extended the facility to the remaining 73 districts of the state, after initially rolling it out in Lucknow and Ghaziabad. The state is not allowing home isolation for any Covid-19 positive patient in an attempt to break the chain of infection, even as the cases are touching a new high with each passing day.It will serve several purposes, a senior health department official said. “It will take the load off the hospitals which need beds free for serious cases and will also give an option to those who do not want to stay in government facilities,” he said. The government has asked the chief medical officers (CMOs) of all the districts to tie up with hotels. The cost has also been fixed. For a single room, the charges will be Rs 1,500 per day. Room with a double occupancy facility will cost Rs 2,000 a day. Apart from the room rent, a one-time amount of Rs 2,000 for the medical facilities will also be charged by the health department. In the order, a senior UP government official admitted that people were hiding their disease to escape government Covid-19 centres.“The home isolation facility for Covid-19 positive patients is not allowed in the state. It has come to the notice of the government that many people are trying to hide the disease to avoid getting admitted to Covid-19 care centres for the lack of appropriate facilities. In view of this, an L1 + facility is being introduced in UP for those who are ready to pay for better facilities and have no or mild symptoms,” read the order issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP additional chief secretary (health).“Only those patients who will be declared asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic by the chief medical officer will be referred to the hotel isolation facility,” said Prasad.Among the single rooms, 25% will be reserved for women, children and for those who are between the age of 50 and 65 years.Pregnant women, the elderly, above 65 years of age, and those with comorbidities will not be admitted there.“Two nursing staff and one pharmacist will be present in the hotels round the clock. They will change every eight hours. Six oxygen cylinders will also be kept there for any emergency,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-offers-paid-hotel-isolation-in-all-its-districts/articleshow/77055270.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 20, 2020||Chennai||Stalker, pals arrested for threatening teen’s mom in Chennai||CHENNAI: Police on Saturday arrested a call taxi driver in Avadi after he threatened a woman and demanding that she get her daughter, who he had been stalking for two years, married to him. Two of his friends were also held. Police said Babu, 31, was a resident of Muthapudhupet near Avadi. “He had seen the 19-year-old college student two years ago at a bus stop and had been stalking her since, saying he was in love with her and wanted to marry her,” said a police officer. The girl did not reciprocate the feelings. Irked, Babu went to her house in Ambattur on Saturday with friends Ajay, 27, and Narayanan, 29, all drunk. Babu first asked the mother for her daughter’s hand in marriage. “Her brother tried to chase them away,” the officer said. Babu attacked the brother and they created a ruckus outside the house, when the neighbours called police. The Avadi tank factory police picked up the trio. They were booked for causing public nuisance and for issuing threats and are being questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalker-pals-arrested-for-threatening-teens-mom/articleshow/77056732.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Info gap during lockdown on relief for migrants: Survey||Panaji: A report by Tandem Research, based on a survey of 142 lockdown-affected migrant workers in Goa facilitated by Goa Humanitarian Helpline volunteers, has found that there was a major information gap in Goa between the government and the workers, with the latter mostly left unaware of the government relief measures and material they are eligible for. The report suggests that policy workers should work on better working conditions for migrant workers in Goa, as 71% of surveyed workers stated they would stay in Goa if the government offered a guaranteed minimum wage. “One common factor across all relief measures was the lack of official information reaching migrant workers. At 91%, an overwhelming majority of workers reported that they had not received any helpful information from Goa government regarding the lockdown, its impact on their rights as workers or access to rights and entitlements, nor had they received communication regarding relief measures from governments that they could access,” states the report by Tandem Research. The report states that workers were mostly left dependent on relief material supplied by voluntary groups like the Goa Humanitarian Helpline. “Of those who stayed in rented accommodation, only 30% were actually aware of the rent relief measures - where the government of Goa had instructed landlords not to collect rent for one month on April 8,” states the report. It notes that post the lockdown, 89% of surveyed respondents no longer received a wage from their employers, whilst only 11% continued to receive wages, in some cases, a reduced amount, through the lockdown. The report states that in the days succeeding the announcement of the lockdown, the state government announced rent relief measures and directed employers to pay workers their salaries, but did not enforce these directives. The survey data was collected between May 19 to 29, when the migrant workers were deciding on whether to take a Shramik Special train to return home or to stay back in Goa. The largest group of those surveyed came from neighbouring state Karnataka (42%), followed by West Bengal (17%). Most worked in hospitality related activities, followed by construction sector and domestic work. As per the report, only 26% stated that they had received food stocks from their employers, rest were mainly dependent on assistance from voluntary organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/info-gap-during-lockdown-on-relief-for-migrants-survey/articleshow/77057062.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Centre extends 24% PF contribution scheme by three months||Ludhiana: In a major boost for the workers employed in the factories having strength up to 100 workers and 90% of these workers getting pay of less than Rs 15,000, the central government has extended its scheme of paying 24% of the provident fund contribution of such employees by three more months. According to the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), the scheme was initially applicable till May but now it has been extended till August. Giving more information, Dheeraj Gupta, regional provident fund commissioner-1 said, “Various measures have been announced by the government of India from time to time to provide relief to the employers and employees of the establishments covered under the EPF and MP (miscellaneous provisions) Act, 1952, and distressed by the spread of Covid-19 and other disruptions due to the pandemic. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), the government of India on March 26 announced a package to prevent disruption in the employment of low wage earning employees and support establishments employing up to 100 employees. It had stated that the entire employees EPF contribution (12% of the wages) and employers’ EPF & EPS (employees pension scheme) contribution (12%nt of wages) totalling 24% of the monthly wages for the next three months shall be directly paid by the central government in the EPF accounts of the employees, who are already members of EPF Scheme,1952, drawing wages less than Rs 15,000 per month and employed in establishments, already covered under the EPF & MP Act,1952,employing up to 100 employees with 90% or more of such employees earning less than Rs 15,000 monthly wages.” Gupta added that, “The scheme was initially valid for the wage months of March, April and May. In continuation to the earlier announcement by the government of India, the central government has extended the existing benefit under the PMGKY/Aatma Nirbhar Bharat package for another three months, for the wage months of June, July and August, 2020, for all establishments having upto 100 employees with 90% of such employees earning less than Rs 15,000 monthly wage. Till now 3,425 establishments and 45,110 subscribers have been benefited under the PMGKY, involving Rs 7.28 crore.” Meanwhile, the EPFO has also launched multi-location claim settlement facility to expedite member claims. This facility will allow EPFO offices to settle online claims from any of its regional offices across the country. All types of online claims like provident fund, pension, partial withdrawal and claims and transfer claims can be processed under this initiative. This will also allow offices with lesser workload to share the burden of offices that have accumulated a higher level of pendency due to Covid-19 restrictions. The first batch of multi-location claims under this path-breaking project was settled for Gurgaon region and claims of employees pertaining to the regional office of Gurgaon region were settled by the EPFO staff deployed in Chandigarh, Ludhiana and Jalandhar offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/centre-extends-24-pf-contribution-scheme-by-three-months/articleshow/77056117.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Meerut||Partially decomposed body ofman found in in-law’s house||Muzaffarnagar: The partially decomposed body of a 50-year-old man was found in a house in Raidaspuri locality under Civil Lines police station here on Sunday morning. Neighbours, who spotted the body, alerted police. The victim, identified as Leelu, was staying with his in-laws. According to sources, Leelu, a resident of Bhagat, had visited his in-laws a few days ago and was staying alone at the house for the past three days as all members of the family had gone to a brick kiln for work. A neighbour first spotted the body lying on a bed on Sunday morning and informed locals. Later, they alerted police. Soon, a police team visited the spot and launched an investigation and sent the body for postmortem. Munesh Devi, a neighbour, said, “Leelu, a labourer, had not gone to work for the past two days and had been alone at home. Nobody knows what happened to him. He used to consume liquor.”Deputy superintendent of police (city) Harish Bhadauria said, “The victim’s family was informed. We have been waiting for the post-mortem report based on which further action will be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/partially-decomposed-body-ofman-found-in-in-laws-house/articleshow/77055268.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 20, 2020||Shimla||Satellite shows 19% drop in glacial lakes in Satluj basin||Shimla: A technical report on the Inventory of Moraine Dammed Glacial Lakes (GLOF) in Satluj, Beas, Chenab and Ravi Basins in Himachal Pradesh using IRS LISS-III Satellite Data (2019) has revealed the presence of 562 lakes (2019) in the Satluj basin. This indicates an overall decrease of about 19% with reference to 2018 data. In Chenab basin, the total number of lakes that could be mapped in 2019 is 242 (84 in Bhaga sub-basin, 52 in Chandra sub-basin and 139 in Miyar sub-basin) with an overall increase of about 4% with reference to 2018. According to the study, Beas basin reflects the presence of 93 lakes in 2019 in comparison to the 101 lakes mapped in 2018, whereas Ravi basin shows the presence of 38 lakes in 2019 in comparison to 66 in 2018. Since formation of glacial lakes in the high mountain reaches pose a threat downstream, the HP State Centre on Climate Change under the aegis of HP State Council for Science Technology & Environment is constantly monitoring them. The study was conducted in association with the Space Applications Centre (SAC) (ISRO), department of space, Government of India, Ahmedabad. S S Randhawa, principal scientific officer, Climate Change Centre, along with Pooja Rana, scientific professional; I M Bahuguna scientist’ G’ and head, CSD, SAC Ahmedabad; B P Rathore, scientist ‘F’, CSD, SAC Ahmedabad and Nishtha Gautam, scientific professional conducted the study of glacial lakes. Randhawa said the 19% decrease in glacial lakes of the Satluj basin could be attributed to non-availability of data with reference to 2019. As a result, entire lakes could not be mapped. He said there is no denying the fact that glacial lakes in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh are increasing and they need regular monitoring to prevent any eventuality. Analysis of study data revealed higher number of smaller lakes (of less than 5 hectares), indicating the effect of climatic variations on Himalayan glaciers. The 2013 tragedy in the Uttarakhand Himalaya has been correlated with the bursting of a lake having a total area of about 8 hectares in front of the snout of Chorabari glaciers that caused widespread damage and heavy rainfall in downstream areas. The report underlined the destructive potential of such lakes in relation to their magnitude. Lakes with area greater than 10 hectares and area between five and 10 hectares can be seen as sites vulnerable to damage in case any of them burst. “A proper monitoring of all such lakes is very much essential in the Himalayan region in order to avoid any eventuality like in Uttarakhand in future, which will not only save precious human lives but also public and government property,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/satellite-shows-19-drop-in-glacial-lakes-in-satluj-basin/articleshow/77056739.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh to focus on fruit plantation||SHIMLA: The Himachal government has decided to implement the Asian Development Bank funded HP Shiva Pilot Project in four districts of lower Himachal including Bilaspur, Mandi, Kangra and Hamirpur. Under the project, fruit bearing saplings will be planted over 170 hectares in the identified districts at a cost of Rs 100 crore. A total of 500 families will be inducted into agricultural activities under the two-year long pilot project. A total of 17 groups have been formed for implementation of the project in the identified districts. Four groups have been formed in Bilaspur, five in Kangra, six in Mandi and two in Hamirpur. Ten hectares of land has been included in one group. A target of planting 2.50 lakh fruit-bearing saplings of orange, litchi, pomegranate and guava among others has been fixed under the project. The horticulture department has prepared land for plantation and saplings will be planted in July and August. Horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur said priority would be given to development of areas where production of fruit does not take place. People in areas where farming has been compromised due to the threat of wild animals will be associated with horticultural activities. The main HP Shiva Project will begin from 2021-22, after successful implementation of the pilot project with proposed expenditure of Rs 1,000 crore. A total of 25,000 families will be linked with horticultural activities in the first phase of the project. Listing the steps taken by the state government for horticulturists, Thakur said 12.50 lakh hectare metre anti-hail net was made available for protection of crops. For pollination in apple orchards, 46,265 beehive boxes have been provided to the farmers. Thakur said about 225 metric tons of insecticide was made available at subsidised rates for protection of crop from insects and training was also provided to horticulturists. Besides, special training was being given for packaging of apple, cherry and stone fruit and about 3.5 crore boxes were made available for packaging of fruits. Besides, 8.3 metric tons of strawberry was purchased for procurement. Pointing out that horticulture is being done in 25% of the state area, Thakur said the HP Shiva project is aimed at strengthening Himachal’s economy and supplementing people’s income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-to-bring-new-areas-under-fruit-plantation/articleshow/77056734.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Big jolt to bizmen as PSERC says no to fixed charge waiver||Ludhiana: In a big jolt to the industry, especially micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has ruled out waiving of the fixed charges levied on the industrial power connections for two months during the lockdown period (March 23 till May 23). Now, the businessmen will have to pay these in six monthly instalments. The PSERC order comes on a petition filed by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) with the former, which was filed after the state government had ordered the PSPCL to waive the fixed charges for two months. The order has caused huge furore among the businessmen who are demanding that the PSERC was an anti-industry body and it should be dissolved with immediate effect. Speaking on the issue, Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JSMA), who had also deposed before the PSERC against the PSPCL’s petition said, “The PSERC in its decision taken on July 17 has cleared that the fixed charges of two months, which were waived for us, will be charged by the PSPCL in six instalments, starting from the month of September. This is very disappointing and painful for us that the PSERC has given an anti-industry verdict in this case and moreover it’s very shocking that the commission which is a government body is not ready to abide with the decision of the state government itself. When chief minister of Punjab had clearly ordered the PSPCL to waive the fixed charges for two months on account of losses incurred due to the lockdown, then how can the PSERC support PSPCL’s stand of taking the fixed charges from the industry when we did no business and incurred heavy losses.” Thukral also added, “This decision has clearly exposed the regulatory commission and showed it as an anti-industry body, which does not pay heed to the government orders. Moreover, crores of rupees of the tax payers are going down the drain in terms of expenditure being incurred by the PSERC on its plush office and other things. So, when this organisation is not working judiciously, it should be immediately dissolved. If the PSERC and PSPCL think that we will sit silent on this injustice being done to us, they are wrong. We will take up this matter with the chief minister and if required hit the streets if the fixed charges for the two months are not waived.” According to Inderjit Singh, another businessman, “The decision of the PSERC is a huge setback for the entire industry and the state government should take immediate notice of this. As far as fixed charges are concerned, these are the charges which are slapped on us per month even if there is no consumption of power. The fixed charges for every power meter range from several thousands to even lakhs in case of large consumers. It is our appeal to the state government to change the decision of the PSERC and give us waiver on the fixed charges, so that some losses of ours can be wiped of.” Swinder Singh, a member of the JSMA, said, “Due to the ongoing situation after the lockdown, the condition of the industry is very bad right now and due to fall in income and rise in the expenditures, the industry is in dire straits. It’s high time that Punjab government steps into action and take the right call by waiving the fixed charges on industrial power connections for at least one year. This is how the industry will come back on the right track or else there is no hope.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/big-jolt-to-bizmen-as-pserc-says-no-to-fixed-charge-waiver/articleshow/77056123.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||NGO plants 1 lakh seed balls to battle global warming||AHMEDABAD: To create awareness on global warming and increase the green cover in Sanand town and its periphery, Manav Seva Trust, a Sanand NGO has prepared one lakh seed balls with the help of local school students to plant them in open land lacking greenery. The initiative began last Wednesday and has picked up pace since then. Manubhai Barot, president of Manav Seva Trust, said it was an attempt to battle global warming. “The campaign was conducted in monsoon with local school students and volunteers. Seeds of peepal, fruit trees, gulmohar, and peltophorum among other trees were used.” Barot said the NGO also encouraged the students to increase the green cover in the areas where they reside. The lakes in the area have been drying up due to inadequate rainfall. Global warming has local effects, and the biggest natural water lake in the area, Nalsarovar, had completely dried up in 2018, after a 17-year gap. Sanand taluka has much land where nothing but shrubs and weeds grow. These seed balls were planted in such areas. With rain these seed balls are expected to give rise to tall trees. “Even if we have a success ratio of 50%, then 50k trees will be added in Sanand vicinity. We plan to take up such campaigns every year to make a visible difference,” Barot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngo-plants-1l-seed-balls-to-battle-global-warming/articleshow/77056122.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stranded Oz doctor on Covid duty at Civil, his alma mater||AHMEDABAD: Dr Hitesh Patel is one among the several medical officers in PPE at the 1,200-bed Covid-19 facility on the Civil Hospital campus. But what sets him apart is that he’s not a staffer! In fact, Dr Patel, a trauma and mental health expert, is a citizen of Australia. He is volunteering at the hospital. “I had come to Ahmedabad in March. Soon, the lockdown was announced, and I knew that I would have to stay for months,” Dr Patel said. “Even the frontline Covid warriors were getting infected.” He said the situation moved him.“I had completed my MBBS from the BJ Medical College on the campus of Civil Hospital,” recounted Dr Patel. “Thus, I offered my services to the hospital in whatever capacity it deemed fit. In a way, it was giving back to my alma mater that had given me subsidized education.” Dr J P Modi, the medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that it was a pleasant surprise. “It was a period when few were ready to work at Civil Hospital that was attending to the maximum number of Covid patients in Gujarat,” Dr Modi said. “So a qualified doctor — a BJ alumnus — offering to work was a morale booster for the staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stranded-oz-doc-on-covid-duty-at-civil-his-alma-mater/articleshow/77056125.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Draft tenant verification bill gets 20 suggestions||Panaji: The state government has received only 20 suggestions to the pre-published draft of the Goa (Tenant and Guest Registration and Verification) Bill, 2020, which is aimed at strengthening tenant verification and providing better security to residents. A senior government official said the suggestions will be considered and a revised draft will be put up before the government for approval. “After the revised draft is approved, it is up to the state government to decide whether or not to introduce the bill during the one-day monsoon session of the legislative assembly scheduled on July 27,” the senior officer said The state government is likely to pass over 10 bills in the assembly, the senior officer said Last month, the state proposed to make the adherence to the tenant verification rule more stringent by introducing a year-long jail-term for landlords who fail to submit information about tenants. Towards this effort, the draft bill has made non-submission of information is a cognisable offence. “Whoever contravenes any provisions of this act shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment which may extend to one year or a fine which may extend to Rs 50,000, or both,” it states. The bill also settles the ambiguity over the authority charged with acting against violators by empowering police to act against those who fail to provide the necessary tenant information. The draft states that owners of houses must submit tenant verification information to the local police within seven days of the tenant beginning their stay. In the case of existing tenants, the owners will get 30 days to submit the information to the local police station. The draft bill states that if any information provided by a guest or tenant is found to be false or fabricated, it would constitute an offence. Thus, it mandates that those required to submit information should verify the bonafides of persons through identity documents such as election card, driving licence, Aadhaar card, passport or other documents as may be notified by the government. A senior official said that as of now, the district collector issues an order under Section 144 for tenant verification, and this order remains in force for six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/draft-tenant-verification-bill-gets-20-suggestions/articleshow/77057153.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Newly appointed PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra's exclusive interview with TOI||Newly appointed PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra has two crucial responsibilities to take care of — keeping the flock together and overcoming the crisis successfully. In an interview to TOI, the PCC chief, who is also the state education minister, speaks about the line of defence against the BJP and the threats posed by the Sachin Pilot camp. BJP is demanding a CBI probe into the audio tape row involving Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Why the Congress has denied their demand?Demanding a CBI probe by the BJP shows they don’t trust the Special Operations Group (SOG) which had earned praise by the former BJP government (2013-2018) during their tenure. Shekhawat is an MP from Rajasthan and not from Karnataka. He should have faith in the agency that is investigating a case against him in which he is accused of attempting to toppling the democratically elected Congress government. Read AlsoRajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia's exclusive interview with TOIBJP state president Satish Poonia tells TOI’s Shoeb Khan why the party doesn’t trust the SOG, why it did not name chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the FIR and what will happen in state’s political circles if Sachin Pilot floats a party. Excerpts... BJP has demanded a CBI probe into theBJP is blaming Congress for using the SOG and ACB as instruments to defame their leaders?I fail to understand why the BJP and its leaders are scared of the SOG and is not cooperating with the agencies. If the Union minister has done nothing wrong, he shouldn’t be scared of giving his voice samples and statements to the agency. They (BJP) have filed a case against me for hatching a conspiracy against their leaders. I am not scared. I will reach the police station to record my statement if they call me. For the complaint against me and my party leaders, we have blamed the police of acting on the instructions of BJP. If you have the numbers, why aren’t you disclosing it and put an end to the political drama?Our government has absolute numbers required to stay in power. We don’t have to prove it to anyone. It is on the BJP and Sachin Pilot who are claiming that our government is in the minority. Why can’t prove us wrong by either parading the majority of MLAs or asking for a floor test? You (Pilot) can’t bully a government while in hiding in a BJP-ruled state. Images of your MLAs playing football, watching movies and learning to cook Italian dishes in the 5-star hotel have sparked outrage from the public. How do you respond to it?These images are being circulated by our own MLAs. Since morning, they remain busy in their daily routine of discharging their duties as public representatives. None of them has kept their phones off and has been responding to every call for help. Our ministers and several MLAs have been going out to meet people and doing administrative work. They hardly get a couple of free hours which they utilise together by watching a movie or playing a game. How will you handle the two roles?As an education minister, I believe to have met the highest number of people since our government was formed. It has connected me to the ground realities of each and every hamlet, village, block and district. This experience will keep me ahead in connecting party workers with the general public. Second, I started as a grassroots worker who understands the mindset and ambition of an ordinary worker. The respect and dignity of an ordinary worker is my way forward to acting as the PCC chief. When will you start building your team? Will those close to Sachin Pilot get space in the organisation?Once the ongoing crisis is over, political appointments will be made at the state and district levels. It will not matter who is with whom. What will be considered is the dedication and commitment to serve the people of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/i-fail-to-understand-why-bjp-is-scared-of-sog-and-not-cooperating-with-it/articleshow/77056741.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Trichy||Three-day fever camps to be held twice a day in Trichy||Trichy: After the people visiting fever camps came down due to lapses in informing people about their venue, Trichy City Corporation has released a three-day schedule of the camps in the city. These camps will now be conducted in the evening also to screen maximum number of people. All the 18 urban primary health centres (UPHCs) in the city will conduct two fever camps per day from Monday, July 20.The civic body had been accused of being hesitant in conducting fever camps. However, on being instructed by the district administration, it organised camps for screening and testing vulnerable people on July 16. But a majority of the residents were not informed about the locations and timing of the camps. As a result, the footfall at the camps was low, dipping by 45% the second day. After the Times of India highlighted the lapses on July 18, district collector S Sivarasu is learnt to have instructed the civic body to share the schedule of fever camps in advance with the local people. Similarly, all the 18 urban primary health centres in the four zones were told to conduct two fever camps a day instead of one.From Monday, the civic body will conduct up to 8-14 camps in a zone a day at schools and community halls. In locations that had multiple Covid-19 cases, the camps will be conducted in the streets. “Swabs will be collected from senior citizens and symptomatic people. The morning session will go on till 12 pm while the evening session will continue till 4.30 pm in a different location,” a sanitary official with Trichy corporation said. The civic body said its employees have informed the vulnerable localities and zones about the fever camps through speaker-mounted autorickshaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-day-fever-camps-to-be-held-twice-a-day-in-trichy/articleshow/77056743.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Industry should be allowed to work at full pace’||Being a renowned agricultural economist, Sardara Singh Johal, who is chancellor of at Central University, Punjab, and former VC, Punjabi University, Patiala, and PAU, has expressed views on the diverse issues related to the country and to Punjab. He has also been criticising the government on certain issues. He talked to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the current scenario. You had given representation to the chief minister. Was there any impact of that? Though I give proposals to the state government on various issues, the recent one was related to minimum support price (MSP) of maize, which is an obligatory price announced before the sowing of crop. A farmer knows before he plants the crop that what price he will get after harvesting the same and the government is obligated to fulfil that. Through the memorandum, we requested the chief minister to approach the PM to discharge an obligation. However, there was no response from the government. How can Punjab ensure that economy does not crash during the pandemic? It is a question of whether to deal with coronavirus or promote economy, but we have to live and work together in its presence. Precautions should be taken and that too even at work place. Industry should be allowed to work full pace, but with precautions. You cannot stop economy. I find it illogical that Punjab government has imposed Section 144, CrPC, banning gathering of people while for marriage occasions there can be 50 persons. It is contradictory. What role can the agriculture institutions like PAU play to provide immediate help to the distressed farmers whose losses have increased due to pandemic? It has come suddenly and it caught everyone unprepared around the world. Everybody was fumbling about it. PAU work is for research of agriculture. They can give technology for agriculture practices but to assist is the job of the government. PAU will also face pressure for innovation in agriculture. What are the long term measures for the farmers which government should take? It is a big question. Small and landless farmers must be provided with supplementary employment by setting up small and medium industries in the rural areas and establishing service centres. How the government can play a more important role to address the issue of shortage of labour in view of massive migration? Labour crisis has put pressure for mechanisation of various agricultural functions. For example, farmers are using machines for plantation of rice wherein there is less requirement for labour. Similarly, in case of industry, there will be pressure for mechanisation so that reliance on labour decreases. However, we have to understand that these people (labourers) cannot sit idle. They will return to their normal work soon. But there has been pressure for mechanization of functions. It is a fallout of this pandemic. Farmers will have to go in for mechanisation because he has no other option. What about lockdown? Shops have opened and supply is limited and time for opening shops has decreased. Those who earn and eat daily will lead to space congestion, which can further lead to spread of coronavirus. They should have increased the hours of opening shops but with precautions. To overcome the crisis emerging out of pandemic, which are the best ways to cope with the crisis post pandemic? My answer would be liberal public investment and support through Mgnrega as well as production credit liberalisation. What about the current situation in Ludhiana on Covid front? The scenario is no different from the rest of the country. There are no facilities, especially healthcare, so the people die of trauma in such a set up. How do you see Covid having impact on agricultural economy in the state? In villages there are less cases whereas in urban areas the count will increase. Agricultural economy will not be hit because they are carrying out their operations. For farmers, who grow perishable crops, there will be some impact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/industry-should-be-allowed-to-work-at-full-pace/articleshow/77056132.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Shopkeeper killed for demanding money for cigarettes||Jind: A 65-year-old shopkeeper was on Sunday bludgeoned to death with sharp-edged weapons by two unidentified bike-borne criminals for demanding money for cigarettes, the police said. The deceased has been identified as Ratan Lal of Krishna Street in Jind’s Narwana town. Narwana Sadar SHO Mahender Singh said the incident took place in the evening when the shopkeeper was at his shop. “Two bike-borne men came there and asked the shopkeeper for cigarettes. When Ratan Lal demanded money from them, they attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. As the shopkeeper raised an alarm, the criminals sped off. He was rushed to a hospital in Narwana, where doctors declared him dead,” the SHO said. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and the police are scanning the footage of the CCTVs installed near the crime scene to identify the killers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shopkeeper-killed-for-demanding-money-for-cigarettes/articleshow/77056745.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kochi||10% of Kerala’s active Covid-19 cases in Ernakulam||KOCHI: With 638 cases, Ernakulam surged ahead of 12 districts in the state in total number of active Covid-19 patients. The district is second only to Thiruvananthapuram, which had 1,659 active cases as on July 18, revealed data from the government. Ernakulam constitutes 10% of active cases in the state. District health officials attributed the spike in cases to rise in testing, however, experts opined that increased mobility of people led to a spike in rate of infection in Ernakulam. Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam were followed by Alappuzha with 604 active cases till Saturday. “Around 50% to 70% of active cases are asymptomatic. The rise is because we test all contacts of infected cases. The population is also high in these two districts. There are around 35 lakh people in our district. Cases have been on the rise not only in Ernakulam but also in other districts except some where we think the testing has not increased. In Ernakulam, tests are being done at private hospitals and laboratories too. We get around 15 positive cases per day from the private sector, which conducts around 1,500 tests every day. Private hospitals are more proactive now and they do not let any suspected case go untested. Despite all these, there is no denying that cases will rise further,” said a district health official. Health officials have been taking measures to contain spread of infection to more areas by declaring the affected areas as containment zones, contact tracing, creating awareness on wearing masks, maintaining social distancing etc., “Along with these existing measures, we also try to bring down mortality rate by giving timely treatment to cases which have comorbidities,” said the official. Meanwhile, experts said the rise in mobility of people could increase in risk of contracting the disease. “Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram are major towns and the mobility rate is high in these districts. These places witness high footfall of short-term visitors. Commercial activities are also high in both the districts, though most of the cases in Thiruvananthapuram are reported from coastal areas. There are also chances of community spread in Ernakulam. Contaminants will have to be increased when the cases rise. But containment measures are not a permanent solution as the infection has spread to more areas. Other than the existing clusters, cases have also emerged from other parts of the district. Healthcare workers getting infected from patients approaching hospitals for treatment of other diseases also show that there is spread in the community,” said Dr D Padmanabha Shenoy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/10-of-states-active-cases-in-ekm/articleshow/77055392.cms||T C Sreemol
July 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||10% of Kerala’s active Covid-19 cases in Ernakulam||KOCHI: With 638 cases, Ernakulam surged ahead of 12 districts in the state in total number of active Covid-19 patients. The district is second only to Thiruvananthapuram, which had 1,659 active cases as on July 18, revealed data from the government. Ernakulam constitutes 10% of active cases in the state. District health officials attributed the spike in cases to rise in testing, however, experts opined that increased mobility of people led to a spike in rate of infection in Ernakulam. Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam were followed by Alappuzha with 604 active cases till Saturday. “Around 50% to 70% of active cases are asymptomatic. The rise is because we test all contacts of infected cases. The population is also high in these two districts. There are around 35 lakh people in our district. Cases have been on the rise not only in Ernakulam but also in other districts except some where we think the testing has not increased. In Ernakulam, tests are being done at private hospitals and laboratories too. We get around 15 positive cases per day from the private sector, which conducts around 1,500 tests every day. Private hospitals are more proactive now and they do not let any suspected case go untested. Despite all these, there is no denying that cases will rise further,” said a district health official. Health officials have been taking measures to contain spread of infection to more areas by declaring the affected areas as containment zones, contact tracing, creating awareness on wearing masks, maintaining social distancing etc., “Along with these existing measures, we also try to bring down mortality rate by giving timely treatment to cases which have comorbidities,” said the official. Meanwhile, experts said the rise in mobility of people could increase in risk of contracting the disease. “Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram are major towns and the mobility rate is high in these districts. These places witness high footfall of short-term visitors. Commercial activities are also high in both the districts, though most of the cases in Thiruvananthapuram are reported from coastal areas. There are also chances of community spread in Ernakulam. Contaminants will have to be increased when the cases rise. But containment measures are not a permanent solution as the infection has spread to more areas. Other than the existing clusters, cases have also emerged from other parts of the district. Healthcare workers getting infected from patients approaching hospitals for treatment of other diseases also show that there is spread in the community,” said Dr D Padmanabha Shenoy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/10-of-states-active-cases-in-ekm/articleshow/77057696.cms||T C Sreemol
July 20, 2020||Shimla||‘Heliports at Mandi, Rampur and Baddi too’||SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday reviewed progress of work on the heliport being constructed at Sanjauli suburb of Shimla town. Inspecting the site, he said the heliport would have modern facilities such as a VIP lounge and utility area. Three such heliports would also be constructed in Mandi, Rampur and Baddi, he said, adding that such heliports would be developed at all district headquarters. The CM directed officials concerned to ensure time-bound completion of the heliport, saying it would go a long way in facilitating tourists visiting Shimla. On completion, the Rs 14 crore heliport would facilitate landing of helicopters at the heliport instead of Jubbarhatti under the Udan-II scheme, he said. Later, Thakur visited Bantony Castle near Kalibari and reviewed conservation, restoration and rehabilitation of the castle being executed on expenditure of Rs 25.45 crore. He said the Asian Development Bank-funded project would have three Blocks ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’. Block ‘A’ would have a primary museum based on Himachali theme, Block ‘B’ would have a food court serving Himachali cuisine and gallery of Himachali art and craft and Block ‘C’ would have common amenities and open air theatre. He said the light and sound show in the castle would be an added attraction for tourists. The CM directed officers to ensure quality construction and renovation of the site while ensuring that the original architecture was maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cm-reviews-work-on-heliport-bantony-castle/articleshow/77056755.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||12L shoppers spend Rs 66cr in 5 malls in pandemic month||Kolkata: The top five malls in the city have recorded a footfall of 12 lakh in 30 days post lockdown, a phenomenal number given that the city is in the midst of a pandemic with cases spiralling daily. With none of the five malls — South City, Acropolis, Quest and City Centre I and II — registering a Covid suspect among shoppers and no complaint yet of any shopper contracting the virus from a mall, operators believe it will further boost customer confidence and lead to a steady rise in footfalls. Prior to the pandemic, the five malls used to record a cumulative monthly footfall of around 50 lakh.American Independence Day weekend (July 4) turned out to be the busiest for the malls in Kolkata with all of them recording the highest footfall on July 4-5 since the malls reopened on May 8. South City and City Centre I in Salt Lake have emerged the top draws, each attracting 3 lakh customers, followed by Acropolis drawing 2.5 lakh people, Quest 2 lakh and City Centre II in New Town 1.4 lakh. Together, they have garnered a revenue of Rs 67 crore with two malls — Quest and South City — accounting for nearly two-thirds of the pie. According to Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin group that promoted the Acropolis and was part of the consortium that developed South City, the most heartening factor is the learnings from the mistakes in malls in other countries, where the pandemic had struck early that led to adoption of stringent measures to keep the infection at bay appears to have worked. “Malls are just not a place for buying and selling, but it is also a place for people to socialize, spend some good time with their friends over a cup of coffee. It is noteworthy that all malls in Kolkata are following strict protocol for hygiene and safety of visitors and customers are also cooperating with the mall authorities,” he said.Though footfall declined somewhat after the reinforcement of stricter lockdown in some containment zones last week, it has bounced back. “When the end-of-season sales begin, we expect a substantial rise in footfall,” said Ramesh Pandey, wholetime director at Ambuja Neotia that operates the two City Centre malls. Usually, the end-of-season sale starts from mid-June, but the disruption caused by the lockdown has pushed it back by a couple of months.The ratio of non-food and food revenue has also changed from 70:30 in most malls earlier, to 80:20. At Quest, the ratio is skewed even more, with non-food business pegged at 89%. “Non-operational cinema, early closure hours and denial of liquor service have contributed to the decline in food business,” said Quest vice-president Sanjeev Mehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12l-shoppers-spend-rs-66cr-in-5-malls-in-pandemic-month/articleshow/77051952.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||SOG serves notice to Union minister to record statement||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group (SOG) on Saturday served a notice to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to record his statement in the audio clip case over alleged attempts to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan. The summons under CrPC Section 160 was sent to Shekhawat’s personal secretary via Whatsapp. While the FIR mentioned Singh, it did not specify if it was the Union minister though cops claimed that they sent the notice based on the interrogation of Sanjay Jain who was arrested in the same case. Shekhawat had earlier released a statement in which he refuted the claims made by Congress in their press conference. “We had been questioning Jain since he was brought from Bikaner on Thursday and during the interrogation, certain facts came to light following which we decided to serve a notice to Shekhawat. The summons was sent to the Union minister based on revelations by Jain. The notice was sent to him via whatsapp to his personal secretary,” a senior official of SOG said. Jain, one of the persons who was heard talking to two politicians over attempts to topple the present Congress government, was arrested after interrogation. The two FIRs had been lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi about two audio clips which had gone viral on social media. While one FIR mentioned Gajendra Singh, Jain and MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, the other FIR was unnamed though the conversation is allegedly between Gajendra Singh and former tourism minister Vishvendra Singh. According to the FIR, the duo was heard talking about exchange of money and one of the callers claimed that ‘their people sitting in Delhi have already received the first installment of cash payment’. The same person claimed that he will be travelling from Agra. The two then talked about deciding the future action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-serves-notice-to-union-minister-to-record-statement/articleshow/77056753.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Congress MLAs conduct in hotel invites public ire||JAIPUR: Football, cooking classes, movies and antakshari are on the list of activities Congress MLAs are busy with while spending their time in a five-star hotel in Jaipur. The display of these activities by the MLAs on social media is inviting outrage from public on social media. Ironically, these images and videos are being circulated by the MLAs or the Congressmen, unaware that they might be seen as insensitive. The latest in the series is a video of MLAs playing antakshri in the lobby of the five-star hotel. The footage shows MLAs singing a song, ‘Hum Honge Kamyab’ (we shall be successful). The person who shot the video is seen moving across the lobby taking shots clears that he/she has consent to shoot the video. Commenting on twitter, a political analyst, Avadesh Akodia said, “Congress MLAs singing a song… now what is left for them is dancing. Entertainment should be full-on.” The MLAs have been lodged in the hotel since July 14 in an apparent bid to save the government from falling. Deputy chief whip Mahendra Choudhary had posted a slow-motion video of him kicking a football in the hotel has also been widely shared on the social media on July 15 with a caption ‘Enjoyed playing football today’. The activity which attracted maximum attention is four women MLAs wearing chef’s cap and apron and learning to cook from a hotel chef. The photo was circulated widely on social media on July 17. The flak from the people has not deterred Congress MLAs to continue to post pictures of fun and frolic. On July 18, a video showing MLAs watching Bollywood film ‘Lagaan’. Those criticizing the conduct of MLAs are stating that their behaviour at the time of Covid-19 situation in the state is simply not acceptable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-mlas-conduct-in-hotel-invites-public-ire/articleshow/77056744.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Rajkot||50 job seekers duped of Rs 75 lakh by Junagadh postman||RAJKOT: The joblessness due to Covid-induced lockdown and economic recession has become a tool for some to mint money by trapping the desperate and gullibles. Rajkot crime branch on Sunday busted a cash-for-job scam by detaining a postman from Junagadh district who allegedly duped at least 50 people by offering them jobs in the postal department. Of the people who got cheated, are 10 persons of one family in Rajkot. The accused Deepak Bhatt (50) pocketed nearly Rs 75 lakh from the victims by offering jobs of postmen and branch post master for Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs three lakh respectively. He issued them bogus appointment letters too. Bhatt is a postman with Datrana post office in Mendarada tauka of Junagadh district. Bhatt would take money from them against issuing bogus appointment letters on the letter pad of the postal department. One of the victims, Puja Bhalodia (33), of the 10 family members from Rajkot, got suspicious about the appointment letter she had received from Bhatt. She herself got it verified from Junagadh postal department and then approached the Rajkot crime branch after getting to know that she had been cheated. The crime branch then laid a trap and told Bhalodia to call Bhatt to Rajkot. Bhalodia asked Bhatt to come to Rajkot telling him that there was one aspirant who sought a job from him. “When Bhatt arrived at the spot in Crystal Residency in Mavdi area, our plain-clothed cop handed him an empty cover. Thinking that the cover had contained money, Bhatt took it. It was then that we arrested him,” said VK Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch. “When we checked Bhatt’s SUV, we found Rs one lakh cash from it and photocopies of one candidate’s papers,” said PSI Gadhvi. In her complaint, Bhalodia alleged that Bhatt had collected Rs 19 lakh from 10 members of her family, promising them jobs in the postal department. After none of her family members got the jobs as promised, Bhalodia became suspicious of Bhatt and approached the police. “During his interrogation, Bhatt has confessed to having duped as many as 50 victims,” added Gadhvi. Police will formally arrest him once he undergoes Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/50-job-seekers-duped-of-rs-75l-by-junagadh-postman/articleshow/77056128.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Trichy||AUT urges govt to issue admission guidelines||Trichy: As admission process is in progress for undergraduate programmes in arts and science colleges, Association of University Teachers (AUT) central executive that met on Sunday through video conferencing expressed concern over lack of monitoring of the admission process in self-financing college and urged the government to issue admission guidelines and procedures specifying the application and admission fee to be collected by colleges to avoid fleecing. M S Bala Murugan, AUT general secretary, termed the announcement allowing arts and science colleges to issue online applications as unplanned and sudden which will result in violations. He urged the director of collegiate education and higher education department to adopt single window for admission. Resolutions were passed urging the government to adhere strictly to common guidelines for admissions to government, aided and self-financing colleges through online portals. Asking Bharathidasan University to sanction UGC scale of pay to guest lecturers , AUT urged the UGC to scrap the oncoming semester examination. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aut-urges-govt-to-issue-admission-guidelines/articleshow/77056748.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Pride of 17 has a happy treat||RAJKOT: A video in which a pride of nearly 17 lionesses including adults and cubs feasting on the carcass of a neelgai or blue bull has gone viral on WhatsApp and social media groups. A cage placed near the lions is also seen in the video. Later, a large male lion is also seen joining the feast. “These are lions from our area only, but whether they are from Gir Sanctuary or outside needs to be confirmed. It seems to be an old video,” said DT Vasavada, chief conservator of forest, Junagadh wildlife sanctuary. Meanwhile, on Pipavav-Kovaya road of Rajula taluka, a pride of four lions were seen strolling about on Saturday night. “As the lions get pestered by the insects they come out of the bushes and walk by the roadside, which may pose danger of road accidents from ongoing vehicular traffic,” said a forest official. Lions straying near port Pipavav is quite common. Watch Viral video: Pride of lions having a meal in Rajkot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pride-of-17-has-a-happy-treat/articleshow/77056140.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Business||Govt may take call on auto scrappage policy soon||NEW DELHI: Automobile companies are ready to offer up to 1% of vehicle prices as discount or incentive if customers scrap old vehicles and buy new ones. The government is yet to take a final call on whether it would also give any incentive to encourage phasing out of old vehicles. Sources said the government had sought a commitment from the automobile companies about their incentive to such buyers after it revived intense consultations on the proposed policy, which is likely to boost the sales of new vehicles. The proposal is being discussed among heavy industries, transport and steel ministries. A final view on this proposal, which is being considered for more than four years, is likely to be out soon. The government had originally considered both the options — regulatory, and voluntary — regime to roll out the scheme. But a group of secretaries had favoured a voluntary scrapping policy. Sources said now it’s completely up to the government to take a call on whether it would be voluntary or mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-may-take-call-on-auto-scrappage-policy-soon/articleshow/77057320.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Leisure valley goes missing during monsoon||Ludhiana: The under construction leisure valley in BRS Nagar has turned into a swimming pool these days and the officials of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) are undertaking an exercise to find out ways to check water stagnation in the valley. Half area of the valley gets submerged in water whenever there is rainfall. The officials, however, claimed that they were now planning to install rainwater harvesting in the valley to solve this problem. Moreover, the water from the road constructed over the valley also starts getting accumulated in the leisure valley. The valley is being developed by LIT and more than half of the work is already done. Now, in the rainy season they are facing the problem of water stagnation in the valley. The officials of LIT while requesting anonymity claimed that a drain of the PWD (B&R) branch also passes through the leisure valley and there is some seepage in that drain due to which rainwater from that drain also gets accumulated in the valley along with the accumulated rainwater. They claimed that many plants had also got damaged and this stagnant water could also damage the grass which they have grown in the valley. They claimed that they had talked to officials of PWD department and now they were trying to check the seepage point. Meanwhile, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramanium said, “We came across the problem of water-logging in the leisure valley that has interrupted the work to some extent, but we are looking forward to a solution of the issue.” However, on the other hand executive engineer of PWD (B&R) Davinder Pal said, “During development of the leisure valley the LIT officials dug up the ground lower than their drain level and at some level seepage took place in the drain. We are fixing the problem and are in touch with LIT officials.” He said the problem would get resolved in a couple of days. The leisure valley is being developed at a cost of Rs 2.41 crore on almost 4,000 sq ft area. The portion where the MC had developed its nursery had also been covered by this leisure valley and officials claimed to have saved maximum number of trees grown in the nursery. Many varieties of trees and plants are being grown here and a basketball court, open gym, seating area and jogging tracks are being constructed here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/leisure-valley-goes-missing-during-monsoon/articleshow/77056152.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Repeated complaints by RTI activist leads to sealing of illegal building||Ludhiana: An RTI activist, Rohit Sabharwal, had made a complaint at the CM office and with the DGP against an illegal under construction building and claimed that even after the recommendation of an FIR twice against the owner by the civic body, the police did not register the same. It was only after the activist made repeated complaints against the illegal building near Chand Cinema that it was recently sealed by the civic body. The complaint was made on the grounds that no parking space was left for the building where more than 60 shops were being constructed on 267 sq yds. The officials sealed the complex when the city-based RTI activist made a complaint to senior officials in Chandigarh. The building plan was approved but two additional floors were being constructed in the building. Besides, it had not fulfilled the fire norms and other safety standards. In November 2019 and April 2020, the officials had recommended an FIR against the owner of the building for violation but it was never registered. Even in lockdown there were complaints that construction work was going on there. Sources revealed that the building belongs to the chairman of market committee and it was due to his influence that no action was taken on complaints and recommendation of FIRs. The activist claimed that the MC officials had written a letter for registering an FIR against the owner of the building twice and one letter was issued to Powercom for not giving electricity connection to this building. He said it was because of the influence of owner that the public departments did not act over the complaints and it was with great difficulty that now it had been sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/repeated-complaints-by-rti-activist-leads-to-sealing-of-illegal-building/articleshow/77056143.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Rajkot||Complaint filed against alleged land-grabber||RAJKOT: A home guard with Rapar police has lodged an application of complaint against an alleged land-grabber on Saturday. Home guard jawan Mangalsinh Jadeja has accused Hathubha Sodha of grabbing a plot of land outside Rapar ST depot and constructing a shop. “Sodha has threatened ST depot manager, forcibly closed one of the gates, deployed his goons outside the gate and started the construction work on his shop,” said Jadeja in his complaint. “Sodha has usurped several plots of land granted to the poor by the government under various housing schemes. He has also grabbed the plot at Rapar Vegetable Market,” alleged Jadeja. Jadeja has also sought police protection for himself and his family members from Sodha and his men. “After filing this complaint, I fear for my life as well as the lives of my family members,” he said. Jadeja has sent the copies of his application to Kutch district collector, state ST depot, regional ST depot, regional officer of Rapar and chief secretary of the state law and home department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/plaint-filed-against-alleged-land-grabber/articleshow/77056157.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Trichy||85-year-old victim’s 10 contacts test positive||Trichy: A case of mistaken identity of a Covid-positive man who died in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has resulted in 10 of his close contacts testing positive and more are likely to have contracted the infection. Sources said an 85-year-old comorbid patient of Annavasal in Pudukottai district was admitted to MGMGH on July 9 after a private hospital refused to admit him. He died the next day and medical staff at MGMGH told his relatives that he had tested negative. Subsequently, they took his body back to Annavasal and buried him the same day. However, one of the three sons of the deceased told TOI that he received a message from the hospital later saying that his father had tested positive. “We were informed that doctors mistook my father’s name for another person of the same name who had given his swab for testing,” said the 35-year-old. Since over 50 people had attended the funeral, district health staff in Pudukottai tested 20 of his close relatives, out of which 10 tested positive a couple of days ago. “We have identified over 20 more who attended the funeral who will be tested on Monday,” said Pudukottai district deputy director of health services Dr K V Arjun Kumar. In another incident, the test result of a 70-year-old man from Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district who was buried after his death came positive. A heart patient, his swab was taken by health staff after he complained of fever on July 13. While he died the same day, the result came positive the next day. According to health staff, one of his close contacts has tested positive and results of a dozen more are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/85-year-old-victims-10-contacts-test-positive/articleshow/77056757.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||SOG yet to locate MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma||JAIPUR: In a bid to tighten the noose around MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, the Special Operations Group (SOG) will sent summons to his official residences in Jaipur and Churu along with few unnamed locations to question the legislator whose name had cropped up in an audio clip. The conversations in the audio were allegedly about attempts to topple the Congress government. The SOG team which had gone to Delhi to take Sharma’s statement is yet to find him. While Congress leaders have been demanding the need to take voice samples of individuals heard in the clip, SOG applied for permission for the same in court on Saturday, the decision for which is likely to come on Monday. The SOG had also considered the option of approaching the speaker with a request to question the MLA, but found it was not viable. Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS) said, “The team is looking at all options to record the MLA’s statement in the alleged case of horse-trading but he has gone completely incommunicado. We are still trying to locate him.” The team had left for Manesar on Friday to record Sharma’s statement and had to camp in Delhi. According to officials, they received information on Sunday evening that Sharma was back at the hotel in Manesar, though cops did not find him when they went there on Friday. The team was on its way at the time of filing this report though they were not very hopeful of finding him there as he might have again been shifted out of there. On Friday, the SOG had registered two FIRs after a complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi over perceived allegations to topple the government in Rajasthan. One of the two FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Sanjay Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. While the FIR mentions Singh, it does not say if it is referring to the Union minister though he (Gajendra Singh Shekhawat) released a statement in which he has refuted the claims made by Congress. Jain has been arrested in the matter. In the same matter, state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) also lodged an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-yet-to-locate-mla-bhanwarlal-sharma/articleshow/77056758.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||After success in trial, S Goa farmers grow basmati rice||Panaji: One of the most cherished rice varieties, the Indian Basmati, has made its debut with the farmers of Saljini and Juna in Goa. Having successfully harvested the crop after a recent experimental cultivation in Netravali, the farmers of these South Goa villages have taken up the cultivation of the Basmati for this monsoon season. The Pusa Punjab 1509 variant of the basmati which takes 90 days to mature until harvest season unlike other varieties was thus introduced to the farmers by the Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA). “Unlike other varieties of rice which bring the farmers only Rs 14 to 20 per kg, the basmati variety of rice can get Rs 50 per kg,” said Soham Ghate, block technology manager, ATMA, South Goa. He said that the farmers of these villages belong to the ST community and still use traditional methods of farming. “Since Salgini and Juna don’t get proper sunlight in some parts and sometimes receive rain for almost six months, they are very cold places. We therefore introduced the farmers to new technologies with the aim of growing basmati rice,” Ghate said. Through trial and error, the farmers spent their lockdown time in planting 44 kgs of the seed in a 2.2 hectare land area. Here, ATMA introduced the technology of System of Rice Intensification – a farming methodology aimed at increasing the yield of rice.  In November last year, ATMA had procured one kg of the rice variety’s seeds from Punjab and held a demonstration for the farmers in Netravali. The crop was sown without the use of any chemical fertilisers or pesticides, officials said. The agricultural activity resulted in a yield of 100 kgs of organic rice and was harvested by March. “To protect the crop, we guided them to obtain solar fencing through the agriculture department scheme which gives 100% subsidy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-success-in-trial-s-goa-farmers-grow-basmati-rice/articleshow/77057155.cms||Nida Sayed
July 20, 2020||Jaipur||Legal complaint against CM, MLAs for alleged violation of Covid norms||Times News NetworkJaipur: A city-based lawyer has filed a legal complaint against 104 people including chief minister Ashok Gehlot and other legislators at the metropolitan magistrate’s court for alleged violation of Corona guidelines. Om Prakash on Saturday filed the complaint and pleaded the court to direct Shastri Nagar police station in Jaipur to register an FIR under the appropriate sections of Disaster Management Act, Smoking Prohibition Act and Indian Penal code. The complainant stated that thousands of people have died in the country due to the virus. At the same time, the central and the state governments have issued guidelines prohibiting gathering people to prevent infection. Despite this, during Rajya Sabha elections on June 19, chief minister Gehlot had put up MLAs in a hotel. Since July 13, dozens of MLAs have been kept in another hotel after Sachin Pilot revolted against the party. “MLAs are not following social distancing norms and getting themselves entertained. While there is a provision for action against those who do not maintain SOPs and guidelines, the MLAs are not following it. On one hand, 50 people cannot gather without permission, on the other, a total of around 200 people including legislators are holed up in hotels. Many of them are over 60 years of age. No permission has been obtained from any officer to keep them together. In such a situation, orders should be given to register an FIR,” the complaint stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/legal-complaint-against-cm-mlas-for-alleged-violation-of-covid-norms/articleshow/77056767.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Groom, father among 16 booked for Covid norm violation||LUDHIANA: A groom, his father, guests and members of the managing committee of a banquet hall in a micro-containment zone, Islamgunj, were booked for violating Covid norms on Saturday evening. According to police, the accused had allowed a gathering of over 100 people in the marriage function, and some of them were not wearing masks and also were violating social distancing norm. The FIR has been lodged against groom Gurjant Singh, his father Sukhwinder Singh of Islamgunj area, guests Nirmal Singh of Manjeet Nagar, Gurpreet Singh of Islamgunj, Iqbal Singh of Islamgunj, Lucky, Gurwinder Singh, Ravinder Singh, Ranjeet Singh, Dharminder Singh, Sham Singh, Raju Singh, Gurdev Singh, Gurjant Singh of unidentified areas, besides Bheem Singh, Manpreet Singh and Sukhwinder Singh-members of the managing committee of banquet hall. The FIR has been lodged under sections of 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and Epidemic disease act. Assistant Commissioner of Police- Central, Waryam Singh said that the police had received an information that a marriage function was going on in a banquet hall of a micro-containment zone in which the gathering was more what had been allowed. Thereafter, a police team reached there and found that more than 100 people were gathered there to attend the marriage function. Many of them were also without mask and were violating the norm of social distancing also. “The police have booked groom Gurjant Singh, his father Sukhwinder Singh, 11 guests and three members of managing committee of banquet hall,” added the ACP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/groom-father-among-16-booked-for-covid-norm-violation/articleshow/77056163.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bareilly||First Covid-19 death reported in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Pilibhit reported its first Covid-19 death on Saturday. The 55-year-old deceased was a native of Bilaspur. The man died three days ago after his health condition worsened. He was confirmed Covid-19 positive after his test report was released on Saturday. The 22-year-old son of the deceased had also tested positive. The duo had gone to Faridpur in Bareilly a week ago to get their Covid-19 test done. The man died as soon as he returned home. Bisalpur circle SDM Chandra Bhan Singh said, “The deceased man’s locality has been declared a containment zone. The health department has collected samples of those who had come in contact with the deceased and his son. The department is also trying to identify the people who had attended his last rites.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/first-covid-19-death-reported-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77054522.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Paschim Superfast Express route diverted||Ludhiana: Due to low occupancy in some long route passengers trains heading towards New Delh and Mumbai side from Amritsar via Ludhiana station, Northern Railway have decided to divert the route of Paschim Superfast Express (running from Amritsar to Bandra Terminus) on daily basis. Northern railway has revised its route for getting more passengers in train as the train will be diverted from Sahnewal for Chandigarh, and then to Ambala instead of heading towards Khanna, Rajpura and Sirhind. The local railway authorities have also received the notification copy of the revised route of Paschim Express train for updating their regular schedule and make local passengers aware about the latest development. Some high-rank officials of the railways said, “The decision was taken after looking at the occupancy chart of Paschim Express, and regular demand for diversion through Chandigarh.” Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “We have updated the revised route of the train on time-table boards and informed the ticket checking staff for creating adequate awareness on this development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/paschim-superfast-express-route-diverted/articleshow/77056172.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Calls on job stress keep helpline busy||AHMEDABAD: Analysis of the calls for 1100 telemedicine helpline by the state government reveals that there has been a rise in the number of calls for depression and anxiety over job-related and examination-related issues compared to the period of lockdown. Dr Chirag Parmar, a city-based psychiatrist associated with the helpline, said that a few segments of population are more affected. “We are receiving calls when depression and anxiety are caused by the loss of employment or such possibility, uncertain future and lack of apparent emotional support at family or workplace. Anxiety among students is also high due to uncertainty over examinations and job prospects after college,” he said. Dr Parmar said that those who already had some symptoms got aggravated. “In one instance, a woman, whose husband was out of the state for business during the lockdown, sank into depression,” Dr Parmar said. “The woman had a history but with medications, it was under control. But the uncertainty over his return triggered it. In another case, a man with OCD found justification of his earlier actions with the stress on cleanliness in Covid times and needed medical intervention,” Dr Parmar added. The experts said that sometimes the cases get resolved with the support system in the form of families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/calls-on-job-stress-keep-helpline-busy/articleshow/77056179.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Rajkot||Covid warrior cop succumbs to infection in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A retired police sub-inspector succumbed to coronavirus infection at a private hospital in the city on Sunday. Chandrakant Shukla, 59, had even offered his services for two months during the lockdown and helping cops contain the spread of virus in Surendranagar. Shukla had tested positive around 20 days ago. “Shukla had opted for voluntary services as a corona warrior with Surendranagar A-division police station and Joravarnagar police station. He served at these police stations for two months. He was relieved from the duty on June 1 after unlock-1 was declared after the phases of three lockdowns,” said an official from Joravarnagar police station. “Shukla had contracted the infection in Surendranagar,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-warrior-cop-succumbs-to-infection/articleshow/77056175.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Breach Candy Hospital: May have to shut if Maharashtra govt extends 80:20 rule||MUMBAI: A Maharashtra government order capping treatment charges at private hospitals has come in for fresh criticism, with the renowned multi-speciality Breach Candy Hospital saying it has led to “huge cash losses” and yielded little benefit to the poor. The hospital has said the order must not be extended beyond August 31 and warned that it may force the management to take “extreme steps including closure” if it is. The order—passed mid-May and expiring end-August —caps charges on 80% of beds in private hospitals; for the balance 20%, there are no limits. A top member of Breach Candy’s management team said, “The pandemic is unabated and Covid cases are expected to be reported for another year or more, until an efficacious vaccine is invented. Because of the 80:20 rule, the hospital has been incurring huge cash losses and if the rule continues beyond August 31, it will become financially unviable, forcing the management to consider shutting the unit down.” He said the hospital made a cash loss of Rs 23 crore in the April-June quarter of fiscal 2020. It has so far treated over 300 Covid patients. The hospital is run by a public charitable trust and unlike corporate/private equity funds-backed facilities, its operations are managed from the profit it makes; it has no external source of funding. Set up in July 1946 with 25 beds, Breach Candy now has 213 beds. It had planned a new building with 90 beds in the same complex for Rs 250 crore. But this expansion now looks uncertain, sources said. The 80:20 rule applies even to non-Covid cases. “Despite legal opinion that the government’s imposition of price control on the non-Covid section by invoking the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act is ultra vires and unconstitutional, we agreed to abide by the notification and refrained from challenging it legally just to show the hospital’s goodwill and solidarity with the government,” said a trustee, adding that “this was done despite the hospital’s occupancy level coming down to below 50%”. Sources said that while the government’s intention was to give concessional treatment to both Covid and non-Covid patients, BMC has not referred a single non-Covid patient to the hospital. “If only Covid patients are being addressed by BMC, what did the government gain by stipulating price control of non-Covid patients?” asked one of them. The sources said Covid patients getting treated at Breach Candy are all affording Covid patients and not the poor who depend on the public health system. “Even the concessional package rate is beyond the reach of poor patients and hence, government’s intention is not being achieved,” a senior hospital official said. BMC officials claim the order helped ease the bed crisis in the city at the peak of the pandemic. “The price-capping and 80:20 rule singlehandedly sorted out the bed availability in Mumbai. Else, beds in private hospitals were mainly occupied by asymptomatic patients who could pay. People were running from one hospital to another and this rule empowered us to end that chaos,” said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. He said it was too early to comment on whether the scheme would be continued beyond August. “It was a state decision and there is more than a month’s time to decide,” he said. A state official said hospital heads have mentioned the loss of revenue, but there has been no discussion on the future of the scheme. Public health activists support the 80:20 rule. “Be it Mumbai or Pune, private hospitals have been wanting to wriggle out of the cost regulation. Charitable hospitals, particularly, have used the argument time and again saying poor patients are not benefitting adequately anyway, so why to continue. But rather than scrapping the scheme, government must publicize it and ensure more people know of it,” said Abhay Shukla of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, adding that financial viability can be discussed rather than getting rid of the scheme altogether during a pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/breach-candy-hosp-may-have-to-shut-if-govt-extends-8020-rule/articleshow/77057068.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: P Varavara Rao hit head on JJ Hospital bed and required stitches, says documents||MUMBAI: The medical papers of arrested 79-year-old poet and activist P Varavara Rao state that he had hit the bed and suffered a head injury during his brief stay at JJ Hospital last week. He required a couple of stitches. Rao, who had tested positive for coronavirus, was moved to Nanavati Hospital early on Sunday from state-run St George Hospital. At St George, he was suspected to be suffering from dementia. Before his admission to St George, Rao had been brought to JJ from Taloja jail, where he had been lodged since 2018 after his arrest in the Elgar Parishad case. Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, in-charge dean of JJ, said Rao did not fall from the bed, as was alleged. "He went to reach out for a glass of water when his head hit the corner of the bed and sustained an injury. He was immediately attended to and the wound was sutured. There is nothing to hide here. We have clearly mentioned this in the transfer notes and the discharge summary," he said. JJ doctors said that Rao was disoriented. His family visited JJ on Wednesday and was unhappy with his condition saying his bed and clothes were soiled and he did not recognise his wife or daughters. Nanavati doctors said Rao's condition was stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-p-varavara-rao-hit-head-on-jj-hospital-bed-and-required-stitches-says-documents/articleshow/77057322.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Goa||Heavy rain continues to lash state||Panaji: Most parts of the state experienced heavy rainfall on Sunday, however, the three-day lockdown ensured that most citizens stayed indoors during the torrential downpour. The continuous showers resulted in the 12cm mark being crossed in South Goa. While Canacona recorded 15cms of rain, Dabolim recorded 13cms. Rain gauge stations in Quepem on the other hand recorded 11cm. while those in Panaji and Mormugao recorded 10cms each. The heavy rains also resulted in tree falls in various parts of the state. The control room of the fire and emergency services received seven calls for the same while it received a total of four calls for rescues through the day. Some farmers reported instances of inundation in their fields wherein the recently transplanted seedlings were submerged in rainwater. The agriculture department will assess the paddy fields on Monday to evaluate the situation. “The south west monsoon was active over Goa on Sunday owing to which moderate to heavy rainfall was experienced at most places, and very heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places over Goa,” the India meteorological department (IMD) said. Though the weather conditions are expected to slightly improve on Monday, the IMD has issued a warning for the Maharashtra-Goa coast up to 75km from the coast. “Rough sea condition likely to prevail over the South Maharashtra- Goa coast on July 20. Fishermen are advised not to venture along and off the coast during this period,” IMD said. There is also a forecast for high waves in the range of 3.5-4m on Monday along the coast of Goa from Vengurla to Vasco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rain-continues-to-lash-state/articleshow/77057158.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Una to observe six-day voluntary shutdown||RAJKOT: Una Chamber of Commerce has decided to observe a six-day voluntary shutdown in view of increasing number of Covid-19 cases in this town of Gir Somnath district. During this period, though there will be no restrictions on the movement of people, the shops and business establishments will remain closed from July 21 to July 26. “Una has recorded as many as 82 Covid-19 positive cases so far. With this, it has emerged as a covid hotspot in Gir Somnath district. Hence, the members of the chamber of commerce have unanimously taken the decision of the shutdown. Una municipality president has also seconded our decision,” said Ishwarlal Jethwani, the president of Una Chamber of Commerce. During the shutdown, all shops except for medical shops and dairy establishments, will remain shut. The paan, cigarette selling shops as well as fruits and vegetable shops and carts will also be closed. There are 2,500 shops and business establishments registered with Una Chamber of Commerce. Box: Shops in Halvad to remain open till 2pm The Traders’ Association of Halvad in Morbi district has decided to impose a partial lockdown on shops and business establishments for the next 12 days. “During this lockdown effective from July 20 to July 31, the shops and business establishments will be allowed to function from 8am to 2pm,” said Vinu Patel, the president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/una-to-observe-six-day-voluntary-shutdown/articleshow/77056180.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid command centres to scale up surveillance||LUCKNOW: Scaling up surveillance in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday pitched for enclosing identity proof and phone numbers in a database of those undergoing tests at Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) for swift tracking, follow-up and contact tracing. Command control centres are being set up in every district of the state. Yogi stressed that ICCC be well equipped to get back to people who test positive for the virus. He asked officials, including chief secretary RK Tewari, to ensure ICCC is functional in every district by Sunday evening. Command centres have been proposed not only to track new cases, but also launch contact tracing, surveillance and provision of ambulances to ferry patients to Covid hospitals. Additional chief secretary, information and home, Awanish Awasthi, said, besides L1, L2 and L3, the newly introduced L1-plus category (patients admitted in private facilities) would come under the ambit of ICCC. “All district magistrates and CMOs have been asked to get phone numbers and addresses of those who undergo lab tests for the infection,” Awasthi said. At the same time, the state government has decided to accelerate rapid antigen testing that yields quick results. Awasthi said, the CM asked officials to monitor Covid testing on the ground and address problems faced by hospitals. The chief minister also came across complaints from districts about people not receiving ration. “DMs have been directed to reach those localities, pockets and even villages to ensure seamless distribution of ration,” he said. Awasthi said, the state government has also initiated a campaign in all Covid and non-Covid hospitals to equip them with adequate health facilities and medicines. “Besides cleaning and sanitization, the hospitals should necessarily have an ambulance fleet, wheelchairs, stretchers and oxygen,” he said. The departments of rural development, panchayati raj and urban development have been asked to conduct sanitisation and fogging, besides ensuring potable drinking water to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-command-centres-to-scale-up-surveillance/articleshow/77057070.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Covid heroes steer others to hospital; brakes on own use||NEW DELHI: For the past few months, the couple relentlessly worked to ensure that Covid patients and those suspected to be infected reached the hospital, providing them the ambulance they required to do so. But much before this, Twinkle Kalia had earned the sobriquet of Delhi’s Ambulance Woman — her husband, Himanshu Kalia, and she themselves drive two of their fleet of 10 private ambulances, come pandemic or a medical emergency. Their dedication to serving people was exemplified by their refusal to use their ambulances to take Twinkle to hospital when she was infected by the novel coronavirus, deeming it more important to have the vehicles serving needy patients. Twinkle possibly caught the virus while driving patients to hospital or while at the hospitals or funeral grounds. “When an emergency hit our family, we could not get an ambulance in time,” said a wry Himanshu, fully conscious of the irony. “But our objective is to help people who need to immediately reach a hospital. The outbreak didn’t faze us, and Twinkle especially had zero apprehensions about driving corona-infected people to hospitals.” In the last four months, the Kalias helped over 350 patients. “Sometimes we even received phone calls requesting us to ferry bodies to crematoriums. Since these things take time, both of us spent many hours at hospitals and cremation areas, which left us prone to catching the infection,” revealed Himanshu. Around June 7, Twinkle started developing Covid symptoms. On 10 June, she went for a test, which returned positive. Himanshu said the ambulance service could not be stopped when the number of cases and demand for ambulances were rising rapidly. While the wife went into home quarantine, the husband, who tested negative for Covid, put in extra work for the ambulance service. “We isolated Twinkle, and the team and I donned our PPE suits and continued helping patients. Some risk or the other is always there. We cannot abandon people because of this,” he said. Two weeks ago, Twinkle’s test came back negative and she promptly went behind the steering wheel of her ambulance. Since the lockdown was announced, the Kalias have also been operating a kitchen and serving food to the impoverished people. “We distribute food to hundreds daily. We also make sure food reaches the policemen and traffic staff while they work to implement the pandemic norms,” said Himanshu. The ambulance service came about after Himanshu and his mother failed to find one when his father met with an accident 25 years ago. The delay in finding transport to rush the senior Kalia to hospital left him in a coma for three years. With his father incapacitated, Himanshu dropped out of school and begin working in factories. Just 14 then and scarred by the stressful experience, he thought of ways in which the lack of ambulances could be prevented from disrupting lives. Today, he has a fleet of 10 ambulances that he offers for free use to people in distress. Over 6,000 people have received assistance since the service began in 2000. In 2002, Himanshu married Twinkle, who recalled that the groom refused to accept any wedding gift from her family. “After a lot of compelling, he finally conceded he wouldn’t mind a vehicle because he was operating an ambulance service with a rented car,” smiled Twinkle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-heroes-steer-others-to-hosp-brakes-on-own-use/articleshow/77074835.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Waterlogging in Delhi: Day after, agencies plug holes||NEW DELHI: After the shocking death of a man while negotiating the submerged portion under Minto Bridge on Sunday and the rainwater mayhem across the city, the Public Works Department, under whose jurisdiction most of the spots vulnerable to waterlogging have been identified, has increased the number of workers and pumps at these places. Meetings are also being held among civic agencies to decide how to deal with the recurrent scourge of waterlogging. A PWD official said there were plans to instal automated alarms that sounded if the water level at an underpass or a vulnerable spot roses 14 centimetres above the danger mark and triggered the suction pumps into operation. “We are aiming at this technology being in place at vulnerable sites by the end of the month,” the official disclosed. “The alarm sounding at a particular area will also warn a commuter to avoid taking that route.” Another official revealed that all civic agencies had been instructed to work together to come up with a common solution to the problem. “Normally, there are numerous probable solutions offered by different agencies, but now everyone has been directed to hold meetings and decide by Wednesday at least what can be done together,” the official said. “This has been suggested to make the solution fool-proof and to prevent one agency from blaming another. PWD and Delhi Jal Board will have to work closely.” On Monday, municipal officials were seen clearing the silt at Minto Bridge. However, Minto Road and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Marg still saw traffic problems due to water accumulation on some uneven sections. Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said the civic body had written to PWD to make all on-site pumps operational for possible inundations and to depute a nodal officer for Minto Road. “On Sunday, no one was present in the pump station there,” the mayor claimed. He said there were 24 railway underbridges under the north corporation, and pumps had been deployed at all of them. A junior engineer has been given responsibility of each vulnerable spot to fix accountability. The north civic body has deployed five mobile pumps in each of its zones, with additional pumps in the Narela and Rohini zones, which have a large number of unauthorised colonies. “These residential areas are low-lying and they have no drainage, so waterlogging is inescapable. Pumps are on standby in these colonies,” Jai Prakash said. In southern Delhi, SDMC mayor Anamika Singh said that that boards with the contact number of nodal officers for 35 vulnerable spots have been put up for people’s convenience. “We have teams overseeing the situation in ITO,” she added, saying PWD has been consulted on the problems arising at the conjunction of colony and PWD drains. Regarding washing away of some houses in Anna Nagar on Sunday, an SDMC official alleged, “The flow of water was disrupted by a DJB wall. The water collected and caused the damage.” On Monday, SDMC teams broke a part of the offending wall to improve water passage. A DJB official claimed the wall was built on the direction of National Green Tribunal to prevent sewage from reaching the Yamuna river and a letter had been sent to the executive engineer of SDMC’s central zone on November 26 last year apprising it about the structural design of the wall. A Delhi Police officer, meanwhile, said that in view of the repair work on the breached drain behind the World Health Organization complex on Ring Road, all vehicular movement from Bhairon Road towards the Indraprastha flyover will remain closed to enable expeditious repair work. “All heavy vehicles are being diverted to NH 24 from Sarai Kale Khan flyover, while the light vehicles going towards Rajghat will compulsorily have to take a detour via Bhairon Marg to ITO and onwards. Motorists are requested to plan their journey accordingly,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-after-agencies-plug-holes/articleshow/77074842.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 20, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe visits Covid-19 isolation, ICU wards, interacts with +ve patients||NAGPUR: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe paid a visit to Covid-19 isolation and ICU wards at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospitals (IGGMCH) and interacted with Covid-19 positive patients. He expressed satisfaction with medical services being provided to the patients. Mundhe visited Covid-19 isolation and ICU wards a couple of days ago. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) released pictures of his visit on Monday that went viral on social media. Mundhe told TOI, “GMCH and IGGMCH are doing a good job. I interacted with patients and took feedback of facilities and inquired about their health. I have given some necessary instructions for further improvement at the hospitals,” he said. It is for the first time since the city registered its first case on March 11, that the civic chief has interacted with Covid patients undergoing treatment at GMCH and IGGMCH isolation and ICU wards. Earlier, he had visited the hospitals to take review and also held meetings with officials and doctors of two hospitals. With steep rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the city, Mundhe also started inspection of markets. He visited shops in Sitabuldi on Monday and ensured fines on violators of Covid-19 guidelines. He also slammed the officials of NMC Dhantoli Zone for not initiating action against violators. A few days ago, Mundhe had warned of a full lockdown with curfew in the city, alleging brazen violations of guidelines. Home minister Anil Deshmukh and guardian minister Nitin Raut had given their consent. Full lockdown with curfew is likely in the city for 15 days, beginning from July end. To avoid full lockdown, Mundhe had issued press release couple of days ago urging all to maintain Covid distancing, wear masks, use sanitizers etc. He also held meeting with representatives of traders’ associations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-visits-covid-19-isolation-icu-wards-interacts-with-ve-patients/articleshow/77074824.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs biggest spike of 9,518 cases in a day||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Sunday logged the biggest single-day jump in coronavirus infections due to a surge in Pune and Thane districts, adding 9,518 cases in 24 hours. The state’s cumulative total now stands at 3,10,455. The state accounted for almost a quarter of the 39,000 new cases added across India on Sunday. Maharashtra now accounts for nearly a third of the 10.7lakh positive cases in India. The state has more cases than UK, which has so far recorded 2,94,792 and is the 10th most affected country in the world. Mumbai, on Sunday, reported 1,046 new cases, taking the city’s overall tally to 1,01,224. Numbers show that only 11% of Maharashtra’s detections were from Mumbai. Of the rest, 2,751 (29%) came from the wider Metropolitan Region which includes portions of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts. The next highest contributor was Pune division with 3,443 cases. Of 1,28,730 people currently undergoing treatment in the state, maximum are from Thane district (38,388) followed by Pune (33,748). Mumbai is third on the list with 23,697 active cases. The state also reported 258 deaths on Sunday, its third highest in a day so far, taking the toll to 11,854. Mumbai’s share in mortalities continued to be steady at 64, which took the city’s toll to 5,711. While the state’s fatality rate dropped to 3.81%, the city’s continued to hover around 5.63%. Commenting on the death rate, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the corporation has pulled out data for the last two decades to study the mortality figures. “Our preliminary figures show that the city’s death rates have always hovered around 6.7% to 7.5%. Covid could have pushed it to 8% but we are still studying the numbers and will soon get the final picture,” he said. In terms of cases, civic officials said the city has stabilised and has been recording cases in the range of 1,000-1,400 every day. Dharavi on Sunday reported 36 new patients. It was after almost a month that Dharavi saw a marginal rise after reporting below 20 throughout June. In fact, on July 7, Dharavi had reported only one positive patient in the daily update for the first time since April 1 this year when the first case was traced in the locality. A doctor said, “Mumbai cannot drop its guard till cases have stabilised in the MMR”. Public health minister Rajesh Tope along with NCP chief Sharad Pawar visited Solapur on Sunday to review the increasing cases in Solapur city and rural parts of the district. The minister stressed on institutional quarantine and said all district collectors should improve its quality. He asserted that the overall situation in the state was under control. While Pawar applauded Dharavi residents for their effort in reducing cases drastically, he appealed for more cooperation with the administration and compliance with guidelines to curb the spread. Minister for women and child development Yashomati Thakur instructed district collectors and municipal corporations to exclude anganwadi workers from carrying out door-to-door health surveys in the administration . On Sunday, across the state, 3,906 patients were discharged taking the count of total recovered patients to 1,69,569. The recovery rate in the state is 54.6% now, said Tope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-logs-biggest-spike-of-9518-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77057074.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||8k RTI applications pending with state info commission||Ranchi: More than 8,000 RTI applications are pending for disposal at the State Information Commission, which is lying defunct after the post of chief information commissioner and five information commissioners remained vacant for many months. The term of the only information commissioner, Himanshu Shekar, who was handling the cases since long, ended in May this year, rendering the commission which is a constitutional body mandated under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, non-functional. Speaking to TOI, Ravikant Paswan, central president of Bharatiya Suchna Adhikaar Manch (BSAM), a national rights group working in the field of RTI, said he had recently written a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren urging him to fill the vacant posts on a priority basis. Paswan said, “RTI is a crucial tool for enforcing transparency and accountability in governance, but in Jharkhand, it has turned into a toothless tiger. The government should activate it immediately to prove that it is for zero tolerance towards corruption.” “Due to non-availability of information commissioners, cases are piling up for disposal. Over 8,000 RTI applications and cases are pending for disposal and it will increase every day but no one seems to be concerned,” said Paswan, who in December last year led a statewide dharna outside the Raj Bhavan for appointments to the vacant posts in the commission. The recruitment process to fill vacant posts was stopped midway after notifying the process in January this year. “After the new government was formed, the state personnel department on January 4 issued a notification to fill up the vacant posts, but the process was halted midway for reasons best known to the government,” Paswan added. Meanwhile, secretary of the state personnel department, Ajoy Kumar, was not available for comments. One of his subordinate officers on condition of anonymity said, “The recruitment process had to be put on hold for some technical issues. Thereafter, the government’s focus shifted to the Covid fight, but it will soon be set in order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8k-rti-applications-pending-with-state-info-commission/articleshow/77056300.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||9-yr-old refused admission by 3 Covid centres; tally up by 153||Ranchi: A nine-year-old Thalassemic girl who tested positive for Covid-19 was refused admission by three city-based Covid care centres and went back home on Sunday even as 153 fresh cases and one death were reported from across the state. The death is reported from Hazaribag and the district's toll has risen to six. “A 77-year-old Hazaribag resident died during treatment. He was suffering from several co-morbidities and also had pneumonia. He was admitted at the critical care unit of RIMS covid-19 centre,” a Rims official said. With 153 fresh infections, the total number of cases in the state rose to 5,552; of which 2,767 are active and 2,718 have recovered. The number of Covid deaths in the state has also reached 49. Meanwhile, the father of the nine-year-old kid told TOI: “My daughter tested positive on Saturday evening after which we were informed that she will be shifted to one of the Covid-19 hospitals for treatment. An ambulance arrived at our home around 3pm on Sunday to shift my daughter to Paras Hospital but after waiting for seven hours in the vehicle and being denied a bed by the three Covid hospitals, we returned home around 10pm.” He added, “The ambulance took us directly to Paras hospital but did not admit my child till 6pm. We were then asked to go to Rims. At Rims, the authorities completed the registration process but said there was no bed available after they were informed that she is Thalassemic and sent us to the Doranda Covid care centre. We were again sent back to Paras from Doranda around 9.30pm saying there was no facility for blood transfusion. Our repeated attempts to get my child were in vain and returned home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/9-yr-old-refused-admission-by-3-covid-centres-tally-up-by-153/articleshow/77056429.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||100 more beds added in Chatra Covid centre amid spike||Chatra: The district administration has increased the number of beds at its only Covid care centre located at the sub-divisional office in the town after the spurt in coronavirus cases. The new deputy commissioner, Divyanshu Jha, on Sunday directed officials to add another 100 beds to the designated centre. With the new additions, the centre will now have 200 beds. Jha has also issued an order to turn the newly constructed block office in Simaria and the community health centre in Itkhori block into Covid care centres with 100 beds each. Deputy development commissioner Murli Manohar Prasad said, “Given the spike in cases, we have to increase the number of beds and set up new Covid centres.” As on Sunday morning, Chatra recorded 134 active cases, although the district has not reported any Covid death so far. Currently, the only Covid care centre is operating in the new building of the sub-divisional office. A district official said the new building, constructed on the old Kutchery campus, was ready for inauguration. After after the outbreak, the inauguration was postponed and it was converted into a Covid care centre. Prasad said the entire district has only one ventilator which is being used in the Covid care centre. “In case of emergency when patients need more ventilators, we will send them to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital, which is only 45km away,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/100-more-beds-added-in-chatra-covid-centre-amid-spike/articleshow/77057180.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Six cyber criminals held in Dumka||DUMKA: Six cyber criminals, who duped several people of the money through their e-wallets, were arrested in Dumka, police said on Sunday. Dumka DSP (cyber) Sriram Samad said, “Initially, two criminals — Rijwan Ansari and Irshad Ansari — of Morne village under Mohanpur police station of Deoghar district were arrested near an ATM at Taljhari. Later, four more were nabbed on their information during interrogation.” Samad said the six used to dupe people using Anydesk, a remote desktop access application, pretending as executives of e-wallet service providers. “They used to make customers install this application on their phones citing easy KYC updates and later duped them of their money through bank accounts and e-wallets,” the DSP said. Samad further said, “Once installed, the cybercriminals used to get access to all details of the victim’s accounts without even needing to call them. This seems to be the new modus operandi.” The DSP added that 10 more members of the gang are at large and efforts are on to arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/six-cybercriminals-held-in-dumka/articleshow/77057188.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur: Dog lovers find it tough to feed strays as donations dry up||JAMSHEDPUR: With the lockdown impacting salaries of the working class and people not willing to loosen their purse strings for generous contributions, NGOs looking after street dogs across the Steel City are in a financial crunch. Shut eateries and restaurants have also added to the problems of the strays which could no longer find leftovers. “The lockdown has taken away jobs, leaving several people with slashed salaries. The generous donations which we used to get from them have stopped coming in. We are facing problems in feeding and taking medical care of the stray dogs,” said Abhishek Rai of Pets and Animals Welfare Society of Jharkhand (PAWSJ). PAWSJ functionary Aditya Pathak said currently they are feeding 170 to 200 stray dogs in the city, but the number of strays is 10 times more than the animals they are feeding every day. “We have put up our WhatsApp number on our Facebook account for those interested in donating,” Pathak said. Prarambh, a city-based animal lovers’ organisation, said it is spreading awareness through social media platforms. “We are appealing to people to be compassionate towards animals and urging them to feed the stray dogs of their localities. Leftover food at homes will be sufficient to feed at least one dog,” said a volunteer of the outfit, Pawan Pal Singh. Dog lover Ronnie Sarkar, who owns a popular tattoo shop in the city, said there is a shortage of volunteers too. “With the rapid spread of the coronavirus in the city, several of our volunteers who were actively involved in feeding strays during the lockdown period are now avoiding the responsibility fearing the virus,” Sarkar said. Notably, till Saturday, East Singhbhum recorded a total of 830 Covid-19 cases of which 474 are still active. The district has also seen seven deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/dog-lovers-find-it-tough-to-feed-strays-as-donations-dry-up/articleshow/77056344.cms||B Sridhar
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||PMCH junior doctors withdraw stir after DC’s assurance||DHANBAD: The junior doctors of Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) withdrew their cease-work strike on Sunday after the district administration assured them that their stipend for February would be released soon. About 42 junior doctors at PMCH had gone on strike from Saturday evening to seek their dues from the government. PMCH superintendent Arun Kumar Chaudhary said, “The junior doctors withdrew their strike after deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh gave them assurance.” The work-boycott call had affected OPD services, among others, at the government-run hospital. It was the second such stir by the junior doctors in the last 10 days. One of the protesting doctors said on condition of anonymity, “Despite an assurance given to us on July 10 that our problems would be addressed within a week, no concrete steps were taken. Therefore, we were compelled to protest again. Our main issue is non-payment of stipend for February. But we also want the government to hike our stipends. We only get Rs 43,000 per month whereas junior doctors at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi receive Rs 60,000.” Another junior doctor added, “We are working day in and day out amid the pandemic. But if the government fails to pay on time, it would be difficult for us to continue to discharge our duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pmch-junior-docs-withdraw-stir-after-dcs-assurance/articleshow/77057185.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||Garhwa municipal area goes into lockdown again||Garhwa: Garhwa Nagar Parishad area was completely sealed from Sunday banning entry of all vehicles coming from rural areas. Business establishments and other entities also downed their shutters July 31 to curb the spread of Covid-19. Garhwa sadar SDO Pradeep Kumar appealed to the residents to cooperate with the administration during the period. Kumar said grocery shops in the municipal areas can remain open only from 8am to 2pm. “Action will be taken against people not wearing masks and venturing out after 7pm,” the SDO warned. Garhwa Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Bablu Patwa also appealed to the businessmen to shut their establishments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/garhwa-municipal-area-goes-into-lockdown-again/articleshow/77057181.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||3 girls become first from Dalit community in Koderma village to clear JAC Class X exam||Koderma: Ruby Kumari, Priyanka Kumari and Shivani Kumari became the first girl students from the Dalit community of Tilathiya village under Ambabad panchayat of Satganwa block of the district to not only pass the Jharkhand Academic Council’s matriculation examination but also cleared it in the first division. The council announced the results earlier this month. Tilathiya, about 45km away from the district headquarters, is a village with around 45 households where most of the residents work as labourers and girls do not have much scope for education. Child marriage used to be common practice in the village, said Md Shakil, headmaster of the upgraded high school in Dounaiya, where the three girls studied since their Class IX. District administration officials lauded the trio and assured them help in pursuing their studies. Ruby said it was very tough to continue with her studies after she passed Class VIII as her father, a daily wager, wanted her to get married. “But I convinced my parents with the help of an NGO, Rashtriya Jharkhand Sewa Sansthan, to make me pursue my studies. The NGO later admitted me in the high school,” she said. She further said that she used to cycle for around 14km almost every day to get coaching classes at Pihro in Giridih district. Ruby’s father, Bighan Ravidas, said, “Seeing her determination, we allowed her to continue her studies. Today, when I look back, it was worth it as she has made us proud in the village.” The district education department has decided to offer the girls admission to any government-run Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) of their choice. Talking to TOI on Sunday, the district education officer, Shivnarayan Saha, said, “The girls should continue with their studies and hence, we have decided to give admission to these girls to any KGBV of their choice.” Koderma deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap said the trio has paved the way for other girls in their hamlet to dream big. He further said, “By clearing the examination in the first division, they have set an example for other students.” He added, “The administration will provide all support to the three girls who performed well despite facing adverse circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-girls-become-first-from-dalit-community-in-koderma-village-to-clear-jac-class-x-exam/articleshow/77056289.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||‘264 Shramik Specials ferried 3.3 lakh workers to state, more likely to follow’||Ranchi: As many as 264 Shramik Special trains ferried 3.33 lakh migrant workers to Jharkhand from various parts of India between May 1 and July 11, the state transport department said on Sunday. Jharkhand became the first state to requisition a Shramik Special to bring migrant workers home. On May 1, the first Shramik Special arrived at Hatia railway station in Ranchi from Lingampally in Telangana, carrying 1,200 workers. The top brass of the state government, including chief minister Hemant Soren, gave the workers a warm welcome after the train’s arrival. The last Shramik Special, officials in the state transport department said, arrived from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu on July 11. The train had 500 workers on board, far less from the train’s 1,500 capacity. As per the department’s statistics, the special trains ferried nearly 50% of Jharkhand’s 6.29 lakh migrants who returned during the lockdown. Others returned in buses arranged by the state government and in hired private vehicles. The berth capacity of the trains, mostly arriving from Delhi, Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, were augmented to 1,500 from 1,200 to accommodate more migrants. But since the end of June, the trains did not fill up to their capacities. “Several trains from Delhi and southern states arrived with passengers less than half of their capacity. A couple of trains had to be rescheduled,” an official said. With 100 pairs of special trains operated by the railways, stranded workers and others bound for Jharkhand are also not depending much on Shramik Specials. Transport secretary K Ravikumar said, “The last Shramik Special train reached Jharkhand on July 11. We have not received information about any more trains after it. But as per the state government’s policy decision, we will bring stranded people to Jharkhand upon getting information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/264-shramik-specials-ferried-3-3-lakh-workers-to-state-more-likely-to-follow/articleshow/77056318.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 20, 2020||Ranchi||1.6k Bokaro sample reports yet to arrive from Dhanbad hosp||Bokaro: Contact tracing and timely treatment of Covid-19 patients is badly affected in Bokaro as there is a delay in the arrival of test reports from PMCH, Dhanbad, officials said on Sunday. Reports of as many as 1,600 samples are yet to arrive from PMCH. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “The arrival of Covid test reports from PMCH are delayed by more than a week. Our reports are pending since July 9.” He added, “We are mostly dependent on TreuNat reports these days but in some cases, we have to get confirmation from RT-PCR machines. With the rise in cases, every day we are sending about 300 samples but are receiving few test reports.” As on Sunday morning, the district recorded total 108 cases. Chas SDO Shashiprakash Singh said they are now considering setting a time slot for sampling at sadar hospital to ease the rush as many are turning up for Covid tests. Sources in the Bokaro General Hospital said that the delay is also resulting in the late discharge of those who are cured. Currently, BGH has 47 active cases with many spending over 10 days even after their recovery due to the delayed arrival of test reports. The doctors aren’t able to take a call on their discharge even though the number of beds at the hospital are limited. Bokaro DC Rajesh Kumar Singh said, “We are looking into the matter to ensure that the tests arrive on time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-6k-bokaro-sample-reports-yet-to-arrive-from-dhanbad-hosp/articleshow/77057184.cms||Divy Khare
July 20, 2020||Business||Shut offices, hotels block flow of bottled water sales||NEW DELHI: The bottled water industry in India, which was growing at double digits, has hit a roadblock due to Covid-19 as sales in offices, hotels and travel remain restricted across the country. Most senior executives in the industry TOI spoke to said sales volumes are down by 70% compared to pre-Covid months. “Office attendance is currently 10-20%. We don’t see it dramatically going up in the near future,” said Angelo George, CEO of Bisleri International. Offices account for a large chunk of bottled water consumption in India. “Earlier, we would send truck-loads of our bulk packs to offices. But that segment has shrunk to 10% of our overall business currently,” Ramesh Chauhan, founder of Bisleri, told TOI. Shuttering of low-end restaurants, sparse traffic on highways and lack of public functions and business-related conferences — that account for major consumption of smaller packs, including the 250ml ones — are other factors that are hurting the industry. Major players, both regional and global, are reporting dismal numbers. “Who will buy water from outside in these conditions?” said Rakesh Khanna, proprietor of City Cola, one of Delhi NCR’s leading beverage companies. “We are selling less than half of what we used to before the pandemic struck. Even I have started carrying water from home for my meetings.” While most companies are trying to focus on the at-home segment at present with out-of-home consumption affected, the ever-changing landscape of containment zones has created bottlenecks for smooth delivery of bulk packs. “While away-from-home consumption in channels like travel, restaurants, entertainment and hospitality may take a little longer to come back to normal, at-home consumption is robust and growing, especially bulk jars in the packaged drinking water segment,” said a spokesperson for Coca-Cola India, which sells the Kinley brand. Watch Bottled water industry hits roadblock due to COVID-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shut-offices-hotels-block-flow-of-bottled-water-sales/articleshow/77057328.cms||John Sarkar
July 20, 2020||Thane||40-year-old doctor dies of Covid, fourth from Dombivli in a month||KALYAN: A 40-year-old urologist from Dombivli, who worked at Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation's fever clinic and at the OPD of his own hospital, lost his battle against Covid on Sunday morning. He is the fourth doctor from Kalyan-Dombivli area to die of Covid in the past one month. All the doctors who succumbed were actively involved in the screening and treatment of Covid patients. Dr Pankajkumar Chaudhary was part of Indian Medical Association's Dombivli team which is providing free services at the civic body's fever clinic. The doctor was on ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) support-cardiac and respiratory support- since July 6. A known urologist in the twin cities, Dr Chaudhary managed his own hospital in Dombivli. He is survived by his wife, Purva, also a doctor and a 21-month-old son. "Despite the virus scare, my husband attended the fever clinic and the OPD," said Dr Purva. She said he wore PPE kits while treating patients and took all other preventive measures too, but started feeling unwell last month. He quarantined himself at their second home situated above the hospital. When his condition didn't improve, he got admitted to Noble Hospital in Dombivli where he tested Covid-positive on June 23. He was shifted to Wockhardt in Mumbai, but when his lung condition deteriorated, doctors suggested moving him to Riddhi Vinayak Hospital in Nalasopara as it had an ECMO machine. Chaudhary's death has come as a shock to the fraternity. Mangesh Pate, a senior doctor from Dombivli and chairman of the Hospital Board of India, Maharashtra, said, "Pankajkumar is the fourth doctor from Kalyan-Dombivli to die of Covid-19. It is distressing that despite our best efforts to save people during such a crucial time when doctors are also losing their lives, false claims are being made on social media about doctors making money. This should be immediately stopped."  Last month, Dr Pankaj Patil from Kalyan died, while Dr Milind Bairagi and Dr Rakesh Vajpayee succumbed earlier this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/40-year-old-doctor-dies-of-covid-fourth-from-dombivli-in-a-month/articleshow/77057332.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 20, 2020||Business||Honda plans to make India strategic hub for exports||NEW DELHI: With sales in the Indian market under a severe constraint and production capacity grossly under-utilised, Japan’s Honda Cars has decided to make India a strategic hub for exports, making it a key business unit as it plans to begin shipments to left-hand-drive markets in the West for the first time. The company, which previously refused to focus on exports from India, now sees this as an integral part of its operations, especially as this has the potential to help drive production at its factories at a time when the domestic market doesn’t look so promising for business in the given challenging circumstances. The new version of the City sedan would be exported to various left-hand-drive markets as part of this initiative, joining the export bandwagon which previously comprised models such as the Amaze entry sedan and WR-V hatch that were being shipped to South Africa and other neighbouring countries, Gaku Nakanishi, president and CEO of Honda Cars India, told TOI. Read AlsoHonda rolls out new-gen City, price starts at Rs 10.9 lakhAs the Indian car market battles the slowdown, Japanese automaker Honda has driven in the new version of its City sedan priced between Rs 10.9 lakh and Rs 14.7 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi).Honda has an installed capacity of 2.8 lakh units in India, and this is divided between its two factories — the first one at Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh and the second at Tapukara in Rajasthan. India passenger vehicle sales of Honda Cars stood at just over 1 lakh units in 2019-20, declining by 44% (industry decline of 18%), while exports were negligible at 3,774 units (shipment turnover of Rs 230 crore), down 21% in volumes, according to numbers provided by Siam. 2020 Honda City: Comfort and features explainedThe company wants to bridge this gap between installed capacity and actual sales through the extra push provided by exports. This is the strategy followed by its Japanese compatriot Nissan in India. “By the end of this year, Honda India will be adding new export destinations and left-hand-drive markets for the first time ever… While the company’s primary focus continues to be on the domestic market, with this new overseas push, we expect the export volumes to almost double in this financial year,” Nakanishi said. The company also hopes that currency fluctuations can be balanced through such an exercise. Watch 2020 Honda City review||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/honda-plans-to-make-india-strategic-hub-for-exports/articleshow/77057335.cms||Pankaj Doval
July 20, 2020||Business||Infosys' Vanguard deal value pegged at $1.5 billion||BENGALURU: The multi-year deal Infosys won from US investment firm Vanguard is worth $1.5 billion, say sources close to the development. This will perhaps make it the biggest deal Infosys has ever signed. Previously, some believed it was slightly under a billion dollars. The sources also say the scope of the work could be extended to 10 years, with the contract value rising to over $2 billion. The mammoth deal explains a good part of the surge in the company’s share price on Wednesday and Thursday last week, and the confidence the company had in reinstating its revenue guidance for the year. Infosys declined to comment on the deal size. Billion-dollar deals are rare for Indian IT. Infosys won the deal in a hotly contested battle with Wipro in the final lap. Other serious contenders in the race included TCS and Accenture. Infosys is said to have set up a 3,000-seater facility in Electronics City in Bengaluru to service the deal. It combines BPM services and digital transformation work to take Vanguard’s record-keeping services onto a cloud-based platform. The company will initially have 300-400 people working out of the facility and it will ramp up gradually, based on the release timeline, sources said. The company won $1.7 billion worth of deals in the April-June quarter, but Infosys said this did not include the Vanguard deal. Vanguard, through the funds it manages, holds a nearly 3% stake in Infosys. Infosys is also very strong in the retirement services space in the US, serving half of the top 20 such firms. Vanguard manages more than $1.3 trillion in DC (defined-contribution) assets — plans where employers and employees make regular contributions to secure the latter’s retirement days. Infosys said around 1,300 Vanguard roles supporting the full-service record-keeping client administration, operations, and technology functions will transition to Infosys. The initial deal prospecting is said to have started in the beginning of the year. A Vanguard team visited its Indian and MNC IT partners to assess vendor capabilities and maturity of the digital services. Infosys president and BFSI head Mohit Joshi, BFS business head in North America Dennis Gada, president & delivery head Ravi Kumar, CFO Nilanjan Roy, cloud & infrastructure business head Anant R Adya, and BFS sales vice-president Nageswar Cherukupalli were those who brought the deal to fruition. Last year, Infosys’s Verizon contract size grew to over $1 billion and the client is said to have given good references. Under CEO Salil Parekh, the company also has done major asset/people-takeover deals, including a recent one with ABN AMRO. Analysts say it’s tough to handle such large vendor consolidation deals. “An underlying risk on some large deals is difficulty in achieving the delivery and cost expectations and then experiencing margin shortfalls,” said Rod Bourgeois, head of research in US-based DeepDive Equity Research. Watch Infosys' Vanguard deal may be worth about $1.5 billion||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infosys-vanguard-deal-value-pegged-at-1-5-billion/articleshow/77057344.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
July 20, 2020||Business||Edelweiss to exit wholesale business, focus on retail lending||MUMBAI: In a drastic business overhaul, the Edelweiss group will be completely exiting the wholesale credit business by 2022, shifting its focus to retail credit along with asset and wealth management verticals. Since the IL&FS bankruptcy induced liquidity crisis in the shadow banking sector in September 2018, the group has been reducing its wholesale loan book and it is down 43% from its FY18 peak. The group will be selling down Rs 3,000 crore more of wholesale loans by March and completely exiting by 2022, said group chairman and CEO Rashesh Shah. Wholesale lending has been the mainstay for the 25-year-old group for long, but since IL&FS pulled down the whole industry, quantum of sticky loans, mostly extended to commercial realty, ballooned forcing it to re-align the focus. The group also reported its maiden losses in the March quarter, booking Rs 2,245 crore in net losses as it made a Rs 900-crore additional one-time provision towards the pandemic taking the total provisions to Rs 2,549 crore. With focus shifting away from wholesale credit, total income came also down to Rs 9,603 crore in FY20 from Rs 11,161 crore in FY19 when it had a net income of Rs 995 crore. The group has three credit verticals — wholesale arm ECL Finance, housing finance arm EHFL and retail credit arm ERFL, which respectively netted interest income of Rs 1,191 crore, Rs 188 crore and Rs 115 crore, respectively. The group is also into asset reconstruction, where it is the largest player, fetching it a management fee of Rs 800 crore and wealth and asset management where it had a steady fee income of Rs 1,095 crore in FY20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edelweiss-to-exit-wholesale-biz-focus-on-retail-lending/articleshow/77057354.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Chennai||TN active cases cross 50,000 for first time, Chennai count stable||CHENNAI: After reporting around 4,500 cases daily over the past few days, TN’s Covid-19 positivity count touched new highs in the past two days, with fresh cases nudging 5,000 on Sunday. While active cases in the state crossed 50,000 for the first time, 78 deaths in 24 hours took the total toll to 2,481. From around 40,000 at the beginning of this month, active cases rose 26% to 50,294 cases on Sunday. The good news is that active cases in Chennai have hovered around 15,000 for the last few days, down 36% from the level at the beginning of July. Chennai’s daily count of fresh cases too has hovered around 1,200, but the numbers in the three neighbouring districts – Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur – are rising. They together recorded 931 new cases on Sunday, nearly 74% of Chennai’s count of 1,254. The positivity rate has come down to 5% to 8% in the north Chennai zones of Tondiarpet and Royapuram, said Corporation commissioner G Prakash. With 1,411 people testing positive on Sunday, the 10 southern districts, including Madurai, have so far had 29,175 positive cases and almost half of them were active cases. Also, Madurai has a backlog of 4,000 samples for which results are awaited. This is equal to the daily sample collection in the district, says monitoring officer B Chandramohan. TN tested more than 50k samples on SundayPositive cases are expected to go up when the backlog is cleared. Other districts such as Trichy (138), Coimbatore (135), Thiruvannamalai (134) and Vellore (133) continued to report more fresh cases on Sunday. TN continued to test more people than any other state with swab samples taken from 51,640 on Sunday, the highest so far. Tamil Nadu has so far tested19.3 lakh samples. With one more lab at Tiruvannamalai Government Hospital approved for Covid testing, the state now has112 testing facilities. Of the 78 deaths reported on Sunday, 42 were from Chennai and three neighbouring districts. This took the cumulative death toll close to 2,481. But this does not include around 500 deaths in Chennai that were recorded by the civic body. Of the other 36 deaths reported on Sunday, 20 were in the southern region. Youngest Covid victim on Sunday was a 22-year-old from Madurai. The average death rate in the region was 1.25%, which was less than the state's death rate of 1.45%. Among passengers coming travelling from other states, 77 tested positive at air, rail and road surveillance camps. So far 4,788 passengers0 who entered TN since lockdown 1.0 have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-active-cases-cross-50000-for-first-time-chennai-count-stable/articleshow/77057357.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Districts see a spurt in Covid-19 cases as virus spreads in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Even as there was a perceptible dip in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases being reported from Greater Hyderabad, new pockets of concern have emerged in the districts. The virus seems to be spreading in other parts of the state now. This has left officials worried as most of the health infrastructure is concentrated in Greater Hyderabad. On Sunday, 30 of the 33 districts registered new Covid-19 positive cases. Also, for the first time the districts recorded nearly 60% of the total cases in a single day. But Telangana recorded 1,296 new cases on Sunday, of which 739 were from the districts. The state’s overall tally has reached 45,076 while the toll stood at 415 with six new deaths being recorded. With new cases being largely concentrated in the GHMC area during the early part of the pandemic, it had seemed that the districts would manage to contain the virus. “To begin with, 10 to 20 cases were being seen in Rangareddy district which is now seeing between 100 and 200 cases daily. Then it spread to Medchal and Sangareddy. Now these three districts along with Medak account for 20% of the cases,” said an official from the state health department. Among the most affected districts in the latest spurt are Warangal, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Nizamabad, Yadadri, Suryapet and Mahabubabad. ‘Travel to Hyd unavoidable’At one point, the districts had recorded barely 5% of the overall cases while the GHMC area recorded 95%. The primary reason for the spread, say government officials, is the travel towards Hyderabad for livelihood and for accessing healthcare. Sources said that it was likely that people get infected in Hyderabad and then travel to the far-off areas, carrying the virus with them. “Travel towards Hyderabad from other parts of the state is unavoidable for two reasons – Hyderabad is hub of economic activity and a majority of laboratories, and corporate hospitals are located in the city. Since the unlock started, movement between districts and Hyderabad has increased and, as a result, remote districts are seeing a spurt. Districts have fewer facilities to test and isolate people,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/districts-see-a-spurt-in-covid-19-cases-as-virus-spreads-in-telangana/articleshow/77057364.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 20, 2020||India||We’re in Haryana as Rajasthan cops hounding us: Pilot camp||NEW DELHI: The Sachin Pilot camp has countered Congress’s criticism that the rebel MLAs have sought shelter in Haryana where BJP is in office, saying CM Ashok Gehlot has held party MLAs in a resort and should allow them to go to their homes. Sources close to Pilot said MLAs opposed to Gehlot were being “hounded” by Rajasthan police and they were in no position to return to Jaipur where they would be subjected to coercive tactics. “A special operations group has been set after them, Congress has no basis to ask whether the MLAs are in one state or another,” an MLA said. The Pilot camp claimed that the MLAs were in fact not at the hotel in Manesar which has been the focus of much attention. It was pointed out that the MLAs were fending for themselves and would be ready to participate in a floor test whenever it was held. The rebels continued to insist that they were not responsible for the escalation of hostilities, saying Gehlot had taken a series of hostile steps. “If he says there was no conversation with Pilot for 18 months, then what sort of a government was he running?” a source asked. With the focus on court proceedings on Monday, the rebel camp expects to point to the “haste” with which the Speaker has acted in serving notices and seeking responses on the issue of disqualification. The MLAs intend to argue that there was a premeditated intent to ensure their disqualification to benefit the Gehlot government in a floor test. The rebels said the CM’s majority claims were on paper and the true situation would emerge if the MLAs were let free. The legal battle may continue even if the Speaker has his way as the MLAs will then approach the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/were-in-haryana-as-rajasthan-cops-hounding-us-pilot-camp/articleshow/77057377.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka forms 7 special squads to enforce bed, admission rules to treat Covid-19 patients||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Sunday turned the heat on private hospitals by forming seven special teams to ensure they followed the bed-reservation matrix to treat Covid-19 patients, while the new BBMP commissioner inspected three big private hospitals for compliance. The government order on constituting the special teams, each of them comprising one IAS and one IPS officer, comes in the wake of reports that many hospitals were not offering the number of beds as agreed upon with the government. “It has come to our notice that private medical institutions are denying admission to such referred patients and self-reporting symptomatic patients, who are under distress, on some pretext or the other,” the order signed by chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar read. “All admissions and discharges of Covid patients in the hospitals are done through the hospital bed management portal provided by the BBMP for both Covid patients referred under the government quota of beds and for the private beds administered by the private medical institutions,” it added. Further, the government order empowers the director of medical education department to ensure beds in private institutions are allotted as per the formula, and book cases in case of violations. A day after taking charge as BBMP commissioner, N Manjunatha Prasad visited Vydehi Medical College and Hospital, Sakra World Hospital and Columbia Asia and found the first two flouting government guidelines. He warned hospitals of action if they don’t follow the mandate. The warning follows what medical education minister K Sudhakar said on July 13 that the government will file a criminal case and revoke the licence of hospitals if they flout the guidelines. Prasad told TOI: “While Columbia Asia had reserved 35 of its 70 beds for Covid, we found Sakra had given only 16 of its 300 beds and Vydehi only 200 of its 1,000 beds. We have warned them...” Not all pvt hospitals are offering 50% beds: BBMP chiefWe have warned the hospitals of criminal prosecution under the Disaster Management Act, which carries one-year imprisonment. By evening, Sakra wrote to us and said they have now offered 100 beds. Vydehi said they are short of medical staff, including doctors,” Prasad said. He said there was a mismatch between BBMP data — based on the capacity as declared with the government while obtaining the licence — and what the hospitals are offering on ground. “Going by our data on how many beds each licensed hospital has, we’ve calculated 50% of these beds based on the government order. Not all hospitals are giving 50%,” Prasad said. Watch Covid-19: Special squads formed to enforce bed, admission rules to treat patients in Karnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-forms-7-special-squads-to-enforce-bed-admission-rules-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77057363.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Thane||More civic bodies unlock; KDMC crosses Thane tally||MUMBAI: A day after Thane and Mira-Bhayander relaxed the lockdown, Kalyan-Dombivli and Navi Mumbai followed suit on Sunday. Kalyan-Dombivli, which had more active cases than Thane, overtook it to log the highest case tally in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), barring Mumbai. The civic bodies of Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Bhiwandi, Ambernath, Badlapur, Shahpur and Murbad, which relaxed the lockdown, have imposed curbs on Covid-19 hotspots till July 31. These civic bodies were under lockdown since July 1 to contain spread of the virus. Ulhasnagar and Panvel are the only civic bodies where a lockdown is in place and will end on July 22 and July 24. KDMC on Sunday recorded 15,907 cases, including 246 new patients, overtaking TMC that touched 15,773 cases, including 551 new positives. The total active patients in KDMC were also higher at 6,131 than Thane’s 5,499. KDMC recorded six deaths taking the toll on Sunday to 246. Thane reported four deaths to touch 551. Thane city was on top of the Covid chart in MMR, except Mumbai, till Saturday. On July 2, KDMC had moved from third position, overtaking Navi Mumbai. In KDMC, 48 hotspots will remain sealed. Both essential and non-essential shops can remain open in non-containment zones as per the odd/even pattern. All rules and restrictions as per the state government’s Mission Unlock 2.0 will continue to be implemented. The 18-day lockdown in KDMC saw cases surge to 9,332, while Thane had 6,381 cases. In Navi Mumbai, 42 hotspots will remain under lockdown. The total cases touched 11,426 including 288 new positives. Of these, 7,213 patients have recovered. Three deaths took the toll to 343. NMMC on Sunday placed an order to procure an additional one lakh antigen kits for Rs 4.5 crore. The civic body has 40, 000 antigen kits which are being used at three civic hospitals. Nearly 500 people are being tested free of cost in these hospitals daily. The number of antigen tests will be increased to 1, 000 in the second phase. Private doctors in Thane approached the Association of Medical Consultants in Mumbai complaining they were being pressurised by the civic body to discharge patients after five days. AMC president Dr Deepak Baid told TOI doctors in Thane have been asked to discharge 20% patients daily. The AMC has written to the civic chief seeking clarity. Deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said no such order has been issued. Panvel had 139 new cases, taking the total to 4,878. Four deaths took the toll to 114. Mira-Bhayander had 136 positives. The tally is 6,558 and a death has put the toll at 220.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/more-civic-bodies-unlock-kdmc-crosses-thane-tally/articleshow/77057378.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 20, 2020||Navi-mumbai||More civic bodies unlock; KDMC crosses Thane tally||MUMBAI: A day after Thane and Mira-Bhayander relaxed the lockdown, Kalyan-Dombivli and Navi Mumbai followed suit on Sunday. Kalyan-Dombivli, which had more active cases than Thane, overtook it to log the highest case tally in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), barring Mumbai. The civic bodies of Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Bhiwandi, Ambernath, Badlapur, Shahpur and Murbad, which relaxed the lockdown, have imposed curbs on Covid-19 hotspots till July 31. These civic bodies were under lockdown since July 1 to contain spread of the virus. Ulhasnagar and Panvel are the only civic bodies where a lockdown is in place and will end on July 22 and July 24. KDMC on Sunday recorded 15,907 cases, including 246 new patients, overtaking TMC that touched 15,773 cases, including 551 new positives. The total active patients in KDMC were also higher at 6,131 than Thane’s 5,499. KDMC recorded six deaths taking the toll on Sunday to 246. Thane reported four deaths to touch 551. Thane city was on top of the Covid chart in MMR, except Mumbai, till Saturday. On July 2, KDMC had moved from third position, overtaking Navi Mumbai. In KDMC, 48 hotspots will remain sealed. Both essential and non-essential shops can remain open in non-containment zones as per the odd/even pattern. All rules and restrictions as per the state government’s Mission Unlock 2.0 will continue to be implemented. The 18-day lockdown in KDMC saw cases surge to 9,332, while Thane had 6,381 cases. In Navi Mumbai, 42 hotspots will remain under lockdown. The total cases touched 11,426 including 288 new positives. Of these, 7,213 patients have recovered. Three deaths took the toll to 343. NMMC on Sunday placed an order to procure an additional one lakh antigen kits for Rs 4.5 crore. The civic body has 40, 000 antigen kits which are being used at three civic hospitals. Nearly 500 people are being tested free of cost in these hospitals daily. The number of antigen tests will be increased to 1, 000 in the second phase. Private doctors in Thane approached the Association of Medical Consultants in Mumbai complaining they were being pressurised by the civic body to discharge patients after five days. AMC president Dr Deepak Baid told TOI doctors in Thane have been asked to discharge 20% patients daily. The AMC has written to the civic chief seeking clarity. Deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said no such order has been issued. Panvel had 139 new cases, taking the total to 4,878. Four deaths took the toll to 114. Mira-Bhayander had 136 positives. The tally is 6,558 and a death has put the toll at 220.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/more-civic-bodies-unlock-kdmc-crosses-thane-tally/articleshow/77057398.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 20, 2020||India||Union minister Shekhawat should resign or be sacked: Congress||JAIPUR: Upping the ante over two audio clips that it claims is proof of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s alleged role in horse-trading of Rajasthan MLAs, Congress on Sunday demanded that he either resign or be removed by PM Narendra Modi. “Now that the Anti-Corruption Bureau, too, has filed a case, is it not fair that he steps down or is relieved of his post till he is cleared of the charges?” Congress functionary Ajay Maken said. “Shekhawat has said the voice in the audio clips is not his; so why is he reluctant to give his (voice) samples to the probe agencies?” “Why are Haryana and Delhi police not allowing voice samples of Bhanwarlal Sharma (one of the MLAs purportedly featuring in the audio clips), Vishvendra Singh and minister Shekhawat to be taken?” he asked. On Saturday, the SOG applied for legal nod to collect voice samples for matching with those heard in the audio clips. The court’s decision is expected on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/union-minister-shekhawat-should-resign-or-be-sacked-congress/articleshow/77057400.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka Covid-19 tally crosses 63,000; 12,000 added in past 3 days||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Sunday added 4,120 Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of its infected to 63,772, while the total number of deaths jumped to 1,331 with 91 fatalities. Bengaluru accounted for 2,156 and 36 of Sunday’s cases and deaths, respectively. With this, the city has a total of 31,777 cases and 667 deaths. Chennai reported 1,254 cases and 27 deaths for the day, while it was 1,038 and 64 in Mumbai. Of the 63,772 cases in Karnataka, 12,350 cases have been added in the past three days as the state. Similarly, 299 of the 1,331 deaths were reported in the past three days after the state crossed the 1,000-mark on July 16. While Dakshina Kannada (285) reported the most cases after Bengaluru, Mysuru had the most deaths (11) after the capital. There are 579 patients in the ICU, including 332 in Bengaluru, followed by Kalaburagi with 32 and Dharwad with 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-covid-19-tally-crosses-63000-12000-added-in-past-3-days/articleshow/77057401.cms||---
July 20, 2020||India||Congress mulls short assembly session to call Rajasthan rebels’ ‘bluff’||NEW DELHI: Congress is mulling calling a short session of the Rajasthan assembly to force the hand of rebels even if the court hearing on the disqualification notices favours the Sachin Pilot-led group. As per the thinking in Congress, the Pilot group’s plan to dig in its heels over returning to Jaipur has to be countered immediately even though the party believes it has a robust legal case. “There are strong, substantive legal grounds regarding non-maintainability of the petition and the fact that most of the issues are covered by several Supreme Court judgments in favour of the Speaker being a high authority whose process of decision-making should not be interfered with at the interim stage,” Congress lawyer and RS MP Abhishek Singhvi said. However, Congress is looking ahead and preparing for all possible scenarios. Sources said there is a view that the assembly be convened at a short notice to discuss “serious governance issues” like Covid. A whip would be issued for Congress MLAs to be present. It will force the rebels to return to Jaipur and settle the truth behind their claim that they were with Congress. Failure to attend the session will thus attract disqualification charges against the rebels, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mulls-short-assembly-session-to-call-rajasthan-rebels-bluff/articleshow/77057416.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus has claimed 10 children & 20 adolescents in Mumbai so far||MUMBAI: In absolute numbers, Covid-19 has claimed 10 children and 20 adolescents in the city. For those between 71 and 80 years of age, the fatality rate was 15%, while for infected people in the age group 61-70 years, it was around 12%. In absolute numbers, though, the age group of 61-70 has seen the highest number of deaths at 1,623, accounting for 29% of the overall Covid-19 deaths in the city. The fatality rates decline in the lower age groups. Among the under-50, the highest deaths were seen in 41-50 age group with a fatality rate of 4%. Below 40 years, the fatality rate drops to less than 2%, with the rate slipping below 1% for children and adolescents. The age group that has seen the highest number of infections is 51-60 years, accounting for almost a fifth of the one-lakh plus cases in the city. The age group has seen a fatality rate of 8%. Experts believe a combination of factors make the elderly more vulnerable, even though they could have been the least mobile in the pandemic. “Our experience shows that the need for respiratory support rose sharply with age and the outcome was often not good,” a physician from a public hospital said. He said that even in a non-Covid-19 situation, the outcome of respiratory complications is not great in the aged. “There are others factors too of course; many families don’t want to take an aggressive line of treatment, such as putting them on ventilator or trying experimental medicines,” the doctor said. Intensivist Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the state task force, the reasons why more elderly people die range from their fragile immune systems to hormones and their underlying conditions. “Biological ageing combined with a decline in immunity and organs weakened by decades of living with diabetes or hypertension have an impact. Often Covid-19 is just the precipitating factor,” he said. He said that it was often seen that the elderly stay at home and perhaps ignore the initial symptoms. “The disease is detected only on the third or fourth day,” he said. Late detection has been found to be one of the prime causes for deaths in the city, besides a rapid drop in oxygen levels. Physician Gautam Bhansali concurred that a drop in oxygen levels hit the elderly much harder than a younger person. “Many deaths have happened when they tried to get up in the middle of the night to use the washroom. We, therefore, advise families to provide bedpans not just in hospitals but even at homes,” Dr Bhansali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coronavirus-has-claimed-10-children-20-adolescents-in-mumbai-so-far/articleshow/77057393.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 20, 2020||Goa||Post releases cancellation stamp on Covid||Panaji: India Post has released a special cancellation stamp with the slogan ‘protect the vulnerable against Covid-19’ in a bid to create awareness about the measures taken up in the pandemic. “We hope that this special cancellation will increase public awareness on providing protection to the vulnerable groups and highlights the needs to take effective counter measures during the Covid-19 pandemic,” the Goa division stated.  This special cancellation will be in two colours that shall be impressed upon all the speed post articles booked at the two head offices in Goa - Margao and Panaji. the red colour special cancellation will be for Margao while the green colour will be for Panaji. At both places, the cancellation will be available for five days only. At the Panaji head post office, the cancellation will be from July 20 to 24 and at the Margao head post office, the cancellation will be from July 27 to 31. The senior postmaster at the Panaji head office will open the philately counter for these five days for the sale of stamps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/post-releases-cancellation-stamp-on-covid/articleshow/77044425.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Doubling rate 50 days: BMC. Data belies it: University economist||MUMBAI: What is the rate at which Covid-19 cases in the city are doubling? It may look like simple math, but is the BMC, which claimed the answer was over 50 days, correct? Mumbai crossed 50,000 cases on June 9. On July 18, the count stood at 1,00,178. Thus, it took 39 days for the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Mumbai to roughly double. "Despite this, BMC has been claiming that the doubling period for Mumbai has crossed 50 days," said Mumbai University economist Neeraj Hatekar in his paper, 'Mumbai's Doubling Period: Are we Getting It Right?' ‘Feel-good false numbers won’t help fight virus’This is not the first time BMC reported a doubling rate that does not match the data. On June 26, the civic dashboard claimed a doubling period of 40 days. A look at the data showed that it had taken 28 days for case numbers to double and reach 70,878 on June 26. “Data is important and good data analytics can help fight pandemics like Covid-19. But the data analytics must be well founded in good scientific practice. Otherwise, false numbers can make us all feel good, but will not help fight the situation,” said Hatekar. “While it is indeed true that the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai is not as bad as that in certain other parts of the country and even the state, it is simply not true that the doubling period of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has crossed 50. The BMC has been maintaining this because of a faulty analytical method,” he said. While BMC does not reveal the formula it uses, a particular approach reveals the answer, said Hatekar. Give or take some rounding off using logarithms, and we get the BMC’s doubling period, he explained. “But this is not the actual doubling period at which cases are doubling. It is a hypothetical period that would elapse if the growth rate continued to be the same and cases were growing exponentially.” Equally erroneous is the city’s guardian minister, who he said, picked it from the BMC dashboard and tweeted about it. While the doubling period in Mumbai is increasing, it is yet to cross 40 days, said Hatekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doubling-rate-50-days-bmc-data-belies-it-university-economist/articleshow/77057418.cms||Hemali Chhapia
July 20, 2020||India||Emirates to fly back stranded people from 4 cities for 7 days||NEW DELHI: Dubai-based Emirates on Sunday said it had received approval to operate repatriation charter flights from Ahmedabad, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Kolkata till next Sunday, July 26. These flights will only have outbound passengers from India to Dubai but carry cargo in the aircraft bellyhold in both directions.While Hyderabad and Chennai will have a daily flight, Ahmedabad and Kolkata will ha- ve have five and four flights, respectively||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/emirates-to-fly-back-stranded-people-from-4-cities-for-7-days/articleshow/77057426.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Bengaluru||50 Covid-19 deaths to 1,200: Karnataka took fewer days than Tamil Nadu, Delhi||BENGALURU: Among the five states with more than 1,200 coronavirus deaths so far, Karnataka breached the mark on Saturday and its growth hasn’t been the slowest to reach various milestones along the way. A TOI analysis of the number of deaths among the top four states with the highest Covid-19 caseload and more than 1,200 deaths — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Karnataka — shows that Karnataka took fewer days to get to 1,200 after the first 50 deaths compared to Delhi and Tamil Nadu, while Karnataka took five days more than Maharashtra did. Maharashtra reached the 50-mark on April 6, touched 150 between April 12-13, jumped to 617 on May 5 and crossed the 1,200-mark on May 18. While it took 42 days for Maharashtra to get to 1,200 from 50 cases, it took Karnataka 46. Karnataka reached the 50-mark on June 2, 150 on June 23, 615 on July 11 and 1,240 on July 18. Comparatively, Delhi and Tamil Nadu took 47 and 50 days to reach 1,200 deaths from 50. However, the death doubling rate in Karnataka after the cases crossed 300 is the same as that of Maharashtra’s. Both states took 14 days to reach 1,200 cases from 300, while Tamil Nadu and Delhi took more than that. Karnataka reported 994 Covid deaths between July 1 and 18If Karnataka’s toll continues to rise the way it has in July — the state has added 994 cases between July 1and 18 at a rate of more than 55 deaths per day — it is most likely to take the least number of days than any other state to reach the 2,000-mark after crossing 50 deaths. As of July 18, the mortality rate in the top four states was 1.4% (Tamil Nadu), 2% (Karnataka), 2.9 (Delhi) and 3.8% (Maharashtra). However, the rate in the course of these states reaching 1,200 deaths fluctuated between 3.5% and 7.5% for Maharashtra, 1% and 3.2% for Delhi, 0.7% and 1.3% for Tamil Nadu and 1.2% and 2% for Karnataka. The increasing toll and tally have been largely due to a spike in infections in its capital. As of July 18, Bengaluru accounted for 51% of all the deaths and 49% of all cases in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/50-covid-19-deaths-to-1200-karnataka-took-fewer-days-than-tamil-nadu-delhi/articleshow/77057420.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Mangaluru||50 Covid-19 deaths to 1,200: Karnataka took fewer days than Tamil Nadu, Delhi||BENGALURU: Among the five states with more than 1,200 coronavirus deaths so far, Karnataka breached the mark on Saturday and its growth hasn’t been the slowest to reach various milestones along the way. A TOI analysis of the number of deaths among the top four states with the highest Covid-19 caseload and more than 1,200 deaths — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Karnataka — shows that Karnataka took fewer days to get to 1,200 after the first 50 deaths compared to Delhi and Tamil Nadu, while Karnataka took five days more than Maharashtra did. Maharashtra reached the 50-mark on April 6, touched 150 between April 12-13, jumped to 617 on May 5 and crossed the 1,200-mark on May 18. While it took 42 days for Maharashtra to get to 1,200 from 50 cases, it took Karnataka 46. Karnataka reached the 50-mark on June 2, 150 on June 23, 615 on July 11 and 1,240 on July 18. Comparatively, Delhi and Tamil Nadu took 47 and 50 days to reach 1,200 deaths from 50. However, the death doubling rate in Karnataka after the cases crossed 300 is the same as that of Maharashtra’s. Both states took 14 days to reach 1,200 cases from 300, while Tamil Nadu and Delhi took more than that. Karnataka reported 994 Covid deaths between July 1 and 18If Karnataka’s toll continues to rise the way it has in July — the state has added 994 cases between July 1and 18 at a rate of more than 55 deaths per day — it is most likely to take the least number of days than any other state to reach the 2,000-mark after crossing 50 deaths. As of July 18, the mortality rate in the top four states was 1.4% (Tamil Nadu), 2% (Karnataka), 2.9 (Delhi) and 3.8% (Maharashtra). However, the rate in the course of these states reaching 1,200 deaths fluctuated between 3.5% and 7.5% for Maharashtra, 1% and 3.2% for Delhi, 0.7% and 1.3% for Tamil Nadu and 1.2% and 2% for Karnataka. The increasing toll and tally have been largely due to a spike in infections in its capital. As of July 18, Bengaluru accounted for 51% of all the deaths and 49% of all cases in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/50-covid-19-deaths-to-1200-karnataka-took-fewer-days-than-tamil-nadu-delhi/articleshow/77057443.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Hubballi||50 Covid-19 deaths to 1,200: Karnataka took fewer days than Tamil Nadu, Delhi||BENGALURU: Among the five states with more than 1,200 coronavirus deaths so far, Karnataka breached the mark on Saturday and its growth hasn’t been the slowest to reach various milestones along the way. A TOI analysis of the number of deaths among the top four states with the highest Covid-19 caseload and more than 1,200 deaths — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Karnataka — shows that Karnataka took fewer days to get to 1,200 after the first 50 deaths compared to Delhi and Tamil Nadu, while Karnataka took five days more than Maharashtra did. Maharashtra reached the 50-mark on April 6, touched 150 between April 12-13, jumped to 617 on May 5 and crossed the 1,200-mark on May 18. While it took 42 days for Maharashtra to get to 1,200 from 50 cases, it took Karnataka 46. Karnataka reached the 50-mark on June 2, 150 on June 23, 615 on July 11 and 1,240 on July 18. Comparatively, Delhi and Tamil Nadu took 47 and 50 days to reach 1,200 deaths from 50. However, the death doubling rate in Karnataka after the cases crossed 300 is the same as that of Maharashtra’s. Both states took 14 days to reach 1,200 cases from 300, while Tamil Nadu and Delhi took more than that. Karnataka reported 994 Covid deaths between July 1 and 18If Karnataka’s toll continues to rise the way it has in July — the state has added 994 cases between July 1and 18 at a rate of more than 55 deaths per day — it is most likely to take the least number of days than any other state to reach the 2,000-mark after crossing 50 deaths. As of July 18, the mortality rate in the top four states was 1.4% (Tamil Nadu), 2% (Karnataka), 2.9 (Delhi) and 3.8% (Maharashtra). However, the rate in the course of these states reaching 1,200 deaths fluctuated between 3.5% and 7.5% for Maharashtra, 1% and 3.2% for Delhi, 0.7% and 1.3% for Tamil Nadu and 1.2% and 2% for Karnataka. The increasing toll and tally have been largely due to a spike in infections in its capital. As of July 18, Bengaluru accounted for 51% of all the deaths and 49% of all cases in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/50-covid-19-deaths-to-1200-karnataka-took-fewer-days-than-tamil-nadu-delhi/articleshow/77057442.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Mysuru||50 Covid-19 deaths to 1,200: Karnataka took fewer days than Tamil Nadu, Delhi||BENGALURU: Among the five states with more than 1,200 coronavirus deaths so far, Karnataka breached the mark on Saturday and its growth hasn’t been the slowest to reach various milestones along the way. A TOI analysis of the number of deaths among the top four states with the highest Covid-19 caseload and more than 1,200 deaths — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Karnataka — shows that Karnataka took fewer days to get to 1,200 after the first 50 deaths compared to Delhi and Tamil Nadu, while Karnataka took five days more than Maharashtra did. Maharashtra reached the 50-mark on April 6, touched 150 between April 12-13, jumped to 617 on May 5 and crossed the 1,200-mark on May 18. While it took 42 days for Maharashtra to get to 1,200 from 50 cases, it took Karnataka 46. Karnataka reached the 50-mark on June 2, 150 on June 23, 615 on July 11 and 1,240 on July 18. Comparatively, Delhi and Tamil Nadu took 47 and 50 days to reach 1,200 deaths from 50. However, the death doubling rate in Karnataka after the cases crossed 300 is the same as that of Maharashtra’s. Both states took 14 days to reach 1,200 cases from 300, while Tamil Nadu and Delhi took more than that. Karnataka reported 994 Covid deaths between July 1 and 18If Karnataka’s toll continues to rise the way it has in July — the state has added 994 cases between July 1and 18 at a rate of more than 55 deaths per day — it is most likely to take the least number of days than any other state to reach the 2,000-mark after crossing 50 deaths. As of July 18, the mortality rate in the top four states was 1.4% (Tamil Nadu), 2% (Karnataka), 2.9 (Delhi) and 3.8% (Maharashtra). However, the rate in the course of these states reaching 1,200 deaths fluctuated between 3.5% and 7.5% for Maharashtra, 1% and 3.2% for Delhi, 0.7% and 1.3% for Tamil Nadu and 1.2% and 2% for Karnataka. The increasing toll and tally have been largely due to a spike in infections in its capital. As of July 18, Bengaluru accounted for 51% of all the deaths and 49% of all cases in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/50-covid-19-deaths-to-1200-karnataka-took-fewer-days-than-tamil-nadu-delhi/articleshow/77057441.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid-19 tally inches close to 50,000 with 2,250 fresh cases||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 tally for Uttar Pradesh inched closer to 50,000 on Sunday. As many as 2,250 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state tally to 49,399. The day’s list included 394 entries in Lucknow where the total crossed 4,000-mark. “The number of active infections in the state as on date is 18,256,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad on Sunday. He also stated that 1,181 persons recovered and 38 died in the past 24 hours. “Total recoveries have reached 29,256, while 1,146 persons died due to the pandemic,” he said. Informing that the total number of tests conducted by the state so far was 14,70,426, Prasad said that UP was conducting much more tests than recommended by the WHO. “The WHO recommendation says that 14 tests should be conducted per every lakhpopulation. This translates into 32,000 tests per day for UP. However our average is over 46,000 and in fact we have also crossed the 50,000 tests per day mark recently,” he said. Prasad said that public participation was the key to the state’s fight against the pandemic. “The biggest contribution one can make is to keep oneself away from Covid by adhering to the prevention protocol,” he said. The Covid bulletin revealed that of the 38 deaths reported in past 24 hours, eight persons died in Kanpur, while Bareilly saw four deaths. Three deaths were reported in Rampur, while two each were reported in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Sambhal, Gonda andBallia. Districts of Mahoba, Jhansi, Bhadoi, Maharajganj, Etawah, Gorakhpur, Bahraich, Jaunpur, Varanasi, Gautam Budh Nagar and Meerut saw one death each. In terms of fresh cases, Lucknow was followed by Kanpur Nagar (168), Gautam Budh Nagar (125), Jhansi (104), Prayagraj (100), Gorakhpur (89), Ghaziabad (79), Varansi (73), Hardoi (68), Shahjahanpur (58) and Sambhal (52).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-covid-19-tally-inches-close-to-50000-with-2250-fresh-cases/articleshow/77057445.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 20, 2020||Delhi||Three die, slum houses collapse in Delhi’s first heavy rain of season||NEW DELHI: One person drowned in his vehicle under a flooded Minto Bridge, a child lost his life at a Chhat ghat, a man died in Sriniwaspuri, many buses were stuck in railway under-bridges and several houses in a slum were washed away near ITO as a waterlogged capital was brought down to its knees in the heavy rain during early hours of Sunday. Tall claims of having achieved the desilting targets despite lockdown restrictions went down the drain on the very first day of heavy rain of the season. The familiar sight of a bus stuck under the Minto Bridge was repeated with Delhi Fire Service having to rescue three people from a DTC bus just before 9am. Seven more people had to be rescued at Zakhira and Lawrence Road. A 56-year-old man who drove his Tata Ace right into the water under Minto Bridge got stuck and finally drowned. His body was later fished out by a railway track man. PWD, three municipal corporations and other local bodies had claimed to have achieved 100% desilting with more than 25,000 metric tons of silt being cleared before June-end but waterlogging witnessed across Delhi's major arterial stretches and inner colony roads proved that there is a stark difference between these claims and the ground reality. The capital recorded its first ‘heavy’ rain day of the season with Safdarjung recording 74.8mm of rainfall in a 24-hour period till 8:30am. The monsoon trough has shifted, bringing moderate to heavy rain across Delhi NCR and an increase in rain activity is expected this week, IMD officials said. Internal roads flooded tooThe sudden showers, accompanied with lightning, resulted in uprooting of trees and power cables. At least 31 instances of trees falling in residential areas and 13 cases of parts of buildings getting damaged were recorded. Accounts of knee-high waterlogging and rainwater entering houses poured in from several colonies. Even key points in central Delhi like Connaught Place had corridors and shops filled with water. Atul Bhargava, who heads New Delhi Traders association of CP, said that the same scenes are repeated every year and basic cleaning of drains is not carried out. “We have water inside shops in G block, H block and even a tunnel connecting the inner-outer circle which has electrical service lines. This is very dangerous,” he added. NDMC on the other hand claimed there was no water logging in NDMC areas and jurisdiction of pumps on Minto Road lies with PWD. As agencies traded blame throughout the day, signs of failure were present across both arterial roads managed by PWD and inner colony areas gover ned by corporations. The situation was not better in inner residential areas like Defence Colony, many Dwarka sectors, Jangpura Extension, Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Garden, Rohini and IP Extension where people said they could not even step out of their homes. Bhavreen Kandhari from Defence Colony said the area opposite C-block was completely inundated. “Rain after rain, year after year, nothing has changed. This is the condition of the so called upscale Defence Colony,” she added. S R Sangar from IP extension said that the drains in the society are blocked and water gets stagnant. Delhi has 11big and small agencies manning drainage systems running over 3738 kilometers and jurisdictional issues between multiple agencies overseeing the drainage network ensure that there is no unified plan or mechanism to deal with waterlogging in the capital A senior engineering department official of south corporation said that 100% de-silting target had been achieved by the civic body and waterlogging was mostly on the arterial roads under PWD. “In some colonies, our smaller drains lead to larger drains managed by PWD and the irrigation and flood department and water is not getting an outfall point,” the official said. North DMC mayor Jai Prakash too echoed the same stance. “We have finished the desilting work in our drains but all of them lead to outfall in bigger drains managed by the flood department and PWD. It is important for all agencies to do the work on time,” he said. PWD officials said that the territory of Delhi has been experiencing floods mainly from the Sahibi river, which passes through Najafgarh drain and Yamuna. The situation becomes critical when these rivers are flooded and there’s rain in Delhi. Due to this the drainage system gets overloaded, causing waterlogging and flooding in the city. “On Sunday, there was heavy rain and the areas where construction activity was going on, or there were other obstacles, were the ones where we noticed waterlogging. We had put up suction pumps everywhere and while it was effective at most spots, it was not very quick to respond at a few other locations from where we received complaints about waterlogging. We have decided to now start the pumps as and when the rainfall starts so that the waterlogging does not hinder the traffic movement,” said a PWD official. While desilting work may have been impacted due to the Covid lockdown this year, experts have repeatedly pointed out that Delhi’s drainage administration system needs an overhaul. Many low-lying areas require design change in the drainage system, and a unified plan or mechanism needs to be carved out to deal with waterlogging. More than 50% of the drainage system is intermixed with sewerage lines and there is urgent need to implement Delhi Drainage Master Plan 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-die-slum-houses-collapse-in-delhis-first-heavy-rain-of-season/articleshow/77057419.cms||Paras Singh
July 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Nearly 70% of AP’s Covid-19 cases, deaths reported in July||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh, on Sunday, reached a grim milestone as 5,000 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in a day. The state, which was managing the pandemic reasonably well even till the end of June, is now faced with a flurry of cases every day. To get a sense of the gravity of the situation, one might look at the fact that while the state reported 5,000 cases on a single day on Sunday, it took the state to reach 90 days to report the first 5,000 cases after one case was reported on March 12. This can be better explained by the fact that 70% of the state’s Covid-19 cases as well as deaths were reported in July alone. Now, the state’s case positivity rate has shot above 16%. The most concerning aspect is the rise in mortality rate. Andhra Pradesh had 14,595 cases till the end of June. Initially, the state managed to control the spread of the virus through robust field-level government machinery and the TTT formula of testing-tracing-treating. But now, the number of cases is reaching new highs every day with nearly 35,000 reported only over 19 days. The virus, which was limited to thickly-populated urban pockets until recently, has now made its way into rural as well as tribal areas. A slew of factors such as easing of lockdown norms, increased public movement and resumption of commercial activity could have led to this spurt in cases. With testing ramped up and higher disease incidence, the state’s recovery rate has plummeted to nearly 46%, the third lowest among states. These point to a potential increase of the burden on the health infrastructure which is likely to cause hospital overcrowding, growing dependence on oxygen lines and ventilators and make patient monitoring difficult. However, a state health official informed that only 20% of beds in the state are currently occupied. “There are around 40,000 beds in designated Covid hospitals, including 22,000 within the government setup. Nearly 15,000 beds are equipped with oxygen lines. Covid-19 is under control and the state government is taking all necessary measures to flatten the curve. The public need not worry.” The state has conducted over one million tests in less than 125 days and has completed three lakh tests in only two weeks. The state government recently announced day-wise packages for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals and declared that such treatment will be covered under the Aarogyasri scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nearly-70-of-aps-covid-19-cases-deaths-reported-in-july/articleshow/77055187.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 20, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra:'Light rain seen over weekend, expect same trend till July 23'||MUMBAI: After recording significant rain activity all through the past week, this weekend in Mumbai saw only light rainfall with a few occasional heavy rain spells. In the 24 hours ending July 19, 8.30am, the India Meteorological Department's Colaba and Santacruz observatories reported 9.4mm and 7.7mm of rain. There was no rain recorded in the nine hours ending 5.30pm on Sunday. On Sunday, the IMD said from July 20 to July 23, Mumbai and Thane can expect the same trend to continue with very light to light rain. The total rain recorded so far by the IMD Colaba observatory is 1411.8mm, which is 402.7mm above normal. The IMD Santacruz observatory recorded 1635.7mm, which is 605.4mm above normal. Lakes that supply water to Mumbai have not reported any significant rain activity. In the 24 hours ending Sunday, 6am, total water stock in the seven lakes was 3.91 lakh million litres or 27.03% of required stock. Last year, the quantum on the same date was 7.43 lakh million litres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtralight-rain-seen-over-weekend-expect-same-trend-till-july-23/articleshow/77057467.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra:'Light rain seen over weekend, expect same trend till July 23'||MUMBAI: After recording significant rain activity all through the past week, this weekend in Mumbai saw only light rainfall with a few occasional heavy rain spells. In the 24 hours ending July 19, 8.30am, the India Meteorological Department's Colaba and Santacruz observatories reported 9.4mm and 7.7mm of rain. There was no rain recorded in the nine hours ending 5.30pm on Sunday. On Sunday, the IMD said from July 20 to July 23, Mumbai and Thane can expect the same trend to continue with very light to light rain. The total rain recorded so far by the IMD Colaba observatory is 1411.8mm, which is 402.7mm above normal. The IMD Santacruz observatory recorded 1635.7mm, which is 605.4mm above normal. Lakes that supply water to Mumbai have not reported any significant rain activity. In the 24 hours ending Sunday, 6am, total water stock in the seven lakes was 3.91 lakh million litres or 27.03% of required stock. Last year, the quantum on the same date was 7.43 lakh million litres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtralight-rain-seen-over-weekend-expect-same-trend-till-july-23/articleshow/77057454.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra:'Light rain seen over weekend, expect same trend till July 23'||MUMBAI: After recording significant rain activity all through the past week, this weekend in Mumbai saw only light rainfall with a few occasional heavy rain spells. In the 24 hours ending July 19, 8.30am, the India Meteorological Department's Colaba and Santacruz observatories reported 9.4mm and 7.7mm of rain. There was no rain recorded in the nine hours ending 5.30pm on Sunday. On Sunday, the IMD said from July 20 to July 23, Mumbai and Thane can expect the same trend to continue with very light to light rain. The total rain recorded so far by the IMD Colaba observatory is 1411.8mm, which is 402.7mm above normal. The IMD Santacruz observatory recorded 1635.7mm, which is 605.4mm above normal. Lakes that supply water to Mumbai have not reported any significant rain activity. In the 24 hours ending Sunday, 6am, total water stock in the seven lakes was 3.91 lakh million litres or 27.03% of required stock. Last year, the quantum on the same date was 7.43 lakh million litres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtralight-rain-seen-over-weekend-expect-same-trend-till-july-23/articleshow/77057468.cms||---
July 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal toll hits a high of 36, Kolkata records 15 deaths||KOLKATA: Bengal recorded the highest number of Covid deaths on a single day on Sunday with the toll clocking 36 in the past 24 hours. With this, the total toll has climbed up to 1,112. The highest number of deaths recorded on a day so far had been 27. The number of fresh cases was also the highest so far at 2,278, taking the total number of Covid cases in the state to 42,487. Kolkata led the chart with the highest number of deaths and new cases. Out of the 36 deaths, 15 were from the city followed by North 24 Parganas with 9 deaths. While Hooghly had four deaths, Howrah and South 24 Parganas had three deaths each. Two more deaths were reported from East and West Midnapore. “There are a large number of unscreened people who are infected. Unless we have an appropriate strategy to address this fast, we will go on setting new records,” said virologist Amitabha Nandy of Centre for Tropical Medicine and Parasitology. Of 2,278 new cases reported on Sunday, 662 were from Kolkata alone. The hospital occupancy rate, that had remained around 27% even a week ago, has now shot up to 36 % across the state. While private hospitals are running out of beds, government facilities, too, are filling up fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-toll-hits-a-high-of-36-kolkata-records-15-deaths/articleshow/77057458.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Decrease in containment zones & sealed buildings points to plateau||MUMBAI: For the first time since the BMC started sealing buildings (or floors in buildings) and marking out containment zones because of the Covid-19 outbreak, the numbers in both categories have dropped. The city’s first case was reported on March 9, following which the ambit of containment in the city had only been increasing. While sealed buildings (active, not cumulative) numbered 6,416 earlier in the month, the number has dropped to 6,235 (as of Friday). As for containment zones, the number (again, active category) has come down from 747 to 708 in the same period. At present, the least number of containment zones are in wards like G-South (Worli, Lower Parel, Prabhadevi) which in the initial days of the outbreak in the city were reporting the maximum number of Covid-19 cases among the wards. On the other hand, the top three wards with the maximum number of sealed buildings are currently in the western suburbs: R-Central (Borivli, Gorai, Magathane) leads with 720, followed by KEast (Jogeshwari-East, Andheri-East) with 716 and RSouth (Kandivli) with 596. Nevertheless, civic officials say the number of active sealed buildings is “very dynamic”, though trends can be studied over the long term. “These could increase or decrease depending on the number of patients that test positive in a particular area. Having said that, the dip in numbers is a positive sign showing that fewer active cases are coming out from an area,” said an official. As per BMC data, over two lakh people are currently in home quarantine in the sealed buildings. The number of buildings that have been freed from being sealed stands at 11,696. In these, 15.5 lakh persons were in quarantine, which has been completed by them. The cumulative quarantine figure for the city thus stands at over 17 lakh, which includes those who were sent to institutional quarantine. But enforcing quarantines in containment zones and sealed buildings is proving to be an uphill task for the authorities. Goregaon corporator Sandeep Patel said that often political representatives and officials receive complaints from locals that despite a person and his family being quarantined in a building, at least the family members can be spotted freely moving around in the area. “We try our best to discourage such behaviour,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-decrease-in-containment-zones-sealed-buildings-points-to-plateau/articleshow/77057453.cms||Richa Pinto
July 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Exchange of fire between Maoists, security forces||Visakhapatnam: An exchange of fire took place between Maoists and the combing security forces at Landalu village area in the Ginnelakota panchayat, Visakhapatnam Agency, on Sunday. No one from the security forces was injured. According to sources, Ginnelakota panchayat, which falls under Pedabayalu mandal, is a Maoist stronghold. “They fired at the combing forces when they were passing through the area, in retaliation, the security forces also opened fire. The exchange of fire lasted for at least 30 minutes,” a senior police officer involved in anti-Maoist operations told TOI. This is the second such incident after an exchange of fire took place three days ago at Vantalaguda on Andhra-Odisha border. “They escaped from the area and our security forces recovered a few kits and a 303 rifle,” Visakhapatnam rural SP Boddepalli Krishna Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/exchange-of-fire-between-maoists-security-forces/articleshow/77055240.cms||Siva G
