July 21, 2020||World||Pompeo arrives in UK to discuss China, 5G and Brexit||LONDON: US secretary of state Mike Pompeo arrived in the United Kingdom on Monday to discuss China, 5G and a Brexit free trade deal with Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Pompeo, who did not speak to reporters on the plane, was due to be greeted by US Ambassador Woody Johnson shortly after landing. "While in London, Secretary Pompeo will meet with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab to discuss global priorities, including the Covid-19 economic recovery plans, issues related to the People’s Republic of China (P.R.C.) and Hong Kong, and the US-UK Free Trade Agreement negotiations," the State Department said ahead of his visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/pompeo-arrives-in-uk-to-discuss-china-5g-and-brexit/articleshow/77074698.cms||---
July 21, 2020||World||Pompeo arrives in UK to discuss China, 5G and Brexit||LONDON: US secretary of state Mike Pompeo arrived in the United Kingdom on Monday to discuss China, 5G and a Brexit free trade deal with Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Pompeo, who did not speak to reporters on the plane, was due to be greeted by US Ambassador Woody Johnson shortly after landing. "While in London, Secretary Pompeo will meet with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab to discuss global priorities, including the Covid-19 economic recovery plans, issues related to the People’s Republic of China (P.R.C.) and Hong Kong, and the US-UK Free Trade Agreement negotiations," the State Department said ahead of his visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pompeo-arrives-in-uk-to-discuss-china-5g-and-brexit/articleshow/77074694.cms||---
July 21, 2020||World||Trump lacks strategic vision, historical knowledge, says John Bolton||FORT LAUDERDALE: Former national security adviser John Bolton said Monday he believes President Donald Trump committed several impeachable offenses, but Democratic congressional leaders doomed their effort to remove him from office by rushing the process for partisan purposes. Bolton told a Florida group in an online presentation that Trump's business and re-election concerns drive not only his dealings with Ukraine, which led to his impeachment by the House, but also with China, Turkey and other countries. He said he would have voted to remove the president for his Ukraine dealings, but not delve into specifics. Bolton, a longtime adviser to Republican presidents, told the Forum Club of the Palm Beaches, a nonpartisan organization that meets monthly to hear from prominent newsmakers, that life inside Trump's White House was like "living in a pinball machine." "You need to have strategic vision. It certainly helps to have philosophical foundations and you have to think through pros and cons of different policies. Almost none of that happened with President Trump," said Bolton, who was promoting his book, "The Room Where it Happened: A White House Memoir." Trump "does not have a basic philosophy. He is not a conservative Republican. I don't mean to say he is a liberal Democrat. He is just not anything," said Bolton, who served as Trump's national security adviser from April 2018 to September 2019. The president says he fired Bolton; Bolton says he resigned. Bolton, who was being interviewed by local TV anchorman Michael Williams, gave his most searing critiques regarding impeachment for congressional Democrats, saying they pushed their effort in a "rushed, inadequate, excessively partisan way." The Democrats weren't interested in learning the full truth, Bolton said, they just wanted to harm Trump's re-election chances, making it impossible to get any significant Republican support. Bolton said the Democrats' claim that they plowed ahead knowing their effort was doomed in the Senate because it would curtail Trump's future actions is wrong. He said Trump's acquittal will make him less circumspect if he wins in November. "The whole thing ended up completely backward of where the Democrats said they wanted," Bolton said, Bolton, 71, is a longtime foreign policy hardliner who supported the 2003 invasion of Iraq and has called for US military action against Iran, North Korea and other countries over their attempts to build or procure nuclear, chemical or biological weapons. He was President George W. Bush's United Nations ambassador for 16 months after serving as a State Department arms negotiator and in the administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. Bolton said Trump does not read the national security briefing presidents receive daily and during the two or three weekly in-person briefings he receives from security and military officials, Trump spends most of his time talking rather than listening and asking questions. Bolton compared that to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who he said comes to meetings well-briefed, with a deep knowledge of history and a clear vision of his goals. He said Putin believes he can play Trump, who Bolton said knows little history. "You put somebody like that on one side of the table and Donald Trump ... on the other side of the table and it is not a fair fight," Bolton said. Bolton criticized Trump's dealings with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, saying their face-to-face meetings gave legitimacy to Kim's rule without the United States getting any concessions on that country's nuclear weapons program. Instead, it gave Kim two years to make his weapons program stronger, he said. "This was not a cost-free exercise," Bolton said of the meetings. Bolton fired back at Republicans who criticize him for releasing his book just before the election. "If you can't talk about the character or incompetence of a president during a presidential election, when can you talk about it?" Bolton said. When asked about the election, Bolton said no matter who wins, Trump or his presumed Democratic opponent Joe Biden, the US will be less safe for different reasons. He did not elaborate. He said he plans to cast a write-in vote for an undetermined Republican conservative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-lacks-strategic-vision-historical-knowledge-says-john-bolton/articleshow/77074779.cms||---
July 21, 2020||India||Acid survivors save their cafe with fundraisers and coffee||Anshu Gupta’s home is in Bijnor but the prospect of going back there fills her with dread. When she was 15, a stalker splashed acid on her, burning her left hand and eye, and the left side of her face, neck and middle. Six years on, Anshu forgets her scars while she’s working at the Sheroes Hangout Cafe in Lucknow’s Gomtinagar. However, when the lockdown started in March, the cafe closed and Anshu and the other acid attack survivors who work there had to return home. “Going back to Bijnor was horrific,” says the 21-year-old. This time, she had to bear not only the pain of old associations but also kidney stones. She faced them with grit: “I didn’t give up in the crisis that hit my treatment and medication.” Read more from this seriesThe same spirit shows in the efforts to keep the cafe alive through a difficult time. Chhanv Foundation, which runs the ‘Stop Acid Attacks’ campaign and helps the 30 acid survivors working at Sheroes cafes in Lucknow and Agra, started an online fundraiser on the crowdfunding platform Milaap, on June 1. Within 10 days, they raised enough money to ensure a monthly assistance of Rs 5,000 to the women for the next six months. Another fundraiser with the UK-based charity A-Sisterhood, on June 3, helped Sheroes raise Rs 19 lakh from 900 participants in 40 minutes — enough to pay Rs 10,000 a month to each of the survivors for six months. The event was hosted by Miss Universe Great Britain Emma Jenkins, who introduced each one of the survivors on the screen. Then, the Lucknow cafe reopened on June 8 with all safety measures. Back at work, Anshu manages to smile at customers through her mask and face shield. The floor isn’t packed like it used to be. What with the fear of Covid, only 7-8 of the 22 tables are taken at a time. But the regulars are back. Rajeev Shankar, a patron for the past three years, said, “By coming here I help not only the survivors but also myself for the hereafter. Since the cafe is spacious, physical distancing is easy.” While the Sheroes team is financially secure for now, Chhanv Foundation is trying to help all 100 acid survivors associated with it. “The Milaap fundraiser is still online for people to donate so that we can better help the 100 survivors connected to us,” said Chhanv executive director Ashish Shukla. “We are also planning to develop an app for our ‘sheroes’, which can be of use to them on a long-term basis,” he added. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch How acid survivors save their cafe with fundraisers and coffee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/acid-survivors-save-their-cafe-with-fundraisers-and-coffee/articleshow/77071372.cms||Yusra Husain
July 21, 2020||India||Era of great caution in foreign policy is behind us: Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: If India has to grow, it has to shed its traditional caution, step out more, be more confident and articulate its interests, said external affairs minister S Jaishankar amid indications that China's aggression on Line of Actual Control (LAC) may have spurred New Delhi to discard the historical hesitations and explore fresh geostrategic options. Speaking at an interaction, Jaishankar said India has moved away from the traditional notions of non-alignment. "If we are to grow by leveraging the international situation, we have to exploit the opportunities out there. Can’t do that by saying, ‘I’m going to stay away from it all, and when I find it convenient I will step out’. Either you’re in the game or you’re not in the game. The era of great caution ,and greater dependence on multilateralism, is behind us. We have to step out more. We have to be more confident, we have to articulate our interests better. We need to take risks. Without taking risks, you can’t get ahead. Those are choices we have to make," the minister said. Jaishankar’s remarks come as Covid and China’s border challenge pose both a crisis and an opportunity for India to reset its own economic and international compact. Answering a question whether non-alignment is all about distance from the US, he said, "Non-alignment is a term of a particular era and a particular geopolitical landscape. There are two aspects to it. One part of it is to be independent, which has resonances from our history and freedom movement. That remains and is the continuity factor. The other part was legitimate in the ‘50s and ‘60s — stay out of trouble, don’t get entangled in other people’s problems.” The minister further said: "Today, India has a contribution to make. People turn to us for solutions. We’re no longer the bystander. We have a contribution to make. We have to weigh in on big issues — like the rules for connectivity, maritime security, terrorism and climate change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/era-of-great-caution-in-foreign-policy-is-behind-us-jaishankar/articleshow/77075012.cms||---
July 21, 2020||India||Amid Pakistan's flip-flops, India weighs Jadhav case options||NEW DELHI: In the absence of any "meaningful" consular access for India to Kulbhushan Jadhav, the government is still weighing its options for ensuring justice to the Indian national sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court. Pakistan's deadline for filing a review petition in the high court against Jadhav’s sentencing expired on Monday. India believes that there is no need to react to Pakistan's continuously changing position, and also deadlines, in the case. Islamabad had promulgated an ordinance on May 20 claiming to ensure through it an effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav’s case, as asked by the International Court of Justice (ICJ) last year. As per the ordinance, the review petition had to be filed in 60 days. However, with Pakistan refusing to provide consular access in private, India has not been able to engage Jadhav on his legal rights. For India, unconditional consular access forms the basis of an effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav's sentencing. As the government said last week, despite earlier having promised unconditional access, Pakistan didn't allow Indian officials to engage Jadhav privately. Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi later offered consular access for the third time, claiming this time, no Pakistani official would be present in the meeting. The government though sees it as just another PR exercise meant to create an impression internationally that Pakistan is sincerely implementing the ICJ judgment. Meanwhile, faced with criticism from the opposition that Pakistan had promulgated an "illegal and unconstitutional ordinance" to facilitate review of the Jadhav case, the Pakistani government said in a statement that the ordinance was in order to comply with the directions of the ICJ to provide an effective mechanism of review and reconsideration. India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July last year that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also grant consular access to India without further delay. The first consular access under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations 1963 was provided by Pakistan on September 2 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-pakistans-flip-flops-india-weighs-jadhav-case-options/articleshow/77075058.cms||---
July 21, 2020||India||‘Nikamma, nakara’: Ashok Gehlot rips into Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Launching into his former deputy for the second time in three days – this time minus the offer of a conciliatory “hug” – Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Monday called Sachin Pilot a “nikkama-nakara (idle and worthless)” who would go down in Congress history as the first PCC president to be allegedly involved in toppling his own government in collusion with the opposition. Gehlot claimed that some Mumbai-based corporate houses were funding Pilot’s legal battle against the disqualification notice served on him by the Speaker because he shares a rapport with them since the time he was Union minister of corporate affairs in the erstwhile UPA government. “Harish Salve, who is representing him in the high court, is a counsel for corporate houses,” the CM told reporters. “The fees Salve and (lawyer) Mukul Rohatgi charge would be Rs 40-50 lakh a hearing. Where is this money coming from? Is Pilot paying? No, the corporate houses are spending to please PM Narendra Modi by toppling the state government.” Gehlot said the same corporate houses had also “sponsored” Pilot when he “dreamt of becoming the AICC president”. He did not elaborate. The no-holds-barred attack on Pilot came amid reports that a section of Congress was trying to get the sacked deputy CM to back down from the revolt that has triggered allegations of horse-trading and phone tapping, inquiries by the Special Operations Group and Anti-Corruption Bureau, and a court case. But party sources said Gehlot was determined to take his running feud with Pilot to a logical conclusion. “Nobody used to believe me when I said a conspiracy was going on to topple the state government. None suspected this man (Pilot) can do such a thing,” the CM said. “With an innocent face and good command over Hindi-English, he mesmerised the media across the country that thinks he worked hard and brought Congress to power in Rajasthan. People here know the truth about how much he contributed. We knew nothing was happening (in the organisation to activate workers). He was just pitting people against each other. But we never questioned him.” Referring to Pilot’s remark that he had “come here to be the CM and not sell baingan (brinjals)”, Gehlot said, “We spent seven years with the kind of rough language he used but never said anything (in reply) because it is against Rajasthan’s culture. We respected him for being the PCC president. I taught people to stand up when he comes, as post takes precedence over age. Yet, this man got ready to stab us in the back. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi trusted him but he could not do justice to their faith.” The CM claimed to have information that the rebellion of 19 MLAs, led by Pilot, was to originally take place on the night of March 10. “They (the dissident MLAs) were to move out at 2am and the statue of Rajesh Pilot was to be inaugurated on his death anniversary the next morning,” Gehlot said. “When our MLAs refused to join BJP, as planned by Pilot, he offered to form a ‘third front’ and tried to assure them that BJP would not field candidates against them if they resigned and fought by-elections." Gehlot alleged that horse-trading was again on the rival camp's agenda prior to the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. "We had to keep our MLAs in a hotel for 10 days...(but) satyamev jayate (truth alone triumphs)." Watch Gehlot rips into former deputy Sachin Pilot, calls him 'useless and worthless'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nikamma-nakara-ashok-gehlot-rips-into-sachin-pilot/articleshow/77075240.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 21, 2020||India||23% of urban population has access to computers, only 4% of rural: Survey||NEW DELHI: Right from literacy, accessibility to schools and household expenditure on education, the rural-urban gap remains significant. There is a digital divide, too, with just 4% of the rural households having access to computers as compared to 23% in urban areas. These and other trends on rural-urban gap in education are revealed in the details of a survey conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO). The report on “Household Social Consumption: Education” released last week surveyed 1.13 lakh households spread across over 8,000 villages and 6,000 urban blocks between July 2017 and June 2018. The study involved 1.52 lakh students across different levels of study. On accessibility, while 92.7% of the rural households have a primary school within 1 km as compared to 87.2% in urban areas, the situation gets skewed as only 38% of the rural household have access to secondary school as compared to 70% in the urban areas on similar parameters. While accessibility to a neighbourhood school at primary level is not an issue in rural areas, the gross attendance ratio is also satisfactory with nearly 100% of boys and girls in rural as well as urban areas attending classes. However, in sync with reduced accessibility, there is a gap at secondary level between rural and urban settings. The all India literacy rate among persons aged 7 years and above is 77.7%. However, for the same age group, the rural literacy is 73.5% and in the urban areas it is 87.7%. The digital divide between rural and urban households is stark with just 4% of the rural population having access to computers. The report highlighted that while 15% surveyed population in the rural cluster has internet access, 42% of the surveyed students in the urban areas have access to the internet. Only 24% of the persons between age 15-29 years in rural areas are able to operate a computer as compared to 56% of their urban counterparts. There is also a big gap in expenditure in education, especially at school level. Annual average expenditure per student at secondary and senior secondary level in a rural household stands at Rs 5,856 and Rs 9,148 respectively. An urban household for the same classes spends Rs 17,518 and Rs 23,832 respectively. As per the report, the average expenditure per student incurred during an academic session for basic courses was nearly Rs 8,331 for general courses, Rs 50,307 for technical and professional courses. At school level while the majority of the urban households had shown a preference for private schools, it’s the opposite for rural households. The report highlights that 76.1% of the rural children are attending primary and middle school run by the government, while only 38% of the urban children are attending government schools. However, for graduate and above studies, 49.7% rural students are attending classes in government institutions as compared to 41% of the urban counterparts in government institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/23-of-urban-population-has-access-to-computers-only-4-of-rural-survey/articleshow/77075283.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
July 21, 2020||India||Parole for Dubey an institutional failure: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: In a rare candid admission about failure of judiciary to keep dreaded criminals and gangsters confined to jails, Chief Justice S A Bobde on Monday conceded that grant of parole by a court of law to gangster Vikas Dubey despite 65 FIRs pending against him reflected institutional failure. This admission from the CJI-led three-judge bench followed after solicitor general Tushar Mehta said Dubey was on parole when he rallied 80-90 criminals of his gang to attack a police raid party at his village Bikru on July 3 killing eight policemen using sophisticated weapons. Mehta said the attackers also brutally mutilated the bodies of the dead policemen. "They did not get time as the rescue team arrived at the spot quickly. Otherwise they had made preparations to burn the bodies of deceased policemen using petrol," he said. CJI Bobde said, "Solicitor general, we are appalled by the fact that such a person was released on parole. This is a failure of the system. As an institution, we failed to keep him behind bars. We want all the records relating to his release on parole. We want all the orders (passed by the trial courts) in this regard." While ensuring that Dubey encounter killing is inquired into by a three-member committee headed by a retired SC Judge and comprising retired HC Judge S K Agarwal and an ex-DGP rank officer, the CJI sent a clear signal that the bench headed by him would also examine whether the trial court weighed the gravity of the crimes allegedly committed by Dubey and his gang before granting him parole. Explaining the details of the incident, the UP government in its affidavit had said Dubey while trying to escape from police had fired nine bullets at policemen after escaping through the backdoor of the vehicle, which skidded and overturned due to heavy rain and when the driver attempt swerve to avoid a herd of cattle which suddenly appeared on the road. While all the four policemen in the overturned SUV were injured and lost consciousness, Dubey remained unhurt and managed to snatch a pistol from them while attempting to flee but was challenged by the STF personnel who were following in another vehicle. The STF led by deputy SP T B Singh asked Dubey to surrender, but he kept firing and fleeing. "A bullet hit Singh on the chest but he survived as he was wearing a bulletproof jacket. Head constable Sarvinder Singh Sengar suffered fire arm injury on the left arm while constable Bimal Kumar was hit on the left thigh. In self-defence, the STF team fired six bullets, three of which hit Dubey," the government had said. Answering the question how he could be shot on the front and not on back as he was fleeing, it had said he was facing the STF personnel when he was firing at them. As to why he was not handcuffed, the government said he was being brought by a team of 15 policemen so it did not feel necessary to handcuff him. It said Dubey was sitting between two policemen when the vehicle met with an accident, but did not explain how Dubey remained unhurt and attempted to flee after snatching a pistol when other four policemen were injured in the accident and lost consciousness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parole-for-dubey-an-institutional-failure-supreme-court/articleshow/77075439.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 21, 2020||India||Article 370 scrapping gets brief textbook mention||NEW DELHI: The landmark nullification of the provisions of Article 370 finds just a perfunctory one sentence mention in the revised Class XII political science textbook for the academic year 2020-21 while a reference to the UN “plebiscite” resolution has also been added with a conclusion that it could not be implemented. The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) mentions the Article 370 development in a fleeting manner in the text Politics in India Since Independence, under the chapter ‘Regional Aspirations’, where the section on Jammu and Kashmir runs from pages 151-158. The sentence on page 158 reads: “On 5 August 2019, Article 370 was abolished by the Jammu & Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019 and the state was constituted into two Union Territories, viz., Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.” NCERT has interestingly introduced a detailed reference to the UN Resolution, dated April 21 1948, which India had strongly opposed and which is seen to have fallen into disuse. This passage discusses the resolution’s three-step process to resolve the issue: “However, as Pakistan continued to control a sizeable part of the state, the issue was taken to the Union Nations Organisation, which in its resolution dated 21 April 1948 recommended... Firstly, Pakistan had to withdraw its entire nationalities, who entered into Kashmir. Secondly, India needed to progressively reduce its forces so as to maintain law and order. Thirdly, a plebiscite was to be conducted in a free and impartial manner. However, no progress could be achieved under this resolution.” (page 154). The chapter deals in detail with issues concerning the post-1947 history of J& K like roots of the problem, external and internal disputes, politics since 1948, insurgency and after, events of 2002 and beyond. This long section also retains two half-page photos of front-page newspaper stories — ‘Kashmir Accedes to India’ and ‘Sheikh Abdullah Arrested’. But the section doesn’t offer any of the government’s reasoning on nullification of Article 370. An irreverent reference to Jawaharlal Nehru has also been deleted. On page 156, a passage had earlier noted, ‘So, Nehru kept his friend (Sheikh Abdullah) in jail for such a long period! How did they feel about it?’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/article-370-scrapping-gets-brief-textbook-mention/articleshow/77075502.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
July 21, 2020||India||Advani, Joshi, Uddhav invited for Ayodhya ‘bhoomi pujan’||NEW DELHI: Frontline leaders of the Ram temple movement, including L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, are among the invitees for the "bhoomi pujan" in Ayodhya on August 5, which is likely to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Other invitees include RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, reports Arshad Afzaal Khan. The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust is trying to keep the number of invitees limited due to the Covid situation. Sources said around 300 people could be invited. The trust plans to recreate an atmosphere similar to the shilanyas for the Ram temple by Vishwa Hindu Parishad in Ayodhya on November 10, 1989 after then PM Rajiv Gandhi gave permission for it. "Trust members are of the view that L K Advani took the Ram temple movement to the masses, and other key BJP figures also helped in popularising it," said trust member Kameshwar Chaupal. The list of invitees will be finalised soon, he added. Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, spokesman of trust president Nritya Gopal Das, said: "Five silver bricks will be put inside the sanctum sanctorum during the ‘bhoomi pujan’ by PM Modi. These bricks symbolise the five planets as per Hindu mythology." Watch Stalwarts of Ram Temple agitation invited for Bhoomi Poojan on August 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/advani-joshi-uddhav-invited-for-ayodhya-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77075524.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 21, 2020||India||Two members of Char Dham panel call the project a Himalayan blunder||NEW DELHI: Two expert members in the Supreme Court-appointed committee on Char Dham road project have flagged serious issues over the widening of this 900-km road to 10 metres uniformly and termed it “A Himalayan Blunder”. This “minority view” has been incorporated in the “Main Report” that the panel chairman, environmentalist Ravi Chopra has submitted to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). Chopra told TOI that this note was submitted by two members, Hemant Dhyani and Navin Juyal. They have raised concerns over the road transport and highways ministry’s decision to divide the entire stretch to 53 smaller projects to avoid conducting environment impact assessment (EIA) study despite the hills being contiguous. Each divided stretch is less than 100km. The MoEFCC norms make it mandatory for linear project of more than 100 km to go for EIA study. They were part of a five- member group, including Chopra, that has objected to widening of the road to 10 metres while the majority members (21) have favoured widening of the corridor to 10 metres. The majority group has also submitted its “Final Report” to the MoEFCC recommending several damage mitigation measures. “Our views are based on historical data. These stretches, particularly in the high Himalaya, are very vulnerable. We have said that the stretch between Pipalkoti and Patalganga must not be touched at all. We have enough fund for building and widening roads, but there is hardly any fund for slope management, which is critical in such areas,” geologist Hemant Juyal told TOI. He added that they have given their views that even where the hill cutting has happened, only 5.5 metres should be tarred and the rest should be used for pedestrians and greenery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-members-of-char-dham-panel-call-the-project-a-himalayan-blunder/articleshow/77075559.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 21, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi on LAC, Nadda trashes claims||NEW DELHI: Rahul Gandhi on Monday linked India’s border standoff with PLA and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image as a “56-inch strongman”, and said it was this that the Chinese are trying to dent as part of a larger strategy. In a short video, Rahul alleged that the Chinese action was part of a strategy to “position themselves” and that they were trying to pressure Modi to act in the way they want him to, failing which they will destroy his strongman image. He also alleged that the PM appeared to be “succumbing” to this pressure. Trashing the charges, BJP chief J P Nadda hit out at the Congress MP, accusing him of attempting to politicise defence and foreign policy matters by issuing statements that are “weak on facts” and “strong on mudslinging”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-slams-pm-modi-on-lac-nadda-trashes-claims/articleshow/77075632.cms||---
July 21, 2020||India||Shekhawat questions authenticity of tapes as Rajasthan cops seek voice sample||NEW DELHI: Following the Rajasthan police’s notice to record his voice sample, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Monday questioned the authenticity of the audio tapes, cited by Congress to allege his involvement in a bid to topple the Gehlot government. He asked the state government to first make its stand clear on the phone-tapping as to how it acted without verifying its source, intent and legality. “The SOG notice was received on my PS’s phone in which I have been asked for a statement and voice sample. But before that the Gehlot government should explain the authenticity of the tapes. Who has done the recording and with what intent. Besides, we demand a forensic investigation of the phone-tapping incident,” Shekhawat told TOI. He said there is plenty for Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to explain about the authenticity and legality of the phone-tapping incident. While the minister is firmly against giving his voice sample until “the legality of the phone-tapping incident” is confirmed, he is also waiting for the state government to respond to the MHA notice seeking details of the incident. The MHA reacted after Rajasthan home secretary Rohit Kumar Singh clarified that the state government had not given any permission for phone-tapping. The Rajasthan special operation group (SOG) team is in the capital, looking for rebel Congress MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma to record the statement and take his voice samples. The SOG had registered two FIRs after two audio tapes surfaced in which a Congress lawmaker was purportedly talking to a middleman and a person named Gajendra Singh about toppling the Gehlot government. BJP has already demanded a CBI probe into phone-tapping, saying it will make the whole incident crystal clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shekhawat-questions-authenticity-of-tapes-as-rajasthan-cops-seek-voice-sample/articleshow/77075652.cms||Akhilesh Singh
July 21, 2020||India||Pilot offered me cash twice to join BJP, says Cong MLA||JAIPUR: In the first specific allegation of horse-trading against Sachin Pilot, Rajasthan Congress legislator Giriraj Singh Malinga on Monday accused the sacked deputy CM of twice offering him cash to switch allegiance to BJP. The three-time MLA from Bari in Dholpur district claimed Pilot first made an overture last December, which he rebuffed and reported to CM Ashok Gehlot. “I had gone to his (Pilot’s) house when panchayat delimitation exercise was going on. It was a one-on-one meeting with him. Sachin ji (Pilot) offered me money, but I declined and said I wouldn’t join BJP even if I resigned (from Congress),” Malinga said at a presser in Jaipur. Pilot allegedly made a second offer to Malinga, part of the first batch of six BSP MLAs that merged with Congress under Gehlot’s chief ministership in 2009, prior to the Rajya Sabha election on June 19. Asked how much money Pilot allegedly offered him to cross over to BJP, Malinga said, “I was told I could ask for as much as I wanted. There was no limit. ‘Aap toh muh kholo, kitna chahiye (you just open your mouth, how much do you want)?’ he said.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pilot-offered-me-cash-twice-to-join-bjp-says-cong-mla/articleshow/77075690.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 21, 2020||India||Two Congress rebel MLAs get ACB notice||NEW DELHI: The Anti-Corruption Bureau has sent notices to Rajasthan MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and former tourism minister Vishwendra Singh following the FIR lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi alleging that they had plotted with others to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. Dinesh M N, ADG, ACB, said, “The notices have been sent to the two individuals to record their statements in the matter. The notices have been sent to their residences. The audio clips have been sent to the FSL for checking their authenticity.” Joshi had provided two audio recordings to the ACB and in his complaint on Friday alleged that the voices of three individuals — Sharma, another accused Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh — can be heard in one of the audio clips. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala alleged that the Union minister was involved in the horse trading case. Following this, the SOG sent a notice to the Union minister asking for his statement in the audio clips case. The SOG is still awaiting minister’s reply. Sources said Shekhawat and others who were earlier served notices would be sent reminders if they fail to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-congress-rebel-mlas-get-acb-notice/articleshow/77075703.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Patna||Nearly 2,000 e-contents uploaded to Magadh University website: VC||GAYA: Ever since the introduction of online teaching in Magadh University in mid-April, nearly 2000 e-contents have been uploaded to the university website, says vice chancellor Prof Rajendra Prasad and fresh uploads are being made for the benefit of students. The good thing, according to the VC was that students of other universities too can benefit from the study material available on the MU website. The colleges too have been directed to provide links of their online teaching programmes on their respective websites. “Conceding that online teaching cannot be a substitute to classroom interactions,” the VC said that the university has to adapt itself to the post-covid realities. E-learning was here to stay post Covid as well in the form of supplement to class room teaching, said Prof Rajendra Prasad. Whereas the performance of PG departments and constituent colleges have been satisfactory in the field of online teaching, the same cannot be said about the affiliated colleges suffering from infrastructural as well as institutional shortcomings. A committee under the convenership of the Jagjivan College, Gaya, principal has been constituted to monitor the performance of the affiliated colleges in respect of online teaching. Asked about the pending university exams, the VC said that no decision has been taken in the matter as the Raj Bhavan has to take a final call in the matter to ensure state-level uniformity in the exams. Earlier MU postponed the exams that were to begin on July 3, 2020. Jagjivan College principal Kumar Rajeev Ranjan, convener of the committee on online teaching in affiliated colleges said that efforts are being made to develop a common platform for online teaching for the benefit of all university students including those enrolled in the affiliated colleges. Asked whether the university did have any data base on students with personal smart phones and high speed internet connectivity to avail the benefits of online education, Ranjan said that such a data base was not available. “There were also students with smart phone and net connectivity but they use the facility for fun and entertainment and not for education,” said the principal. “Calling online education as elitist in character, left activist SB Bhaskar said that it will only increase the educational gap between the rich and the poor. It has no relevance in a poor state like Bihar,” said the left activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nearly-2000-e-contents-uploaded-to-mu-website-vc/articleshow/77073064.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 21, 2020||Patna||Patna: Online classes of kindergarten kids leave parents ‘exhausted’||PATNA: Many parents are not satisfied with the way some private schools in the city are conducting online classes for kids. They believe that children in the age group of 4 to 7 years have a short attention span and it is difficult to make them sit in front of the computer to learn words, numbers and short poems. Puja Sah, whose daughter studies in UKG at Bishop Scott Girls’ School, feels it is tough to control kids. “My daughter waves at the teacher in the beginning of the class and begins running here and there after 10 minutes. I really have to force her to attend the classes,” she complained. Anand Jaiswal said his daughter had started forgetting whatever she had learned in LKG. “Sometimes she writes ‘d’ instead of ‘b’ and ‘p’ instead of ‘q’. She pronounces the alphabets correctly though. Teaching my kid at home is difficult as she does not pay attention to anything,” he added. Budh Marg resident Parvez Ahmad told this newspaper that his kid’s school only uploaded lessons and videos to WhatsApp groups, “which is of no help”. “The school and the teachers do not care if the students are learning anything. They will conduct an exam in which the class teacher will upload the questions to WhatsApp at 7am on July 23 and the kids will submit the answers by 8.30am the same day. How will they know who answered the questions,” he asked. Another parent, Snehal, narrated how difficult it was to convince her five-year-old son to attend online classes. She said, “I have to give him chocolates and toys otherwise he gets jittery and starts crying.” Meanwhile, schools claimed that kids would soon adapt to the new normal amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Litera Valley School principal Sharat Kumar Singh pointed out that teachers were using techniques like puppets, mimicry and rhymes to grab the attention of kids during online classes. Director of Bishop Scott Group, Shailesh Kumar, said, “Since nobody knows when the schools will reopen, it is high time students adapted to the new normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-classes-of-kindergarten-kids-leave-parents-exhausted/articleshow/77073121.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 21, 2020||Patna||Covid drives students to go for full-time online courses||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has left students with no other option but to embrace full-time online courses. Several plus II and undergraduate students, who were eagerly waiting to join renowned institutions, are undergoing online courses. Most colleges have also adopted the new normal. “We are offering more than 250 professional programmes. Keeping the current scenario in mind, we have provided a complete online admission process option to the aspirants,” read the text posted on the official website of a private university in Punjab. Admission process has begun in several city-based colleges too. “In the first phase of online registration, we received as many as 120 applications. The second phase will be conducted on July 26, which will be followed by personal interview. As CBSE and CISCE have just declared their results, we are expecting a much better response in the second phase,” said Fr T Nishaant, principal of St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology. He added online classes of the first-year students might start from the third week of August or latest by September 1. “We are going to create a conference room, especially for teachers. Facilities of digital library will also be provided to the students,” he said. Farzana Ahmed, counsellor of a Jaipur-based private college, said she has received several applications from Bihar students. “As the pandemic has made it difficult for students to visit other states for studies, we are giving them the benefit of receiving the same degree without attending colleges. From online admission to interviews, classes to exams, everything will be done virtually. We will send them all the required books after the completion of the admission process,” she said. As board results have been declared, students are looking for colleges to pursue their higher studies. Danapur resident Amrita Singh, who has secured more than 90% marks in Class XII, said, “Leaving the city is not possible under the present circumstances. As the admission procedure in Delhi University has already begun, I am trying my best to get enrolled in a reputed college that also has the facility of online studies,” she said. Students are also looking to join online courses of colleges abroad. Kankarbagh resident Shreya Sinha said she has taken admission in a foreign institution. “I have opted for a short course in artificial intelligence in marketing and the fee is somewhat around Rs 60,000. Getting a degree from a foreign university is highly beneficial,” she said. Some students, who have to do technical courses, are concerned over the unavailability of resources. “I have to study Python programming, but I am not sure how I will understand it virtually. The course is very tough and requires deep understanding,” said Boring Road resident Abhishek Shrivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-drives-students-to-go-for-full-time-online-courses/articleshow/77073158.cms||Archi Rani
July 21, 2020||Patna||‘Panchayats play key role in curbing corona spread’||PATNA: Panchayats played a major role in preventing Covid-19 spread in rural areas of Bihar, according to a study conducted by Chanakya National Law University (CNLU). The study on ‘Role of local representatives during Covid-19 lockdown’ was carried out by CNLU social sciences dean and panchayati raj chair professor S P Singh on the basis of assessment made in 20 panchayats in Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Gaya and Jehanabad districts. The study found that panchayat-level functionaries, including mukhiya, ward members, panchayat secretaries, nyay mitra, village chowkidar, gram sewak, ANM, ASHAs and schoolteachers played important roles in creating awareness and implementing the government guidelines regarding Covid-19 in their respective areas. For instance, the mukhiya of Dharani panchayat in Jehanabad district, Ajay Yadav, himself drove the autorickshaw and moved from village to village to sensitize the people about the pandemic. The study found that the ward members themselves sprinkled bleaching powder in their respective wards and taught people about the importance of personal hygiene. The state government’s decision to distribute four masks and two soaps to every household in each panchayat was also translated into action only through their active cooperation. They also maintained the record of migrant workers, who returned to their native places from different parts of India during lockdown. According to Bihar Sarpanch Association president Amod Kumar Nirala, disputes of migrant workers were resolved at the local level by the Gram Kachahari, which is empowered to settle civil and criminal disputes of minor nature. The Panchayati Raj system played a very significant role in providing all essential services to the needy people during the Covid-19 pandemic, the study concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/panchayats-play-key-role-in-curbing-corona-spread/articleshow/77073024.cms||B K Mishra
July 21, 2020||Patna||Raghuvansh also wants EC to defer state polls||PATNA: Toeing the party line, senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on Monday urged the Election Commission (EC) to postpone the forthcoming state assembly polls in the wake of a surge in the Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar. Singh, who himself recovered from the virus infection recently, said conducting election in the state under such a situation would not only be unjustified but is like putting the lives of people and the polling personnel at risk. “When the voters as well as the personnel to be assigned poll duty are getting infected with the virus, conducting election will defeat its purpose,” he said. The former Union minister, who has been advised rest by the doctors, said no political party except JD(U) and BJP were in favour of election amid Covid-19 pandemic. “Though holding election is the EC prerogative, it should ponder over it,” he said over phone from his native village Sahpur in Vaishali district. He expressed dismay over the EC letter seeking views from all registered political parties on the mode of election campaign and public meetings by July 31 when there was Covid-19 outbreak in the state. The former Vaishali MP said it was high time people, administrative machinery and the political parties should focus on fighting Covid-19. “Who will guarantee that the voters visiting the polling booths will not get infected with the virus? Increasing the number of polling booths is not the panacea,” he said. RJD chief Lalu Prasad has already termed the Covid situation in state as “pathetic, chaotic, and explosive,” and said the party holding “virtual rallies” was making people victims of the disease. Lalu was apparently hinting at JD(U), whose party leaders and workers have been attending virtual meetings. Earlier, Lalu’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP president Chirag Paswan had described the situation in the state not conducive for election in state and urged the EC to defer it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvansh-also-wants-ec-to-defer-state-polls/articleshow/77073677.cms||Ramashankar
July 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar to spend Rs 660 crore on Covid management: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said on Monday the state government can now spend up to Rs 660 crore from the disaster response fund for Covid-19 management in Bihar. He said the central government on last Saturday increased the limit for utilization of state disaster response fund for Covid management from 25% to 35%. “The allocation for state disaster response fund for the year 2020-21 is Rs1,888 crore. Now that the Centre has allowed 35% of the funds to be used for Covid management, we will be able to spend Rs660 crore for the same. This will prove highly beneficial in meeting the financial requirements for fighting Covid-19 pandemic in Bihar,” SuMo told TOI on Monday. The deputy CM said the Centre has already released funds to the tune of Rs708 crore to Bihar as 50% of its contribution to the state disaster response fund. “The additional funds for Covid management will now be used for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, ventilators, testing and medicine among other works. Bihar is to get 264 new ventilators from the Centre soon,” he said. SuMo also said rapid antigen testing will start at all primary healthcare centres in the state from next week. “The Covid patients will also get food worth Rs175 everyday,” he said. ‘Submit list of cops recovered from infection’: The state police headquarters has asked all IGs, DIGs and SPs to furnish a list of police personnel, who have recovered from Covid-19 infection. A letter issued by ADG (law and order) Amit Kumar said the plasma of the recovered police personnel would be used for the treatment of other Covid-19 patients. The officers in field assignments have been told to submit the list of such police personnel to the office of DIG (Human Rights) Rajesh Tripathi by July 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-to-spend-rs-660cr-on-covid-management-sumo/articleshow/77073202.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Why no murder charge for custodial death: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday sought an explanation from Vadodara Police for not invoking the murder charge against Fatehgunj cops for the custodial death of Shaikh Babu Nisar, 65. The court also asked why the six policemen involved have been booked only for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. According to advocate Imtiyaz Kureshi, who represents Nisar’s son in the habeas corpus petition, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria sought a report on Tuesday. The judges said that it appeared a clear case of murder and that the body had been disposed of according to the FIR. What is not clear is the intention of the accused. Earlier this month, Vadodara Police had booked the six policemen, including the former police inspector of Fatehgunj, for the custodial death of Nisar, who hailed from Telangana. The action occurred after Nisar’s son approached the high court seeking directions to trace his father, who had disappeared after he was taken to the Fatehgunj police station on December 10, 2019. Vadodara Police registered an FIR against the cops immediately after the HC asked the investigator to furnish CCTV footage from the police station. The HC had also wanted the earlier inquiry reports on the mysterious disappearance of Nisar. Before conceding that Nisar had died at the police station and that his body had been disposed of, Vadodara Police had told the court that he had criminal antecedents. Vadodara Police had also told the court he might have been wanted by cops of several states and he could be detained in some prison. The HC had asked police to inquire with jail authorities too. But a day before the HC hearing in which Vadodara Police was supposed to present the CCTV footage, an FIR was registered against the six cops. The FIR was supported by witness statements that the cops had tied Nisar to a chair and had tortured him to extract a confession. The person on whose theft complaint Nisar was taken in by the cops also stated that he had seen Nisar at the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-no-murder-charge-for-custodial-death-hc/articleshow/77074102.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coast Guard recovers charas worth Rs 42 lakh||AHMEDABAD: The Indian Coast Guard on Monday recovered 28 packets of charas scattered across several places at Kadiyari Beyt close to Jakhau harbour. Each packet of charas weighed about 1kg. The value of the total haul is Rs 42 lakh approximately. Since May 19, the ICG, in coordination with other government agencies, has recovered more than 1,300 packets of charas from the coastline from Koteshwar to Mandvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coast-guard-recovers-charas-worth-rs-42-l/articleshow/77074187.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar district administration to use antigen test kits to arrest spread||CHAMARAJANAGAR: The rising Covid-19 slope in the border district of Chamarajanagar has kept the officials and personnel of the health department on their toes, and as part of its preparations for a further spike in the number of cases, the district administration has decided to put to use the 1,000 antigen test kits it had received from the state government. Sources in the Chamarajanagar district health department confirmed to TOI that the drive to test suspected patients is under way in the 160 containment zones. In both the urban and rural pockets of the district, the department personnel are testing suspected patients using the kits that provide immediate results. Currently, mobile units are collecting swabs, the samples of which are being examined at primary health centres. Meanwhile, the district administration will intensify testing using antigen kits from Wednesday. A source in the health department said that, despite shortage of staff, as many as 300 samples were being tested each day. “But this number will rise to 1,000 once all the antigen kits are pressed into service,” he added. Chamarajanagar district health department having identified 34,205 special patients, who are suspected of having the infection – the list includes pregnant women and those suffering from lung and kidney disorders – the antigen kits will be used to test them for the pandemic as well. “The antigen test is a point-of-care procedure that is performed outside of the laboratory, and used to obtain results quickly,” a source said. Chamarajanagar district health officer Dr Ravi told TOI that the antigen kits supplied by the state government had proven very useful. “The authorities use the kits in ambulances, fever clinics and while they are participating in door-to-door survey,” he said. He said that those patients displaying symptoms of Covid-19, and asymptomatic patients with co-morbidities, would help either confirm the infection or its lack. “This will help accelerate the process of identifying and treating infected patients,” Dr Ravi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cnagar-district-administration-to-use-antigen-test-kits-to-arrest-spread/articleshow/77073772.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Business||IL&FS raises target, looks to recover Rs 57,000 crore from assets||MUMBAI: The government-appointed board of failed finance and infrastructure group IL&FS has said that it now expects to recover more than it earlier estimated from the resolution of assets. In October 2019, IL&FS board chairman Uday Kotak had said that the management expects to recover and resolve around half the outstanding debt of Rs 99,000 crore. As against this, the board now projects to address Rs 57,000 crore of debt. This is good news for the creditors of the IL&FS group companies. Given that it has been nearly two years since the group defaulted, creditors have already provided for a significant portion of their exposure. Any recovery in excess of the unprovided amount will add to their bottom line. The board said that until June 30, 2020, debt of Rs 17,640 crore, representing 18% of total, had been addressed. This has been through a combination of sale of companies, debt repayment by companies that are generating a positive return and utilising cash balances across the group. According to the presentation made by the board, an additional debt of Rs 8,800 crore would be addressed by September 2020, Rs 18,000 crore by December 2020 and Rs 6,000 crore by March 2021. Additional recoveries of Rs 6,600 crore would be made in the next fiscal. The recoveries would have been faster and probably more had it not been for Covid-19. “One impact of the pandemic was that an Italian bidder who had put in a binding bid for the Pune Sholapur Highway withdrew from the firm commitment. As a result, we have now decided to put this in the Invit,” he said. The other area where the recovery was impacted was real estate. “We have seen delays in addressing the real estate pieces on which we would otherwise have moved faster,” Kotak said. The Covid-19 impact would also be felt in recovering loans made by IL&FS Financial Services. The economic crisis has drastically reduced the chances of the finance company recovering from its borrowers. “We have virtually got zero recoveries on some of those large loans. Some of them are in excess of Rs 1,000 crore or higher,” Kotak said. However, despite the delays, the board was sticking to its timelines, Kotak added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ilfs-raises-target-looks-to-recover-rs-57k-cr-from-assets/articleshow/77074719.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Business||India Inc to see over 40% dip in Q1 profit: Reports||MUMBAI: Covid-related disruptions in the economy during the just ended April-June quarter (Q1FY21) are expected to reduce India Inc’s net profit by more than 40% and revenue by around 60% — both never-before-seen events in recorded history. The slide would be sharper if the results of banks and other financial services companies are excluded from the aggregate numbers, analysts said. Telecom companies are expected to show an uptrend in profits and revenues, they added. Kotak Institutional Equities (KIE) expects net profits of the companies within its coverage to decline by 46% on an annualised basis in Q1FY21 as “economic activity declined sharply due to the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown for a good part of the quarter”. It expects large yearly declines in net income of several sectors, which include automobiles, construction materials, metals & mining, and oil, gas & consumable fuels. “We expect banks, diversified financials and telecommunication services to report annual growth in net income,” a report by KIE noted. It expects net profits of sensex companies to decline 19% and that of the Nifty companies to reduce by 30%. A report by analysts at foreign broking major Morgan Stanley estimated that, on an annualised basis, sensex companies would show a 22% decline in revenue, while for Nifty companies it would be 29%. “Net profit growth for sensex and Nifty companies is expected at -33% and -41%, respectively, in Q1FY21,” it said in a note. For all the companies tracked by Morgan Stanley’s analysts, the decline in net profit is estimated at 45%. Another report by Bank of America Merrill Lynch noted that the 96 companies its analysts track are expected to show an earnings decline of 40% on a yearly basis and, when financials are excluded, the decline could be even sharper at 60%. Analysts at Motilal Oswal Financial Services, another domestic financial services house, expect the companies under their coverage to report a net profit decline of 49%. They see companies in sectors like auto, telecom, metals, capital goods and retail to post losses, while private and PSU banks are the only sectors likely to post marginal growth even as technology is expected to remain flattish. “One silver lining is the revival in rural demand. Data and commentary of various managements point toward rural recovery as impact of the pandemic seems lower in rural areas compared to urban centers,” it said in a recent report. “The rural recovery should be further supported by the government’s incremental spending in the rural economy, including substantial hike in MNREGA allocations to Rs 1 lakh crore; better-than-expected start to the southwest monsoons, and strong Kharif sowing.” Analysts also said that, with widespread lockdowns and a gradual opening that was witnessed through the last quarter, earnings were expected to decline sharply. However, going forward, rather than the earnings per se, the commentaries from the companies’ top management about the future would drive the investor sentiment and hence the stock prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-inc-to-see-over-40-dip-in-q1-profit-reports/articleshow/77074738.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Business||Sebi postpones new margin rules to December 1||MUMBAI: Following representations from the broking community, markets regulator Sebi on Monday postponed the implementation of the enhanced margin requirements for trading in the stock market, aimed at making the market safer for investors, by three months to December 1. Among several rules brought in by Sebi, it asked traders and investors to pay intra-day margin, while the current system is of end-of-the-day margin. Sebi also introduced the concept of peak margin reporting, which requires the clearing corporation (usually an arm of the stock exchange) to inform traders and investors at least four times a day about their margin requirements. The current system does not require such updates. Margins are stocks, money or some other form of liquid assets that traders and investors deposit with exchanges, which act as a form of security for their financial exposure in the market. Margins are calculated as a percentage of a trader’s total exposure in the market, which rises and falls with the prices in the market. For example, a 20% margin requirement means by depositing Rs 20 lakh with the broker, the trader’s total market exposure could be up to Rs 1 crore. At present, often brokers, especially the smaller ones, use the margins deposited by one client for another. After the Karvy Stock Broking scam in August 2019, Sebi wanted to put in strict checks and balances to stop this practice of inter-client margining system within the same brokerage house. However, brokers said the collateral damage of the new rules may be that even large brokers will be barred from financing margins for their clients. Brokers said the new margin guidelines may spell the death knell for intra-day trading, that constitute about 90% of the volumes in the market. Through a note titled “The Death of Intra-day Trading”, Samco Group founder & CEO Jimeet Modi said that since the margin penalty will be based on higher of peak margins reported during the day, based on snapshot files or end-of-the-day margin, this practically means “no more intra-day leverage”. Speaking about the implications of the Sebi circular, Modi said brokers won’t be able to offer intra-day margins beyond VAR+ELM (Value at risk and extreme loss margin). “Our estimate is that almost 30-35% of the intra-day turnover is based on additional leverage provided by brokers. Now assuming full margin is required, total turnover would shrink by approximately 20%,” the note pointed out. “Clients will need to maintain a lot more margins for initiating intra-day trades (and) return on investment on intra-day trading will fall substantially.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-postpones-new-margin-rules-to-dec-1/articleshow/77074750.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Patna||Societies gear up to create makeshift isolation wards||PATNA: The recent guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare for setting up small Covid-19 care facilities in gated residential complexes have garnered mixed response from Patnaites. While some societies have welcomed the decision, others have criticised it. Such makeshift facilities are meant only for suspects, pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic and very mild cases of Covid-19. Others like senior citizens, children below 10 years of age, pregnant and lactating women and patients with comorbidity have to seek medical help at healthcare centres. The resident of a society near Nahar Khagaul Road, Abhishek Raj, told this newspaper on Monday that arrangements were being made for creating a makeshift isolation ward with beds and other facilities. “A place for installing a testing kiosk in the society is being identified. The society’s management committee is also looking for volunteers in each block. Luckily, two doctors, who live here, have voluntarily come forward to treat Covid-19 patients. However, we need at least two more doctors for consultation,” Abhishek said. On the other hand, Rajiv Kumar, the owner of another society near RPS Mor, claimed that setting up Covid care facilities could create panic among the residents. “All the guidelines of the health department are followed strictly in the society. As of now, nobody has tested positive for corona here. In case someone does, I will suggest them to stay under home isolation,” Rajiv said, adding that doctors, who stayed in the society, gave tips to the residents to stay healthy on a regular basis. According to the guidelines, the makeshift facility for Covid patients can be set up in community halls or common utility areas or empty flats which are away from the occupied ones. The management committee of a society in Rukanpura is yet to take a decision in connection with the ministry’s guidelines. Raj Gupta, secretary of the society, said, “A meeting will be held to discuss the issue. We may use the community hall for creating a Covid care facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/societies-gear-up-to-create-makeshift-isolation-wards/articleshow/77072855.cms||Archi Rani
July 21, 2020||Patna||‘New Act to protect rights of consumers’||PATNA: The business class of the state hailed the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which came into effect on Monday. They said it would give more powers to consumers regarding the quality of goods and services provided to them. Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI) president PK Agarwal said the new Act has tried to give maximum benefits to the consumers. “It gives the provision of taking the service provider to the court if they are found providing adulterated products. If a consumer gets harmed by a product in case of something wrong, the provider will have to pay hefty fines and will even get imprisoned,” he said. Chartered accountant (CA) Bijender Goel said the new provisions have made it easier to file a case against products bought from companies from other states. “Earlier, consumers were required to go to the state for filing a case. Now, they can do it within their own states. Besides, it can be done via online platforms. Moreover, traders and manufacturers on e-commerce sites can be penalized for selling products that are different from the one shown on the online platform,” he said. “The district forum, which has been renamed as the District Commission, can now hear cases with a value of up to Rs1 crore and the State Commission can hear cases up to Rs10 crore. Similarly, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) can hear cases with value above Rs10 crore,” he added. “The fresh provisions will prove to be a boon for the aggrieved customers who can now file complaint from any place irrespective of the location where goods were bought or sold. Moreover, some bulky fine and strict imprisonment rules are set to create sufficient protections for the consumers’ rights,” said Ram Shankar, secretary, Patna branch of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). Traders and shopkeepers gave mixed response. Welcoming the new Act, Maurya Lok Shopkeepers’ Kalyan Samiti president Rajesh Kumar Dabloo said the frauds, who are running a market of fake products, will no longer survive. “The provisions are very beneficial in eradicating duplicate manufacturers from the society,” he said. However, owner of a sari and women’s wear shop, Ajay Kumar, said the government should ensure that manufacturers are selling the products at normal rates as most of them have increased the price following the lockdown. “Several supermarkets in the city have been shut owing to scarcity of products. The authorities should ensure availability of products,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-act-to-protect-rights-of-consumers/articleshow/77073006.cms||Archi Rani
July 21, 2020||Patna||Officials meet to defuse tension on Nepal border||PATNA: A joint meeting of people’s representatives, district police and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) officers with the police personnel of Nepal’s Jhapa district was held on Monday to defuse tension along the India-Nepal border in Kishanganj district. Jitan Kumar Singh (31) of Mafi Tola under Khaniabad panchayat in Kishanganj district had received bullet injuries when Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF) personnel opened fire to disperse a group of people from India on Saturday evening. It had sparked off fresh tension on the border. Besides people’s representatives, Fatehpur police station SHO Dayanand Paswan and deputy commandant of SSB’s 12th battalion, Virendra Kumar Singh, met the police officials of Nepal led by an inspector-rank officer Symond posted at Gauriganj police station in Jhapa district. Both sides agreed to maintain restraint. However, some residents of the villages under Khaniabad panchayat alleged that some Nepal ‘Praharis’ tasked to guard the international border often harassed Indian citizens on one pretext or the other. “Farming in an agricultural field close to ‘no-man’s-land’ in Indian territory has become a difficult task,” they complained. The Covid-19 lockdown has, however, aggravated the situation. “While movement of people is restricted in Nepal due to lockdown, people from Indian side cross over to Nepal side for agricultural purposes and indulge in smuggling of fertilizers,” an SSB jawan posted at a border outpost in Kishanganj said. Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish said the SSB guards the porous border. “We are providing all support to the SSB,” he said, adding he was monitoring the situation on the border. On Sunday, the commandant of 12th battalion of the SSB, Lalit Kumar, had talked to the personnel patrolling the border. Fatehpur SHO Dayanand Paswan said police would record the statement of injured Jitan once his health condition improved. Jitan is undergoing treatment at Purnea Sadar hospital. His condition is stated to be out of danger. The place of Saturday’s occurrence is stated to be 500 metres inside Nepal’s territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/officials-meet-to-defuse-tension-on-nepal-border/articleshow/77073711.cms||Ramashankar
July 21, 2020||Patna||Valuables worth Rs1cr stolen in city||PATNA: Unidentified miscreants took away a large amount of jewellery made of gold and diamond besides gold biscuits worth Rs1 crore and Rs2 lakh cash from the house of a merchant navy captain Rakesh Kumar under the Shastrinagar police station area in the wee hours of Monday. Shastrinagar police station SHO Vimlendu Kumar said Rakesh’s father-in-law Pawan Kumar, a teacher by profession, reported the incident to the police. “The family has submitted the details of the jewellery and other valuables worth over Rs1 crore stolen in the incident,” he said. The incident took place past midnight when family members of Rakesh were sleeping in the house located at Jaiprakash Nagar. Rakesh, who is serving in Hong Kong, was not present in the house at the time of the incident. The incident came to light when Rakesh’s wife woke up in the morning. Rakesh’s brother-in-law Kanhaiya Kumar, who is a businessman, told police that they had gone to bed after having dinner around midnight. While Kanhaiya and his wife Pawan Kumar went to sleep in the hall on the ground floor, Rakesh’s wife and other family members were sleeping in their rooms on the first floor. When the captain’s wife woke up around 6am, she found one of the rooms locked from inside. Suspecting foul play, she shouted for help. Kanhaiya, who was sleeping on the ground floor of the building, rushed to the spot and inquired about the matter. He found that the iron grill of the window was uprooted and the locker of the almirah in her sister’s room was broken. Two sets of diamond necklaces besides a large amount of gold and diamond jewellery, gold biscuits besides 1000 US dollars were stolen by the thieves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/valuables-worth-rs1cr-stolen-in-city/articleshow/77073725.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Patna||Rapid antigen testing in all sub-divisional hospitals from Tuesday||PATNA: Rapid antigen testing for Covid-19 will commence in all sub-divisional hospitals from Tuesday, IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said on Monday. Secretary (health) Lokesh Kumar Singh said the tests with rapid antigen kits already started in sub-divisional hospitals in 27 districts on Monday. “The facility will be provided in the sub-divisional hospitals in the remaining 11 districts from Tuesday,” he said. Briefing media, Anupam said administrative teams would be deployed in the important hospitals. “It will be a multi- disciplinary team with administrative as well as medical staff. It will help the doctors and improve the management in hospitals. Also, it will help in resolving people’s grievances,” he said. He said the state government targets to commence rapid antigen testing in all primary health centres by the end of this week. “This will allow free of cost testing of any symptomatic person without any hassles,” he said. Anupam said Bihar’s recovery rate is quite good and government is providing all required health services to people. Steps are being taken to increase antigen testing across the state following instructions from CM Nitish Kumar last week to increase the overall Covid testing from 10,000 a day to 20,000. In the wake of recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the CM also asked the officials last Thursday to provide antigen test facility to people who have symptoms or those who are high risk contacts at identified places. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar had on Saturday instructed all the district magistrates to increase testing facilities in their districts. In Saran district, the administration has arranged collection of samples of suspected cases at Sonepur, Marhoura besides Chhapra Sadar hospital and PHC at Telpa and Masumganj. District communicable diseases officer has been appointed as nodal officer for the same. At present, average 400 samples are being tested in Saran, out of which around 200 are being sent to IGIMS, Patna, besides testing of about 150-200 samples by TrueNet and 75-100 samples by rapid antigen test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rapid-antigen-testing-in-all-sub-divisional-hospitals-from-today/articleshow/77072932.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kanpur||Autopsy report: Vikas Dubey was shot thrice, died of excessive bleeding||KANPUR: The post-mortem report of the slain gangster Vikas Dubey has revealed that he suffered three gunshots. The bullets passed through the body leaving behind six gunshot wounds, including entry and exit points. This apart, he had also suffered four minor injuries, apparently when he stumbled and hit the ground after being shot. One bullet had hit Dubey on his right shoulder while the remaining two pierced his chest on the left side, the report released on Monday said. Dubey was shot dead in a police encounter in Kisan Nagar area of Sachendi in Kanpur on July 10 morning. The postmortem was performed by a panel of three senior doctors — AK Awasthi, SK Mishra and V Chaturvedi. The entire proceeding was video-graphed by the authorities. “There were a total of 10 wounds on Dubey’s body. The first bullet struck his right shoulder and two others in chest on the left side. There were also injuries on the head, elbow, rib and stomach on the right side of his body and he died due to ‘haemorrhage and shock’ caused by ‘ante-mortem firearm injuries’ and ‘excessive blood loss’,” an official told TOI on Monday on condition of anonymity. “There were three entry and three exit wounds of bullets, while four other wounds were on the right side of the body, which were probably caused when the gangster slumped on the ground after being shot,” the official said. “The post-mortem report, however, does not mention any blackening,” the official said and added, “Thus, the distance from which he was shot could not be ascertained.” Dubey, the prime accused in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 2 & 3, was gunned down in an encounter on July 10 when he was being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain where he was arrested on July 9. According to police, the vehicle in which he was being brought had overturned. When the gangster tried to flee after snatching the firearm of a policeman, he was asked to surrender. However, he started firing at the police and was shot in retaliatory action. Dubey had over 60 criminal cases, including murder, loot and extortion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/autopsy-report-dubey-was-shot-thrice-died-of-excessive-bleeding/articleshow/77074496.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||C R Paatil to lead Gujarat BJP into 2022||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s trusted aide and member of Parliament from Navsari Lok Sabha constituency, C R Paatil has been appointed as the new Gujarat BJP president. The constable-turned-politician, popularly known as CR, will lead the party into the forthcoming assembly bypolls, local body elections and the 2022 Gujarat assembly election. Through Paatil’s appointment, the BJP national leadership seems to have sent out a clear and strong message to the state unit to rise above caste and community lines and work for the party. Speculations about who would be succeeding Jitu Vaghani as the next state BJP chief were rife with political pundits working over caste and community equations and challenges for a new state unit president. However, the BJP national leadership, in a somewhat surprise move, appointed a top leader of non-Gujarati origin for the first time in the party’s state unit. Paatil, who has widespread experience of working in the organization, not only in Gujarat, but other states as well, is considered to be an astute politician, and has also been entrusted for raising funds for the party in south Gujarat. He is one of the few leaders in the state BJP who enjoys massive grassroots support. He has been at the helm of the Parpratiya Nagarik Morcha and has mobilized a huge number of migrant workers for the party. PAATIL’S CHALLENGES AHEAD — His immediate challenge will be to ensure victory of party candidates in the upcoming assembly byelections for eight seats in August/September — Urban and rural local body elections in six municipal corporations, over 50 municipalities, over 30 district panchayats and around 200 taluka panchayats are to be held in October/November. Panchayat elections will be a major challenge for Paatil. — Although Paatil is well-versed in the politics of south Gujarat, he has limited exposure of politics in north, and central Gujarat, along with Saurashtra — Coordination with party leaders, both in the state as well as at the Centre, has always been a major challenge for any state BJP president — Paatil’s biggest challenge will however be the 2022 state assembly election. With the BJP in power for three decades, anti-incumbency will be a big factor in 2022 VAGHANI’S ENTRY IN CABINET CERTAIN Jitu Vaghani, under whose leadership BJP successfully won the 2017 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, and several other elections in the state, is expected to either get a cabinet berth in the Vijay Rupani government or some key responsibility in the party organization at the national level, said BJP sources ALL EYES ON PAATIL’S NEW TEAM Intense lobbying has begun among state BJP leaders following the appointment of C R Paatil as the new state party chief. The BJP state executive committee is likely to see new faces. There will also be changes at the level of vice-president, secretaries and other levels in the party organization FLOOD OF POSTINGS LIKELY IN GOVT If key sources in the state BJP to be believed, the party will have to start appointing leaders on posts of boards, corporations and other positions, as the current government will complete three years in December and only have two years before the next assembly election. BJP will have to start strategically appointing party leaders in board, corporations and other positions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/c-r-paatil-to-lead-state-bjp-into-2022/articleshow/77074094.cms||Kapil Dave
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government notifies 12-hour shift for workers||GANDHINAGAR: The labour & employment department has published a notification which allows factories to employ workers on 12-hour shifts instead of eight hours. Government officials said that this will help factories address the problem of shortage of labourers. The notification says that no adult worker will be allowed to work for more than 12 hours in a day and 72 hours in a week in a factory. ‘The periods of work of adult workers in a factory each day shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed six hours with an interval for rest of at least half an hour. No female workers shall be allowed or required to work in a factory between 7pm and 6am. Wages shall be in proportion of the existing wages, for example, if wages for eight hours are 100 rupees, then proportionate wages for 12 hours will be 150 rupees’, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-notifies-12-hour-shift-for-workers/articleshow/77074169.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three-year-old operated for large cyst at Sola Civil Hospital||Ahmedabad: Shivam, 3, a resident of Deesa, was complaining of pain in his stomach frequently. When his parents took him for a CT scan, he was found to have a cyst in mesentery (part between abdominal wall and intestine) which was growing. After initial treatment at a local hospital and Sola Civil Hospital, he was admitted for surgery at Civil Hospital on July 10. Dr Rakesh Joshi, head of pediatric surgery department, said that it was a difficult surgery as it was not possible to remove fluid from the cyst and reducing its size. “Re-section of about 15cm of bowel had to be performed. Mesenteric cysts are rare - they are asymptomatic and could also be found incidentally. Constant lower abdominal pain is the tell-tale sign of the condition,” he said. Shivam responded well to the surgery and has started liquid diet, said department officials, as he will be discharged soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-year-old-operated-for-large-cyst/articleshow/77074201.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||Monkey-proof lights to be installed atop Chamundi Hills||MYSURU: There are hundreds of monkeys atop Chamundi Hills, which are an attraction for tourists and devotees who visit the Sri Chamundeshwari Temple. However, these monkeys are notorious for damaging property. The Chamundi Hills is a reserve forest area. The protected forest near Mysuru city has several groups of bonnet macaques. They are mostly found on the steps or near the temples atop the hills, and feed on the food provided by devotees and visitors. As these monkeys are known for snatching food from visitors, and also damaging the lights and cables, in 2010, there was an attempt to trap the monkeys and move them out of the hills. However, due to the intervention of animal activists, who approached the court, the plan was abandoned. However, the problem continues to haunt the authorities. The authorities are planning to install solar lights around the temples and other places on the hills, which cannot be damaged by the monkeys. N Govindha, who is the secretary to the Bettada Balaga Charitable Trust, which performs mahabhisheka to the Nandi Statue every year, and also holds various programmes atop the hills, said that it is a good decision. “The monkeys damage the streetlights, window panes of buildings and others items atop the hills. The monkeys cannot be prevented from damaging these items, but we can install items which cannot be damaged,” he said. Govindha said that he has noticed young couples who come to the hills, also damage the streetlights, to remain discreet. “Around 8 to 10 lights near the steps were damaged by young couples, who stay till 11 pm on the hill, despite the temple closing at 9 pm after mahamagalarathi. The new lights also cannot be damaged by these couples,” he said. Tourism department deputy director H P Janardhan said that the work has been taken up under the PRASAD scheme. “The monkey-proof solar lights which will be installed around the temple will cost Rs 50 lakh, and landscaping and beautification on the hilltop will cost Rs 30 lakh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/monkey-proof-lights-to-be-installed-atop-chamundi-hills/articleshow/77074529.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: NCB alert against ganja smugglers||PATNA: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is on alert as drug smugglers may try to push contraband inside Bihar from neighbouring states where there is no lockdown. According to NCB, the nationwide lockdown since March 24 due to Covid-19 pandemic had forced drug smugglers to become dormant. After the lockdown relaxations, the NCB made its biggest seizure of the year when they recovered 1.4 tonnes of ganja from Deedarganj in Patna City on July 16, the day the statewide lockdown was imposed again. NCB’s Patna zonal director Kumar Manish told TOI that harvesting season of ganja starts in April while its sowing starts in November. He said most of the ganja consignments are smuggled in state from Odhisa, Andhra Pradesh and Tripura. “Since there was lockdown before the beginning of harvesting season, narcotics smugglers will now made all efforts to sell the maximum quantity before sowing season begins. The ganja harvested since April is also available with those involved in its cultivation and smuggling,” he said. “With no lockdown in states around Bihar, it is easy for smugglers to transport the contraband consignments up to the state’s border for finally pushing it inside,” he said. Manish said the consignment seized from Deedarganj was also from the border areas of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. “The Deedarganj seizure was our 7th and biggest seizure in state since January this year. Truck driver Naib Singh, a native of Barnala in Punjab, and the receiver’s associate Arvind Kumar from Vaishali were arrested. The consignment was to be unloaded somewhere near Jethuli for further distribution,” he said. Manish said NCB had seized 255kg ganja from Namkum in Ranchi on July 14. It was to be smuggled to Bihar. “Nine drug smugglers were arrested, including two from Saran and one from Muzaffarpur,” Manish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ncb-alert-against-ganja-smugglers/articleshow/77073623.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 21, 2020||Hubballi||MLA Prasad Abbayya recovers from Covid-19, asks people not to panic||HUBBALLI: MLA Prasad Abbayya lashed out at a private hospital for not treating his family members who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He said his family members tested positive just a few days after he was diagnosed with the infection. "My family members were admitted to a private hospital for Covid-19 treatment since there were no beds in the Karnataka Institute of Medical Science Hospital. They got admission at the hospital but even after two days not a single doctor attended to them. Later they were shifted to KIMS Hospital," he claimed. He hailed the treatment at KIMS and said he was discharged from the hospital on July 18. The MLA urged people not to panic if they find themselves infected. "Don't panic. I was anxious when I was hospitalised but when the treatment started, I realised that it is not so dangerous, if treated at the right time. People need to follow all the SOPs to remain immune to the infection," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mla-prasad-abbayya-recovers-from-covid-19-asks-people-not-to-panic/articleshow/77072530.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Business||Nitin Gadkari asks Amazon to mull ‘import substitutes’||BENGALURU: Nitin Gadkari, minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, who attended a session with Amazon India head Amit Agarwal on Indian sellers doubling their global sales to $2 billion, urged the e-tailer to look at possible ‘import substitutes’ for products sold on its India platform. The minister said he wasn’t “questioning” Amazon India’s imports, but highlighted it as an area of potential opportunity. “As an Indian company, because of your presence in India, let us find out what is to be ‘import substitute’, which is coming here in India from abroad. The same thing — whether it’s possible to get at lower cost and better quality — that is also a good initiative.” His comments came after Agarwal announced Indian sellers’ exports of ‘Made in India’ goods on Amazon’s global markets has doubled to $2 billion of gross sales as of June. The 60,000 sellers on the programme took less than 18 months to clock the additional $1 billion of sales compared to the over 3 years they needed to register the first billion dollars of gross sales last year. Gadkari’s statement comes at a time when the government is scrutinising Chinese imports and asking e-tailers to highlight countries of origin on their platforms due to a border conflict with China. Gadkari also requested Amazon India to make efforts on product development and design of local wares to be sold abroad, beyond just offering a marketing platform. “It will increase your turnover and it will help the Indian economy as well,” he added. Amazon India declined to comment on Gadkari’s remarks on imports in India. Last week, TOI reported that Amazon India has made it mandatory for sellers to display ‘country of origin’ in all their listings — new and existing — as anti-China sentiment prevails in the country. E-commerce platforms see millions of Chinese products sold on their platforms owing to pricing advantages. This includes third-party sellers, independent brands and the in-house labels of e-commerce companies. Agarwal’s announcement on Indian exports comes after Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, during his India visit in January, announced a plan to clock $10 billion of exports by 2025. These Indian sellers, ranging from independent merchants to brands like Amul, have a selection of 140 million products they are offering to consumers in over 200 countries. But a majority come from the US and Europe. According to Amazon India, global unit sales of Indian merchants grew 72% during its Prime Day sale on a year-on-year basis, while the same was 76% during Black Friday sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gadkari-asks-amazon-to-mull-import-substitutes/articleshow/77074710.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 21, 2020||Patna||Private hospitals in Patna get ready to admit coronavirus patients||PATNA: Private hospitals in the city have started making arrangements for Covid-19 patients. District magistrate Kumar Ravi on Sunday mandated private hospitals to reserve 20 to 25% of beds for Covid patients. “Ruban Hospital and Paras HMRI Hospital each will have to set up 25-bed Covid ward. We have asked hospitals associated with Ayushman Bharat and other private hospitals to come forward to serve patients during the pandemic. The hospitals have also been asked not to refuse any patient for treatment,” Ravi said and added: “Only those who are ready to bear the expenses will be admitted to private hospitals.” Paras HMRI regional director (east) Talat Halim said arrangements for Covid-19 patients at the city hospital would be made in three-four days. “We will have to make an isolation ward. Unlike other hospitals, Paras HMRI doesn’t have separate airconditioners as the hospital is centrally airconditioned. It might add to the woes of Covid patients. We are looking for alternative ways like partially shutting ACs and blocking exhausts,” he said on Monday. “As the civil surgeon is to visit for inspection, we will show him our preparations before starting the Covid ward,” he added. Talking about the charges, Halim said, “Additional charges will be taken on the basis of PPE kits used by the doctors and deployment of nurses, housekeepers, cleaners and other staff to take care of Covid a patient,” he said. A separate Covid unit is being prepared by Ruban Hospital at its adjoining building. “Preparations for separate oxygen supply, monitors, non-invasive ventilation and high-speed oxygen delivery system are being made. As patients with mild symptoms can also get severe respiratory problems, we are ensuring the availability of everything required to deal with such medical problems,” its managing director Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh said. “We are operating at least 10 emergency cases everyday. Besides, ICU is always occupied with 25-30 critical patients suffering from cardiac, neuro and surgical problems. Hence, we have made temporary arrangements for a special corona unit with 25 beds at the adjoining building. It will be functional in a week. If we start admitting Covid patients at the main hospital, hundreds of other patients, doctors and others will be at risk of losing their lives,” Dr Singh said. 18 private hospitals get govt nod: Altogether 18 private hospitals in Patna district have been approved for keeping 20-25% beds for the Covid-19 patients, a letter issued by Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary stated on Monday. The private hospitals to start Covid treatment include Ruban Memorial, Paras HMRI, Mahavir Vatsalya, Hitech Emergency, GS Neuroscience, Arvind Hospital, Dr Bimal Hospital and Research Centre, Anup Institute of Orthopaedic, AS Nursing Home, Curris Hospital, Palm View Hospital, Midversal Hospital, Buddha Cancer Centre, Tara Hospital, NESTVA Hospital, Shri Murlidhar Memorial Hospital, Medica Magadh Hospital and Heart Hospital. These hospitals have reserved total 290 beds for Covid patients. The patients will have to bear the expenses on their treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-hospitals-in-patna-get-ready-to-admit-coronavirus-patients/articleshow/77072998.cms||Archi Rani
July 21, 2020||Patna||Water gushes into houses, shops after rainfall in city||PATNA: Spells of rain over the last 36 hours in the city have inundated localities like Kadamkuan, Rajendra Nagar, Kankarbagh and Rajvanshi Nagar. The showers have also sent water gushing into many houses in Patliputra Colony. According to the people living in the affected areas, it has become quite difficult for them to step out of their houses for buying essential commodities like milk or medicines. Talking to this reporter on Monday, Patliputra Colony resident Amit Singh said his garden was submerged in water and if the rainfall continued, “it will enter my house as well”. After receiving numerous complaints from the residents, Patliputra Cooperative Society secretary Rai Ajeet Prasad claimed that rainwater had also gushed into his house. “We face the monsoon menace every year. Several houses are waterlogged because of the poor drainage system and it is difficult to walk on the streets,” Rai said. Some locals also complained that delivery boys refused to enter the waterlogged localities. Lohanipur resident Sonal Sinha said, “One of my orders was cancelled because my locality is waterlogged. I cannot even go out to buy what I need as the shops near my house are shut because of the lockdown.” The city civic body, on the other hand, pointed out that the accumulated water was being removed. Patna Municipal Corporation commissioner Himanshu Sharma told this newspaper, “While we have installed nearly 120 pumps with high capacity, the Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation has temporary pump stations in areas that are prone to waterlogging. These will soon be made permanent.” Asked about the waterlogging menace that Patnaites face every monsoon, Himanshu replied, “A consultation agency has been hired by the government to study the existing drainage system. It will also analyse the rain pattern during the last few years and come up with a scientific drainage plan.” PMC executive officer (Kankarbagh circle) S K Mishra said, “The speed at which the accumulated water is being removed may be slow in some areas, but it has improved a lot. Earlier, people would live amid waterlogging for days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/water-gushes-into-houses-shops-after-rainfall-in-city/articleshow/77072718.cms||Archi Rani
July 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 growth rate is faster than national average: PM council ex-adviser||PATNA: A former member of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, professor Shamika Ravi, on Monday posted a series of tweets claiming that Covid-19 infection was growing at a much faster rate in Bihar (10%) compared to the all-India (4.1%) growth. She also claimed that deaths in the state are also rising faster (3.2%) as compared to the national coronavirus death rate (2.4%). In her observations, Shamika, a senior fellow with the US-based Brookings Institute, pointed out the high positivity rate in Bihar, indicating an alarming situation the state might face if not dealt with properly. Talking to TOI over phone, Shamika said it is extremely important for Bihar to conduct more tests for Covid-19 and trace close contacts of positive people and isolate all those who were infected, adding that Bihar should have done at least five lakh tests by now. “Test, trace and isolate is the formula. The World Health Organization (WHO) has already said that the positivity rate should not be above 5% and Bihar has already crossed that mark. It is important to be cautious now as next few weeks are important for Bihar. See what is happening in Mumbai where the positivity rate reached to 15%,” Shamika said. As per the data shared with TOI, the total number of reported cases till July 19 in Bihar are 26,379, out of which recovered cases are 16,579, which is 62.9% of total cases and the number of active cases stand at 9,603, which is 36.4% of the cases. Similarly, tests done till July 19 stood at 3,78,508, out of which 26,379 people tested positive for the virus, which means the positivity rate is 6.96%. Though Bihar reported first three Covid-19 cases on March 22, the state reached 10,000 Covid-19 cases only on July 1 and more than 15,000 additional cases have been added in the three weeks of July. Similarly, the state reported 68 deaths of Covid-19 positive people till June 30, which increased to 2.6 times with a total of 179 reported deaths by July 19. Senior virologist and former head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s centre for advanced research in virology Dr T Jacob John said more testing will not help completely prevent infection. “It will help in finding out people who are infected. Spread of coronavirus is unstoppable and only 100% mask wearing will slow down the epidemic.” Citing an example of a man who collapsed and died in a hospital as his oxygen level was below 64, Dr Jacob also pointed out the right way of treatment of Covid patients. “Doctors should handle these cases with utmost alertness and sincerity,” he said. Dr John predicted mid-August as the peak of coronavirus in the country. “I think Bihar will also reach its peak in that same period, though few others have predicted September as the peak period for Bihar,” he said, adding, “Places like Delhi and Chennai have reached their peak and now cases are slowing down. We can see that Covid-19 is now spreading in rural areas.” Meanwhile, state health department undersecretary Bibekanand Thakur said there could be some miscalculation in the positivity rate. “Bihar’s condition is not the worst as our positivity rate is a little over 4%. We are also testing more than 10,000 samples per day and will increase the number soon. Compared to other states, we aren’t doing bad,” Thakur added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-19-growth-rate-is-faster-than-national-average-pm-council-ex-adviser/articleshow/77072769.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 21, 2020||Allahabad||AU alumnus’ innovation to purify water promises relief globally||Prayagraj: An Allahabad University (AU) alumnus’ innovation might offer a solution to the problem of lack of potable water in the world, which claims several lives globally every year. Jaunpur native and a former AU student Subhash Chandra Singh is part of a team of researchers from University of Rochester, New York, that has developed a technology which turns a piece of aluminium into a water purification device with the help of solar energy. He completed his BSc, MSc and PhD from AU and is now a post doctoral scholar at the American University. Singh’s family is based in Rajanipur village of Jaunpur district and his father Ravindra Nath Singh is a farmer. “In the technology, when a piece of aluminium comes in contact with a quick laser light, it turns it into a super-wicking, super-light-absorbing and a super-water-evaporating surface which removes all the dirt and impurities from water,” said Singh Titled ‘Solar-Trackable Super-Wicking Black Metal Panel for Photothermal Water Sanitation’, the project is the brainchild of a team of eight scientists from University of Rochester, which excludes Singh and his mentor Chunlei Guo. Guo is also the director of the lab where the team has been working on the innovation. Their research was published in the July 13 edition of the journal ‘Nature Sustainability’. The project was funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, US Army Research Office and National Science Foundation, US. “Factors like industrialisation, increasing population and climate change have aggravated the global water crisis. One in every nine persons does not have access to clean water today around the world. About 2.5 billion people do not have access to adequate sanitation and every minute a child dies from a water-related disease,” said Singh. “A solution to this problem is to recycle waste water and make it potable in a way which is similar to how nature purifies water in a rain cycle. In the natural process, dirty water from the earth vaporises, condenses into clouds and, finally precipitates and falls on earth as rain via natural distillation. However, the natural rain cycle is very slow and uncontrolled. It cannot supply fresh water as and when needed by humans,” he added. The 38-year-old scholar said that a good alternative would be to use the solar-thermal distillation process, which can provide enough fresh water. “We developed the technology using the same principle. In this technology, a burst of pulsed laser drills an array of microcapillaries and turns the aluminium into a pitch black surface. This surface pulls a thin layer of water to wet its surface through capillary effect. Thus, almost 100 % of the produced heat gets supplied to the water film on the panel surface and helps the water evaporate. The heat localisation on the panel’s surface and a change in the chemical bonding of the water molecules speed up the evaporation process by more than 20 times as compared to the natural process using the same amount of solar energy,” explained Singh. A one meter square area of the device can produce 24 -64 litre of clean water with contaminant levels 10-100 times below the World Health Organisation’s standard for safe drinkable water. “The invented device purifies water of heavy metals, salts, detergents, urea, chemicals, dyes, and bacteria. As contaminants such as virus crystals cannot vaporise, therefore the developed system might have the potential to purify water contaminated with Covid-19 and other viruses,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-alumnus-innovation-to-purify-water-promises-relief-globally/articleshow/77072587.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Patna||133 put under home quarantine in Saran||CHHAPRA: Altogether 133 Covid-19 patients had been placed under home quarantine in Saran so far, district magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen said on Monday. “Since 80% of the patients are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, they have started opting for home quarantine. They have been given kits with essential drugs and are staying in separate rooms in their houses,” the DM told this newspaper. Asking people not to panic, the DM said, “Even if only 1-2% of the cases require oxygen, we have all the resources like pulse oximeters and thermal scanners.” He also advised others to follow all the rules during the current lockdown and avoid going outside. According to the daily bulletin issued by the health department on Monday evening, 720 Covid cases have been registered in Saran so far, of which 269 are active ones. Meanwhile, a rise in the number of corona cases in rural areas of the district in the last few days has become a matter of concern for many. Four people were found Covid positive in Taraiya Bazar under Taraiya block, Mangolapur and Kopa under Jalalpur block and Raee Patti under Dighwara block. The total number of containment zones has also gone up to 151. However, the circle officer of Dighwara block has asked the Covid patients to remain under home quarantine and ordered sanitization of the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/133-put-under-home-quarantine-in-saran/articleshow/77072968.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao shifts focus to non-Covid patients||NEW DELHI: Hindu Rao Hospital has started redistributing its underutilised healthcare staff to other facilities for the treatment of non-Covid patients. At a time when the pressure of non-Covid patients continues to increase at other facilities, Hindu Rao, the biggest municipal healthcare unit, has 90% of its Covid beds lying vacant. North Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued orders to keep back-up staff for 100 beds and move the remaining to Kasturba and Rajan Babu Hospitals, and other civic care units, said an official. A meeting in this regard was called by the director of the hospital, who pointed out that while Hindu Rao had been working as a Covid hospital, patients from other disciplines were ignored. “Most of the health manpower remain unutilised and can be posted to other units,” said an order issued by the chief medical officer. Additional commissioner (health) has directed all the head of departments to send a list of healthcare workers who could be sent on temporary postings to the non-Covid hospitals. Jai Prakash, north corporation mayor, said redistribution of staff would help take load off non-Covid facilities. “For example, most of the maternity-related cases are being sent to Kasturba Hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-shifts-focus-to-non-covid-patients/articleshow/77074840.cms||Paras Singh
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||All members of Gujarat University admissions committee resign||AHMEDABAD: All members of the Gujarat University admissions committee for commerce courses put in their papers on Monday, even as admissions to five courses are on in full swing. As many as 40,000 students whose admissions are pending have now been left in the lurch. Three days ago, the committee members wrote to the varsity vice-chancellor, asking him to address the issue the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), which is holding demonstrations in protest against the selection of the committee and outsourcing of part of the admissions work to a private agency. “The committee wrote to the authorities after ABVP members began targeting them. A few days ago, ABVP workers had locked up the admission committee members,” sources in GU said. The nine members, including the convener of the committee resigned on Monday after the GU authorities turned a blind eye to their concerns, sources said. A security guard was beaten up a few days ago and the GU authorities did not report the matter to the police, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-members-of-gu-admissions-committee-resign/articleshow/77074110.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mop-up round for empty PG dental seats||AHMEDABAD: The admission committee for postgraduate medical courses has decided to conduct the mop-up round by way of video conferencing for the vacant dental seats on July 21. The Admission Committee for Professional Post-Graduate Medical Education Courses (ACPPGMEC) has recently conducted the third round of admission in which 1,540 seats were allotted for MD/MS courses and 220 were allotted for PG dental courses. In the case of PG medical, 30 seats remained vacant while 53 went empty for PG dental programmes. “For the PG medical seats that are empty, there are no applicants while in the case of PG dental there are 220 applicants. This has necessitated a mop-up round,” said an official close to the development. Usually the mop-up round is held at GMERS run medical college at Gandhinagar, however this time due to Covid-19 pandemic, the admission committee has decided to conduct this at all the six GMERS colleges across the state by way of video conferencing, sources added. The empty seats were left after the admission committee held a fresh round of admissions for PG medical and PG dental candidates who stood to qualify after the National Board of Examination (NBE) revised the cut-off for admission to these courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mop-up-round-for-empty-pg-dental-seats/articleshow/77074141.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Patna||Rain with thunderstorm to continue in Bihar on Tuesday: Met||PATNA: The weathermen predict rainfall with thunderstorm to continue almost all over the state on Tuesday. The Patna Meteorological Centre on Monday issued yellow coloured warning for Tuesday. It stipulates that authorities should be watchful for extreme weather development like moderate to heavy rainfall along with thunderstorm and lightning. Moderate to heavy rainfall occurred at most places in Bihar in the last 24 hours. The weathermen attributed it to monsoon trough line passing along the foothills of the Himalayas on Monday. It is also because of favourable position of monsoon trough line, which is an elongated low-pressure area. Monsoon rainfall normally hinges along the trough line. Places which received significant rainfall over the last 24 hours included Ramnagar (290mm) and Chanpatia (250mm) in West Champaran, Jhanjharpur in Madhubani and Sursand in Sitamarhi (220mm each), Kamtaul in Darbhanga and Sheohar (210mm each), Chakia and Kesaria in East Champaran, Pusa in Samastipur and Belsand in Sitamarhi (190mm each). While yellow coloured warning has been issued for all 38 districts for Wednesday as well, but the intensity of expected rain is likely to scale down to light to moderate at most places. The Patna weather bulletin stated that southwest monsoon was vigorous over Bihar during the last 24 hours. Anand Shankar, meteorologist at Patna centre, said, “The trough line was passing through Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and Bhagalpur in Bihar and further towards Terrai region (in Nepal). The position of monsoon trough line across Bihar is expected to lead to heavy to very rainfall in most districts in north Bihar. One or two southern districts are also expected to receive heavy rainfall.” He said the ongoing rainfall is likely to continue in most parts of state over the next three to four days but its intensity may reduce after 48 hours. Speaking about the weather in Patna, Shankar said light to moderate rainfall is likely to occur intermittently over the next 48 hours. He said the possibility of lightning is also there and advised people to take precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-with-thunderstorm-to-continue-today-met/articleshow/77072700.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Covid-19 tally nears 30,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 case tally reached 26,858 on Monday, with reports of 694 fresh cases even as six patients succumbed, raising the fatality count to 355. Meanwhile, there were 433 cases of recovery. With 20,226 patients having been cured, the recovery rate in the state now stands at 75.31%. The state now has 6,277 active patients, with NCR districts continuing to dominate in the new cases and recovery tally. Gurugram reported maximum 109 new patients during the day, Faridabad had 103 new cases, Sonipat 98, Rewari 75, Ambala 70, Palwal 35, Jhajjar 24, Hisar 23, Karnal 21, Mahindergarh 20, Rohtak 15, Fatehabad and Panchkula 14 each. Bhiwani and Sirsa eight each, Kurukshetra, Jind, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri five each and Nuh three. There was no update from Yamunanagar. “Our effective monitoring, early and quick diagnosis and treatment has contributed a lot in early detection and treatment of cases, which has led to an impressive recovery rate of Covid patients,” state health minister Anil Vij said. So far, 4,57,310 people have been tested in the state. While 70,162 have completed the quarantine period, 52,160 are still under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-tally-nears-30k-mark/articleshow/77074853.cms||Manvir Saini
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University to hold theory exams in two phases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University will conduct theory exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students in two phases, beginning August 21 and August 31. As many as 52 exams for students in various semesters such as MA (fourth semester), MCom (fourth semester), MSc (fourth semester) and LLB (second and fourth semester) will be held from August 21. The BA (sixth semester), BBA (sixth semester), BCom (sixth semester), BCA (sixth semester), BSc (sixth semester) exams will be held from August 31. The duration of each exam will be of two hours. For students who cannot participate in this pen and paper exam or for students who are from other states or overseas, the varsity will conduct special online exams in multiple-choice questions (MCQ) format. The dates for the special exam will be announced later. According to the GU directives, the exams will be conducted with proper sanitization methods and social distancing at exam centres. Decisions on keeping exam centres at the district level and halving the number of students per classroom from 30 to 15 have been taken in the past. Students in intermediate semesters will be evaluated on internal assessments. The annual exams for colleges were deferred this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In May, the state government had announced that terminal examinations for all varsities in Gujarat would be held from June 25. The government had to reverse this after many varsities called off the examinations due to protests by students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-to-hold-theory-exams-in-two-phases/articleshow/77074848.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Girl with mental illness imagined abuse: Probe||Thrissur: Investigators have concluded that the allegations made by a girl with mental illness that she was sexually abused by two persons on June 19, while she was on her way to the children’s home in Thrissur, may be a hallucination as there was no medical evidence of sexual abuse. But, experts at the child welfare committee (CWC) felt that her hallucination could also be the aftermath of the abuses she had endured when she was just 12 or 13. Her mother is one of accused in that case and in prison now. Her father was not looking after the family for years. She was admitted to the mental healthcare centre in city a few days ago. Health experts suspect that she could be suffering from schizophrenia or similar conditions. Another disturbing thing is that she will turn 18 by September after which she will not be entitled to protection and support given under the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act. Earlier, she was housed at the children’s home in government and private sectors in different places as found it difficult to adjust at all those centres. Four or five months ago, she was housed at the special home for mentally-disturbed women and children at Ramavarmapuram in the outskirts of the city for three months. From there, she was sent to the house of a woman in Chavakkad, who was planning to start a children’s home. CWC had designated her as a person fit to taking care of the girl under the JJ Act. However, she walked away from that place and reported the alleged rape when she returned to the special home at Ramavarmapuram. She first told the police that she was taken on a bike by two people from Guruvayur who offered to drop her at Ramavarmapuram and they raped her at Kunnamkulam. Police formed a special squad that examined CCTV visuals along the route and tried to track the accused though she was unable to identify the perpetrators. She later said only one person was involved and changed her statement to say that the incident took place at Guruvayur. Finally, she confessed that she had cooked up the story and medical examinations also supported this version. “Where will she go when she turns 18 is a big question? Sometimes she behaves as a normal person and can be hysterical and violent on other occasions. Her fate will be disastrous unless some individual/institution takes care of her,” said CWC chairman Dr Viswanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/girl-with-mental-illness-imagined-abuse-probe/articleshow/77073150.cms||T Ramavarman
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Unhappy CP traders write to NDMC: Clean up your act||NEW DELHI: Unhappy with the monsoon preparedness of the civic body, which led to flooding in the area on Sunday, traders of Connaught Place have written to the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) chairman for beefing up the arrangements. Shopkeepers of Connaught Place complained that no desilting had been carried out, causing the drains to overflow. The water had entered shops in the outer circle, including H and G blocks and Regal Complex. Roads in the inner circle were also inundated. “Water accumulated last year also, but it didn’t enter so many shops. Many people faced losses as the stock kept inside the shops got damaged. I forwarded all desperate messages of worried traders to the NDMC chairman, requesting him to make concrete arrangements before things turn worse. There was no concrete reply from the other side,” said Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association. Traders also pointed out the increased level of roads among the reasons for rainwater entering the shop complexes. “Most of the shops have floors in level with the corridor. But the road height is getting increased after every carpeting cycle. The civic agency does not remove the old bituminous layer before laying a new one,” said Bhargava. “Water entered inside my shop, damaging the garments. They didn’t start the pump on time despite heavy rain. Now, who will bear the cost of the damage,” asked Vikram Badhwar, secretary of NDTA. Civic officials, however, claimed that all four motors were made operational on time near Panchkuian Road. “But the intensity of rain was so high that our barrels were full and water started overflowing on roads. Water accumulated for barely half an hour. The department has completed 100% desilting. We have asked the control room to be more vigilant,” said an official. “As far as the level of roads is concerned, two years back, we had peeled off all bituminous layers before doing the fresh construction,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unhappy-cp-traders-write-to-ndmc-clean-up-your-act/articleshow/77074854.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana Covid-19 tally nears 30,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 case tally reached 26,858 on Monday, with reports of 694 fresh cases even as six patients succumbed, raising the fatality count to 355. Meanwhile, there were 433 cases of recovery. With 20,226 patients having been cured, the recovery rate in the state now stands at 75.31%. The state now has 6,277 active patients, with NCR districts continuing to dominate in the new cases and recovery tally. Gurugram reported maximum 109 new patients during the day, Faridabad had 103 new cases, Sonipat 98, Rewari 75, Ambala 70, Palwal 35, Jhajjar 24, Hisar 23, Karnal 21, Mahindergarh 20, Rohtak 15, Fatehabad and Panchkula 14 each. Bhiwani and Sirsa eight each, Kurukshetra, Jind, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri five each and Nuh three. There was no update from Yamunanagar. “Our effective monitoring, early and quick diagnosis and treatment has contributed a lot in early detection and treatment of cases, which has led to an impressive recovery rate of Covid patients,” state health minister Anil Vij said. So far, 4,57,310 people have been tested in the state. While 70,162 have completed the quarantine period, 52,160 are still under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-tally-nears-30k-mark/articleshow/77081742.cms||Manvir Saini
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: New Covid-19 cases in all districts except Dang||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, out of 33 districts of Gujarat, 32 recorded at least one new Covid-19 positive case. Analysis of the past week’s data revealed that 28 to 31 districts record new cases daily. On Monday, Surat recorded the highest 284 cases whereas Chhota Udepur and Porbandar recorded one case each. With the update, Rajkot became the fifth district of Gujarat to record 1,000-plus total Covid-19 positive cases. As on Monday evening, Ahmedabad district had 24,568 total cases, followed by 9,978 in Surat, 3,665 in Vadodara, 1,111 in Gandhinagar and 1,038 in Rajkot. Chhota Udepur on Monday crossed 100 positive cases, becoming 30th district in the state to do so. Now only Dang (8), Porbandar (32) and Devbhoomi Dwarka (33) are the districts with less than 100 cases. The state also recorded 88 cases attributed to other states. With the update, Gujarat has 23.5% active cases (11,613) whereas the share of discharged and deceased patients is 72% and 4.4% respectively. The cases included 284 from Surat, 193 from Ahmedabad, 78 from Vadodara and 56 from Rajkot. The deaths included 11 from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two each from Navsari and Vadodara and one from Gir-Somnath. A total of 777 patients were discharged in 24 hours. In Surat, 266 patients got discharged in 24 hours, followed by 200 in Ahmedabad and 84 from Vadodara. Gujarat carried out 12,369 tests to find new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 5.48 lakh. As on Monday evening, Gujarat has 4.08 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 4.06 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-cases-in-all-districts-except-dang/articleshow/77074858.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||As wait for results grows, GMC told to avoid delay in testing||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday issued directions to senior officials of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital to avoid delays in testing Covid samples received at the hospital’s laboratory. “I held a meeting to review preparedness and testing facilities,” said Rane after his meeting with GMC dean S M Bandekar and senior officials. The minister instructed the team to also review screening facilities at GMC for all patients entering the premises, irrespective of whether they are symptomatic or asymptomatic. During the past few days, GMC staff, including doctors have tested positive, thus increasing the risk of Covid infections spreading in the hospital. While all patients are screened at the entrance, with a separate flu out-patient department (OPD) created for people arriving with Covid symptoms, a hospital official said the task has become challenging due to rising cases in the state. Rane said it was also proposed to add another TrueNat unit to the existing facility to expedite testing at GMC. The pendency of samples for the state has been hovering around 2,500-3,000 samples a day. Results were received within a day or two till last month, but people now need to wait four to five days to get their Covid test results. A Delhi woman said she has been in facility quarantine for five days since arrival and was yet to get her test result. She took the test after arriving in Goa, thinking she would be able to go about doing her business after receiving her result. “It’s been five days since I gave my swab sample, but I am yet to know my result. I’m worried,” she said. An official who was part of the meeting said the Abbot machine which was installed in the hospital last month, has a capacity to conduct more than 400 RTPCR tests a day, but it is not run to its full capacity. Rane, the official said, directed that the laboratory must conduct about 400 tests for a 24-hour period. Test results should be conveyed to respective health centre without a delay. The officer said the delays in testing have been owing to lack of adequate technicians, and hence direction was given to immediately address the issue. “The health minister directed GMC officials to train more technicians for conducting tests,” he said. The dean has also been told to move a proposal to recruit two or three data entry operators for speedy collation of data, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-wait-for-results-grows-gmc-told-to-avoid-delay-in-testing/articleshow/77075311.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana Covid-19 tally nears 30,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 case tally reached 26,858 on Monday, with reports of 694 fresh cases even as six patients succumbed, raising the fatality count to 355. Meanwhile, there were 433 cases of recovery. With 20,226 patients having been cured, the recovery rate in the state now stands at 75.31%. The state now has 6,277 active patients, with NCR districts continuing to dominate in the new cases and recovery tally. Gurugram reported maximum 109 new patients during the day, Faridabad had 103 new cases, Sonipat 98, Rewari 75, Ambala 70, Palwal 35, Jhajjar 24, Hisar 23, Karnal 21, Mahindergarh 20, Rohtak 15, Fatehabad and Panchkula 14 each. Bhiwani and Sirsa eight each, Kurukshetra, Jind, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri five each and Nuh three. There was no update from Yamunanagar. “Our effective monitoring, early and quick diagnosis and treatment has contributed a lot in early detection and treatment of cases, which has led to an impressive recovery rate of Covid patients,” state health minister Anil Vij said. So far, 4,57,310 people have been tested in the state. While 70,162 have completed the quarantine period, 52,160 are still under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-tally-nears-30k-mark/articleshow/77081744.cms||Manvir Saini
July 21, 2020||Varanasi||Huge rush of devotees at KVT on third Monday of Shrawan||Varanasi: After an appreciable show of awareness on the first and second Mondays of Shrawan month, the locals threw all cautions in air and thronged the Kashi Vishwanath temple in a huge number on the third Monday of the holy month. A long queue of devotees could be seen at the temple during Shrawan for the first time this year. The Kashi Vishwanath Temple is the only prominent temple of Lord Shiva allowed to be opened with prescribed guidelines on the Mondays of Shrawan month while all other temples are closed for the devotees. Since early morning hours devotees started congregating at ghats along the Ganga and in the vicinity of KVT in view of Somavati Amavasya. However, police did not allow gathering at any of the ghats. As the devotees started queuing up in barricaded areas for entering KVT, the queues stretched up to Godowlia and Chowk from Chhattadwar entry point of the temple. As per the records of local intelligence unit, till 4 pm 5,260 devotees had entered the KVT to offer prayer while before the closure of darshan hours at 5pm over 100 were in queue. This was the highest figure of devotees reaching KVT in a day after reopening of the temple after lockdown. On the first Monday of Shrawan on July 6, 4,050 devotees had offered prayers at KVT while turn out had dipped to 2,100 on the second Monday on July 13. SSP Amit Pathak admitted, “In comparison to past two Mondays of Shrawan the turnout of devotees was high on the third Monday. But, no one turned up as kanwariya or with any Kanwar Yatra. We ensured a sharp vigil was kept in all parts of the district and the arrival of devotees from even neighbouring district was almost nil. Cops deployed in and around the KVT ensured that norms of social distancing was followed by devotees in queues.” Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, who along with IG Varanasi range VS Mina also took stock of arrangements in and around KVT, said, “Prescribed norms for entry of devotees were followed while no gathering of more than five person at a time inside the main temple was allowed.” Far from the Covid-19 scare, the devotees, especially women, looked enthused lauding slogans a ‘Har Har Mahadev’. The Vishwanath Gali traders also continued their tradition of offering Jalabhishek on third Monday with five members performing the ritual at the temple. The devotees entry in KVT was allowed from 5am to 9pm on first Monday but as the administration had restricted the movement on roads between 9pm and 5am since second Monday, the temple gates are closed at 5pm. At other prominent temples including Tilbhandeshwar, Gauri Kedareshwar, Mrityunjaya Mahadeo, Jageshwar, Shholtankeshwar, Markandeya Mahadeo and others only the priests performed rituals of Shrawan puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/huge-rush-of-devotees-at-kvt-on-third-monday-of-shrawan/articleshow/77074609.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad municipal corporation offers incentives for plasma donors||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has announced free whole body check-ups for four family members of each plasma donor on top of a certificate. This check-up can be done once a year, and it usually costs Rs 6,000 per person at the SVP Hospital. AMC officials said trials on the use of plasma began first in the country at SVP Hospital and the results will soon be out. They said AMC has begun the incentive programme to encourage more people to come forward and donate plasma. A plasma bank has also been set up and to store plasma donated by eligible donors. Officials said two resident doctors of the SVP Hospital have donated plasma twice at a gap of 15 days. However, the numbers of donors thinned out after the initial days, prompting the AMC to launch the current programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-offers-incentives-for-plasma-donors/articleshow/77074856.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Vadodara||PNB manager, three others held for siphoning Rs 1.7 crore Anyonya bank FD||VADODARA: Four persons including branch manager of Punjab National Bank (PNB) and a film financier were arrested by the detection of crime branch (DCB) on Monday for allegedly committing a fraud of Rs 1.75 crore. The accused siphoned money that was deposited by liquidator of Anyonya Cooperative Bank Ltd (ACBL) in the Diwalipura branch of PNB in January this year. According to the police, Rahul alias Sachin Shah (35), a resident of Mumbai, is one of the key conspirators in the fraud. “Shah was earlier in the business of import/export and used to keep relations with bank managers. He shifted from Mumbai to Vadodara some time back as his girlfriend, being treated for tuberculosis, showed signs of improvement. The duo took a house on rent here,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Shah started a finance firm in the city and came in contact with another accused Amol Mohod, who is branch manager of PNB, Diwalipura. Amol was aware of the money deposited by ACBL liquidator as fixed deposit in PNB. He and Shah made a plan to siphon off the money by creating fake documents. They involved the other two accused Kiran Kumar Panchal, resident of Ahmedabad and Bhupesh Surti, resident of Mumbai. The gang made bogus letterhead of ACBL, bogus PAN card and FD receipts. “Surti posed as ACBL liquidator and produced the fake receipts and documents in PNB demanding transfer of money to Central Bank of India. Amol accepted the documents and approved the transfer to Central Bank of India, Karelibaug where the accused had opened a bank account,” Jadeja told TOI. Once the money was deposited in Central Bank of India, the accused transferred it to the bank accounts of two firms run by Shah who withdrew the money. The gang also withdrew the fix deposit of Rs 25 lakh that they made in Central Bank of India earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pnb-manager-three-others-held-for-siphoning-rs-1-7cr-anyonya-bank-fd/articleshow/77073178.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Shops in N Kol suburbs get 6-hr window to operate after a week||Kolkata: A partial lockdown was enforced in areas under South Dum Dum and Dum Dum municipalities from Monday.The civic authorities notified that all markets and standalone stores will be shut after noon everyday. Only essential items would be a available throughout the day.People stepping out of their houses after noon without any emergency could be charged for violation lockdown rules. Also, except Jessore Road and Dum Dum Road, autos and totos have been asked not to ply in any of the areas under the two civic bodies after noon.Large wholesale and retail markets in Dum Dum, however, reopened on Monday after a week. Gorabazar, the wholesale and retail market catering to customers from Nagerbazar to Birati, opened at 7am.“We have nearly 600 shops within the Gorabazar area and outside. Police have allowed us to keep shops open from 6am, but that is not possible for every trader,” said Debashis Dutta, secretary of the Gorabazar Byabsayee Kalyan Samiti.Large format garment stores in the area were, however, kept closed as shopping malls and shops under Dum Dum and South Dum Dum municipality areas were asked to shut down by noon from Monday.“The 6am to noon schedule would be applicable to each of the markets. The markets that were closed earlier were allowed to operate again. This has given much relief to the locals. However, there is no change in the number of containment zones,” said Pachu Roy, administrator of the South Dum Dum municipality.In New Town, NKDA sanitized all the markets by keeping them closed on Saturday and Sunday. In Salt Lake, many of the markets continue to operate on alternate days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shops-in-n-kol-suburbs-get-6-hr-window-to-operate-after-a-week/articleshow/77074226.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Markets look to align sanitization with mid-week closure||KOLKATA: Wholesale and retail market associations were relieved that the government “prudently thought of the twice-a-week lockdown instead of a week-long lockdown that could have crippled livelihoods”. A trade organization representative said, “We hope that the biweekly lockdown will break the chain of transmission without affecting livelihoods. We were apprehensive of worse — a stringent lockdown. But this is quite acceptable.” “Since marketplaces have become the major sources of transmission, the mid-week lockdown may effectively break the chain. Moreover, in the non-essential commodities sector, we are getting an extra day (Sunday) to lock ourselves at homes. We shall work the rest of the four days with greater efficacy,” said Sushil Poddar, president of Confederation of West Bengal Traders’ Associations. Shopowners at retail markets of daily essentials said that there were reserved days for sanitisation anyway. “Now, we shall align these days with the sanitization days with lockdown days. It is a good move. People will also be able to take a break. We only request cops not to allow rush in the markets on the days preceding and succeeding the lockdown days,” said Shashanka Das of Barisha Market Association. “This will be a good move to break the chain of transmission as well as make people aware how their recklessness can worsen the situation,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary, Posta Merchants’ Association, who himself fell sick trying to keep the supply chain intact. He has now fully recovered. West Bengal Vendors’ Association president Kamal Dey said, “The mid-week lockdown will enable them to reorganize the trade and maintain better sanitization and social distancing. Lockdown is now necessary, keeping in mind the scale of its transmission.” Some of the market associations will hold emergency meetings on Tuesday to discuss if their 72-hour closure can be aligned with the lockdown days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mkts-look-to-align-sanitization-with-mid-week-closure/articleshow/77074219.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 21, 2020||Surat||Two arrested for firing at BJP councillor||SURAT: Crime branch sleuths arrested two shooters who had allegedly fired at BJP municipal councillor from Magob ward, Bharat Vaghasiya, on July 6. Detection of crime Branch (DCB) arrested Suraj Singh and Sonal alias Ravikant Verma, both natives of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh. They were caught after two persons - Naresh Dhagal and Jitu Nishad - arrested earlier revealed their details. Another accused Vijay Gadhvi is currently under treatment after testing found Covid-19 positive. Police investigation revealed that one Labhu Mer, a resident of London, had sent Rs eight lakh to finance the attack. Later, Dhagal and Gadhvi contacted Nishad to arrange for a shooter. They called the shooter from Mumbai and sent a car to bring them. Police had earlier seized a motorcycle that was used in the attack. Gadhvi had borrowed the motorcycle from his friend. It was also revealed that Dhagal and Gadhvi were interested in a land deal near Jagdish Nagar in Varachha. They wanted to sell the land to Mer and Dhagal, who had some portion of the land in his possession. The land is owned by Vadiwala familiy in city. Meanwhile, Vaghasiya got a deal of one portion of the land done with his known persons which riled the accused. Though the land in possession with Dhagal was not sold, he feared that he may not get any money to vacate the land and Gadhvi, a property broker, feared losing brokerage. The accused then informed Mer about the development. Mer then sent Rs 8 lakh and asked the accused to do whatever they want with Vaghasiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-arrested-for-firing-at-bjp-councillor/articleshow/77074231.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kochi||2 KEAM candidates test +ve in T’puram||Thiruvananthapuram: Two students who attended Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical (KEAM) examination in two different centres in the district tested positive for Covid-19, adding to the concerns of the capital which is struggling amid rising cases. They were moved to first-line treatment centres. It is learnt that one student from Karakulam attended exam at a centre in Karamana while another from Pozhiyur attended exam at the centre at Thycaud. The mother and siblings of the student from Pozhiyur also tested positive. Health team has initiated contact tracing of other students who attended exam in the same hall on Thursday. The student from Karakulam was made to sit in a separate room after it was communicated that the student was under observation. In the other case, there were no symptoms, said health authorities. Conducting KEAM in capital, which was under triple lockdown, had raised concerns. But, authorities conducted the exam riding on the confidence of successful conduct of SSLC exams. Social media was agog with pictures of crowds at some exam centres and authorities were blamed for not ensuring social distance protocol. The new cases among students come at a time when chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had termed the outbreak of the disease in the capital (under triple lockdown) as shame to the entire state. This was said on at the review meeting on July 17. Chief secretary Vishwas Mehta had congratulated the principal secretary, higher education department and entrance commissioner for successful conduct of exam during the review meeting on July 17. District collector Navjot Khosa told at the meeting that there was 50% positivity rate in samples tested from clusters in the district and that there was a need to change the strategy. The district is reeling from the huge surge in cases on a daily basis and FLTCs can hardly cater to the case surge. The district has over 2,000 active cases as on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-keam-candidates-test-ve-in-tpuram/articleshow/77073160.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 21, 2020||Kanpur||Don Vikas Dubey’s financier Jaikant Bajpai arrested||KANPUR: Police arrested slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s financier-cum-manager Jaikant Bajpai alias Jai Bajpai and his aide on Monday after extensive grilling and sent them to jail after producing them in court. Bajpai was arrested by Nazirabad police station cops after being kept in detention for 15 days. Police also seized the licensed pistol and passport of Bajpai. Bajpai is accused of providing gangster Vikas Dubey 25 cartridges of .32 bore revolver and Rs 2 lakh in cash on July 2, prior to the Bikru ambush which left eight cops dead and seven injured. He also tried to help the gangster in escaping. Bajpai, who is said to have close links with politicians and senior police officers, was taken in custody on July 4. SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said, “Jaikant Bajpai alias Jai Bajpai and his aide Prashant Shukla alias Dablu were arrested late Sunday night for conspiring in Bikru ambush in which eight policemen were killed and seven injured by gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides. They had visited Bikru and provided 25 cartridges of .32 bore and Rs 2 lakh cash to Dubey on July 2 and also tried to help him and his aides flee in three high-end vehicles.” “An FIR was registered at Nazirabad police station and Bajpai and his aide Shukla were booked under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (punishment for dacoity), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), of IPC and section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act with section 120 B (criminal conspiracy), IPC,” said police. A separate FIR under Sections 29 and 30 of Arms Act has also been registered against Bajpai for providing 25 cartridges to the gangster. Police had earlier seized his three luxury vehicles, Audi, Fortuner and Verna abandoned by him and his aides at Vijay Nagar in Kakadeo area. “Dubey had asked Bajpai to ferry him and his aides to safety in two luxury cars and an SUV. However, due to extensive checking, they abandoned the vehicles near Vijaynagar crossing on July 4,” said an official. “We seized the vehicles that were without number plates, detained Bajpai within hours and handed him to STF sleuths who took him to Lucknow where he was grilled for 15 days,” he added. Police also found that transactions worth Rs 75 crore took place between Vikas and Bajpai in last one year through six bank accounts. Inspector Bajaria Ram Murti Yadav told TOI, “The file recommending cancellation of license of Bajpai’s revolver and his passport have been sent to district magistrate’s office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/don-dubeys-financierjaikant-bajpai-arrested/articleshow/77074520.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 21, 2020||Vadodara||Biker mows down 50-year-old man in Chhani||VADODARA: The Chhani police arrested a resident of Nandesari for ramming his bike into a 50-year-old man on Monday morning. The victim identified as Jashu Harijan died after suffering grievous injuries. The police said that Surendra Pandey was riding his sports bike at very high speed on Chhani Road. Harijan was crossing the road and had almost reached the divider when Pandey hit him. The biker and pillion rider too suffered minor injuries in the accident. The police have already begun cracking down on bikers driving on top speed on the city roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/biker-mows-down-50-year-old-man-in-chhani/articleshow/77073207.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur, Kanpur hosps to conduct Covid vaccine trial||Gorakhpur/Kanpur: One private hospital in Gorakhpur and another in Kanpur are among the 12 nationwide private health facilities selected for clinical trial of the country’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has developed Covaxin, indigenous Covid-19 vaccine (BBV152 Covid vaccine) in partnership with Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) and is starting its human trials. Rana Hospital and Trauma Centre in Gorakhpur already has experience of conducting trials of vaccines for typhoid and Japanese Encephalitis. The chief administrative officer of Rana Hospital, Venkatesh Chaturvedi said, “We were informed about our selection for clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine in the first week of July. We are waiting for guidelines regarding the number and type of volunteers for clinical trial. However, we have started preparing some volunteers between the age of 18 and 40 years.” “Our hospital was established in 2001 and has already completed trials of Japanese Encephalitis (JE) and Typhoid vaccines. 100 volunteers were used in the trials in the month of December-January,” Chaturvedi said. “The trial will be conducted under physician Dr Ajit Pratap Singh and gynaecologist and obstetrician Dr Sona Ghosh. We arrange volunteers and rest of the work is done under the guidance of the research institute,” he added. Prakhar Hospital in Kanpur is looking at a sample size of 50 people in the first phase and another 150 in the second phase of the human trial. Dr J S Kushwaha, owner of Prakhar Hospital, said, “We are getting a number of calls from healthy people every day who want to volunteer for the clinical trial of Covaxin.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-kanpur-hosps-to-conduct-covid-vaccine-trial/articleshow/77074555.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 21, 2020||Goa||Review move to house Covid-19 patients, urge Mardol locals||PONDA: Tension prevailed outside the Veling-Priol-Kunkoliem (VPK) village panchayat’s office in Mardol after a group of locals gathered to protest the panchayat decision taken on Sunday to house Covid positive patients at its hall until government help arrived. Claiming that this would lead to spread of infection in the surrounding areas, the villagers demanded that the panchayat should review its decision immediately. The locals suggested that the panchayat should keep the patients either at the empty school building behind the panchayat office or at Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Farmagudi. They pointed that the panchayat hall is surrounded by many houses and there were several shops on the ground floor. However, VPK sarpanch Pandurang Gaude refused to review the decision saying the decision had been taken in the interest of villagers. At a special meeting convened on Sunday under the guidance of Dr Madhu Ghodkirekar, the panchayat resolved to provide quarantine facility to Covid patients, arrange ambulances and provide personal protective equipment (PPE) for those assisting them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/review-move-to-house-covid-patients-urge-mardol-locals/articleshow/77075313.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 21, 2020||Kochi||A lesson in isolation from the tribals of Edamalakkudy||Idukki: Even as several members of the tribal communities in the state regularly venture out of their hamlets in search of work, education, and treatment among other needs, they have, by and large, practiced social distancing as a way of life for generations. With the advent of Covid-19, the tribal communities are returning to their time-tested demographic isolation. A classic case is the tribal panchayat of Edamalakkudy in the Munnar Forest Division in Idukki that did not wait for the government to impose a self-isolation to protect its inhabitants from the pandemic. From July 1, the almost 2,200 inhabitants of Edamalakkudy have remained in their settlements. “The decision was unanimous.We make our people aware of the virus and the importance of social distancing,” said Vyas a resident and volunteer of Edamalakkudy’s tribal school. The Edamalakkdudy Vana Samrakshana Samithy plays a vital role. “People will not move out from Edamalakkudy until the situation is under control,” said Ramesh, the Samithy’s secretary. “We will also not allow outsiders to enter,” he added. For the labourers who returned to their homes from Munnar, 14-day strict isolation was ensured. “Only vehicles that enter are those that bring ration and essential goods,” Ramesh said. The community has, however, made sure its kids don’t stop learning. The single-teacher school at Edamalakkudy even offers online classes and students who attend are instructed to wear masks, use sanitizers, and adhere to social distancing. The tribal community’s efforts are complemented by the forest department. “The department has assured its full support. Munnar DFO MVG Kannan had directed to not allow outsiders into the tribal panchayat,” said Munnar range officer Hareendrakumar. “They announced the self-isolation without waiting for direction from the government. There is great self-awareness in the community and its an example for the mainstream society,” said Hareendrakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-lesson-in-isolation-from-the-tribals-of-edamalakkudy/articleshow/77073195.cms||Sandeep Thomas
July 21, 2020||Kanpur||No end to Covid menace, lockdown in 10 city areas||Kanpur: A day after record 179 persons were tested positive for Covid-19, a whopping 201 persons were tested positive for coronavirus in last 24 hours. This was the highest number of Covid-19 cases detected in the city in a single day so far. The district magistrate has announced complete lockdown in 10 areas. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached 2,701. The first confirmed case of Covid-19 was reported in March. Also, seven more persons died due to Covid-19 on Monday. In past four days, including Monday, 30 persons have succumbed to coronavirus. There has not been a single day in July when a Covid related death was not reported in the district. The Covid toll in the city has reached 135. The alarming rise in the Covid cases in past days has brought the health department on its toes. Those who succumbed to coronavirus were residents of Naubasta, Katra Mirzapur, Canal Road, Ashok Nagar, Govind Nagar, Vishnupuri. Meanwhile, 47 coronavirus patients got discharged from hospital on Monday. In all, 1,356 persons have been discharged from Covid hospitals so far. The health department collected 1,143 samples for corona tests on Monday. The result of these tests would be available soon. Looking at a steep rise in Covid -19 cases, district magistrate Dr Brahm Dev Ram Tiwari announced complete lockdown in areas/localities falling under 10 police station limits. The decision in this regard was announced late on Monday night. These police stations include Chakeri, Kalyanpur, Naubasta, Barra, Kidwai Nagar, Govind Nagar, Kakadeo, Kotwali, Nawabganj and Swaroop Nagar. The lockdown came into effect from 10 pm on Monday night and will remain into force till 10 pm Friday. The decision had to be taken since Kanpur has in past few days become state's Corona hotspot. While on Monday, a record 201 fresh Corona cases were recorded. On the previous day, 179 Corona cases were registered. Out of total 1,210 cases, 614 Covid cases have been recorded in just 4 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-end-to-covid-menace-lockdown-in-10-city-areas/articleshow/77074484.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kanpur||Dist judge asks DM to provide internet for virtual court||Kanpur: District judge, Kanpur Nagar Ashok Kumar Singh (III), on Monday asked the district administration to provide a room equipped with internet and other IT facilities for establishing a virtual court. The district judge, in a letter addressed to the district magistrate, stated that Kanpur court had to be closed on June 8 after some advocates were found infected. Later, it was closed again as it had come into the containment zone. It would remain closed till July 24 as it was still in the containment zone. He stated in the letter that following closure of the court, judicial work was pending and even urgent matters were not being heard. Kanpur Bar Association and the Lawyers Association had urged him to set up a virtual court so that urgent matters could be heard and decided. “The room will be used by advocates while judges and other judicial officers would hear only urgent matters from their residence”, the district judge said. He specifically pointed out that the said room should be out of the court premises and the containment zone but as far as possible it should not be very far from the court. Talking to TOI, the district judge said, “The two associations of the advocates have requested to establish a virtual court. Such a court was set up in the court premises but it had to be closed after some advocates were found corona positive and later the court came in the containment zone”. The Allahabad high court’s specific order of June 3 last clearly states that a court would be closed if it comes in a containment zone, he added. As the court has been in the containment zone since last month, it cannot be said whether it would come out of the containment zone after July 24 or not, he said. He said the situation in the city is grim due to the surge in the number of coronavirus infections, therefore, only a concept of an e-court is feasible. “As soon as the district magistrate informs me about availability of a room, I will inform the high court and seek its consent for an e-court”, he said. The virtual court would hear and decide only urgent matters and bail applications, he added. Kapil Deep Sachan, general secretary of Kanpur Bar Association stated that establishment of a virtual court would at least give some relief to advocates and clients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dist-judge-asks-dm-to-provide-internet-for-virtual-court/articleshow/77074543.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Minor sodomised, assault recorded||JAIPUR: An eight-year-old boy was sodomised allegedly by three accused during lockdown. The boy's family registered a case at Chomu police station on Saturday night, though the accused are yet to be arrested. The trio also recorded the assault. Chomu SHO Hemraj Singh said, “The boy’s father registered a case alleging that during lockdown, three accused named in the FIR sodomised his son. The child did not tell his family as the accused had threatened to harm his family if he reported the incident.” According to the complainant, the child was playing with his friends when the accused lured him to an under construction building with the pretext of giving him a kite. “The child was taken to a nearby hostel where the construction had stopped during lockdown where they took turns to sexually assault him and at the same time recorded the crime,” said the official. The family only came to know about the assault when one of their relatives saw the video on social media and showed it to them following which they asked the child. The boy also said the accused sodomised him for two consecutive days. “The accused were known to the child because of which they were easily able to lure him. According to information, while two of the accused are minors, one is an adult though we are still confirming these details,” the SHO added. The accused are currently on the run and cops have started a search for them. They will also question the families of the trio as well as attempt to track down their mobile phones. The child’s medical examination was also done. Cops claimed that looking at the severity of the crime, they will take all the necessary steps to arrest the accused at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-sodomised-assault-recorded/articleshow/77074864.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||Admn reboots strategy to beat Covid as cases increase by 800 in just 3 wks||Bhopal: Covid-19 is spreading rapidly in the state capital despite the district administration’s efforts to contain the disease. Bhopal has reported little over 800 Covid-19 infections in the past week. This is the first time since the pandemic began that the state capital has more 1,000 active cases, double the figure barely three weeks ago. At the current rate of increase, the epidemiological and health system is already showing strains. The ‘containment area’ strategy has been revised. It was 3 km radius during the lockdown. Now, containment is merely the affected person’s house. Two private hospital buildings along Hoshangabad road and Gandhi Nagar are, meanwhile, expected to be taken over by the government for treatment of Covid-19. The infrastructure was inspected recently. In Chunna Bhatti, disinfection and health check-up of a gated colony has not taken place even three days after a person was diagnosed with Covid-19. Similar instances of lack of coordination between government agencies have become more common, admitted a senior health department official. Bhopal has reported over 4,200 Covid-19 cases. Overall, the effectiveness and impact of change in guard remains to be seen. Most of the officers who led from the front during the lockdown have been replaced. The regular administrative measures during the pandemic and resulting spike in cases cannot be overlooked, said a retired administrative officer. “There is no clear plan. Planners and policy makers effectively prioritise for resource allocation and adopt risk mitigation strategies for better preparedness and responses to Covid-19. We need to realise that the pandemic has now set into an epidemic,” he said. He cited the instance of new Bhopal which has seen an unprecedented spike in infections. Areas like Kolar did not have double digit infection rate for almost two months. Some of these zones are infection hotspots. When contacted, district collector Avinash Lavania and CMHO Dr Prabhakar Tiwari did not respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/admn-reboots-strategy-to-beat-covid-as-cases-increase-by-800-in-just-3-wks/articleshow/77074274.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Covid control room working on war-footing to check virus spread||COIMBATORE: There is not a minute when at least one of the four phone lines attached to the 1077 helpline fails to buzz. Four months after it was set up, the staff posted on Covid-19 control room duty have only become busier. While a patient who just landed from Sharjah is calling to know results of his Covid-19 test, a mother and son who tested positive want to know when an ambulance will arrive to pick them up. Another person who was tested wants to know how to quarantine himself till test results arrive. At the Covid-19 1077 control room, the queries go on unabated. The centre gets at least 100 calls a day on an average, sometimes even up to 150. There are seven staff handling calls for 1077. While five of them handle calls related to medical queries, two of them handle queries regarding e-passes. The staff include a doctor, a nurse, a counsellor from Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre, a corporation representative and three health department staff who handle Covid-19 related queries. The staff at the contol room say the number of phone calls they receive has not increased since March, but the nature of queries has changed. “Earlier, people used to call to complain about people who came from other districts but were not quarantining themselves, about people requiring food and shelter among others. Now we get queries of Covid-19 results, people testing positive and requiring ambulances to go to the hospital and people with symptoms who want to know where they can undergo the test,” said the medical officer. While TOI was in the control room on Monday afternoon between 12.15 pm and 1 pm, the medical officer was seen getting telemedicine requests through the e-sanjeevani website. An old woman from a rural part of the district was asking the doctor if skin rashes were a symptom of coronavirus. While the control room is manned in three shifts, there is no designated break or meal hour. “Whatever be the situation or condition the patient is in, we have to sound calm and reassuring, so we can help out as soon as possible,” said a staff member. The staff maintain two registers—one for noting down calls with medical requests, reports of symptoms, requests for ambulances among others, while the other for complaints including containment zones, people flouting quarantine norms within containment zones, most of which the corporation has to handle. “Every call is noted down with the caller’s number and address, so we don’t have to handle missing patient issues,” said a staff member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-control-room-working-on-war-footing-to-check-virus-spread/articleshow/77074245.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Six-year-old pushes grandpa on stretcher after mom’s no to bribe||GORAKHPUR: A video of a small boy helping his mother push stretcher of his grandfather in Deoria district hospital went viral on social media on Monday. The woman said the ward boy was demanding bribe every time for taking her father for dressing. Taking cognizance of the video, district magistrate visited the hospital and the ward boy was removed. In the eight-second video, a woman is seen dragging the stretcher from front and a small boy pushing it from the other end. Chhedi Yadav of Gaura village in Barhaj area of Deoria district was injured in an accident two days ago and was admitted in the surgical ward. Chhedi’s daughter Bindu Yadav told reporters, “The ward boy demanded Rs 30 each time for taking my father for dressing of his wounds. When I finally refused to give him money, he walked away refusing to push the stretcher. So, I dragged the stretcher with the help of my six years old son Shivam.” On Monday, district magistrate Amit Kishore visited the hospital and met Chhedi Yadav and his family. The DM constituted a committee under SDM Sadar and ACMO and asked them to submit a report on the incident at the earliest.  Kishore said, “The viral video is of two days ago. Prima facie, it was found that the ward boy is culprit. He has been removed by the chief medical officer.” Dr R K Srivastav of the hospital requested for installation of CCTV camera and air-conditioner in the hospital. District magistrate Kishore asked Ballia CMO Alok Pandey and CMS Dr Chhotelal to present requirements of the hospital. Watch UP: 4-year-old boy pushes stretcher after hospital ward boy demands money, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/six-year-old-pushes-grandpa-on-stretcher-after-moms-no-to-bribe/articleshow/77074653.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||More than 100 cases recorded for fourth consecutive day||Coimbatore: With logging 140 fresh cases on Monday, the district recorded more than 100 Covid-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day in a row, taking the tally to 2,183. Two more deaths were recorded, taking the toll to 22. With the cases in the district galloping towards the projection of 4,000 cases as on August 1, authorities have begun work to increase the bed strength at Covid care centre at CODISSIA.The two deaths, both patients with chronic kidney disease, include an 80-year-old woman, who got admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on July 16 with severe breathing difficulty. She tested positive on July 17. She died two days later because of pulmonary edema, a condition with too much fluid collection in the lungs and air sacs, making it difficult to breathe.The other death is a 70-year-old man who suffered a stroke and got admitted at CMCH on July 11. He tested positive the next day and was shifted to the ESI Hospital where he died of bronchopneumonia at 3.10pm on Sunday. Five more frontline workers tested positive, including a special police sub-inspector attached to Mettupalayam police station, a constable attached to Singanallur police station and a special branch officer attached to Thondamuthur police station. Two staff members from a primary health centre in Somanur also tested positive. The three police stations and the primary health centres were closed for fumigation.The 140 cases also included a 32-year-old man from income tax quarters on Race Course, a probable contact of the chief commissioner who tested positive two weeks back. Many of the new cases were from the old parts of the district, including six people from Rangai Gowder Street, three patients each from Telugu Street, Big Bazaar Street and Telugu Street, two patients each from Mahavirjain Colony on Raja Street, Poomarket and Vysial Street.A family of three from Rathinapuri including a four-year-old child, a family of three from Orchid Grandeur apartment in Saibaba Colony, one person each from Seeranaickenpalayam and NGGO Colony also tested positive.The rural cases included five people from Malumichampatty, three from Pyarelal Agro company, two from Pallathur, six from Ranga Nagar in Periyanaickenpalayam, three from Kovilpalayam, four from Annur, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-than-100-cases-recorded-for-fourth-consecutive-day/articleshow/77074251.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to check hoarding of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab||CHANDIGARH: Fearing possibility of hoarding and black marketing of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab — drugs approved for treatment of Covid-19 patients — the Punjab food and drug administration has taken steps for monitoring the sale of these two medicines. The Union health ministry earlier this month accorded approval for emergency use of these two medicines for treating Covid-19 patients. Remdesivir is being used only as an investigational therapy and the Drug Control General India (DCGI) have accorded permission for its manufacturing for restricted emergency use. The drug is to be supplied for use to the hospitals or institutions only and to be administered on the prescription of a doctor. Two firms have been accorded approval for production of the medicine for domestic use. In a communication to all the zonal licensing authorities, the Punjab food and drug administration, has directed them to monitor the sale of remdesivir, along with sale of tocilizumab. Expressing apprehension of stakeholders indulging in malpractices, joint drugs commissioner Pardeep Kumar urged the authorities to keep a strict vigil on the situation and take strong action under the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, and the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, against those found indulging in any wrongdoing. The virus is spreading at a great pace in the state infecting 10,100 people and claiming the lives of 254 people. With the increase in the number of people getting infected, there has also been a rise in the number of patients requiring ventilator and oxygen support. According to data from the health department, only three patients required oxygen support, while five were put on ventilators in May. However, during the period from June 1 to July 19, 115 patients required oxygen and 55 needed ventilator support. Kumar said, “Special teams have been formed to keep a check on sale of these medicines. Chemists and distributors have been warned against indulging in any malpractice and strict action will be taken against those found violating the directions.” There have been reports of blackmarketing and hoarding of these medicines in other states, including Telangana and Maharashtra. Last week, Rajya Sabha standing committee on home affairs had also flagged concern over blackmarketing and hoarding of these two medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-check-hoarding-of-remdesivir-tocilizumab/articleshow/77074873.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Youths worked as mob, lost individuality: Court||New Delhi: It is prima facie a “well-hatched conspiracy” and to take revenge on Muslims, some youths failed to perceive the “bottomless stupidity” of a propaganda and, as “saviours of their community”, created a WhatsApp group to work as a mob during the violence in northeast Delhi in February, said a court while taking cognisance of a chargesheet in a murder case. Eleven people have been chargesheeted for allegedly murdering Aamir Khan, whose body was found in a nearby drain in the Gokulpuri area. The alleged murder took place on February 26 and came to the knowledge of police the next day when a body was found in the Bhagirathi Vihar nullah near Pulia. “The group members... lost their individuality and started working with a mob mind,” observed chief metropolitan magistrate Purushottam Pathak. The court also highlighted that the “sacred” slogans raised by the accused had “deadened their minds and paralysed their creative nature”. The court pointed out there were allegations of promoting enmity between groups on religious grounds. “In a case where a group of people conspired, later assembled to take revenge and where the victims have been targeted on the basis of their religious identity, the relevant provisions of law attracting relevant offences should have been mentioned in the chargesheet,” it said, adding that no sanction had been taken from the state or central government in this regard. Khan’s last location was found to be near the nullah. The police said 27 riot-related PCR calls were made from the area. The probe also revealed three men, Mohit Sharma, Shivam Bhardwaj and Dimple Rai, were allegedly trying to snoop on the conversations of the investigating team. The mobile phones of Sharma and Bhardwaj revealed they were members of a WhatsApp group, Kattar Hindu Ekta, which was created on February 25 for allegedly taking revenge on Muslims, police said. The court underlined these men had acted in a planned manner to commit rioting, murder, dacoity and other offences, besides being instrumental for the gathering of an unlawful assembly. “The mob turned into rioters and in process of rioting, they looted the mobile phone and caused death of Aamir by inflicting multiple injuries in a brutal manner,” the judge noted. To erase all evidence, “all of them, in furtherance of their common intention, threw his body in the drain,” he added. “There cannot be any doubt that the accused, who killed Aamir Khan, were certainly up to their neck in the conspiracy and were thus very active members of the unlawful assembly,” the court added. Lokesh Kumar Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary, Prince, Rishabh Chaudhary, Jatin Sharma, Vivek Panchal and Himanshu Thakur have prima facie committed crimes under various IPC sections, including murder, joining unlawful assembly with deadly weapon, rioting and criminal conspiracy. Pawan Kumar and Lalit Kumar were prima facie found to have committed the offence of dishonestly receiving property stolen during dacoity, while Pawan also faces the charge of disappearance of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youths-worked-as-mob-lost-individuality-court/articleshow/77096021.cms||Aamir Khan
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Over 8% rapid antigen tests positive in Punjab: Balbir Singh Sidhu||CHANDIGARH: Over 8% rapid antigen tests have been found positive in Punjab so far. The state government recently started rapid antigen testing in its five worst-hit districts — Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala, Ludhiana and Mohali — and has issued instructions for starting the tests in Kapurthala, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar districts too. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 2,365 rapid antigen tests had been conducted in the five districts, samples in 197 tests came positive and the rest came negative. He added the Punjab government started antigen testing for early detection and management of Covid-19 infection. He said rapid antigen test kits were a rapid chromatographic immunoassay for qualitative detection of specific antigens to SARS-CoV-2. Those who are found to be positive by antigen test are taken as confirmed positive cases, while those who test negative are retested by RT-PCR. Sidhu said nasopharyngeal swabs were collected by trained doctors and paramedics in hospital or community setting. He said apart from testing severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) patients, symptomatic and high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients, and symptomatic individuals found in the house-to-house screening in containment areas, high-risk contacts with comorbidities such as lung, heart, liver or kidney diseases, diabetes, and neurological and blood disorders were also being tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-8-rapid-antigen-tests-ve-in-punjab-sidhu/articleshow/77074878.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Seat worry as students set to stay back in state||Kolkata: The unabated spread of the novel coronavirus has forced many college aspirants to abandon their plans to study in top institutes in other states, in spite of scoring high in their Plus-II boards. While a majority of them are now aiming for the best-possible options in Bengal, principals here are worried about the rush of applications and how to accommodate all, especially when there’s no plan to increase the number of seats. Kinjal Ajmera scored the highest in the commerce stream from her institute—Delhi Public School Ruby Park—with 98.8% in CBSE Plus-II exams. She was keen on studying at Lady Sri Ram College in Delhi but now, she does not want to leave home. She wants to get through St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata, another top college in the country offering BCom. “My parents believe it will be difficult to go to a new city and adjust to life there amid the coronavirus pandemic. These are uncertain times, never witnessed before,” Kinjal said. Principals in Bengal are worried about the likely surge in demand for seats this year, especially when all universities have decided against increasing the number of UG seats and even the state government is not keen on expanding intake. “Even when the regular academic activities resume, colleges and universities will have to abide by strict social distancing norms. In such a condition, how can we think of increasing seats?” said a higher education department official at Bikash Bhavan. But a senior official said all students were “welcome to stay back in Bengal”. “We may consider hiking the number of seats, based on demand, but that’s only after colleges receive applications,” he said. A vice-chancellor said, “The demand for seats will rise manifold, considering limited mobility of students. Due to the marking formulas, scores have soared. As a result, the average students may not even find an opportunity to study their coveted subjects at their preferred colleges, though they may have secured an aggregate in the 80s.” But ironically, institutes are likely to have vacancies in subjects that are less sought after. The VC added that many students might have to settle for “less interesting Honours programmes” since they might have a fixed choice among colleges. Some of the top draw-institutes in Kolkata that usually see a large number of students from outside Bengal and abroad are unsure about applications for 2020-21 session. “We are receiving limited queries from outside the state, unlike other years. The admission season is, however, yet to begin,” said a source in Jadavpur University. Given the rush for seats, many candidates with lower scores might be forced to take up distance education. “I wanted to study at National Law University, but the plan has fallen through. I am likely to take up a law course in a CU college . Even if I manage a seat in a better law school outside Bengal, the classes are likely to be online for a while. I do not want to complicate studies as it is difficult to carry on with a programme with no face-to-face learning,” said a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/seat-worry-as-students-set-to-stay-back-in-state/articleshow/77074276.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 21, 2020||Kanpur||150-year-old Christ Church College goes online for all admission, official work||Kanpur: The city’s oldest degree college, Christ Church College, has embraced digitalization by making available almost all of its processes online. The historical college, which was established in 1866, launched its official website on June 20 this year. Now, admissions, fee collection, student registration and other official work will all be done online. According to college principal Daniel Joseph, the 154-year-old college is set to become the first ‘e-college’ of the city. “The college had stepped up for automation last year but only partially. Admissions were held both in online and offline modes and official work was done manually. Now, everything has been shifted online,” he said. Explaining the e-college concept, Joseph said the emphasis was on least possible paperwork and cashless transactions. The next goal, he said, was e-learning and webinars for students. “The college website www.cccknp.ac.in has complete information about admissions and other important matters so that students need not visit the campus amid the pandemic,” he added. Students can register for admission, fill in forms online for BA, BSc and BCom and PG courses, and upload their documents and certificates. Once the admission process is complete, the college will release the list of selected students in order of merit on the website and the students can submit the fees online. “More than 500 students have already registered for admission on the website,” said Sanjay Srivastava, director of a Lucknow-based IT solutions company which has collaborated with the college for the project. “The website is managed by the college itself for updating content with no dependence on the vendor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/150-year-old-christ-church-college-goes-online-for-all-admission-official-work/articleshow/77074753.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Arrest real culprit: Outfits||Coimbatore: A day after police arrested a man from Salem for setting tyres on fire in front of four temples here, Hindu outfits and Periyarist organisations sparred over the incident on Monday.Police should arrest the real culprit, BJP leader C P Radhakrishnan said. “If police fail to arrest the real culprit, the party will mount pressure on the state government through the Union government,” he said. “We condemn the state government for not allowing police function freely. We don’t believe that a man with learning disabilities damaged the temples. AIADMK has failed to condemn atrocities against Hindus. The state government should take strict action when Islamic terrorists and Tamil Naxals issue threats,” he told reporters at Gandhipuram.Police are yet to nab those who hurled petrol bombs at houses of BJP functionaries, Radhakrishnan said. Hindu Munnani plans to stage a protest at Gandhipuram to demand the arrest of the culprit, sources said.Later, BJP leaders Radhakrishnan, Vanathi Srinivasan, G K S Selvakumar and S R Sekar, and Hindu Munnani functionaries petitioned city police commissioner Sumit Sharan.Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) city president K Somasundaram also petitioned the commissioner, saying that BJP leader H Raja in a tweet blamed TPDK for the incident. Police should register a case against Raja for attempting to instigate violence, he said.Meanwhile, police said they arrested Gajendran, the accused, after going through CCTV footage collected from various places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/arrest-real-culprit-outfits/articleshow/77074268.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Rajkot||No cold, cough medicines without prescription||RAJKOT: Jamnagar district collector, Ravi Shankar, on Monday has asked the medical shops in the district not to give give cold and cough medicines without prescriptions by doctors, in view of the increasing Covid-19 positive cases in the district. “The cases have spiralled because patients don’t see doctors at initial stages. When they suffer from cold and cough, which are the initial symptoms of the disease, instead of going to the doctors, they buy medicines from the medical stores,” said Shankar. “If the patients see the doctors when they suffer from cold and cough, diagnosis at the initial stage can be done and the patients can get treatment at the beginning of Covid-19. At present, most of the Covid-19 patients get admitted to the hospital when they are at the last stage,” explained Shankar. “Hence, I urge all the medical stores and shops to not give medicines of cold and cough to the patients without the proper prescriptions from the doctors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-cold-cough-medicines-without-prescription/articleshow/77073286.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant replaces Hawaldar with Goel as finance secretary||PANAJI: Amidst the reshuffle of portfolios, the state government has relieved IAS officer Daulat Hawaldar of the finance department. Principal secretary Puneet Kumar Goel has been given charge of the department. No reason has been given for the shuffle which has been cleared by chief minister Pramod Sawant. Hawaldar will continue as secretary for the mines and geology department, town and country planning department, and planning and statistics department. The move has come as a surprise to officers given that the change comes at a time when the state is facing a fund crunch. In the changes effected on Monday , Amit Satija ESG CEO has been allotted portfolios of urban development, transport, environment, science and technology, factories and boilers and nodal officer for SBM (U) and PMAY (U). He earlier held the post of commissioner of excise which has been allotted to Shashank Mani Tripathi IAS. Tripathi will continue to hold the post of director, directorate of sports and youth affairs. Urban development, environment and science technology now allotted to Satija were earlier held by principal secretary power Puneet Kumar Goel IAS. Goel will now continue to hold the portfolios of power, finance, non-conventional energy and forest. Transport and factories and boilers were earlier looked after by S K Bhandari IAS. Bhandari has retained the portfolios of social welfare, women and child development and tribal welfare. Chief secretary Parimal Rai IAS has also retained the portfolios of vigilance/chief vigilance, home, personnel, ARD, PWD and civil aviation while P Krishnamurthy IAS will continue as principal secretary to CM and principal resident commissioner, New Delhi. Nila Mohanan IAS will continue to hold the portfolios of health and education in addition to industries, trade and commerce and handicrafts. Secretary elections, Kunal IAS is retained as chief electoral officer. Secretary to governor Rupesh Kumar Thakur IAS will also continue in the post Ashok Kumar IAS has been retained as secretary to chief minister and hold portfolios of sports and youth affairs, tourism. He has been given the PPP division Sanjay Kumar will continue as secretary revenue, NRI affairs, information publicity, information technology. Dr Tariq Thomas IAS will continue to be special secretary (personnel home and vigilance) in addition to administrator sanjeevani sakhar karkhana. Sanjay Gihar IAS, will continue to be in charge of water resources, provedoria, rural development, panchayats, housing and official language. Chokha Ram Garg IAS, Kuldeep Singh Gangar IAS, and Isha khosla IAS will also continue to hold their current portfilios.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-replaces-hawaldar-with-goel-as-finance-secy/articleshow/77074867.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Gurgaon||86% applications for financial help from Haryana govt rejected||ROHTAK: Of the total 5,75,182 applications filed with the Haryana government for seeking monetary help of Rs 1,000 per week during the lockdown in April, 86% have been rejected. At the time of announcing the lockdown, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said in March that those making a living through daily wages — labourers, street vendors and rickshaw pullers — would be provided an assistance of Rs 1,000 per week. The government also announced setting up of Haryana Covid Relief Fund to provide assistance to all those who were economically affected. However, as per Haryana government website, financial assistance had been given to only 77,655 till Juy 20 and others were eliminated during scrutiny process. Faridabad, known as an industrial hub, had 1,00,166 registrations. Of them, only 30,622 applicants were paid. Gurgaon got 11,855 registrations and of them payment had been extended to only 3,109 people. Panipat, another industrial hub, had 35,338 registrations. Of them, 4,978 people were considered fit for payment of relief. In Palwal, 63,775 applications had been submitted, but only 6,698 applicants were considered eligible. In Rohtak, 4,060 of the total 26,631 applicants gt the payment. In Karnal district, the home constituency of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, of the total 34,891 registrations, payment was initiated in only 2,958. In Fatehabad, of the total 20,757 applicants, only 337 were considered for payment. Kurukshetra got 15,696 applications and only 436 were considered for payment. Jai Bhagwan, state general secretary of Center of Trade Unions (CITU), described the government’s initiative “a joke”. “Are there only these number of workers in the unorganised sector in 22 districts of Haryana?” he said. “There are lakhs of people working in the unorganised sector.” He said the scrutiny process enforced in giving the relief amount was not in sync with the ground situation. “We requested CM Khattar in April, during an online interaction, to waive the condition of mandatory bank accounts for workers, but to no avail,” he said. Savita, office bearer of AIDWA, said workers from unorganised sector had been claiming from the start that the entire exercise was a farce and hurdles were being raised from the start by asking them to fill forms online and get them approved by local councillors. “Migrant workers and women, who were badly affected, had no idea how to get it done and where to deposit the forms. Probably, their forms were rejected due to technical or clerical errors,” she added. She said that those who were left out are those who are hand to mouth and running pillar to post for the relief process but considered unfit for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/86-applications-for-financial-help-from-haryana-govt-rejected/articleshow/77074882.cms||Sat Singh
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||Medical students threaten stir over exams||Mumbai: Medical Students’ Welfare Association has threatened an indefinite strike if undergraduate and postgraduate medical exams from next month are not cancelled. The students, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, claimed that exam-going doctors working in public health centres, Covid care centres, and hospitals under zilla parishads will boycott work. The doctors claimed they had warned the government in letters to Maharashtra University of Health Science, government, medical education minister in advance. The university exams are to commence in the first week of August. The letter claimed students, who do not have any medical college in their city, will have to travel to other cities, which will be a big challenge. They raised concerns over contracting Covid when they travel to exam centres to write papers. Despite repeated requests to cancel exams, the university offered to cover Covid treatment with an insurance, called Covid Kavach, of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 3 lakh on death, they said. Representatives of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), however, claimed they will not participate in this strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/medical-students-threaten-stir-over-exams/articleshow/77074318.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for murdering college girl||COIMBATORE: The rural police on Monday arrested a 21-year-old man, who allegedly stabbed a girl to death in front of her house in Perur two days ago. A police team led by inspector Sugavanam nabbed him from Kovaipudur and took him to the Perur police station. Police sources said the victim was a minor. “The 17-year-old girl was a BCom student at a private college in Perur. Though she was in love with the accused, she had ended the relationship in March after her parents discouraged her,” a police officer said. “He turned up at her house on Friday around 8.30pm. When the girl came out with her father, he stabbed her on her chest and abdomen using a knife. He also attacked her father, who tried to save her.” Meanwhile, the Perur police station witnessed some tense moments after the victim’s relatives attacked the relatives of the accused. Cops broke up the fight and pacified them. Police have booked the accused for murdering the minor girl and injuring her father, and also under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-murderingcollege-girl/articleshow/77074275.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Supreme Court fumes at inaction on smog tower in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Slamming the Centre and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for its failure to implement its order on setting up a smog tower, the Supreme Court on Tuesday granted one week’s time to finalise a memorandum of understanding with IIT-Bombay and other organisations for setting up the air purifying device at Anand Vihar. The apex court had on January 13 directed the Centre to immediately start working for setting up a smog tower at Anand Vihar and granted three months time to make it operational. The Centre, however, said that work could not be initiated as there were differences with IIT-Bombay on terms and conditions and MoU could not be signed and the process for construction of tower has so far not taken off. Taking exception to the delay, a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said that it was contemptuous on the part of authority in failing to comply with its order. Additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati told the bench that the draft MoU was prepared by CPCB and was sent to IIT-Bombay along with the financials for the project and various meetings were held with IIT-Bombay to thrash out the issues and objections raised by them. She said that a fund of Rs 18.5 crore was sanctioned for the project but MoU could not be finalised as IIT-Bombay did not agree to take the responsibility of the overall coordination of the project and the verification of the work carried out by Tata ProjectsLimitedIn an affidavit filed in the apex court, the Centre said that its ministry and CPCB showed special consideration and made several concessions in the interest of the project. CPCB had even agreed to sign a tripartite agreement with IIT-Bombay and Tata Projects Ltd . It said that the project could not take off despite its best effort. "It is submitted that since the proposal for installation of smog tower was conceptualised and developed by IIT-Bombay and it has co-ordinated with various agencies including University of Minnesota, Tata Projects Ltd and IIT Delhi, it was technically best suited for IIT-Bombay to take the lead and responsibility for execution and coordination of the project," the affidavit said. Taking the affidavit on record, the court, however, granted seven days time to Centre to sort out differences with IIT-Bombay and sign the MoU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-fumes-at-inaction-on-smog-tower/articleshow/77096063.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bareilly||Residents of 4 flood-affected villages begin indefinite dharna, hunger strike at riverbank to protest against apathy of state govt||Pilibhit: Hundreds of villagers hailing from Rahul Nagar village, Chandia Hajara, Colony Number 6 and Khirkia Bargadia under Puranpur tehsil began an indefinite dharna and hunger strike at the bank of Sharda river in Rahul Nagar on Monday to protest against the apathy of the state government towards the launching of flood protection works. The protest of villagers surfaced under the auspice of Communist Party of India (Marxists, Leninist) after the flooded river Sharda posed a great threat to the existence of the four villages during the present monsoon season and the administration failed to carry out any flood protection works. Slamming the state government for its apathy, the district general secretary of CPI(ML), Devashish Roy said that the flood control division at Pilibhit had submitted a flood control project for Rahul Nagar with an estimated cost of Rs 11 crore in October last year but the BJP-led state government rejected it as it was posing threat to the lives of over 10,000 people. He said that the state also rejected the request of the district magistrate to allocate Rs 2 crore for carrying out emergency flood control work here but this too was not approved by the state government. He told TOI that Sharda was flowing with tremendous discharge at merely 10 meters from the village habitation and the villagers could be drifted away by the flood if any water was released in Sharda from the Banwasa barrage. He alleged that the administration had not made any arrangements for shifting the villagers especially the women and children to safe places. “If we have to die of drowning in floods, it is better to die while struggling for our right to safety,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/residents-of-4-flood-affected-villages-begin-indefinite-dharna-hunger-strike-at-riverbank-to-protest-against-apathy-of-state-govt/articleshow/77072201.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK to protest power tariff in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Members of DMK are planning to stage a protest at Peelamedu in the city on Tuesday, condemning discrepancies in power tariff. The protest would be presided over by DMK MLA N Karthik. “In the name of providing sufficient time to pay bimonthly electricity bill for February and March, the state government has added additional burden on the public by summing up the number of units consumed in the last four months,” Karthik said. Explaining that the electricity board charges Rs 3.5 for every unit consumed between 101 and 200, Rs 4.6 for every unit consumed between 201 and 500, Rs 6.6 for units consumed between 500 and 620 and so on, he said, by totalling the consumed units for four months, the EB had put each one of us in higher slabs, thereby leading to the bill amount shooting up manifold. A person who was paying Rs 2000 as electricity bill earlier, is now paying close to Rs 10,000, he added. “We demand the state government to withdraw the way they calculate the tariff and provide subsidy for the consumers. We also request them to allow consumers to pay the bill amount in multiple instalments as some of them have lost their jobs in the pandemic and are struggling to manage their day-to-day expenses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-to-protest-power-tariff/articleshow/77074282.cms||---
July 21, 2020||India||Congress MLA’s meeting with MP minister creates flutter||BHOPAL: There was worry in the Madhya Pradesh Congress on Monday — within a week of two more MLAs breaking ranks to join BJP — as news spread that six-time legislator and former minister KP Singh, also known as Kakkaju, had gone to meet state home minister Narottam Mishra. On Sunday evening former chief minister Kamal Nath had called a meeting of the 89 Congress MLAs who remain with the party, after an exodus of 24, and cautioned them against BJP’s “allurement techniques”. Less than 12 hours later, KP Singh was seen going into a closed-door meeting with Narottam Mishra. Speaking to TOI, Singh admitted the meeting but said he wasn’t going to quit Congress. “Is it a crime to meet a BJP minister? I am not one of those who will leave Congress. The Congress government may have been toppled, but I am still an MLA and have responsibilities towards the people of my constituency,” the MLA from Pichhore told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mlas-meeting-with-mp-minister-creates-flutter/articleshow/77075766.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 21, 2020||Rajkot||Two villages declare week-long lockdown||RAJKOT: Two villages — Theba and Dhuleshia — in Jamnagar district declared a week long lockdown, after reporting four Covid-19 positive cases.In Theba, three persons had tested positive after coming from Surat. “They were admitted to GG Hospital in Jamnagar from where they were discharged after recovering from the disease on Sunday. Many virus infected persons from our village have been home quarantined after coming into contact with these Covid-19 positive patients. Hence, as a precautionary measure, we have declared a week long lockdown in our village,” said Indu Sanghani, sarpanch of Theba gram panchayat. Theba village is on the outskirts of Jamnagar. It connects several other villages as the local branch of State Bank of India is located in this village. There are 100-odd shops also in this village. Theba has the population of around 6,000 people. “All shops except for grocery, vegetables and medicines will be closed. Those going to Jamnagar will be allowed to go with the condition of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” said Sanghani. Meanwhile in Dhuleshia too, the gram panchayat declared a week long lockdown after a doctor tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. “The shops selling essential commodities like grocery and vegetables will be allowed to remain open from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm. We have also allowed paan-cigarette selling shops to remain open with the condition that a customer will leave the shop as soon as he buys the product. Tea stall, snack shops and hair cutting salons will also remain closed,” said Ramji Rathod, sarpanch of Dhuleshia. “It seems that coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in rural parts of Jamnagar district as well. Hence, we have decided to impose the lockdown,” added Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-villages-declare-week-long-lockdown/articleshow/77073335.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||State Covid tally crosses 23k mark as 710 test +ve in a day||Bhopal: As many as 710 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in 48 districts of Madhya Pradesh, here on Monday. Four districts did not report any Covid-19 infection. Since the pandemic began, MP has reported, 23,310 cases, with 738 deaths. In the backdrop of nearly 500 people testing positive on a daily basis in MP in July, state government announced that cities with high infection rate would not be placed under lockdown for two days in a week. Curfew will be from 8 am to 5 am. Offices and establishments will be operated in 30% to 50% staff strength, said Chief Minister Chouhan who reviewed the situation and arrangements related to Covid-19.17 deaths were reported from across the state on Monday. Of them, four deaths were reported from Bhopal, three from Indore and two from Morena while one patient each died in Gwalior, Jabalpur, Sagar, Tikamgarh, Rajgarh, Vidisha, Sehore and Agar Malwa, officials said.A total of 373 people were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 15,684 in the state. At 142, Bhopal reported the highest number of cases, followed by 120 in Indore and 68 in Gwalior. The number of cases in Indore rose by 120 to 6,115. Death toll in the district now stands at 295, a Health department bulletin said.Bhopal has so far reported 4,363 cases with 138 fatalities, it said. The case count in Gwalior has reached 1,706. All 52 districts have active cases as on Monday, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, Congress leader and former minister were airlifted to Medanta from Jabalpur after severe infection of pneumonia. CMHO (Jabalpur) Ratnesh Kuria said, “He developed severe infection of pneumonia. He has been hospitalised. He was airlifted. All the four tests of for coronavirus have been turned out to be negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-covid-tally-crosses-23k-mark-as-710-test-ve-in-a-day/articleshow/77074299.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||BU opens startup incubation centre||Coimbatore: Soon, the Bharathiar University will incubate startups from across the state.The Bharathiar School of Management and Entrepreneur Development (BSMED) inaugurated an incubation centre established under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (Rusa) on Saturday.The centre aims to nurture young startups from all districts and help to reduce failure rate, a release said. Initially, five startups in IT-enabled services, online education, aerospace, augmented reality and virtual reality will be incubated. Four of them are from Coimbatore and one from Chennai.Of the 15 crore earmarked for entrepreneurship and career hub under Rusa, Rs 2.5 crore will be used to fund startups, said BSMED director Rupa Gunaseelan. “The fund will help us incubate startups for two years. We have also applied for setting up an Atal Incubation and Innovation Centre, using the funds of which we plan to continue incubating startups. The startups can use the resources in BU laboratories,” she said.BU vice-chancellor P Kaliraj inaugurated the centre in the presence of registrar in-charge K Murugan. The VC also signed MoUs with the startups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bu-opens-startup-incubation-centre/articleshow/77074291.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Is Sunday lockdown the best method to check free run of virus? Opinion divided||BHOPAL: Administration and doctors, too, admit that Sunday lockdown is no remedy to the spiralling cases of coronavirus and that it is more of a reminder to people to remain cautious and stick to the Covid-19 protocol. Though complete lockdown has been eased, the deadly virus is still lurking around and multiplying further. But is that message going across to people? If not, where is the comunication gap and why? TOI talked to a group of people on the issue. “There are people, who are overcautious and then, you have people, much more in number, who simply don't care. I have my office at GTB complex. Yesterday, there was lockdown and there was nobody in the complex. But, a day later, you can see at that tea stall under the tree, there are at least 50 people, mostly youngsters, who have assembled to have tea, gutkha and cigerrette before they proceed to office and this is their routine. It happens every morning. When one of the employees from my office objected, citing the coronavirus threat and said he would call the police, the man he was talking to, said they will deal with the police. Are they getting any message? I doubt,” said Peeyush Sharma, an entrepreneur. Health activist, Amulya Nidhi, however, had a different take on the issue: “Lockdown is no solution. The state government or the local administration in places like Indore or Bhopal have failed in their strategy to contain the pandemic because of lack of community participation. Community is the biggest stakeholder in a pandemic-like situation and without involving them, no strategy can succeed.” He further said: “How was the coronavirus infection contained in Mumbai’s Dharavi? By involving people. They recruited volunteers from the colony itself to monitor the people’s conduct and ensure that it conforms to coronavirus protocol. Police have mohalla committees all across the city. Why are they not activated? Why are civil society, NGOs, peoples' representatives, religious leaders, groups from different sections involved in reaching out to people not roped in? Only the collector and his team can't do it. And, how the message will get across to people when ministers are not wearing masks and not following social distancing norms?” Psychiatrist, Dr Satyakant Trivedi, however, appreciated attempts of the govermment and the administration to reach out to people and inform them on dos and don'ts in this situation.”What do they do if people are not using their wisdom? If they were wise, lockdown would not have been required at all. But, there is a problem with our mindset. If they continue to be "irrespobsible", there will be lockdown of more days, Janata Curfew will be imposed. I only hope people realise it is all being done for them and cooperate with the administration,” he said. Vinod Shrivastava, a chemist, finds a fundamental flaw with the concept of lockdown on weekends. “I sincerely believe that it is counter-productive. By the side of my shop in Kolar, there is a supermarket. For the past two weeks, ever since Sunday lockdown was announced, I see traffic swelling on roads since the evening. You can see crowd gathering at the supermarket. They follow social distancing norm otherwises but in a crowd of 100 people, it becomes difficult,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/is-sunday-lockdown-the-best-method-to-check-free-run-of-virus-opinion-divided/articleshow/77074286.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||2% Rajasthan Housing Board flats to be reserved for transgenders||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to reserve 2% houses for transgenders in all the housing schemes to be launched by Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB), development authorities and urban improvement trusts (UITs). The notification was released by the Urban Development and Housing (UDH ) department on Monday, to reserve houses for transgenders whose income is less than Rs 12 lakh per annum. The UDH department has also amended the Urban Land Disposal Rules, 1974 to make provision for 2% reservation for transgenders in housing schemes that will be launched on government land. An official at UDH told TOI, “The department received a proposal in 2017 from the transgender community. After amending the rules, the provision of reservation was made for them. Earlier, reservation was also made in housing schemes for the differently abled.” Other than this, the department has also complied the allotments done at concessional rates in the last six-month tenure of the BJP government. Sources at the department said, across the state there were 56 land allotments made on concessional rates. Earlier, directions were issued to the development authorities, urban improvement trusts (UITs) and Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) by the minister to prepare a list mentioning the size of the land and date on which these plots were allotted. As allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo a particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government will carry out a scrutiny of such land deals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/2-rhb-flats-to-be-reserved-for-transgenders/articleshow/77079780.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||70 Punjab jail inmates infected||Chandigarh: As many as 70 prisoners have test positive for Covid-19 in jails of Punjab, but the state jails department said none of them contracted the virus behind bars and their contacts were traced to new prisoners. Random testing of prisoners began in jails on July 19. In all, 5,479 prisoners have been tested and reports of 4,287 of them have been negative. Remaining reports are awaited. The jails department has now chalked out a three-pronged strategy — prevention, screening and identification, and treatment and mitigation — to combat Covid-19. A state-level monitoring team and district-level monitoring teams have been constituted to keep a watch on day-to-day functioning of prisons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/70-punjab-jail-inmates-infected/articleshow/77074884.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||2% Rajasthan Housing Board flats to be reserved for transgenders||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to reserve 2% houses for transgenders in all the housing schemes to be launched by Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB), development authorities and urban improvement trusts (UITs). The notification was released by the Urban Development and Housing (UDH ) department on Monday, to reserve houses for transgenders whose income is less than Rs 12 lakh per annum. The UDH department has also amended the Urban Land Disposal Rules, 1974 to make provision for 2% reservation for transgenders in housing schemes that will be launched on government land. An official at UDH told TOI, “The department received a proposal in 2017 from the transgender community. After amending the rules, the provision of reservation was made for them. Earlier, reservation was also made in housing schemes for the differently abled.” Other than this, the department has also complied the allotments done at concessional rates in the last six-month tenure of the BJP government. Sources at the department said, across the state there were 56 land allotments made on concessional rates. Earlier, directions were issued to the development authorities, urban improvement trusts (UITs) and Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) by the minister to prepare a list mentioning the size of the land and date on which these plots were allotted. As allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo a particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government will carry out a scrutiny of such land deals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-rhb-flats-to-be-reserved-for-transgenders/articleshow/77074885.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Sisodia meets govt teachers to learn from their experience||New Delhi: Twenty subject teachers from some Delhi government schools with high enrolments interacted with education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday to discuss the strategies adopted to achieve 100% results in Class XII board examinations. “Whenever future generations will look back to this historic score of 98% delivered by the Delhi government schools, your names will definitely come up. Today we have called you to learn from your experiences, the key strategies adopted by you to get good results at boards, so that the community of teachers can learn from each other,” Sisodia told the teachers. Teachers also shared how entrepreneurship classes helped solidify the teacher-student connect and mindfulness activities improved concentration. Poonam Arora, English teacher at SKV Timarpur, said, “Earlier, students lacked interest in English, which is a foreign language, and were stressed about it. Mindfulness has helped a lot in easing stress and helping them concentrate better.” Rajkumari, economics teacher at SKV No.1, Narela, said, “Earlier, students used to think that teachers would focus only on smart, outspoken kids. Our interaction with those students who were hesitant or spoke less also increased significantly because of these classes. Now they come up to me without hesitation and share their doubts. It reflects in the results of other subjects too.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-meets-govt-teachers-to-learn-from-their-experience/articleshow/77096056.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Varanasi||Integrated Covid command & control centre set up to check rising cases||Varanasi: As Covid-19 menace reaches an alarming stage in Varanasi, an integrated Covid Command and Control Centre has been established at Smart City Limited’s Kashi integrated Command and Control Centre (KICCC) to combat the epidemic on Monday. The district has been witnessing addition of 100 new Covid-19 positive cases on every alternate day for past 10 days despite precautionary measures like curtailing the market timings, checking drives against those avoiding masks and moving on roads purposelessly. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal has assigned separate tasks to 11 additional CMOs for tackling Covid related challenges. On Monday morning, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma took major decisions as per which an integrated Covid-19 control and command centre was established with KICCC by appointing ADM (finance and revenue) Sanjay Kumar as its nodal officer while deputy collector Vinay Kumar Singh and deputy CMO Dr Suresh Singh were asked to assist him. From KICCC’s command centre at Shahid Park in Sigra area, this team will work round-the-clock for proper coordination with the officials of administration, health department, urban development, panchayati raj, police and other departments. THe team will monitor the surveillance teams engaged in collection of samples and will also give detailed report to the state government. Its other tasks include finalising strategy for testing, its execution, contact tracing, immediate hospitalisation of positive cases, keeping watch on the arrangements at Covid hospitals and taking feedback from patients, arrangement of ambulances, special sanitisation drives on weekend, real time monitoring of admissions and discharge of patients for feeding of portal concerned. Sharma made it clear that in case of laxity at any level stern action will be taken against the responsible person. The DM convened another meeting in which action plan for 15 mobile ward clinics were reviewed. During this meeting he asked the officials to ensure that there is no delay in hospitalising positive cases and to complete the process of contact tracing within two days. The in-charges of primary health centres were asked to ensure minimum 35 samplings for RTPCR and antigen tests each day and plan for sampling and hospitalisation at their own level. Checking people with pulse oximetre and blood pressure equipment during door-to-door visit by the health department teams and carrying antibiotic and other necessary medicine including Ayurvedic stimulators and homeopathic medicines in sufficient quantity in their vehicles has been made mandatory. DM also asked the officials to provide medicines as needed at doorstep after checking them and ensure immediate hospitalisation in case of reduced level of oxygen. Directives for special watch on over 30,000 cardiac, diabetic and blood pressure patients were also issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/integrated-covid-command-control-centre-set-up-to-check-rising-cases/articleshow/77074591.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Liquidator asks for deposit details from Mapusa Urban account holders||Panaji: In indications that the liquidation process of Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank of Goa is moving forward, the official liquidator of the bank has asked account holders to submit details of their funds within two months. Finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar, who is the official liquidator, has also asked those who had deposit lockers with the bank to approach the respective branches and take back their possessions by August 15. The form to claim the deposits from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) has been uploaded on the multi-state cooperative bank’s website and is also available at the branches. “Depositors need to download and fill up the form fully and submit along with copies of KYC documents to their respective branch. All original documents (passbook, deposit slips, PAN card) are required for verification,” Hawaldar stated in a public notice. On April 16, the Reserve Bank of India ordered the cancellation of the banking licence granted to MUCB and ordered the bank to stop all banking activity. On April 24, the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies appointed Hawaldar as the official liquidator for a period of one year. DICGC, a subsidiary of RBI, appointed chartered accountant firm Rahul Mahambre & Associates on June 8 to verify MUCB records and claims list as part of the liquidation process. Subsequently, on June 10, Hawaldar appointed chartered accountant Gautam Sardesai as the statutory auditor to evaluate the distressed bank’s assets and liabilities as part of the liquidation process. Account holders and depositors need to submit the depositors claim form within two months at the nearest branch of the bank. “The claims will be investigated and decided on the basis of accounts books of the bank and as per DICGC’s general terms and conditions,” Hawaldar said. Since February 4, every account holder’s deposits have been insured up to Rs 5 lakh by the DICGC. MUCB general manager Shailendra Sawant has been appointed as the designated officer to provide further clarifications to depositors and account holders. The claims are being accepted at the branches at Mapusa, Tivim, Siolim, Sakhali, Calangute, Velguem, Aldona, Anjuna, Panaji, Vasco, Margao, Diwar, Usgao-Tisk, Curchorem, Mandrem, Taleigao, Quepem, Ponda, Cansaulim, Benaulim, Sanguem, Santa Cruz, Penha De Franca and Reis Magos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/liquidator-asks-for-deposit-details-from-mapusa-urban-account-holders/articleshow/77074875.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Goldsmiths hit by lockdown seek permission to reopen workshops||Coimbatore: Small-scale jewellery making goldsmiths on Big Bazaar Street on Monday staged a road-roko demanding permission to open the smithies, which have been closed for 10 days.S Anandan, who owns a smithy on Big Bazaar Street, said they were asked to shut shops on July 10. “We run micro and small gold smithies, where a maximum of four to six people work. We sustain on small jewellery orders and on an average, earn Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 a day. Before shutting down, we had received orders, which we have completed halfway. Now, clients want us to deliver the orders or return their gold. We are unable to open our smithies to complete the work. Returning half-done work will cause loss,” he said.Meanwhile, some goldsmiths said they were ready to wait till the district administration and the corporation allow them to open shops. President of the Coimbatore Goldsmiths’ Association S M Kamal Hasan said officials asked them to close the smithies considering the pandemic situation and they expect to open once the situation is under control. “Right now, health and safety are more important. Officials are conducting medical camps in areas that have more gold smithies. If the results are negative, they would allow us to open for business,” he said.There are 25,000 micro and small gold smithies in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/goldsmiths-hit-by-lockdown-seek-permission-to-reopen-workshops/articleshow/77074293.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||2% Rajasthan Housing Board flats to be reserved for transgenders||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to reserve 2% houses for transgenders in all the housing schemes to be launched by Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB), development authorities and urban improvement trusts (UITs). The notification was released by the Urban Development and Housing (UDH ) department on Monday, to reserve houses for transgenders whose income is less than Rs 12 lakh per annum. The UDH department has also amended the Urban Land Disposal Rules, 1974 to make provision for 2% reservation for transgenders in housing schemes that will be launched on government land. An official at UDH told TOI, “The department received a proposal in 2017 from the transgender community. After amending the rules, the provision of reservation was made for them. Earlier, reservation was also made in housing schemes for the differently abled.” Other than this, the department has also complied the allotments done at concessional rates in the last six-month tenure of the BJP government. Sources at the department said, across the state there were 56 land allotments made on concessional rates. Earlier, directions were issued to the development authorities, urban improvement trusts (UITs) and Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) by the minister to prepare a list mentioning the size of the land and date on which these plots were allotted. As allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo a particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government will carry out a scrutiny of such land deals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/2-rhb-flats-to-be-reserved-for-transgenders/articleshow/77079777.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||2% Rajasthan Housing Board flats to be reserved for transgenders||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to reserve 2% houses for transgenders in all the housing schemes to be launched by Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB), development authorities and urban improvement trusts (UITs). The notification was released by the Urban Development and Housing (UDH ) department on Monday, to reserve houses for transgenders whose income is less than Rs 12 lakh per annum. The UDH department has also amended the Urban Land Disposal Rules, 1974 to make provision for 2% reservation for transgenders in housing schemes that will be launched on government land. An official at UDH told TOI, “The department received a proposal in 2017 from the transgender community. After amending the rules, the provision of reservation was made for them. Earlier, reservation was also made in housing schemes for the differently abled.” Other than this, the department has also complied the allotments done at concessional rates in the last six-month tenure of the BJP government. Sources at the department said, across the state there were 56 land allotments made on concessional rates. Earlier, directions were issued to the development authorities, urban improvement trusts (UITs) and Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) by the minister to prepare a list mentioning the size of the land and date on which these plots were allotted. As allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo a particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government will carry out a scrutiny of such land deals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/2-rhb-flats-to-be-reserved-for-transgenders/articleshow/77079778.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||MHRD seeks parents’ views on school reopening||KOLKATA: The MHRD has written to the state school education department, seeking feedback from parents of different categories of schools about what they think should be the re-opening date. The letter is reportedly yet to reach the state school education department. The HRD ministry’s letter, dated July 17 and addressed to the school education secretary, said this was part of a nationwide data the ministry was collecting before deciding on reopening of schools as views of parents, as stakeholders, were important. “On Monday, we did not receive any such letter. As and when the questions arrive, we will take it up with the appropriate authority and send a response, if required, ” said a senior education department official. But he asked, “Why should the state government respond to such queries and come up with a plan first? The question of reopening schools is a much larger debate and concerns several stakeholders. The Centre should have rather informed us about their plans, pointing at a tentative month when they are expecting to resume academic activities and then sought our opinion.” TimesViewStudents and their parents are important stakeholders and getting their feedback is good. The decision to resume normal classes, however, must be taken on the basis of health experts’ opinion. A single misstep may have serious consequences.The school education department has been asked by the MHRD to find out from parents whether they were comfortable with schools re-opening in August, September or October and what were their expectations. After all states and UTs submit parents’ views, MHRD will deliberate and arrive at a date as well as the modalities that schools will have to follow in the new-normal. The rules will have to be finally approved by the health and home ministries. The state will have to seek replies from parents of students at state-run, aided and private schools. Views of parents’ associations will also be collected. “When the letter arrives, parents will also be asked about their suggestions on social distancing and sanitization at schools. Transportation of kids, maintaining social distance will be a related issue,” the official said. He added the state was not in a position to tell private schools to respond, as most were affiliated to other boards. Earlier MHRD had indicated schools might reopen in mid-August and had hinted at how they should get ready . CNI-run schools had held a meeting with their heads who had told Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of Kolkata diocese of CNI, there might be classes over weekend. West Bengal Association of Christian Schools secretary Moloy D’Costa said schools had been told to sanitize campuses. Most schools said they were ready with changes. “When the directions come, we are ready to adapt,” said Mukta Nain, director of Birla High School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mhrd-seeks-parents-views-on-school-reopening/articleshow/77074292.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 21, 2020||Delhi||HC gives petitioners last chance to submit documents on riots||New Delhi: Delhi high court on Tuesday gave a last opportunity to the parties seeking its intervention in the riot-related cases to finish supply of documents. A division bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, while allowing an adjournment in the matter, expressed displeasure with the parties saying they must file and supply affidavits on or before the end of this week. “This matter should start someday,” the bench remarked, posting the plea for July 27. Delhi Police had already filed its common affidavit on the petitions, where it said, “Speeches of politicians, including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Anurag Thakur, Kapil Mishra, Pravesh Verma, Waris Pathan, and others, are being examined. Necessary action will be taken in due course of time if it is found that their speeches had any nexus with the riots.” It has also said that petitions raising questions on the investigation were nothing but a blatant and a brazen misuse of the PIL and accused the organisations petitioning the court of not coming with clean hands. “They have selectively chosen certain speeches and incidents to further their hidden agenda,” police submitted. On Tuesday, one of the petitioner organisations, Jamiat Ulama, told the court that it would also like to place on record the findings of Delhi Minorities Commission on the riots, which ravaged the northeast part of the city earlier this year. However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the authorities would like to file a reply if the plea was allowed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-gives-petitioners-last-chance-to-submit-documents-on-riots/articleshow/77096070.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Researcher finds new species of rare ant, names it after his college professor||Panaji: A new species of ant, just about 2.5mm long, has been discovered in Goa’s Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary and has been named Vaibhav’s Protanilla, after professor Vaibhav Chindarkar, head of the zoology department at the Government College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Sakhali. Vaibhav’s Protanilla now finds its place among a rare group of ants called Protanilla, of which only 12 species were previously known. College alumnus and researcher Pronoy Baidya, during whose state-wide survey of ants the amber-coloured species was discovered, said the find was a tribute to Chindankar for having inspired the rise of several well-known wildlifers from Goa. “This group of ants dwells exclusively underground and is seldom seen above it. Together with other subterranean ants, it forms a very important part of the ecosystem and provides several important services like maintaining the fertility of soil and pest control,” said Baidya, who is presently a research scholar at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. He explained that ‘vaibhav’ means eminence in Sanskrit – like the glow of a flame in the dark. “Incidentally, this species is also yellowish-orange in colour and is hence named ‘flamma’ in Latin, with its full scientific name being ‘Protanilla flamma’,” Baidya said. This species is completely blind and relies only on chemical signals and touch response for navigation in its dark, subterranean world. The ants are presumed to live in small-sized colonies and are exclusive predators of other smaller insects. Baidya said that while the species is currently found only in the Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary, he hopes it can be spotted at other suitable habitats, specially the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/researcher-finds-new-species-of-rare-ant-names-it-after-his-college-professor/articleshow/77074881.cms||Nida Sayed
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Rs 9.15-crore fine on hotels, petrol pumps for electricity theft in Ajmer||AJMER: An inspection team of Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (AVVNL) has found hotels, dhabas, mobile towers and even petrol pumps running on stolen electricity in 11 districts. In several raids in last one week, the team registered dozens of cases of power theft and imposed a penalty of Rs 9.15 crore. In the last two months, AVVNL has collected penalty of Rs 53.98 crore. Officials said Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited was getting regular tip-offs that hotels, dhabas, mobile towers and petrol pumps in different districts were running on stolen electricity. Different teams raided 4,043 places in 11 districts in which 976 engineers were included. In Nagaur, 479 cases were detected and a penalty of Rs 98.51 lakh was imposed. In Ajmer city, 124 cases were detected while in Ajmer district, 89 cases were found. In Bhilwara, 281 cases of electricity theft were found. Similarly, 339 cases were found in Chittorgarh, 321 in Sikar, 337 in Udaipur, 83 in Rajsamand, 148 in Banswara, 116 in Dungarpur, 99 in Pratapgarh and 379 cases were found in Jhunjhunu. The Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited officials said that the campaign has been started to control the loss of electricity and to collect revenue for the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rs-9-15-crore-fine-on-hotels-petrol-pumps-for-electricity-theft/articleshow/77079641.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rs 9.15-crore fine on hotels, petrol pumps for electricity theft in Ajmer||AJMER: An inspection team of Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (AVVNL) has found hotels, dhabas, mobile towers and even petrol pumps running on stolen electricity in 11 districts. In several raids in last one week, the team registered dozens of cases of power theft and imposed a penalty of Rs 9.15 crore. In the last two months, AVVNL has collected penalty of Rs 53.98 crore. Officials said Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited was getting regular tip-offs that hotels, dhabas, mobile towers and petrol pumps in different districts were running on stolen electricity. Different teams raided 4,043 places in 11 districts in which 976 engineers were included. In Nagaur, 479 cases were detected and a penalty of Rs 98.51 lakh was imposed. In Ajmer city, 124 cases were detected while in Ajmer district, 89 cases were found. In Bhilwara, 281 cases of electricity theft were found. Similarly, 339 cases were found in Chittorgarh, 321 in Sikar, 337 in Udaipur, 83 in Rajsamand, 148 in Banswara, 116 in Dungarpur, 99 in Pratapgarh and 379 cases were found in Jhunjhunu. The Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited officials said that the campaign has been started to control the loss of electricity and to collect revenue for the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-9-15-crore-fine-on-hotels-petrol-pumps-for-electricity-theft/articleshow/77074908.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Ajmer man cooks up false story of Rs 55 lakh loot, held||AJMER: A manager, working for two brothers in Ajmer, was arrested on Monday for concocting a story of loot to avoid paying back the money. The accused, Kailash Gupta (37), had lodged a complaint on July 15 at Ramganj police station that he had been robbed of Rs 55 lakh by two bike-borne persons. On Monday it was revealed that Gupta’s story did not hold true. In fact he had lost Rs 55 lakh in betting. Gupta was arrested for registering fake complaint with the police. Police, after receiving complaint of loot, had scanned the area where the alleged crime took place. They, however, could not find any clues. On interrogation, Gupta confessed that he had made up the story. Gupta told the police that he had got the idea after reading similar news in newspapers. Gupta, who works as manager for Sunil and Anil Arora, also worked as recovery agent for the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-man-cooks-up-false-story-of-rs-55l-loot-held/articleshow/77079890.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Rajkot||Enriching kids’ knowledge in an innovative way at this Rajkot school||RAJKOT: Instead of sitting idle at home during the lockdown, Kamlesh Dalsania (45), a primary school teacher with Timbadi village primary school in Morbi taluka, hit upon a brilliant idea of painting pictures that would enrich the knowledge of the school children. There was a painting work pending at the school when the lockdown was imposed. During the lockdown 2-3 and unlock-1, Dalsania got the walls of his school painted with 800 pictures. “There are pictures of legendary historical figures like Mahatma Gandhi, Shahid Bhagat Singh, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and Maharana Pratap with their biographical sketch in text. The idea is that whenever the school children look at these pictures, the pictures and their texts will percolate in their minds,” says Dalsania. The pictures and the texts are taken from the syllabus from standard I to standard VIII eighth. Earlier in 2008-09, there was a project at Timbadi village primary school in which the government had painted pictures portraying different government schemes. Inspired by this, Dalsania thought that if he drew the educational paintings, he would be able to contribute to the knowledge enhancement of his students. For two and a half months, Dalsania would daily go to the school for the painting work from his home near Navlakhi railway crossing in Morbi city. “More than 50% of pictures have been drawn and painted by me. For the pictures which were complicated to draw, I had sought the help of professional artists, for which I paid them,” he describes. Dalsania carried out painting work in seven rooms of the school, lobbies, staircase and compound wall. “Earlier, I estimated that the work would cost me Rs 4-5 lakh. However, as I decided to draw half of the paintings on my own, the work cost me half the price,” he says. Dalsania comes from the family of teachers. There are eight teachers in his family. Timbadi village woman sarpanch Tejal Panchiya appreciated the initiative taken by Dalsania. “It's a noble work done by Dalsania. The village panchayat has decided to contribute to the work by compensating Dalsania with the amount he has spent so far from his own pocket. For this, we will mobilize funds from public.” Timbadi village has a population of 1,529, and 235 are the students who study at this school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/enriching-kids-knowledge-in-an-innovative-way/articleshow/77073379.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||HC: Students’ names can’t be struck off rolls over fee||Chandigarh: In a bit of relief for parents of students contesting the charging of school fees by private unaided schools, the Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice on the appeals filed by Punjab and directed that in the interim no student would be struck off the rolls of the school. The relief would be applicable to all those students who are unable to pay school fees and who had filed an application before the school and the state regulator under the 2016 Act showing financial difficulty. These applications are to be decided expeditiously by the authorities. An official spokesperson said that after extensively hearing parties interim relief, the division bench of the high court orally noted that ordinarily the court would only have issued notice on the appeals, however, the interim order was being passed given the apprehension and anxiety expressed the AG Punjab on the effect of the judgment passed by the single judge. The Punjab government had filed an appeal before the division bench of the high court which had allowed the schools to charge fees irrespective of whether they were offering online education or not, and to charge actual expenses incurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-students-names-cant-be-struck-off-rolls-over-fee/articleshow/77074891.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: At Rs 30 per kg, humble potato pinches pockets||KOLKATA: Retail potato price in Kolkata markets, on Monday, touched Rs 30 per kg, burning holes in consumers’ pockets. Farmers and cold storage owners blamed it on a lower production this year and increase in demand from neighbouring states in the past few weeks. But they are hopeful that price may stabilise soon. At markets across the city, potato price (Jyoti variety) on Monday was at Rs 30 per kilo. The premium Chandramukhi variety was sold at Rs 35-36 per kilo. Prices increased steadily at the wholesale points as well and the Jyoti variety was sold at Rs 25-26 per kilo on Monday. “We have never seen potato prices rising to such levels in the recent past,” said Ramapada Pal, executive committee member of the West Bengal Cold Storage Association. Earlier in 2014, Pal said, the state government had to intervene and put a cap on the prices. The price of the Jyoti variety had then soared to Rs 18 a kg and the state had to introduce a cap of Rs 13 per kg. According to farmers, the trouble started after the state recorded a lower output at 88 lakh tonne this year. The domestic demand during the lockdown, however, remained robust and demand from neighbouring states like Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar continued. State government increased the procurement price of the crop for mid-day meal supplies at Rs 25 per kg from Rs 22 a kilo. “This pushed prices up a bit as farmers kept the Rs 25 per kilo as the lower threshold limit for the tuber. It has increased further to Rs 26 per kilo in July,” said Keshab Ghosh, a potato farmer in Tarakeswar, Hooghly. According to Patit Paban Dey, former general secretary of the West Bengal Cold Storage Association, potato loading at 465 cold storages in the state was 22% lower this year. While potato was loaded in clod storages in March-April at Rs 600-650 per 50 kilo bag, prices have firmed up a lot since then. On Monday, it has doubled to Rs 1,235 per 50 kilo bag. “What you see in retail markets in the city is quite absurd. It has been increasing steadily in the past few months, but prices at the city markets are quite high,” Dey felt. Farmers also pointed at the artificial firming up of prices by a section of traders. “Usually, there is a profit of Re 1 per kilo by traders. Given the current price points it seems to be much higher,” said Dey. Pradip Mazumdar, advisor to West Bengal on agriculture, said that the government was keeping a close tab on prices. “It has firmed up a bit, but we feel that it will come down now. It might take some days, though,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-rs-30-per-kg-humble-potato-pinches-pockets/articleshow/77074312.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ajmer man cooks up false story of Rs 55 lakh loot, held||AJMER: A manager, working for two brothers in Ajmer, was arrested on Monday for concocting a story of loot to avoid paying back the money. The accused, Kailash Gupta (37), had lodged a complaint on July 15 at Ramganj police station that he had been robbed of Rs 55 lakh by two bike-borne persons. On Monday it was revealed that Gupta’s story did not hold true. In fact he had lost Rs 55 lakh in betting. Gupta was arrested for registering fake complaint with the police. Police, after receiving complaint of loot, had scanned the area where the alleged crime took place. They, however, could not find any clues. On interrogation, Gupta confessed that he had made up the story. Gupta told the police that he had got the idea after reading similar news in newspapers. Gupta, who works as manager for Sunil and Anil Arora, also worked as recovery agent for the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-man-cooks-up-false-story-of-rs-55l-loot-held/articleshow/77074893.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Monsoon breather: Sunny side up after a week of torrential showers||PANAJI: After nearly a sweek of being lashed by heavy rainfall, parts of the state experienced sunny weather on Monday. Some places received just light to moderate rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had forecasted that torrential rain would start receding from July 20. On Sunday, too, Most of the rain gauge stations across the state recorded below 10mm of rainfall (24 hours total on July 20). The highest was recorded at the Mapusa station, with a total of 28mm of rainfall. The clear weather conditions may last for around two days. “Rainfall activity will pick up from around July 23 onwards as there is the probability of a circulation forming around the Arabian Sea and moving northwards,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. For July 23 and 24, IMD has issued a forecast of heavy rainfall at isolated places. Squally weather, with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph, is likely to prevail over the south Maharashtra-Goa coast on July 24, IMD said. Similar warnings have been issued for the Kerala and Karnataka coasts, from July 21 onwards. Fishermen have been advised not to venture along and off these areas during the warning period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-breather-sunny-side-up-after-a-week-of-torrential-showers/articleshow/77074888.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Surat||Surat: Jeweller held for snooping on his wife||SURAT: Concern for his two children living with his wife in Covid-19 crisis proved costly to a 41-year-old gold and diamond jewellery manufacturer. The businessman was arrested on Sunday for allegedly snooping on his wife. Earlier, the police had arrested a man who was hired by the businessman for spying. Police arrested Apurva Mandal, a jeweller, for allegedly spying on his 38-year-old wife. Mandal was released on bail after investigation. Police had earlier arrested Jwalasingh Rajput (25), a food deliveryman, for spying. Mandal was particularly worried about the safety of his children and concerned whether they were frequently going out of their home. He feared that by going out, his children might contract Covid-19 infection. Earlier, the woman was alerted by her acquaintance that Rajput had been clicking her photos and her car for the past few days. On July 16, the woman and her father caught Rajput from Udhna Magadalla Road while clicking photos. Initially Rajput claimed that he had come there to deliver food but when questioned further, he revealed the truth. “Rajput was hired by Mandal to keep a watch on his wife to know whether she was taking out the children. Rajput was supposed to click photos and send them to Mandal for verification,” said police. Rajput was paid Rs 400 per hour. Police investigation revealed that Mandal and the woman got married in 2002. The elder sister of the woman used to study with Mandal in college through whom they came in contact with each other. They became parents of two sons, now aged 14 and 11 during their married life. In 2016, the couple developed disputes and the woman went to stay with her father. The children are living with the woman. A case for divorce has also been filed in a court. Meanwhile, the younger son developed some illness in pancreas and was admitted for treatment in a hospital in the last week of May. “The couple spent five days in the hospital together and were planning to start living together. But due to some issues their plan was put on hold,” said the official. Mandal told the police that as during the lockdown and after that the woman’s family did not allow him to meet the children, he decided to hire Rajput for snooping on his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jeweller-held-for-snooping-on-his-wife/articleshow/77074333.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Covid warrior priest dies after contracting virus||Kolkata: Don Bosco priest Joseph Aymanathil, who had been feeding slum kids during the Covid pandemic, succumbed to the virus on Sunday. Kolkata Salesian Provincial, Fr Joseph Pauria, told TOI, “Fr Joseph Aymanathil passed away at 9.45pm yesterday at Fortis Hospital.” He said the priest had organized the relief work to feed slum children from Day 1 of lockdown. “His team continued with relief work at Kapali Bagan and Sealdah railway station areas, even during Fr Aymanathil’s funeral on Monday,” Fr Pauria said. The 73-year-old priest was recently admitted to the hospital for prostate related problems and was diagnosed with Covid-19. Since he resided at the Provincial House at Tangra, the entire building complex has been sealed. The 21 inmates, most of them above 60 years, have been quarantined. C M Paul, a member of the congregation, said, “Fr Aymanathil is perhaps the first priest in the city to have died of Covid. As a frontline worker, he was supervising the relief operations for slum kids for the last three months. He will continue to inspire and motivate everyone to look after the kids during the pandemic and afterwards.” For 30 years, Fr Aymanathil pioneered quality education for underprivileged children, offering free classes at the slums of Bibi Bagan, Kapali Bagan, Motijheel, Merlai Lane, Suarmari, Bamonpara, Seal Lane, Pottery Road, Bridge Number 2, Bridge Number 3, Palmer Bazaar and Muchipara. Under his programme, around 600 slum children have benefited. It’s only now that the classes, split into primary (2.30 pm to 4.30 pm) and senior (5 pm to 7 pm) sections can’t be held, because of lockdown restrictions. Popularly known as “Dr AC”, Fr Aymanathil was the first Salesian of Kolkata province with a doctoral degree in Canon Law from Salesian University Rome in 1989. He also served the Calcutta Archdiocesan Tribunal for several years. The alumnus of Salesian College Sonada (1973 batch) did his theological studies in Kristu Jyoti College Bangalore and was ordained priest in December 1977 at Pannimattam, Pala diocese, Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-warrior-priest-dies-after-contracting-virus/articleshow/77074338.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 21, 2020||Vijayawada||After weekend’s high, cases dip in Krishna||Vijayawada: Krishna district reported 129 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 3,677. Seven new deaths were recorded. The district death toll now stands at 108. Another 22 containment zones were identified in the district and the roads and buildings department put up barricades to prevent vehicular movement in high-risk areas. Cases had spiked in the district on Saturday and Sunday, with 397 cases being registered on Sunday. Gandhimanagar, One Town and Satyanarayana Puram in Vijayawada recorded a large number of cases. Officials shut off arterial roads in Satyanarayana Puram after the neighbourhood registered 120 cases in the last three days. Persons found roaming on the streets are being stopped and questioned by the police. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the health wing conducted door-to-door surveys in high-risk areas and are collecting household health data. Patients with fever and other Covid-19 symptoms are immediately being taken to nearby iMASQ centres for testing. Residents of containment areas have been requested not to come out of their homes unless there is an emergency. Business establishments at commercial areas in the city have been permitted to function till 11 am. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz directed authorities to increase the bed strength at hospitals. Machilipatnam revenue divisional officer Kaza Valli said 22 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Machilipatnam division on Monday and asked patients with Covid-19 symptoms to voluntarily come forward and get themselves tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-weekends-high-cases-dip-in-krishna/articleshow/77073385.cms||Venu Lanka
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Now, star hotels join takeaway bandwagon||Coimbatore: After star hotels in Chennai, Bengaluru, Mumbai and New Delhi began offering takeaway menus, some hotels in tier-II cities including Coimbatore have joined the bandwagon.While the response has been slow, it has been encouraging enough to prompt them extend their menu and even get on delivery platforms, hoteliers here said. They have launched takeaway menus and options that can be ordered with just a phone call. This allows people to enjoy a fine meal sitting in the safety and comfort of their homes.On offer are the most fast-moving dishes from some of the city’s popular restaurants. Customers are already enjoying the new experience. “A dinner at Chin Chin in Residency Towers for birthdays has been a tradition for years. Since it was closed, we managed to order food from the restaurant’s limited menu for my birthday and it felt nice, safe and somewhat close to normalcy,” said Mithun M, a fitness enthusiast.While star hotels like The Residency and Vivanta Coimbatore began offering takeaway menus on and off from April on special requests, a few like ITC WelcomHotel and Fairfield by Marriott have joined delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato. A meal for two from one of the star hotels cost anywhere between Rs 800 and Rs 2,000, depending on what is ordered.Though the response has been slow with orders trickling in, it is growing. “Despite absolutely no marketing and advertising, and considering that we have just started, we get five to seven orders a day,” said Erin Louis, general manager of ITC Welcom. Fairfield by Marriott, which launched its Marriott on Wheels programme that includes delivery services by them last week, gets 10 to 15 orders a day.Taking a leaf from Chennai hotels offering customized menus, some hotels like Marriott are planning complete meals like brunch for two people or a special menu for occasions like birthday in August. “While we are already creating menus for special occasions like birthdays, it will be a more set system next month. If it is a birthday, it will include a nice cake. For other special occasion, maybe a special dessert,” said general manager, J P Menon. ITC is also offering a buy one, get one free menu for June, targeting the young office-going crowd. “Most of our sandwiches land up in offices, which made us come with the idea,” said Louis.The menus include favourites like Biryani, Andhra-styles chicken like kozhi milagu, kebabs, sandwiches, Chinese dishes like prawns in hot garlic sauce, pastas in Alfredo sauce and Arrabbiata sauce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-star-hotels-join-takeaway-bandwagon/articleshow/77074315.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Stabilize, then transfer Covid-19 patients, West Bengal govt tells hospitals||KOLKATA: Hospitals must stabilize patients before referring them to another facility, the state Covid protocol monitoring team has ruled on Monday. The advisory to hospitals and health officials said that, if properly practised, this will improve patient outcome. The protocol team, it was mentioned, will check if the recommendations were being followed. The advisory comes in the wake of several allegations of Covid patients being turned away from hospitals, especially private facilities in Kolkata. With the spurt in transmission and the resultant shortage of beds, allegations of refusal have gone up. Last week, a 76-year-old Covid suspect — who had been gasping for breath — died after being refused admission to a private hospital. Even though they denied refusing critical patients without stabilizing them, hospitals admitted they were being forced to turn people away since vacancies were rare. “We make sure to attend to every critical patient even if there is no bed. Covid tests are also conducted on suspects and we register patients in case a bed is not readily available. They are admitted the moment vacancies happen,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. The protocol also said that a case summary should be provided whenever admission is denied to a critical patient. It added that newer drugs described in the protocol could be used but it was the institution’s responsibility to arrange them. Only those drugs should be prescribed which can be arranged by institution itself instead of imposing the responsibility on the patients’ families, it said. “Providing care to all who come to the hospital remains our core activity, with special attention to ensure adequate beds and resources to tackle the surge of Covid patients,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stabilize-then-transfer-covid-patients-govt-tells-hosps/articleshow/77074917.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: 30 of Army, ITBP among 110 positive in Himachal Pradesh; tally 1,631||SHIMLA: A total of 110 persons, including 18 ITBP jawans and 12 Army personnel, tested positive for coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the count of Covid-19 cases so far to 1,631. Eight patients have also recovered — three from Kangra district, two from Una and one each from Bilaspur, Chamba and Kinnaur. Currently, the state has 538 active cases, while 1,067 have recovered. Of the latest cases, 42 were from Solan district, 23 from Shimla, 21 from Sirmaur, 12 from Kangra, three from Bilaspur, two each from Hamirpur, Chamba, Una and Mandi and one from Kullu. Of the total positive cases so far, 15 migrated out of the state, nine died of the disease, including deaths of two Covid-19 patients in Chamba and Shimla districts due to non-Covid reasons. A total of 116,765 samples have been tested to date, of which 114,105 have been tested negative, while results of 1,099 samples were awaited. In Solan, 38 positive cases are from Baddi-Baortiwala-Nalagarh industrial area and are mostly migrant industrial labourers and workers, while three cases have been reported from Dharampur and one from Solan. In Sirmaur, 20 cases have been reported from Govindgarh Mohall of Nahan and one from Kala Amb. In Kullu, a 70-year-old female from Barsheni area of Manikaran valley, who was in institutional quarantine, has tested positive. In Shimla, 18 ITBP jawans under quarantine at Jeori and two migrant labourers coming from Azamgarh in UP were on Monday tested positive. One case each was reported from Jatog and Bhattakufar areas of Shimla. In Kangra, 10 Army personnel at Army Quarantine Centre, Yol, and another Army man at Military Hospital, Palampur, have tested positive. A 31-year-man from Kandor village, who had arrived from Kolkata recently, was also tested positive. In Bilaspur, a pregnant woman in Morsingi area, her husband and another woman tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/30-of-army-itbp-among-110ve-in-hp-tally-1631/articleshow/77074928.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Khola lad feared drowned||Panaji/Poinguinim: A boy from Khola, Agonda, Ravindra ‘Sawan’ Pagi, drowned while fishing near Agonda Bay on Sunday afternoon, officials said. Pressed by minister of state for defence Shripad Naik, the Indian Navy has joined Goa Police and the fire and emergency services in searching for the body. The boy’s mother raised the alarm after he did not return for lunch. Locals said that he was last seen around 12pm fishing near Agonda Bay. Police, fire brigade and other officers rushed to the spot and launched a search operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khola-lad-feared-drowned/articleshow/77074915.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan: Collectors, SPs to be held accountable for negligence||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday warned collectors and superintendents of police that they will be held accountable for lapses in law and order situation in their districts. Review the law and order situation in state over video conferencing, Chouhan said action should be taken against the notorious goons in every district of the state. He said, effective action should be taken against people involved in drug dealing, property grabbing, running hookah lounges and chit fund companies, black marketing and adulterating ration, and other forms of cooperative mafia. Stressing on good governance he said, we have to pay attention to both law and order and delivery mechanism in all districts. On one hand, total peace should prevail in districts and criminals should be afraid of law while on the other, every essential facility and help should be extended to common man through proper implementation of government’s schemes, he said. Stating that drugs is ruining the life of young generation, he said those involved in this business must be punished while there should be action against Ponzi scheme operators who make away with poor peoples’ savings. He said all such criminals should be identified and they should be expelled from the districts and their illegal constructions should be demolished. Chief minister directed that black marketers of fertilizers, seeds, pesticides and ration fraud should be sent to jail. He instructed to the collector to file an FIR against those who are involved in irregularities in distribution of ration in Jabalpur. Chouhan directed the officials to take strict action against those who commit crimes against women and lauded the police for their prompt action against the accused in the case of atrocities against women in Bhopal recently. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains directed that while taking action against anti-social elements, it is also essential to uproot the financial backbone of crime, to eliminate crime totally. The collectors and superintendents of police should take action jointly for this, he said. The minister for medical education, Bhopal gas tragedy, relief and rehabilitation Vishwas Sarang, minister for public health and family welfare Prabhuram Choudhary, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, DGP Vivek Johri and other officers were present at the meeting. Other ministers attended the meeting through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-collectors-sps-to-be-held-accountable-for-negligence/articleshow/77074460.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Count rises by record 411 cases in Pb, 8 lose battle||Chandigarh: Punjab recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Monday as 411 more people were found infected with the virus and eight of them died of it. With the new cases, the state’s tally for positive cases shot up to 10,510 and total number of casualties to 262. Of the total 22 districts in the state, 16 reported fresh cases of the virus. Two casualties were from Gurdaspur, while one patient each died in Moga, Ludhiana, Sangrur, Pathankot, Amritsar and Mohali. In all, 583 patients were discharged after recovering from the virus. So far, 7,118 patients have recovered in the state and 3,130 are under treatment. Continuing with the trend, bulk of cases were from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Sangrur, Patiala and Mohali. Patiala got 94 new cases. Of them, 49 were contacts of positive cases and the health department could not trace the source of infection in 38 cases. Ludhiana recorded the second highest number of cases, 83. It was followed by Amritsar, where 37 people were found to be infected by virus. Also, 27 new cases were reported in Jalandhar, 26 in Hoshiarpur, 21 in Sangrur, 18 in Moga, 17 in Bathinda, 16 each in Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib, 12 each in Fardikot and Muktsar, nine in Mohali, five in Kapurthala, four each in Ferozepur and Ropar, three in Barnala, and two in Gurdaspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/count-rises-by-record-411-cases-in-pb-8-lose-battle/articleshow/77074921.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||Pyare questioned by IB, ATS over his Dubai links||Bhopal: Local newspaper owner Pyare Mian — accused of raping minor girls — was interrogated by Intelligence Bureau and Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Monday. The ATS and IB teams are investigating Pyare Mian’s links to Dubai, Srinagar and drug mafia. Police said, the accused has visited Dubai over 50 times in the last 10 years. Police are also digging out details of his property so that the income tax department can take appropriate action against him. During interrogations police found that he is linked with drug mafia Babu Billod, whose poppy husk warehouse was busted by Eintkheri police. Babu Billod is in jail. Pyare Mian revealed that he had taken a fishing contract for Gandhi Sagar Dam in Mandsaur in 2015 in which his partner was Ramesh Vishwakarma, an accomplice of Babu Billod. ADG Upendra Jain said that ATS and IB teams interrogated the accused at length to know about his international links links in Kashmir. Jain said, police have already found details of about 46 properties including those owned by Pyare Mian, his relatives and Benami properties. The lists are being shared with income tax department for recovering tax from the accused. SP Sai Krishna S Thota, who is leading the special investigating team (SIT) in the case, said that Pyare Mian may be taken to Indore soon for verification and investigation purpose. Meanwhile, forest department has found that the wild animal trophy seized from Pyare Mian’s flat in Shyamla Hills is one-and-a-half-year-old. The department will investigate where the wild animal was hunted and by whom. The racket had come to light when five minor girls were found by a police patrolling team in an intoxicated state around 3 a.m. on Sunday near Ratibad village on the outskirts of Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-questioned-by-ib-ats-over-his-dubai-links/articleshow/77074339.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||CRPF jawan cremated with state honours||Panaji: A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan from Mapusa, Amrut Bacharam Mangle, who laid down his life, was cremated with state honours at his ancestral village on Monday. Though he is a resident of Xelpem, Mapusa, Mangle’s family is from Gadhinglaj, Ajara, and since his family had gone to Ajara during the lockdown, he was cremated there. Mangle’s was given a general gun salute. No details are available on the cause for his death. Mapusa MLA Joshua De Souza and NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar took to social media to express their condolence. “Extremely saddened to hear about the untimely demise of our CRPF jawan at the border. We pray for his family to have strength during these difficult times. His children have lost their father at a very young age in service of our nation,” De Souza said. “Saddened to hear about the demise of our CRPF jawan Amrut Mangle from Xelpem, Mapusa,” Sawaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crpf-jawan-cremated-with-state-honours/articleshow/77074896.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||KMC revises attendance norm; birth, death registration wing shut for a week||Kolkata: The birth and death (special) registration wing located opposite the Kolkata Municipal Corporation headquarters was shut on Monday and will remain closed for the next six days. After an employees died of Covid-19 last Friday, all 12 employees of the wing have been sent into home quarantine. Sensing unrest among a section of employees over a tough attendance rule — and to stop infection spread — the civic brass has revised the attendance policy, giving an opportunity to employees at the headquarters and at the borough level to attend office three days a week. This rule will effectively pave the way for introduction of a 50% attendance policy, which has the state’s approval. Earlier, the KMC commissioner had issued a circular that necessitated 100% attendance from June 8. However, employees at the essential departments and those engaged in Covid-combat policies have been kept out of the purview of the rule, said an official. On Monday, KMC sources confirmed that at least three employees at the secretary’s department and a contractual staffer at the mayor’s office have reportedly tested positive. According to sources, the civic brass had been under pressure from a section of employees to revise the 100% attendance policy. “We have lost colleagues and over 50 employees have been infected. We need adequate protection from the authorities,” said an official. A section of the health and conservancy department employees also expressed dismay over non-availability of beds at government hospitals or private facilities. “Several colleagues from the Covid-combat team who have been infected are not getting beds at Covid hospitals. However, beds at a private hospital have been reserved for those associated with the Kolkata Police Covid-combat team. We demand such a facility too,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-revises-attendance-norm-birth-death-registration-wing-shut-for-a-week/articleshow/77074922.cms||Saikat Ray
July 21, 2020||Amritsar||Cong man +ve, Pb minister’s office closed||Bathinda: With a Congress worker testing positive in Bathinda, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s office near the city’s multipurpose sports stadium has been closed for two days. The infected man has been a regular at the office. Now, everyone there is going to be tested and the office has to be sanitised, said Manpreet’s relative Jaijeet Singh Johal. In Bathinda, the new patients include three jail inmates and a cop. Three cops and a jail inmate are among the new patients in Moga. Even in Barnala, new patients include a cop and a jail inmate. In all, there were three new caes in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/cong-man-ve-pb-ministers-office-closed/articleshow/77074924.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Ownership rights: Rush for DDA’s scheme since May||New Delhi: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has received nearly 12,000 applications for ownership rights from residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the capital under the Prime Minister-Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikaar Yojana (PM-UDAY) since March 22, when lockdown was first imposed in the city. The number is nearly three times that of the number of applications received by the authorities from residents of these colonies since the scheme’s launch in December last year till March 20. The Union cabinet had, in October 2019, approved the proposal to grant ownership rights to residents of the 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the city. The boundaries of these unauthorised colonies were then uploaded on its website by DDA for the purpose of delineation. The DDA portal was launched on December 16, 2019, facilitating the applicants to apply for ownership rights online. The authority also created 25 help desks to facilitate application for ownership rights by residents of unauthorised colonies. The work of carrying out GIS mapping of properties, for which applications are received on the portal, has been outsourced by DDA. From December 16, 2019 to March 20, 2020, DDA received total 4,573 completed applications from residents of these colonies for getting ownership rights. The number went down to just 512 from March 21, 2020 to May 8, 2020 but since May 9 and up to July 17, DDA has received 11,410 applications. On the other hand, the number of registrations have seen a major fall since lockdown. While there were more than 2.5 lakh registrations on the DDA portal from the launch till March 20, there have been only 23,374 registrations between March 21 and July 17. While total 546 conveyance deeds and authorisation slips were executed and issued till March 20, none were issued from then till May 8. The number of these ownership documents executed or issued since then is 251, taking the total number of documents issued since launch of scheme to 938. The total number of applications due to duplication or being out of boundary is 826 till date. By the first half of May, GIS mapping of 70,000 properties was completed and during the lockdown, DDA’s four processing centres at Dwarka, Pitampura, Hauz Khas and Laxmi Nagar were operational. Officials at these centres were actively working even during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ownership-rights-rush-for-ddas-scheme-since-may/articleshow/77096082.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 21, 2020||India||Rajasthan revokes ‘general consent’ to CBI probe||JAIPUR: Joining Andhra Pradesh, Bengal and Chhattisgarh in curtailing CBI's powers within their boundaries, Rajasthan has revoked “general consent” to the agency to probe cases in the desert state. “Government of Rajasthan revokes all previous general consent issued by the state government under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, 1946,” states the home department order issued on Sunday. “Hence, in view of revocation of all previous general consent issued vide notifications, prior consent of the government of Rajasthan shall be required to be taken on a case-to-case basis for investigation of any offence or class of offences under Section 3 of the DSPE Act, 1946,” it adds. The home department’s order came a day after BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra demanded a CBI inquiry into allegations of phone-tapping by the government amid the political crisis triggered by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot’s revolt against CM Ashok Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-revokes-general-consent-to-cbi-probe/articleshow/77075773.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Day of relief: Record 323 recover in Vid against 276 new Covid-19 patients||NAGPUR: The number of Covid-19 patients recovered and discharged from hospitals in Vidarbha exceeded the number of new patients reported on Monday. This has happened for the first time in July which has reported more than 50% of the total Covid-19 cases of the region till now. Total 323 patients recovered from Vidarbha against 276 new cases registered on Monday. Total 6,299 patients have recovered from Vidarbha till date. The recovery rate, which was constantly reducing in July, moved upwards for the first time to 66.5%. Vidarbha’s recovery rate continued to be higher than Maharashtra’s 55% and national average of 63%. The increasing number of Covid-19 deaths remains a serious concern. Three patients died in Yavatmal, two of them being 39-year-old men. Two patients — a 60-year-old and a 55-year-old man — died in Akola. Two deceased in Nagpur include a 59-year-old man. Vidarbha registered seven Covid-19 deaths on Monday taking the toll to 263. Case fatality rate of the region is 2.7%, highest than national average of 2.5% but lower than Maharashtra’s 3.7%. Amravati registered the highest 64 recovered patients on Monday, followed by Nagpur (58), Bhandara (47), Buldhana (45), Washim (36), Akola (25), Yavatmal (22), Gadchiroli (19), Chandrapur (4), Wardha (2) and Gondia (1). The region’s caseload increased by 276 on Monday. Amravati registered highest 71 cases, Nagpur (68), Akola (38), Chandrapur (29), Washim (25), Yavatmal (23), Buldhana (13), Gadchiroli (5), Gondia (2), Wardha (1), Bhandara (1). YAVATMAL: Three Covid-19 deaths rocked the district on Monday. A 55-year-old woman from Tarpura in Yavatmal city, a 39-year-old man from Dhanki in Umarkhed tehsil and another 39-year-old man from Masjid Ward in Pandharkawda tehsil died during treatment, taking the district’s toll to 22. Also, the district registered 23 new cases while 22 patients were discharged after recovery. New patients include 11 men and 22 women. With 404 out of total 582 patients recovered and 22 deaths, Yavatmal has 156 patients under treatment. AKOLA: A 60-year-old man from Gulzarpura and 55-year-old man from Lakshmi Nagar died during treatment on Monday to take the district’s toll to 104. Both were admitted on July 11. Akola performed record 830 rapid antigen tests on Monday. Total 38 new cases were reported while 25 patients got discharged from hospital. Out of the 3,204 rapid antigen tests done till date, 153 have given positive result. AMRAVATI: A spike of 71 cases on Monday took the district’s Covid count past the 1,300-mark to reach 1,348 cases. The same day 64 patients got discharge, taking the number of recovered patients to 864. After 41 deaths and 864 recoveries, the number of patients under treatment is 443, including 16 referred to Nagpur. Nine cases from rural areas took their count to 222. Dhanora Jog village in Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsil reported three cases to take the tehsil’s count to six while two cases came from Morshi taking its count to 12. A case each from Bhatkuli, Achalpur and Warud took their count to 10, six and four respectively while Kathora reported its first case. In the city, hotspot Badnera reported 10 cases to take its count to 138 while Rahul Nagar reported six cases to take its tally to 20. Five cases from Shegaon Naka took its tally to 16 while Pravin Nagar registered four cases. Sarafa Bazar and Camp reported three cases each to take their count to eight and 12 respectively. Gulista Nagar and Sitarambaba Nagar reported two cases each while one case each came from Amba Gate and Rampuri Camp to take their count to 10 each. Habib Nagar and SRPF Camp also gave a case each to take their count to 22 and six respectively. Remaining cases came from different localities of the city. CHANDRAPUR: With the detection of record 29 patients, the Covid count of Chandrapur district crossed the 300-mark on Monday. The latest 100 cases have come in just six days, in half the number of days than the previous hundred. Currently, the district’s caseload stands at 305, with 163 recovered and 142 patients under treatment. The first novel coronavirus patient was detected in Chandrapur on May 2 and the district took 61 days to reach the 100-mark on July 2. The next hundred came within 12 days on July 14 and the third hundred on July 20. WASHIM: With increase in rapid antigen tests, the district registered a spike of 25 cases on Monday to take the caseload to 391. Out of 25 new cases, 17 were detected through rapid antigen tests while eight by RT-PCR. Patients are from Shirpur Jain, Karanja Lad, Washim city and Mangrulpir tehsils. On the other hand, 36 patients recovered and were discharged, taking total number of recovered patients to 195. After nine deaths, 187 patients are under treatment. BULDHANA: As expected, patients detected at early stage of infection are recovering fast in Buldhana district. On Monday, 45 patients were discharged against 13 new cases. Out of total 755 patients, 398 have recovered. With 22 deaths reported till date, 335 patients are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: After recovery of 14 patients from Kurkheda and five from Chamorshi, Gadchiroli and Armori, the number of recovered patients increased to 159. Out of total 343 patients, 210 are jawans of CRPF, SRPF and state police. Five new patients were reported on Monday. Four of them had returned from Solapur district. Now, Gadchiroli has 183 total patients under treatment. WARDHA: A 27-year-old woman, wife of an employee of Kasturba Hospital, tested positive on Monday. Her husband, who is an electrician at hospital, was found positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday. Now, Wardha has total 105 cases including 68 recoveries and 4 deaths. Total 33 patients are under treatment. BHANDARA: With highest 47 recoveries in a day, Bhandara’s recovery rate surged to 77.3% on Monday. Only one new patient was reported taking total number of cases to 199. With 154 of them recovered and two deaths, Bhandara has 43 patients under treatment. GONDIA: Two more cases were registered in the district on Monday. Of them, one is a native of Arjuni-Morgaon tehsil who had returned from Mumbai. Another patient is a native of Salekasa tehsil. One patient recovered on Monday. With 201 out of 235 cases recovered and three deaths, Gondia has 31 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-of-relief-record-323-recover-in-vid-against-276-new-patients/articleshow/77074351.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Services set to resume on third tram route today||KOLKATA: Journey on the third tram route is set to resume from Tuesday after wires destroyed in Cyclone Amphan were restored. On Monday, a trial run was carried out on the Gariahat-Esplanade route. Trams ply on this route (number 25) through Park Circus, AJC Bose Road, Elliot Road, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road and finally Lenin Sarani. After services on the Tollygunge-Ballygunge and Rajabazar-Howrah Bridge routes restarted, West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) had been working on a war footing to restore operations on the third route. WBTC engineering section worked round-the-clock to restore the overhead wires torn down by Cyclone Amphan. Tram services have been closed since March 2020 when the lockdown started. Trees uprooted in tye cyclone had damaged several stretches of the tracks and the overhead wire system was also affected. Ever since WBTC began the restoration of the tram network, two out of the six tram routes that had been in operation earlier, have so far been restored after Amphan. The trial run on the Ballygunge-Tollygunge route had been conducted on June 13 while the services had resumed on June 14 in compliance with safety protocol and social-distancing norms. The timing of the services on the two tram routes that are currently running is from 7am to 8pm. Trams are operating at an interval of 25 minutes. No passenger without mask is allowed to board the eco-friendly mode of transport. Disinfection and sanitization of tram cars before and after each operation and of the depots are being undertaken regularly. Trams started their journey in the city way back in 1873, while the network got electrified in 1900. Since 1902, electric tram cars have been plying in Kolkata. Earlier, WBTC carried out a heritage art installation inside tram cars. The idea was to make the youths aware of the living heritage of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/services-set-to-resume-on-third-tram-route-today/articleshow/77074359.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Sisodia orders action against DU||New Delhi: Deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia has ordered the directorate of higher education to begin legal proceedings against Delhi University for not following procedures in the constitution of governing body (GB) in six colleges. “GB, which is the statutory body responsible for taking all administrative and financial decisions, has not been reconstituted in colleges funded by Delhi government,” Sisodia said. Sisodia raised objections on non-formation of GB in six colleges — Lakshmibai and Kalindi, which are partially funded, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Aditi Mahavidyalaya, Maharishi Valmiki College of Education and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, which are fully-funded. “The colleges have been functioning with truncated governing bodies since March 2019. I have been informed that despite repeated reminders to send names of six nominees to the colleges concerned, DU has not sent the complete list,” said Sisodia in the letter, a copy of which is with TOI. The letter added that a few of these colleges had even initiated the process of election of the chairperson in the absence of a complete panel. “This seems to indicate a conspiracy to cover up corruption in these colleges. Since DU has not responded to the repeated correspondence of Delhi government, the directorate of higher education should move legal proceedings against it,” it said. Balaram Pani, dean of colleges, however, said that due to Covid-19, executive council meetings had not taken place. This led to the delay in clearing of the names. “Of the 140 names sent by the government, 134 have been cleared. There were certain reservations on six names, so we sent them back to the government. The government reverted to continuing with those names. But before sending these names to the colleges, it has to be cleared by the executive council,” said Pani. Meanwhile, Delhi University Teachers Association warned of a protest against the government for non-payment of salaries to 12 colleges funded by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-orders-action-against-du/articleshow/77096100.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 21, 2020||Goa||PWD inspects potholes on Atal Setu||Panaji: A day after images of potholes on the 18-month-old Atal Setu bridge surfaced, PWD’s national highway division visited the bridge and inspected the potholes and the approach arms. In a statement, PWD said that GSIDC has already asked the contractor L&T to rectify the potholes on priority. “During the visit it was noticed that the surface varying hotmix coat is laid over the concrete coat and due to dislodging of localised bonding the potholes developed at few locations,” said the PWD official. The government’s statement also said that the contract conditions include a defect liability period which require L&T to “attend and carry out rectification or repair works” at their own cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-inspects-potholes-on-atal-setu/articleshow/77074918.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||New recruits to aid Andhra Pradesh’s Covid battle||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government is intent on further improving its healthcare infrastructure and augmenting working strength through a slew of measures by the end of this month in a bid to manage the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. Measures for the same are being taken at the state level as well as at the district level. According to K Bhaskar, commissioner of health and family welfare, the state government has invited applications from MBBS graduates for the posts of medical officers for working at the 104 Covid-19 call centres. Walk-in interviews will be held in Vijayawada on July 21, he said. Further, the government is likely to create 5,000 contractual posts for Covid-19-related services, an official of the state health department said. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand said on Monday that every assembly constituency should now have a Covid control centre. He met Dr PV Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College. Dr Sudhakar said, “Every constituency should have at least a 300-bedded Covid care centre.” Moreover, health authorities have decided to set up another Covid care centre at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). “We have initiated a recruitment drive to augment Covid-19-related health services and are inviting applications for 582 posts. July 23 is the last date to apply,” a VIMS official said. Recently, the Srikakulam district administration recruited nearly 60 people on a contractual basis to work at the Covid-19 testing lab at Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Speaking to TOI, Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said, “At present we are able to test 2,000 cases in the district per day. By next week, we will be able to conduct 4,000 tests per day. At present, we are seeing nearly 200 Covid-19 positive cases a day in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-recruits-to-aid-states-covid-battle/articleshow/77073419.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 21, 2020||Rajkot||Four of family killed in car-truck collision near Amreli||RAJKOT: A woman, her two children and her mother-in-law were killed when the car they were travelling in collided with a truck on Amreli-Bagasara Road near Babapar village on the outskirts of Amreli on Monday evening. “The victims were all from one family. They were going to Bagasara in their car. The car, while trying to overtake a vehicle going ahead, came face-to-face with the truck coming from the opposite direction,” said A P Der, head constable with Amreli taluka police station. The deceased were identified as Kanchan Rathod (29) and her daughter Hetal Rathod (10) and son Jaideep Rathod (4); and her mother-in-law Kanu Rathod (55). The accident left three persons — Pasu Baraiya (55), Hansa Rathod (45) and Jignesh Rathod (32) — injured. They have been admitted to Amreli Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-of-family-killed-in-car-truck-collision-near-amreli/articleshow/77073443.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Trichy||RACE teams to quickly respond to public grievances||Trichy: Trichy range police on Monday launched 109 Rapid Action for Community Emergency (RACE) teams in the five districts to address the grievances of people quickly. Inspector general of police, central zone, H M Jayaram inaugurated the scheme. Inaugurating the scheme, deputy inspector-general of police (DIG), Trichy range, Z Annie Vijaya said that RACE teams will respond to the grievances aired by public to the control room and the higher police officers in a few minutes. “The idea is to make sure that RACE team reaches the people in distress in five to seven minutes after the complaints are received. Swift action, speed reaction and positive solution will be made through RACE,” DIG Annie told the reporters in Trichy. The main objective of RACE team is to conduct preliminary inquiry into the complaints received by the DIG and other higher officials. The team is also entrusted with the task of making regular follow-ups on the actions being taken on the petitions handled by the higher officials. The DIG, who had promised to give priority to prevent crimes against children and women, assigned the duty to RACE to visit the spot quickly and initiate inquiry. All the 109 police stations in the range will each have one RACE team. The district-wise number of RACE team formed was – Trichy rural- 30, Pudukottai- 38, Karur-17, Perambalur – 08 and Ariyalur -16. Police have provided bikes to the team. The team would comprise minimum three police personnel. The numbers would be increased depending upon the issue to handle. The DIG said that the team will be patrolling in their respective areas round-the-clock with walkie-talkies. Stating that there would be no necessity to visit police stations and higher officials in person for making complaints, the DIG said, “If you call up, we will come to your place,” she said. People can bring the issues to the notice of the Trichy range DIG on the number: 0431-2333909, district police control room Trichy at 0431-2333621, Pudukottai – 94981-81223, Karur- 94981-81222, Perambalur – 04328-225085, and Ariyalur – 04329-221500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/race-teams-to-quickly-respond-to-public-grievances/articleshow/77074349.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Amaravati||New recruits to aid Andhra Pradesh’s Covid battle||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government is intent on further improving its healthcare infrastructure and augmenting working strength through a slew of measures by the end of this month in a bid to manage the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. Measures for the same are being taken at the state level as well as at the district level. According to K Bhaskar, commissioner of health and family welfare, the state government has invited applications from MBBS graduates for the posts of medical officers for working at the 104 Covid-19 call centres. Walk-in interviews will be held in Vijayawada on July 21, he said. Further, the government is likely to create 5,000 contractual posts for Covid-19-related services, an official of the state health department said. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand said on Monday that every assembly constituency should now have a Covid control centre. He met Dr PV Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College. Dr Sudhakar said, “Every constituency should have at least a 300-bedded Covid care centre.” Moreover, health authorities have decided to set up another Covid care centre at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). “We have initiated a recruitment drive to augment Covid-19-related health services and are inviting applications for 582 posts. July 23 is the last date to apply,” a VIMS official said. Recently, the Srikakulam district administration recruited nearly 60 people on a contractual basis to work at the Covid-19 testing lab at Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Speaking to TOI, Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said, “At present we are able to test 2,000 cases in the district per day. By next week, we will be able to conduct 4,000 tests per day. At present, we are seeing nearly 200 Covid-19 positive cases a day in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/new-recruits-to-aid-states-covid-battle/articleshow/77079170.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||No Vande Bharat flight to land in Kolkata this month, flyers in a fix||KOLKATA: The air bubble pact between India and the United States will see Air India operating 180 flights between India and the US this month. But none is slated for Kolkata as the state has refused per-mission for inbound flights from abroad to pre-empt further virus spread. “Vande Bharat and other repatriation flights operated by Indian private airlines and Gulf carriers are unable to operate to Kolkata due to an NOC refusal from the state,” an official said. Bengal had initially asked the civil aviation ministry to stop flights carrying international passengers to Kolkata from July 1 to 19. Domestic flights from cities in four high Covid-prevalence states — Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat — were suspended from July 6 to 19. While the state chief secretary wrote to the civil aviation secretary for extension of this embargo on domestic flights till July 31, it has refused to give NOC to the civil aviation ministry for repatriation flights. The current protocol requires the airline to seek an NOC from the civil aviation ministry, which, in turn, seeks an NOC form the state. Given the pandemic, the recipient state — Bengal in this case — has the right to refuse. AI will operate flights between Newark, New York, Chicago, Washington DC and San Francisco in the US and Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Several others, including an AI flight from the UK, a Kuwait Airways flight from Kuwait City, an Etihad flight from Abu Dhabi, an Emirates flight from Dubai and an Air Arabia flight from Sharjah, are set to be cancelled. “My wife, our 13-month-old daughter and I were booked on a July 22 Vande Bharat flight to Kolkata from London via Delhi. The Kolkata leg now stands cancelled. There has been no flights to Kolkata in July,” said Soumik Dutta, a software engineer posted in London. Another techie, Abhijit Mitra, who was also booked on the same flight with his wife, child and elderly parents, is also at his wit’s end after the cancellation. Their UK visa expires on July 31. “We are helpless and have no clue how how to return home,” said the Dum Dum resident. Initially, when the Vande Bharat flights had commenced, none was allotted to Kolkata, leading to allegations of the state being denied its just share of flights. But as Covid cases shot up, the state demanded the services be suspended for at least a fortnight. Now that appears to have been extended to a month. The only flight that has operated during this period is a chartered flight from Dubai that flew in 174 passengers stuck in UAE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-vande-bharat-flight-to-land-in-city-this-month-flyers-in-a-fix/articleshow/77074931.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Alipore court to stay closed three days this week||KOLKATA: The Alipore court has taken a decision to function in a partial manner this week. In an order issued on Sunday, the district judge laid down the situation prevalent in the courts, mentioning how an address located right next to it was now a containment zone. The order stated that the judicial and administrative work would remain cancelled on July 20-21 and again on July 23. The court will function in a limited form on July 22 and 24. “The judicial and administrative work of this judgeship was suspended till July 19 on account of the new phase of lockdown in the containment zones of Kolkata and the adjoining districts... However, no such improvement was noticed during this period of lockdown. Rather, the situation has worsened with a huge surge in the number of Covid-positive cases. The building adjacent to the district judges’ court at Alipore has been cordoned off since Covid-positive cases have been detected in the area. Regarding resumption of normal functioning of the courts in a limited form, the opinion of the judicial officers and members of the local Bar has been taken into consideration,” the order stated. The order laid out the details of how the court will function till July 24. “The district judge’s court, Alipore, is required to take appropriate steps for sanitization of the courts and staff quarters, Bar library and the complex at Alipore,” the order added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alipore-court-to-stay-closed-three-days-this-week/articleshow/77074943.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||In a US city, MP IPS officer gets a day in his honour||BHOPAL: July 20 might be a regular day for others, but very few people know that a city in the USA has dedicated this day to an IPS officer from Bhopal. San Diego, a city in the south-western corner of the state of California in the United States, observes July 20 as 'Manish Sharma' day. Talking to TOI, ADG Sharma said, "It is a lifetime honour for me and my family. I am grateful to the then San Diego Mayor Kevin L Faulconer for felicitating me with the honour." he was also felicitated by the House of Representatives in the USA. The honour was conferred to recognise his endeavours towards enhancing the Indo-US relationship besides helping several countries in preparing strategies to tackle terrorism and civil unrest. About his visit to San Diego, Sharma said, "I went for a scholarly tour to the USA. During my stay there, I got in touch with the local population. Gradually, I started interacting with people and discussions on several issues pertaining to India and the USA took place. It was liked very much during that time. Mayor Faulconer conferred the recognition on July 290, 2015." He said, every year on July 20, he receives a lot of greetings and wishes from people of San Diego. Recalling the day on which it was to be announced, Sharma said, "A farewell was announced for me on July 20. I was unsure as to why such a farewell by San Diego Mayor for me. But, I accepted the invite and went there. The district administration had already told my wife about it a few days earlier with a condition that she would not disclose it and ensure my presence at the ceremony. My wife Arti has been a great support in my career." Throughout his extensive distinguished career, Sharma has received numerous medals and awards for his outstanding services from Government of India, The United Nations Peace Medal, Government of USA, Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in recognition of his exemplary work. He is also the recipient of other rare honours, including "The Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition” from the US House of Representatives and the prestigious “National Law Day Award 2016” from the former President of India. Watch In a US city, MP IPS officer gets a day in his honour||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/us-city-celebrates-jul-20-as-manish-sharma-day/articleshow/77074366.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 21, 2020||Trichy||Longer quarantine checks primary contacts testing +ve: Trichy Corpn||Trichy: Trichy corporation has said that the number of primary contacts of Covid-19 patients testing positive at the Yatri Nivas isolation centre in Srirangam has come down after it extended their quarantine duration. The civic body claims that the fall in their positivity rate from 30% to 14% was due to the distribution of Kabasura Kudineer and multivitamin tablets throughout their stay.Since June 27, the corporation has been using the Yatri Nivas pilgrim accommodation centre as a quarantine (officially termed isolation) facility for the primary contacts of residents who test positive. After the patient is moved to hospital, his or her primary contacts will be moved to the facility. Around 400 beds were provided in separate dormitories for men and women inmates maintaining social distancing. While symptomatic primary contacts are tested immediately on arrival and isolated further, healthy people are tested on their exit, mostly after three days. So far, RT-PCR tests were conducted for primary contacts after three days of their stay. The quarantine duration, from last week, was extended to five to seven days after obtaining the consent of the district administration. “Primary contacts testing positive is down significantly after being moved to Yatri Nivas. The extension of quarantine duration is yielding favourable result so far,” Trichy corporation Commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.The civic body claims that compared to the RT-PCR test done for primary contacts after three days, the test conducted after five days of quarantine yields low positivity rate. Out of 152 samples, 45 tested positive after completing three days quarantine while only seven out of the 50 samples collected from those who completed five days quarantine tested positive. The corporation said Kabasura Kudineer is distributed to inmates every morning for five straight days followed by vitamin C and zinc tablets. District epidemiologist Aravind Kumar said Kabasura Kudineer can help improve the immunity but cannot be considered as curative medicine. “It is too early to predict but Kabasura Kudineer and vitamin tablets distribution may have an impact in bringing down the positivity rate. It is a good move to increase the quarantine duration in the isolation facility as a medical team is around always,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/longer-quarantine-checks-primary-contacts-testing-ve-trichy-corpn/articleshow/77074381.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan set to get 1,070 mw solar power to hike green footprint||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government is set to get 1,070 megawatt more from solar energy as it seeks to increase the share of the renewable in the total energy consumption basket. Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) has issued a tender for the state government for grid-connected solar photovoltaic (PV) power projects to be set up in the state. Under the renewable purchase agreement (RPO), which mandates the state to mix renewable energy with conventional thermal energy, the state has set a target to meet 21% of its total energy needs from solar sources by 2023-24. Currently, the state has 2,178 mw installed capacity under RPO and another 20,000 mw under different stages of development. Apart from the current 1,070mw tender, the state has approached SECI to float tenders for another 1,700 mw which will take the total RPO capacity to 7,000mw, which will be 21% of the total energy consumption in the state. “This 1,070 mw solar capacity will further reduce the cost of power for us, benefitting both people and the discoms. We have enlisted SECI to do the whole process of tendering and auction expecting better responses from developers and lower rates thereof,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, Department of Energy and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation. As per the tender, solar power developers need to place a single bid for any quantity starting from a minimum size of 10 mw going up to 1,070 mw and the projects would to be set up on a build-own-operate basis and can be situated anywhere in the state. At an average of Rs 4 crore investment per megawatt, the tender will attract about Rs 4300 crore investments in the state. The selected bidder will be required to sign a 25-year power purchase agreement with SECI which will sell the power to Rajasthan Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd.The projects have a commissioning period of 18 months from the effective date of the PPA. “Projects should be designed for interconnection with the nearest substation of the state transmission utility at a voltage level of 33 kV or above. The developer shall set up the solar project, including a dedicated transmission network to the interconnection/delivery point, at its own cost,” said SECI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-set-to-get-1070-mw-solar-power-to-hike-green-footprint/articleshow/77079517.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan set to get 1,070 mw solar power to hike green footprint||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government is set to get 1,070 megawatt more from solar energy as it seeks to increase the share of the renewable in the total energy consumption basket. Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) has issued a tender for the state government for grid-connected solar photovoltaic (PV) power projects to be set up in the state. Under the renewable purchase agreement (RPO), which mandates the state to mix renewable energy with conventional thermal energy, the state has set a target to meet 21% of its total energy needs from solar sources by 2023-24. Currently, the state has 2,178 mw installed capacity under RPO and another 20,000 mw under different stages of development. Apart from the current 1,070mw tender, the state has approached SECI to float tenders for another 1,700 mw which will take the total RPO capacity to 7,000mw, which will be 21% of the total energy consumption in the state. “This 1,070 mw solar capacity will further reduce the cost of power for us, benefitting both people and the discoms. We have enlisted SECI to do the whole process of tendering and auction expecting better responses from developers and lower rates thereof,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, Department of Energy and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation. As per the tender, solar power developers need to place a single bid for any quantity starting from a minimum size of 10 mw going up to 1,070 mw and the projects would to be set up on a build-own-operate basis and can be situated anywhere in the state. At an average of Rs 4 crore investment per megawatt, the tender will attract about Rs 4300 crore investments in the state. The selected bidder will be required to sign a 25-year power purchase agreement with SECI which will sell the power to Rajasthan Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd.The projects have a commissioning period of 18 months from the effective date of the PPA. “Projects should be designed for interconnection with the nearest substation of the state transmission utility at a voltage level of 33 kV or above. The developer shall set up the solar project, including a dedicated transmission network to the interconnection/delivery point, at its own cost,” said SECI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-set-to-get-1070-mw-solar-power-to-hike-green-footprint/articleshow/77074944.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan set to get 1,070 mw solar power to hike green footprint||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government is set to get 1,070 megawatt more from solar energy as it seeks to increase the share of the renewable in the total energy consumption basket. Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) has issued a tender for the state government for grid-connected solar photovoltaic (PV) power projects to be set up in the state. Under the renewable purchase agreement (RPO), which mandates the state to mix renewable energy with conventional thermal energy, the state has set a target to meet 21% of its total energy needs from solar sources by 2023-24. Currently, the state has 2,178 mw installed capacity under RPO and another 20,000 mw under different stages of development. Apart from the current 1,070mw tender, the state has approached SECI to float tenders for another 1,700 mw which will take the total RPO capacity to 7,000mw, which will be 21% of the total energy consumption in the state. “This 1,070 mw solar capacity will further reduce the cost of power for us, benefitting both people and the discoms. We have enlisted SECI to do the whole process of tendering and auction expecting better responses from developers and lower rates thereof,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, Department of Energy and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation. As per the tender, solar power developers need to place a single bid for any quantity starting from a minimum size of 10 mw going up to 1,070 mw and the projects would to be set up on a build-own-operate basis and can be situated anywhere in the state. At an average of Rs 4 crore investment per megawatt, the tender will attract about Rs 4300 crore investments in the state. The selected bidder will be required to sign a 25-year power purchase agreement with SECI which will sell the power to Rajasthan Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd.The projects have a commissioning period of 18 months from the effective date of the PPA. “Projects should be designed for interconnection with the nearest substation of the state transmission utility at a voltage level of 33 kV or above. The developer shall set up the solar project, including a dedicated transmission network to the interconnection/delivery point, at its own cost,” said SECI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-set-to-get-1070-mw-solar-power-to-hike-green-footprint/articleshow/77079521.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan set to get 1,070 mw solar power to hike green footprint||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government is set to get 1,070 megawatt more from solar energy as it seeks to increase the share of the renewable in the total energy consumption basket. Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) has issued a tender for the state government for grid-connected solar photovoltaic (PV) power projects to be set up in the state. Under the renewable purchase agreement (RPO), which mandates the state to mix renewable energy with conventional thermal energy, the state has set a target to meet 21% of its total energy needs from solar sources by 2023-24. Currently, the state has 2,178 mw installed capacity under RPO and another 20,000 mw under different stages of development. Apart from the current 1,070mw tender, the state has approached SECI to float tenders for another 1,700 mw which will take the total RPO capacity to 7,000mw, which will be 21% of the total energy consumption in the state. “This 1,070 mw solar capacity will further reduce the cost of power for us, benefitting both people and the discoms. We have enlisted SECI to do the whole process of tendering and auction expecting better responses from developers and lower rates thereof,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, Department of Energy and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation. As per the tender, solar power developers need to place a single bid for any quantity starting from a minimum size of 10 mw going up to 1,070 mw and the projects would to be set up on a build-own-operate basis and can be situated anywhere in the state. At an average of Rs 4 crore investment per megawatt, the tender will attract about Rs 4300 crore investments in the state. The selected bidder will be required to sign a 25-year power purchase agreement with SECI which will sell the power to Rajasthan Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd.The projects have a commissioning period of 18 months from the effective date of the PPA. “Projects should be designed for interconnection with the nearest substation of the state transmission utility at a voltage level of 33 kV or above. The developer shall set up the solar project, including a dedicated transmission network to the interconnection/delivery point, at its own cost,” said SECI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-set-to-get-1070-mw-solar-power-to-hike-green-footprint/articleshow/77079522.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Driverless trials start for East-West Metro corridor in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Trials for driverless operations for the East-West Metro corridor in Kolkata started on Monday. According to Metro Railway officials, everything worked perfectly on the first day but several more rounds of trials will be required before clearance is sought from the commissioner of railway safety (CRS) for commercial operations. Unlike the older north-south corridor, the Metro’s East-West corridor has the advanced communication based train control (CBTC) system that allows hands-free operations. “We started automatic train operation (ATO) trials along the East-West Corridor from Monday. Engineers from Alsondo SLS of Italy were there to monitor the operations. Everything worked according to plan. The trains ran by themselves, stopping at stations as per schedule. Synchronization was perfect with the platform screen doors. Though motormen were present, their primary role was starting the trains and opening and closing doors at stations,” said Metro Railway CPRO, Indrani Banerjee. Under ATO, it is crucial for train running to be properly synchronised with the signalling system. This kind of train running is common in advanced nations, even for the bullet trains, to avoid human error. According to Banerjee, ATO will ensure proper powering and braking, resulting in energy savings. As there will be complete synchronization with the signalling system, there will be no need for application of brakes, either service or emergency, to control over-speeding by motormen. “However, this is just a start. There will be several more trials, where all possible situations will be addressed,” Banerjee added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/driverless-trials-start-for-e-w-metro/articleshow/77074373.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 21, 2020||Goa||Teachers retiring can be rehired till April next yr||Panaji: A teacher set to retire during any academic year on November 1 or later can now be re-employed by the school till the end of the academic session, the director of education Vandana Rao told schools. The norms are applicable to all government and aided schools from the primary to the higher secondary level. Rule 88 of Goa School Education Rules 1986 has been amended to make the re-employment of retired teachers possible. The existing provision to sub-rule (1) of the rules have been substituted with the following, ‘Provided that where a teacher attains the age of superannuation on or after the first day of November of any year, such teacher shall be re-employed till the 30th day of April of the year immediately following, if the teacher so desires and the managing committee is of opinion that the teacher is fit for such re-employment and has no mental or physical incapacity which would disentitle him/her to get such re-employment’. Earlier, this such re-employment of teachers was possible only if the directorate of education issued specific directives in this regard for a given period of time. Further sub-rule (2) of Rule 88 of Goa School Education Rules 1986 is omitted, the education director told schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-retiring-can-be-rehired-till-april-next-yr/articleshow/77074925.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Thieves decamp with Rs 31 lakh from bank||KOTA: Thieves made away with a bag containing Rs 31.50 lakh of a grocery trader from the cash counter of an ICICI bank branch at Char Murti Circle under Baran city police station on Monday morning. Police lodged a case of theft against unidentified men and efforts were on to trace them. Grocery trader Mahavir Goyal reached the bank branch at Char Murti Circle at 11am to deposit Rs 31.50 lakh in a bag, circle inspector at Baran City police station Mangilal said. Goyal put the bag on the counter and went to the next counter to deposit a cheque slip. On his return, he found his bag missing, he added. According to Goyal, the bag contained Rs 31.50 lakh which he intended to deposit in the bank, the CI further said. Police teams are examining the CCTV footage of the bank to trace the accused, however, no clue has surfaced so far, he added. Initial investigation suggested that more than one miscreants were likely involved in the theft and police have come by a few leads that are likely to pave the way to arrest the accused, DSP and circle officer, Baran City police station, Mahavir Prasad Sharma said. Meanwhile, traders and shopkeepers in Baran city have expressed anger over lapses in security measures at the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thieves-decamp-with-rs-31l-from-bank/articleshow/77074940.cms||---
July 21, 2020||India||Nadda may name new faces to BJP parliamentary board this week||NEW DELHI: BJP president J P Nadda is set to announce his new team this week, including some fresh faces in the parliamentary board, the party’s highest decision-making body, in place of seniors like Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj and Ananth Kumar who passed away and Venkaiah Naidu, who became vice-president. In the last couple of days, Nadda has appointed three state presidents — Lok Sabha MP C R Patil in Gujarat, O P Dhankar in Haryana and Lok Sabha MP Jamyang Namgyal in Ladakh. Next up is revamp of the national team, which has been due since Nadda took over as party president. The revamp will be crucial, giving a hint about possible inclusions in the Union ministry, whose expansion is on the cards. In an informal interaction with the media recently, Nadda had said the new team had been finalised and would be announced later this month. He had hinted at filling the parliamentary board vacancies as well. PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, highways minister Nitin Gadkari, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, social welfare minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot, party general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh and Nadda are the current board members. The new entrants are likely to be largely from the organisation, who have been handling day-to-day affairs in the party and also supervising state organisations. Some prominent faces from states could also make it to the board. Besides, it will pave the way for expansion of the Union ministry, which is being discussed, particularly with the expectation that Jyotiraditya Scindia, who left Congress to join BJP, may be made a central minister with an important portfolio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nadda-may-name-new-faces-to-bjp-parliamentary-board-this-week/articleshow/77075784.cms||Akhilesh Singh
July 21, 2020||Trichy||Residents in apartments, gated communities to be sensitised||Trichy: With Covid-19 cases gradually increasing in Trichy city, the corporation has planned to initiate a slew of measures for people living in apartments, gated communities and official quarters as these multiple dwelling units are densely populated than individual houses. The corporation will sensitise people living in such places about the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to ward off fresh cases. Seven cases were reported in the city’s apartments in the past three days. There are around 450 apartments and gated communities in Trichy city. At least 25 to 400 people reside in an apartment or gated community. A majority of the apartments have restricted the movement of outsiders including visitors and delivery boys, while the maids were allowed only recently based on the requests of residents. Last month, five cases were reported in an apartment in Cantonment that includes a frontline worker and her neighbours, which had exposed the vulnerability of apartment dwellers if one of the occupants tests positive. The apartment in Cantonment further recorded the death of a 70-year-old resident due to Covid-19. Similarly, community residential units such as police quarters, housing board and official quarters have also reported positive cases. Later, few of their family members also contracted the infection. In the past two weeks, at least 10 positive cases were reported in apartments covering all the four zones of the civic body. So far three containment zones were established covering apartments. Since the gated communities have common access areas for the entire dwelling units, lifts, staircases and parking areas were commonly accessed by the entire population. The presence of the virus in any of the common area could snowball into a new cluster, the civic body officials cautioned. “Hand sanitisers were provided at the entrances and lifts. We have also planned to distribute immunity boosters to the security guards,” V Nadaraja, president of a gated community on VOC Road, said. Since Trichy Corporation will not disinfect private properties, officials said that they will instruct the residents’ welfare associations (RWA) to frequently disinfect the common access areas. “Through field workers, apartments were instructed to enhance their vigil. Most of the apartments have taken proactive preventive measures, but we will supervise,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-in-apartments-gated-communities-to-be-sensitised/articleshow/77074390.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Pickets by Noida police choke Kalindi Kunj road||NEW DELHI: There seems to be no respite for people commuting from Delhi to UP as pickets set up by Noida police have been resulting in the road approaching Kalindi Kunj bridge remaining choked through the day. A month ago, TOI had reported about the hassle being faced by daily commuters. The pressure of the traffic volume was also damaging the bridge, police claimed. On Monday, the traffic jams were such that Delhi Traffic Police tweeted asking people to avoid travelling on the stretch. “Traffic movement is very slow from Delhi towards Noida on Kalindi Kunj flyover due to very tight barricading/checking by Noida Police,” the tweet stated. Noida police has set up a picket right at the mouth of Kalindi Kunj bridge due to which the road has turned into a bottleneck. As cops deployed there conduct a thorough check of documents, including permits, it results in a long tailback of traffic. Apart from this, Noida police also turns back cars that don’t comply with the norms using the wrong side of the carriageway. This also adds to the snarls. Traffic police said that both the carriageways of the old Kalindi Kunj bridge were opened for traffic during the peak hours on Monday. However, Noida police started turning back vehicles on the same route leading to a massive bottleneck. “We had to stop Noida-bound vehicles coming from Mithapur and Jaitpur for nearly half an hour to ease the traffic volume and prevent Kalindi Kunj crossing from getting choked. This also led to snarls,” said a traffic police officer. Though the issue was taken up with Noida police several times in the past one month, they told Delhi Police that orders to check vehicles had been given by the Noida district magistrate. “We have requested Delhi government to take it up the matter with the authorities concerned,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pickets-by-noida-police-choke-kalindi-kunj-road/articleshow/77074424.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Amaravati||Bid to provide uninterrupted power to Andhra Pradesh hospitals||VIJAYAWADA: Operations and Maintenance (O&M) staff are working round-the-clock to ensure uninterrupted power to hospitals, labs and quarantine centres, said secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli in a statement. The energy department has formed district-level special teams to monitor and supervise power supply to all medical and healthcare facilities, he said. Every minute counts when patients’ lives are at stake during these critical times and the energy department is striving to ensure zero interruptions to healthcare facilities across the state, Srikant said. Special chief secretary of health, medical and family welfare KS Jawahar Reddy informed the energy department that the state government had ramped up testing infrastructure and crossed the one million-mark with 10.17 lakh Covid-19 tests carried out in 123 days. The government has also set up 19 virus research and diagnostic laboratories (VRDL) with a capacity of 30,340 tests per day and 47 Truenat labs with a testing capacity of 8,125 tests per day. The state also has 12 cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT), National Aids Control Organization (NACO) and Chemiluminescence Immunoassay (CLIA) test labs for screening patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/bid-to-provide-uninterrupted-power-to-hosps/articleshow/77079213.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||Forest department rescues leopard in HD Kote||MYSURU: After a three-day long search, forest department officials rescued a female leopard which had fallen into an 100feet deep dry well in Karapura village in HD Kote on Monday The leopard, estimated to be two-years-old, fell into the trap on Friday. Although healthy, the big cat is weak, said officials. It is undergoing treatment and is expected to be released into the wild in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. Sources told TOI that a forest official scaled down the well for some 20 feet and darted the leopard. The operation to rescue the big cat was on for about 90 minutes, they added. The entire area witnessed heavy rainfall on Monday which disrupted search operations. It may be recalled that on Saturday, RFO Siddaraju locked himself in a cage and entered the well to find out if the leopard was trapped inside the well. Later, the visuals of the big cat were captured by locals on mobile phones. Even on Sunday the authorities had carried out the search of this leopard inside the well. Prakash Karapura, whose house is located next to the dry well said, the leopard was rescued late in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-dept-rescues-leopard-in-hd-kote/articleshow/77074449.cms||Shrinivasa M
July 21, 2020||Goa||Agri institutes see surge in interest||Panaji: As college admissions across the state opened on Wednesday, the first year course in agriculture saw a surge is response. Interest in agriculture among youth has increased after many of those who have passed out from this course have received placements at enviable positions in the agriculture department and the Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) as well as prestigious organisations like the ICAR and Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK), officials said. “People are increasingly speaking about agriculture now as they have realised the importance of essential commodities due to the pandemic. We have been getting calls every two weeks from farms and agencies engaged in rural farming seeking help from our alumni with their farming activities,” said Shrirang Jambhale, a faculty member at the Sulcorna-based Don Bosco College of Agriculture. The institute, which offers 30 seats, has already received 20 applications for its first year course. “We are not part of the online admission process with the directorate of higher education. Interested candidates have been guided to log on to the college website to enroll themselves,” Jambhale said. The agriculture school run by the Ramanata Crisna Pai Raikar Education Society at Savoi Verem in Ponda is also flooded with applications for their BA degree. The management has even managed to finalise a few admissions after conducting virtual interviews and online fee transfers. Further, 22 interviews have been scheduled, the society’s chairman, Manguirish Pai Raikar, said. He is optimistic about all 34 first year seats on offer getting filled up. “There is plenty of scope for farm management. People have taken contracts of maintaining industries’ gardens, while others have leased land to grow crops. The entire process is not only about going back to agriculture, but also finding great opportunities to build a career in farming,” he said. He said that students who have their own farm are given priority during admission, since they can also engage in controlled farming by way of starting a nursery, setting up a polyhouse for horticulture crops and floriculture or even engaging in food processing for value addition. But the essential issue now foxing the colleges is about how they will carry out online classes, since 65 percent of the syllabus entails practical lessons and only 35 percent is the theoretical component. “Until MHA guidelines come through for colleges to restart, we may have to prepare videos for the students and upload it on the website for them to learn from,” Jambhale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-institutes-see-surge-in-interest/articleshow/77074934.cms||Nida Sayed
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Record 29 cases in a day in Chanda district, Covid-19 count crosses 300-mark||CHANDRAPUR: With detection of record 29 patients on Monday, Covid-19 cases in Chandrapur district crossed the 300-mark on Monday. The latest 100 cases have come in just six days, in half the number of days than the previous hundred. Currently, the district’s caseload stands at 305, with 163 recovered and 142 patients under treatment. The first novel coronavirus patient was detected in Chandrapur on May 2 and the district took 61 days to reach the 100-mark on July 2. The next hundred came within 12 days on July 14 and the third hundred on July 20. On the positive side, the district has not reported any Covid death so far. The 29 new patients include 12 more rice mill workers from Mul. Earlier, 13 workers and a driver from the mill has tested positive. All the workers hail from Bihar and had travelled here in the same vehicle. Two children aged 10 and 15 years from Jain temple locality in Tukum area of city also tested positive. Mul and Upparwahi in Korpana tehsil reported a case each, while two cases were reported from Bramhapuri tehsil. Four SRPF jawans stationed at Jain Mandir in Bhadrawati, three from a family in New Chandrapur, three persons from Sai Nagar, Balaji ward and Cristal Plaza housing complex, Chandrapur city, were detected positive in the results that came late in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-29-cases-in-a-day-in-chanda-dist-covid-count-crosses-300-mark/articleshow/77074385.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Bid to provide uninterrupted power to Andhra Pradesh hospitals||VIJAYAWADA: Operations and Maintenance (O&M) staff are working round-the-clock to ensure uninterrupted power to hospitals, labs and quarantine centres, said secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli in a statement. The energy department has formed district-level special teams to monitor and supervise power supply to all medical and healthcare facilities, he said. Every minute counts when patients’ lives are at stake during these critical times and the energy department is striving to ensure zero interruptions to healthcare facilities across the state, Srikant said. Special chief secretary of health, medical and family welfare KS Jawahar Reddy informed the energy department that the state government had ramped up testing infrastructure and crossed the one million-mark with 10.17 lakh Covid-19 tests carried out in 123 days. The government has also set up 19 virus research and diagnostic laboratories (VRDL) with a capacity of 30,340 tests per day and 47 Truenat labs with a testing capacity of 8,125 tests per day. The state also has 12 cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT), National Aids Control Organization (NACO) and Chemiluminescence Immunoassay (CLIA) test labs for screening patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bid-to-provide-uninterrupted-power-to-hosps/articleshow/77073439.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Eight months on, new corporators wait for first council meet||MANGALURU: Eight months on, the newly elected corporators of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) have no luck to participate in their first council meeting. Pandemic forced mayor Divakara to postpone the first council meeting scheduled to be held on July 16. BJP had swept the elections to 60-member council held on November 12 winning 44 wards. Congress had won 14 wards while SDPI bagged two seats. Election for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor was held on February 28 and Divakara, 47, corporator of ward 46 — Contonment, from BJP was elected as the 21st Mayor of Mangaluru. Accordingly, Divakara’s term will end on February 27, 2021. Mayor Divakara told TOI that the council meet could not be held since the city has been witnessing spike in Covid-19 cases. Several staff and the MCC commissioner have tested positive for Covid-19 and the call for lockdown from Thursday have forced him to postpone the council meeting, Divakara said. “We could not hold the first council meet even after bagging majority eight months ago. Similarly, we could not approve the election of chairmen for four standing committees — accounts, finance, health and works. The agenda for the proposed council meet also included solving issues related to increase in water bills, reducing solid waste management cess and formation of area sabhas and ward committees. However, we had to postpone the council meet because of the unavoidable circumstance caused by the pandemic. Moreover, we are not in a position to announce the next date for the meet since the city has been witnessing increase in the Covid-19 cases,” the mayor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/eight-months-on-new-corporators-wait-for-first-council-meet/articleshow/77074298.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Congress probable bypolls candidate tests Covid-19 positive||INDORE: Probable candidate of Congress for bypolls in Sanwer assembly has tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted in a private hospital for treatment. He was about to start a week-long campaign —‘Har Har Mahadev, Ghar Ghar Mahadev’— to counter BJP’s ‘Har Har Modi, Ghar Ghar Tulsi’ from Monday. “The Congress leader was tested positive on Sunday evening and was admitted to Bombay Hospital with mild symptoms like cough and cold,” said chief medical and health officer in charge Dr Poornima Gadariya, adding that health department has started tracing people who came in his contact. With the veteran Congress leader and former MP, the party district president, who has been campaigning in Sanwer, has also complained of symptoms of fever, cough and cold. He has given his samples for laboratory test. “I was having fever along with cough and cold. So, I have home quarantined myself and sent samples for test,” the district president told TOI. He had, however, participated in the launch programme ‘Har Har Mahadev, Ghar Ghar Mahadev’ campaign in Sanwer on Monday. The leader, who recently rejoined Congress after resigning from BJP, had on Saturday conducted a press conference to share information about the campaign. With him, the party district and city presidents were present, while around 50 media-persons had attended it. He was also involved in door-to-door campaigning in Sanwer and meetings party workers and senior leaders for last one month. As he tested positive, Congress leaders have asked those working with him closely, to quarantine themselves and get tested if find any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-probable-bypolls-candidate-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77074384.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Over 400 active cases in 7 Rajasthan districts||JAIPUR: From one district in the state with more than 400 active Covid-19 cases on July 1, the desert state now has seven with over 400 corona cases following a continuous spike in infections this month. The districts which have more than 400 active cases are Jodhpur (1,275), Alwar (880), Jaipur (852), Bikaner (756), Pali (629), Ajmer (477) and Barmer (456). On July 1, only Jaipur had more than 400 active cases. The increasing number of active cases is a cause of concern for health authorities as it will require more facilities in hospitals for Covid patients. However, the health department claimed that, as of now, there was no need to worry as they have enough beds. A majority of them are lying vacant, they said. For two straight days, the state has set a new single-day record of biggest spikes. On Monday, the state reported a single-day jump of 956 cases, taking the active cases to 7,627. This accounts for 25% of the total positive cases reported till date since the first case of Covid was reported on March 3. The graph of active cases has continuously moved up in July. The state had 3,381 active cases on July 1 morning, which was 19% of the total cases reported till date. In the past 20 days, the active cases have more than doubled. Also, the tally of positive cases has touched a grim milestone, breaching the 30,000 mark on Monday to reach 30,390 cases. Nine people died too, taking the state’s toll to 568. Five deaths were reported in Jodhpur, three in Bikaner, and one in Pali. The districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (178), Pali (143), Alwar (106), Ajmer (92), Jaipur (84), Barmer (68), Jalore (53), Karauli (38), Nagaur (27), Udaipur (27), Bikaner (26), Bharatpur (25), Jaisalmer (18), Kota (18), Dholpur (11), Rajsamand (8), Jhalawar (7), Sawai Madhopur (5), Bhilwara (5), Dausa (4), Jhunjhunu (3), Churu (2), Tonk (1), Bundi (1), and one from another state. Five BSF personnel were also infected. Covid patients being identified & treated earlyWith Covid cases constantly increasing, the chief minister has directed to make all possible efforts to prevent loss of life. Accordingly, Covid patients are being identified and treated early by increasing testing. In this regard, adequate arrangements have been made in the form of Covid-care centres and Covid-care hospitals in all districts. On Monday, the chief secretary reviewed the Covid situation in the state, and the home department has been directed to give an action taken report and compliance thereof on regular basis regarding social distancing, wearing masks and sanitisation from all district collectors and district superintendents of police. The health department was directed to ensure optimal testing, study district-wise positive cases, look after vulnerable categories and follow up on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-400-active-cases-in-7-districts/articleshow/77074965.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Hospital at home as families try to save seniors in Kolkata||KOLKATA: In a fight against the novel coronavirus, many in the city have set up mini hospital-like facilities at home so that the family members, especially the elderly, can avail of medical help, especially since hospitals are running out of beds. They are arranging for equipment, such as oxygen cylinders, pulse oximeters and PPE kits, and also stocking up on medicines for an emergency. Avijit Dhar, a marketing professional from Behala, has converted an empty flat he bought a few years ago into a mock hospital. Along with his sister Soma, Avijit has put up mattresses and oxygen cylinders in every room, arranged for PPE and face shields and stocked up on disinfectants, sanitizers and medicines, on his doctors’ advice. His family, including elderly parents, has been taking possible Covid-preventive medicines on doctors’ advice. They have also bought hydrogen-peroxide and bleaching powder to disinfect their set-up. Avijit took the cue from his friend, a senior professional at Webel Solar, who tested Covid-positive and had to isolate himself on the ground floor of his house. He has elderly parents for whom he had to be extra cautious. His entire family shifted to the first floor, where they had to adjust in the limited space. Now cured, and out of isolation on Sunday, the friend got the room and the washroom he used sanitized. A pulse oximeter already at home, he plans to get a new oxygen cylinder and buy fresh stock of medicines, such as vitamins C and D3, zinc supplements and recommended antibiotics. He had used a telemedicine package of a hospital for himself and now plans to register for a preventive-care flexi-package for his family for regular consultations. “Getting a bed in a hospital is a huge problem nowadays and so, I will maintain my home set-up for emergency,” he said. Many who don’t have enough space at home are asking friends and relatives for help. Subhro Sarkar, who is part of the liaison team of a real estate company, is not only scared for his elderly parents but also for his sister, who has cerebral palsy. He has an NRI friend, who has allowed him to use a washroom and the living room in his vacant flat in the same apartment as his in Kasba, in case two patients need to be isolated. Subhro is arranging for cylinders, oximeters, medicines and is also tying up with doctors. People are hiring oxygen cylinders by paying a one-time amount of Rs 1,500 and a daily charge of Rs 30. “None of us is suffering at the moment, but we have pre-ordered cylinders and have bought multiple oximeters,” said Piyali Roychowdhury, a banker, who has elderly parents at home, both of whom suffer from COPD. In Alipore, a man, his parents and two attendants tested positive for Covid but have now recovered. His father was hospitalised for four days, while the rest stayed in home isolation and treatment was done over distance mode through hospital tie-up. “Space is not a constraint in the house and we will keep the isolation units fully equipped. We will continue with our tie-ups with the hospital as there is a lot of post-Covid consultation and care that will continue,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospital-at-home-as-families-try-to-save-seniors/articleshow/77074450.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath’s war-cry: Next CLP meet after oath-taking||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath addressed a meeting of Congress Legislative Party (CLP) on Sunday late evening. The senior Congress leader told MLAs that surveys for upcoming assembly elections predict favourable results for the party. He said the bypolls in 26 assembly seats in the state is likely in September and instructed all former ministers and MLAs to “get to work” with responsibilities given to them. He said the next meeting of the CLP will be “after the swearing-in ceremony at Raj Bhavan” thereby claiming the return of the Congress in the state government. Former minister and MLA from Rau constituency Jeetu Patwari said, “State Congress president Kamal Nath asked us to hit the ground and work for the assembly bypolls. At the meeting, our MLAs said there is a lot of administrative pressure being inflicted on them by the ruling BJP. The BJP’s motive is political suppression of Congress MLAs but the CLP stands united.” Sources said that MLA from Kotma seat Sunil Saraf alleged he has been offered Rs 35 crore by the BJP to quit and join the ruling party. At least two other MLAs made the same claim before Kamal Nath and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh at the meeting. Other MLAs complained the government was putting police pressure and allegedly registering false cases against Congress workers. Former finance minister Tarun Bhanot told reporters that Congress will fight the BJP and corner the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government on crumbling law and order situation in the state. MLAs demanded that BJP leaders enticing Congress legislators should be exposed before the people. On Monday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took a dig at the Kamal Nath’s claim of next meeting after swearing-in at Raj Bhavan. Chouhan said, “Dil bahlane ka Ghalib, Khayal achha hai (it is good to keep your morale up)”. Health minister Narottam Mishra said, “The Congress took oath of office once in Raj Bhavan. So why couldn’t they keep their party together then? Who stopped them? Now, all this show of confidence is to retain the party MLAs who are leaving them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/naths-war-cry-next-clp-meet-after-oath-taking/articleshow/77074401.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP universities prepare for final-year exams||VISAKHAPATNAM: After the University Grants Commission (UGC) made final-year exams compulsory, universities in Andhra Pradesh are now busy chalking about plans to hold examinations. The UGC has set a deadline till September 30 for exams. Consequently, universities are chalking out schedules to hold the exams within the given timeframe. Nearly three lakh students are supposed to appear for final-year examinations this year. Even distance education wings of some state varsities have issued exam notifications. However, a pall of confusion continues to linger over the scheduling of exams as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Andhra Pradesh. Prof K Venkata Rao, dean (academic affairs), Andhra University (AU) said that AU will adhere to the UGC guidelines and make necessary preparations. In a statement issued recently, the UGC mentioned that out of 755 universities, 194 have already conducted examinations whereas 366 institutions are planning to hold exams in August and September. According to UGC guidelines, if a student is unable to appear for final examinations, the university will have to conduct special examinations when it’s feasible for it. The UGC however has allowed universities to take a call on whether they wish to conduct intermediate semester or year-end exams. Universities are allowed to plan these exams depending on the Covid-19 situation. In case of such exams, if things don’t go back to normal, students can be graded on a composite of 50% internal marks and 50% marks from the previous semester. Internal marks can be based on continuous evaluation, prelims, or mid-semester exams or by whatever name that is ascribed to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aps-universities-prepare-for-final-year-exams/articleshow/77073474.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Actor Churni Ganguly keen to join human trial of Covid-19 vaccine||KOLKATA: Actor-turned-director Churni Ganguly has expressed her willingness to participate in the vaccine trial that is being conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Ganguly, director of National Award-winning film ‘Nirbashito’, sent an email after reading about the scheduled-start of phase I/II of human clinical trials of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate ‘Covaxin’ on Monday. On Mothers’ Day this year, Ganguly had put up a Facebook post stating that if she met the “required parameters”, she would want to “offer” herself for human trials of Covid-19 vaccines. “We did not become mothers to see this day,” Ganguly’s May 10 post had read.   According to the norms, volunteers should have no co-morbid conditions and should not have a history of Covid-19. The criterion also mentions that those between 18 and 55 years would be eligible to participate in the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. On July 20, Ganguly sent an email offering herself as a volunteer. Speaking to TOI, Ganguly said, “Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, I knew that the vaccine is the only way out.” However, she didn’t disclose her intentions of offering herself for human trial to her family before writing her Mother’s Day post on Facebook. “I feared my husband and son might talk me out of it. So, I asked them to read the post after I had written it,” she said. Thankfully, both supported her. On Monday, she again informed them after having sent the mail. “I have expressed my willingness. Now, I will wait to find out if I meet the criteria,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/actor-keen-to-join-human-trial-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/77074403.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||71 new cases take Amravati district’s Covid count to 1,348||AMRAVATI: A spike of 71 cases on Monday took the district’s Covid count past the 1,300-mark to reach 1,348 cases. The same day 64 patients got discharge taking the number of recovered patients to 864. After 41 deaths and 864 recoveries, the number of patients under treatment is 443, including 16 referred to Nagpur. Nine cases from rural areas took their count to 222. Dhanora Jog village in Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsil reported three cases to take the tehsil’s count to six while two cases came from Morshi, taking that tehsil’s count to 12. A case each from Bhatkuli, Achalpur and Warud took their count to 10, six and four respectively while Kathora reported its first case. In the city, hotspot Badnera reported 10 cases to take its count to 138 while Rahul Nagar reported six cases to take its tally to 20. Five cases from Shegaon Naka took its tally to 16 while Pravin Nagar reported four cases. Sarafa Bazar and Camp reported three cases each to take their count to eight and 12 respectively. Gulista Nagar and Sitarambaba Nagar reported two cases each while one case each came from Amba Gate and Rampuri Camp to take their count to 10 each. Habib Nagar and SRPF Camp also gave a case each to take their count to 22 and six respectively. Remaining the cases came from different localities of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/71-new-cases-take-amravati-dists-covid-count-to-1348/articleshow/77074454.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||‘Nikamma, nakara’, conspired against his own govt: Ashok Gehlot rips into Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Launching into his former deputy for the second time in three days – this time minus the offer of a conciliatory “hug” – Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Monday called Sachin Pilot a “nikamma-nakara (worthless and idle)” who would go down in Congress history as the first PCC president to be allegedly involved in toppling his own government in collusion with the opposition. Gehlot claimed that some Mumbai-based corporate houses were funding Pilot’s legal battle against the disqualification notice served on him by the Speaker because he shares a rapport with them since the time he was Union minister of corporate affairs in the erstwhile UPA government. “Harish Salve, who is representing him in the high court, is a counsel for corporate houses,” the CM told reporters. “The fees Salve and (lawyer) Mukul Rohatgi charge would be Rs 40-50 lakh a hearing. Where is this money coming from? Is Pilot paying? No, the corporate houses are spending to please PM Narendra Modi by toppling the state government.” Gehlot said the same corporate houses had also “sponsored” Pilot when he “dreamt of becoming the AICC president”. He did not elaborate. The no-holds-barred attack on Pilot came amid reports that a section of Congress was trying to get the sacked deputy CM to back down from the revolt that has triggered allegations of horse-trading and phone tapping, inquiries by the Special Operations Group and Anti-Corruption Bureau, and a court case. But party sources said Gehlot was determined to take his running feud with Pilot to a logical conclusion. “Nobody used to believe me when I said a conspiracy was going on to topple the state government. None suspected this man (Pilot) can do such a thing,” the CM said. “With an innocent face and good command over Hindi-English, he mesmerised the media across the country that thinks he worked hard and brought Congress to power in Rajasthan. People here know the truth about how much he contributed. We knew nothing was happening (in the organisation to activate workers). He was just pitting people against each other. But we never questioned him.” Referring to Pilot’s remark that he had “come here to be the CM and not sell baingan (brinjals)”, Gehlot said, “We spent seven years with the kind of rough language he used but never said anything (in reply) because it is against Rajasthan’s culture. We respected him for being the PCC president. I taught people to stand up when he comes, as post takes precedence over age. Yet, this man got ready to stab us in the back. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi trusted him but he could not do justice to their faith.” The CM claimed to have information that the rebellion of 19 MLAs, led by Pilot, was to originally take place on the night of March 10. “They (the dissident MLAs) were to move out at 2am and the statue of Rajesh Pilot was to be inaugurated on his death anniversary the next morning,” Gehlot said. “When our MLAs refused to join BJP, as planned by Pilot, he offered to form a ‘third front’ and tried to assure them that BJP would not field candidates against them if they resigned and fought by-elections." Gehlot alleged that horse-trading was again on the rival camp's agenda prior to the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/nikamma-nakara-conspired-againsthis-own-govt-gehlot-rips-into-pilot/articleshow/77077027.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||‘Nikamma, nakara’, conspired against his own govt: Ashok Gehlot rips into Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Launching into his former deputy for the second time in three days – this time minus the offer of a conciliatory “hug” – Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Monday called Sachin Pilot a “nikamma-nakara (worthless and idle)” who would go down in Congress history as the first PCC president to be allegedly involved in toppling his own government in collusion with the opposition. Gehlot claimed that some Mumbai-based corporate houses were funding Pilot’s legal battle against the disqualification notice served on him by the Speaker because he shares a rapport with them since the time he was Union minister of corporate affairs in the erstwhile UPA government. “Harish Salve, who is representing him in the high court, is a counsel for corporate houses,” the CM told reporters. “The fees Salve and (lawyer) Mukul Rohatgi charge would be Rs 40-50 lakh a hearing. Where is this money coming from? Is Pilot paying? No, the corporate houses are spending to please PM Narendra Modi by toppling the state government.” Gehlot said the same corporate houses had also “sponsored” Pilot when he “dreamt of becoming the AICC president”. He did not elaborate. The no-holds-barred attack on Pilot came amid reports that a section of Congress was trying to get the sacked deputy CM to back down from the revolt that has triggered allegations of horse-trading and phone tapping, inquiries by the Special Operations Group and Anti-Corruption Bureau, and a court case. But party sources said Gehlot was determined to take his running feud with Pilot to a logical conclusion. “Nobody used to believe me when I said a conspiracy was going on to topple the state government. None suspected this man (Pilot) can do such a thing,” the CM said. “With an innocent face and good command over Hindi-English, he mesmerised the media across the country that thinks he worked hard and brought Congress to power in Rajasthan. People here know the truth about how much he contributed. We knew nothing was happening (in the organisation to activate workers). He was just pitting people against each other. But we never questioned him.” Referring to Pilot’s remark that he had “come here to be the CM and not sell baingan (brinjals)”, Gehlot said, “We spent seven years with the kind of rough language he used but never said anything (in reply) because it is against Rajasthan’s culture. We respected him for being the PCC president. I taught people to stand up when he comes, as post takes precedence over age. Yet, this man got ready to stab us in the back. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi trusted him but he could not do justice to their faith.” The CM claimed to have information that the rebellion of 19 MLAs, led by Pilot, was to originally take place on the night of March 10. “They (the dissident MLAs) were to move out at 2am and the statue of Rajesh Pilot was to be inaugurated on his death anniversary the next morning,” Gehlot said. “When our MLAs refused to join BJP, as planned by Pilot, he offered to form a ‘third front’ and tried to assure them that BJP would not field candidates against them if they resigned and fought by-elections." Gehlot alleged that horse-trading was again on the rival camp's agenda prior to the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/nikamma-nakara-conspired-againsthis-own-govt-gehlot-rips-into-pilot/articleshow/77077028.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Trichy||Rly hosp staff dies of Covid-19, delay in treatment alleged||Trichy: The death of a staff due to Covid-19 at the railway workshop hospital in Ponmalai has triggered protest by the staff here on Monday alleging that she was denied treatment at the hospital and the death was caused by delay in getting treatment. They have demanded the hospital authorities to treat all railway employees and set up a Covid -19 test lab at the hospital which has 200 staffers including doctors and nurses. “The doctors had refused to admit her when she was brought there by her husband a few days back, demanding to get her Covid-19 test result. When they approached private hospitals, they too turned them down. Finally, she was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where she died. She tested positive,” S Raja, branch secretary of (Ponmalai Railway Workshop) Dakshin Railway Employee's Union alleged. “Railway hospital is meant for treating railway employees only. Even though the hospital is equipped with all required facilities like isolation wards and ventilators, they refused to admit her at the hospital, asking her to undergo Covid-19 test. The hospital authorities’ act was condemnable,” he alleged. “The entire hospital staff should be tested for Covid-19 whether they have symptoms or not. All the frontline staff should be given PPE kits and most importantly establish a Covid-19 test lab at the Ponmalai railway hospital,” Raja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rly-hosp-staff-dies-of-covid-19-delay-in-treatment-alleged/articleshow/77074453.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||‘Nikamma, nakara’, conspired against his own govt: Ashok Gehlot rips into Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Launching into his former deputy for the second time in three days – this time minus the offer of a conciliatory “hug” – Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Monday called Sachin Pilot a “nikamma-nakara (worthless and idle)” who would go down in Congress history as the first PCC president to be allegedly involved in toppling his own government in collusion with the opposition. Gehlot claimed that some Mumbai-based corporate houses were funding Pilot’s legal battle against the disqualification notice served on him by the Speaker because he shares a rapport with them since the time he was Union minister of corporate affairs in the erstwhile UPA government. “Harish Salve, who is representing him in the high court, is a counsel for corporate houses,” the CM told reporters. “The fees Salve and (lawyer) Mukul Rohatgi charge would be Rs 40-50 lakh a hearing. Where is this money coming from? Is Pilot paying? No, the corporate houses are spending to please PM Narendra Modi by toppling the state government.” Gehlot said the same corporate houses had also “sponsored” Pilot when he “dreamt of becoming the AICC president”. He did not elaborate. The no-holds-barred attack on Pilot came amid reports that a section of Congress was trying to get the sacked deputy CM to back down from the revolt that has triggered allegations of horse-trading and phone tapping, inquiries by the Special Operations Group and Anti-Corruption Bureau, and a court case. But party sources said Gehlot was determined to take his running feud with Pilot to a logical conclusion. “Nobody used to believe me when I said a conspiracy was going on to topple the state government. None suspected this man (Pilot) can do such a thing,” the CM said. “With an innocent face and good command over Hindi-English, he mesmerised the media across the country that thinks he worked hard and brought Congress to power in Rajasthan. People here know the truth about how much he contributed. We knew nothing was happening (in the organisation to activate workers). He was just pitting people against each other. But we never questioned him.” Referring to Pilot’s remark that he had “come here to be the CM and not sell baingan (brinjals)”, Gehlot said, “We spent seven years with the kind of rough language he used but never said anything (in reply) because it is against Rajasthan’s culture. We respected him for being the PCC president. I taught people to stand up when he comes, as post takes precedence over age. Yet, this man got ready to stab us in the back. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi trusted him but he could not do justice to their faith.” The CM claimed to have information that the rebellion of 19 MLAs, led by Pilot, was to originally take place on the night of March 10. “They (the dissident MLAs) were to move out at 2am and the statue of Rajesh Pilot was to be inaugurated on his death anniversary the next morning,” Gehlot said. “When our MLAs refused to join BJP, as planned by Pilot, he offered to form a ‘third front’ and tried to assure them that BJP would not field candidates against them if they resigned and fought by-elections." Gehlot alleged that horse-trading was again on the rival camp's agenda prior to the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/nikamma-nakara-conspired-againsthis-own-govt-gehlot-rips-into-pilot/articleshow/77077026.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||220gm gold found on man on Vande Bharat flight||JAIPUR: Customs officials on Monday nabbed a passenger who arrived from Riyadh in Vande Bharat flight with an illegal possession of 220 grams of gold worth Rs 11 lakh. He had concealed the gold in the cavity of a lock. This is the second instance when Vande Bharat flight has been used in gold smuggling. Sleuths of customs stated that acting on a specific input the baggage and belongings of the passenger identified as Kuldeep were checked when he arrived at the Jaipur Airport from a Vande Bharat flight from Riyadh. “We found two locks which at first instance appeared normal. On checking the locks it was found that gold weighing 220.19 grams, valued at nearly Rs 11.09 lakh was concealed in the cavity of the lock,” said a senior officer of the customs. The passenger is being questioned to know the source of the gold, he added. This is the second instance when customs authorities have nabbed a passenger travelling to India in Vande Bharat flight with illegal possession of gold. In the largest seizure of gold in Rajasthan in the past nearly 20 years, customs sleuths on July 5 had seized 31.998kg of the yellow metal worth Rs 15.67 crore from 14 Indian passengers at Jaipur airport and arrested all of them. These passengers had landed on two different Vande Bharat flights from UAE and Saudi Arabia. They had concealed the gold bars in the battery slots of emergency lights they were carrying. During then, the sleuths made the seizure after getting specific inputs about smuggling of gold by some passengers on the two flights meant to bring back Indians stranded in UAE and Saudi Arabia due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/220gm-gold-found-on-man-on-vande-flight/articleshow/77074981.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Online training for 50 govt school principals||NEW DELHI: Leadership training for 50 Delhi government school principals facilitated by IIM-Ahmedabad began online on Monday. Speaking to the principals through videoconferencing, education minister Manish Sisodia urged them to commit themselves to the classes. “Even in the current situation, our commitment for school leadership training continues” he added. In the past four years, 700 principals have undergone training at IIM-A in collaboration with State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). “When we started four years ago, we had the vision to bring a transformation in our schools through this programme. We wanted to empower our principals to make decisions and committed funds for them to execute. We entrusted them with the SMC funds to remove any shortcomings at the school-level without waiting for the government,” he said. The reason behind sending the head of schools for such training was to decentralise schools and make them autonomous institutions. “It is the responsibility of the principals to look after the smooth functioning of the schools and work towards their improvement. Director of Education, deputy directors and other education officers are just the facilitators,” said Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/online-training-for-50-govt-school-principals/articleshow/77074478.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||‘Nikamma, nakara’, conspired against his own govt: Ashok Gehlot rips into Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Launching into his former deputy for the second time in three days – this time minus the offer of a conciliatory “hug” – Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Monday called Sachin Pilot a “nikamma-nakara (worthless and idle)” who would go down in Congress history as the first PCC president to be allegedly involved in toppling his own government in collusion with the opposition. Gehlot claimed that some Mumbai-based corporate houses were funding Pilot’s legal battle against the disqualification notice served on him by the Speaker because he shares a rapport with them since the time he was Union minister of corporate affairs in the erstwhile UPA government. “Harish Salve, who is representing him in the high court, is a counsel for corporate houses,” the CM told reporters. “The fees Salve and (lawyer) Mukul Rohatgi charge would be Rs 40-50 lakh a hearing. Where is this money coming from? Is Pilot paying? No, the corporate houses are spending to please PM Narendra Modi by toppling the state government.” Gehlot said the same corporate houses had also “sponsored” Pilot when he “dreamt of becoming the AICC president”. He did not elaborate. The no-holds-barred attack on Pilot came amid reports that a section of Congress was trying to get the sacked deputy CM to back down from the revolt that has triggered allegations of horse-trading and phone tapping, inquiries by the Special Operations Group and Anti-Corruption Bureau, and a court case. But party sources said Gehlot was determined to take his running feud with Pilot to a logical conclusion. “Nobody used to believe me when I said a conspiracy was going on to topple the state government. None suspected this man (Pilot) can do such a thing,” the CM said. “With an innocent face and good command over Hindi-English, he mesmerised the media across the country that thinks he worked hard and brought Congress to power in Rajasthan. People here know the truth about how much he contributed. We knew nothing was happening (in the organisation to activate workers). He was just pitting people against each other. But we never questioned him.” Referring to Pilot’s remark that he had “come here to be the CM and not sell baingan (brinjals)”, Gehlot said, “We spent seven years with the kind of rough language he used but never said anything (in reply) because it is against Rajasthan’s culture. We respected him for being the PCC president. I taught people to stand up when he comes, as post takes precedence over age. Yet, this man got ready to stab us in the back. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi trusted him but he could not do justice to their faith.” The CM claimed to have information that the rebellion of 19 MLAs, led by Pilot, was to originally take place on the night of March 10. “They (the dissident MLAs) were to move out at 2am and the statue of Rajesh Pilot was to be inaugurated on his death anniversary the next morning,” Gehlot said. “When our MLAs refused to join BJP, as planned by Pilot, he offered to form a ‘third front’ and tried to assure them that BJP would not field candidates against them if they resigned and fought by-elections." Gehlot alleged that horse-trading was again on the rival camp's agenda prior to the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nikamma-nakara-conspired-againsthis-own-govt-gehlot-rips-into-pilot/articleshow/77074978.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Trichy||Schools urge Tamil Nadu govt to release pending RTE funds||TRICHY: While the Madras high court has allowed private schools to collect fees from parents for the academic year 2020-21, schools said that most parents may not pay the fees considering the uncertainty looming over reopening of schools in view of the Covid-19 crisis. Instead of burdening parents by making them pay the fees during this pandemic, schools said that state government should release pending funds to private schools for the seats filled under right to education (RTE) Act. A total 25% seats at the entry level in private schools are reserved under RTE Act for children from underprivileged section of the society for which, the state and Union governments reimburse the tuition fee to the respective schools every year. While the entire fund to the tune of Rs 500 crore for the last year is pending, 40% of the fund for the year 2018-19 is also pending. “Union government has released its share, but Tamil Nadu government has been delaying the disbursal,” said K R Nandha Kumar, general secretary of Tamil Nadu matric, higher secondary and CBSE schools association. There are 8.5 lakh students covered under RTE seats across 15,000 schools, he said. Kumar said that the court order allowing private schools to collect 75% of fees in three installments for the academic year 2020-21 indeed has come as a relief, but it may not help unless state government issues it as an order. The state government has no intentions to reopen schools under the present circumstances. Neither the government has been paying the pending fee reimbursement for RTE seats, nor is it responding to our requests seeking interest-free loans from banks, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/schools-urge-tn-govt-to-release-pending-rte-funds/articleshow/77074477.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Glad ‘Delhi model’ is being used in other states: Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: With Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments allowing home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, AAP on Monday said that other states were following the Delhi model initiated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in fighting Covid-19. Soon after the outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic, Delhi government had allowed home isolation, which turned into an effective Covid management strategy. “I am glad all governments are recognising the importance of home isolation. For Delhi, home isolation along with aggressive testing have been the most important strategies (in fighting the coronavirus pandemic),” Kejriwal tweeted. The positivity rate has reduced sharply in Delhi with only 954 people testing positive for the virus on Monday. Am glad all govts are recognizing the importance of home isolation. For Delhi, home isolation alongwith aggressiv… https://t.co/675tLPCzMa— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1595239241000AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said the Delhi model being followed in other states was a matter of pride. He urged UP government to increase testing facilities just like Delhi. “The Kejriwal model of fighting Covid-19 is now not only being discussed in our country, but across the world,” he added. “When the AAP government brought the home isolation rules, the BJP-governed Centre opposed our idea and said every patient should be hospitalised. But now they are also following home isolation. Around 1.3 lakh people have recovered in Delhi, 80% of them in home isolation. The recovery rate in Delhi is 84%, while the positivity rate has decreased to 9-10%,” Singh said, adding that Delhi government had given an oximeter to each patient in home isolation, regularly counselled them on phone and arranged for proper quarantine facilities. Singh, who is in-charge of AAP in UP, had been requesting the Yogi Adityanath government to allow home isolation. “Despite my repeated requests and letters to UP government, people were quarantined at hotels, hospitals and other places,” he said. He demanded aggressive testing in the state for early identification of the disease so that precious lives could be saved. “Each of the 75 districts should have one testing centre. While UP has only 28 testing centres, Delhi has 42. However, Delhi’s population is 2.5 crore compared with 24 crore in UP. At least 2 lakh tests should be conducted in UP every day, but only 40,000-50,000 are being done,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/glad-delhi-model-is-being-used-in-other-states-cm/articleshow/77074497.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Labs and hospitals giving reports to positive patients first warned||MUMBAI: Municipal commissioner I S Chahal on Monday warned laboratories and hospitals sharing Covid-19 positive test reports with patients before informing BMC, stating that it created problems with bed management at hospitals. BMC told them to follow the rule or it will initiate the process of suspension of licences. Seventeen private labs and hospitals, and five civic and government hospitals, conduct around 7,000 tests daily here; 80% are by private labs and hospitals. BMC also warned private entities, mainly labs, not submitting reports in 24 hours. Earlier, labs were collecting samples beyond their daily testing capacity, which delayed reports. Last month, BMC had told labs and hospitals to share Covid-19 tested persons’ reports with it only, and it would forward them to patients. But it was criticised and Opposition parties in BMC alleged it was to suppress numbers. On June 19, Supreme Court directed Maharashtra government to provide the report of Covid-19 test to patients directly. BMC then issued a new directive that labs would first share the report of positive persons with it, and on the subsequent day with patients. Civic officials said it was helping them to coordinate with patients and arrange hospital beds. They stated that if patients got the report first, they panic and rush from one hospital to another. An official said, “If BMC gets the report first, we contact patients within few hours to understand their condition and guide them on the process and hospitalization.” Officials said labs often shared reports before informing BMC, which led to confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/labs-hosps-giving-reports-to-ve-patients-first-warned/articleshow/77074295.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Noida||Auto driver’s body found with head smashed||NOIDA: An auto-rickshaw driver, aged around 30, was found dead in Sector 98 area with injuries in the face and head. Police are treating it as a case of murder and have begun a probe. The unclothed body of the man was spotted by a passerby, who informed police. The deceased was later identified as Vicky, who stayed in New Ashok Nagar of Delhi. Police said that since the head and face were smashed, possibly by the tyres of a vehicle, it could be that the man was murdered elsewhere and the body dumped in Sector 98. “When a police team examined the spot, there were no signs of any accident or clash there. It is possible that the man might have been murdered elsewhere and his body dumped there,” a police officer said. Sources said the body could be identified as his name “Vicky” was embossed on the right arm. Additional DCP Ranvijay Singh said Vicky had been missing for the past 20 days and a complaint had been lodged at the local police station. “The head and face were smashed, as if a vehicle’s tyres have trampled upon them. There was no evidence of an accident at the spot. We are examining CCTV footage,” said DCP (Noida) Sankalp Sharma. Police believe the man’s killers may have run a vehicle over him after the alleged murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/auto-drivers-body-found-with-head-smashed/articleshow/77074984.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||4 more Covid deaths in BEST; 100 sacked||Mumbai: The number of Covid deaths among BEST staff has risen from 12 to 16, a senior official said on Monday. The next of kin of all 16 have been given jobs in the undertaking. BEST Worker’s Union claims there were 86 deaths in the past three months and the management should probe each one. BEST sources said nearly 100 staff were dismissed for being absent for long during the pandemic. Two drivers, who were absent for long and subsequently resumed, died few days back. BEST committee member Sunil Ganacharya and some other panel members raised the issue with the management. “It is shocking why drivers were compelled to come return from their native places, which was safe for them (and their families) during the pandemic. They were issued departmental charge-sheets and due to fear of losing jobs, they rushed to Mumbai and got infected. Sadly, both drivers died on duty,” he said. Tukaram Kokare (47) had gone to his village in Jungati, Satara district, in March, Ganacharya said. His wife, elderly parents and two children were shocked to learn about his death here less than a month after he resumed. BEST chief spokesperson Manoj Varade said the undertaking cannot be blamed for the deaths. “These are frontline workers, we needed staff to run more buses. It is unfair if some staff are taking risks and coming for duty while others prefer to stay at home with family. The notices and charge-sheets were as per legal procedure,” he pointed out. BEST panel members demanded that the charge-sheets be withdrawn as they had “demoralised” several workers. Nearly 2,000 staff were issued charge-sheets, it is learnt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-more-covid-deaths-in-best-100-sacked/articleshow/77074301.cms||Somit Sen
July 21, 2020||Noida||Loni murder: Three youths held||GHAZIABAD: Three people were arrested in connection with the murder of a confectioner in Loni on July 16. The man, named Monu Garg, was shot dead from point blank range and the incident had been recorded in a CCTV camera installed nearby. Police had set up three teams to nab accused. According to the police, the accused are in their early twenties and from Chirauri village in Loni. They were planning to form a gang with around six other local people and they carried out the murder to terrorise the local trading community, police said. “In the afternoon of July 16, the two accused, Nikhil and Vineet, robbed a bike at gun point just a kilometre away from the murder spot. They made no attempts to hide their faces and after reaching Monu’s shop, they shot him thrice without any provocation. The man was shot in the chest, stomach and forehead and then the duo fled in the stolen bike,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP (rural).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/loni-murder-three-youths-held/articleshow/77074990.cms||Abhijay Jha
July 21, 2020||Ghaziabad||Loni murder: Three youths held||GHAZIABAD: Three people were arrested in connection with the murder of a confectioner in Loni on July 16. The man, named Monu Garg, was shot dead from point blank range and the incident had been recorded in a CCTV camera installed nearby. Police had set up three teams to nab accused. According to the police, the accused are in their early twenties and from Chirauri village in Loni. They were planning to form a gang with around six other local people and they carried out the murder to terrorise the local trading community, police said. “In the afternoon of July 16, the two accused, Nikhil and Vineet, robbed a bike at gun point just a kilometre away from the murder spot. They made no attempts to hide their faces and after reaching Monu’s shop, they shot him thrice without any provocation. The man was shot in the chest, stomach and forehead and then the duo fled in the stolen bike,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP (rural).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/loni-murder-three-youths-held/articleshow/77079198.cms||Abhijay Jha
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan orders twice-a-week lockdown as Covid rages on||BHOPAL: With Covid numbers rocketing in Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced the return of tough measures, and said total lockdown will be imposed for two days a week in districts “with high infection rates”. Four districts immediately leap out on this count – Bhopal with 1,574 cases this month alone and Indore with 1,446, followed by Morena (1,068) and Gwalior (924). The last two recently went under a clampdown. Official confirmation on which districts will go into the two-day lockdowns is awaited. July has been the worst month for MP in the pandemic, like the rest of the country. Active cases have shot up by over 150% and recoveries have dropped to 67.2%. Nearly 42% of MP’s Covid count has come in 20 days of July. The government realizes tough measures have to be taken to contain the virus. Lockdown will be imposed on Sundays, with the second day being either Saturday or Monday, the CM said at a review meeting on Monday – even as restrictions he had announced on early closure of shops and 50% workforce at private offices came into effect. Apart from essential services, all other activities will be prohibited. Night curfew will be clamped in all districts from 8pm to 5am. The CM ordered officials to keep in mind that the general public and people who earn their daily livelihood by doing small businesses should not face any problem because of the lockdown. “Economic activities should also continue,” he said, asking the administration to prevent gathering of crowds and enforce Covid precautions. “Excluding districts with zero Covid count, all central and state government offices establishments. In case a Corona patient is detected at any private office or commercial establishment, it will be closed for seven days. The government is enthused by the outcome of lockdown in Gwalior and Morena, where cases were shooting up all of July. In Gwalior, the positivity rate that had rocketed to 15% is down to 7% after the latest lockdown, the CM noted, adding that Morena’s positivity rate has dropped to 1.6%. CM Chouhan said further lockdown in these two districts would be considered after a meeting of the District Crisis Management Group. Lockdown should be opened gradually, he ordered. The CM asked border districts to adopt the ‘Burhanpur Model’ of monitoring people coming from other states. Such people were quarantined at home for 14 days, which helped a lot in preventing infection, Chouhan said. A review of Corona infections revealed that one of the main reasons for spread of infection, including Bhopal, is the gathering of people. “People have to be made aware that they should avoid gathering and maintain physical distancing,” the CM cautioned. Chouhan appealed to people to celebrate all upcoming festivals at home. No permission will be granted for public celebration of festivals, he said. Government employees who don’t follow Covid precautions will be punished, he warned. Taking serious note of the violation of guidelines by some government officials at a wedding in Jabalpur, the CM asked for a list of names and ordered action against them. The review meeting was informed that the number of villages with Corona cases has dropped from 53 to only 17. The CM ordered that this trend should continue and special precautions must be taken in villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-orders-twice-a-week-lockdown-as-july-count-races-towards-10k/articleshow/77074515.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Anti-corruption bureau sends notices to suspended Congress MLAs||JAIPUR: The anti-corruption bureau has sent notices to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and former tourism minister Vishwendra Singh following the FIR lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi claiming that the accused were in cahoots with others to topple the state government. Joshi had provided two audio recordings to the agency in which the politicians were apparently heard talking about horse-trading of MLAs. Dinesh M N (ADG, ACB) said, “The notices have been sent to the two individuals to record their statements in the matter. The notices have been sent to their residences.The audio clips have been sent to the FSL for checking their authenticity.” In the complaint filed on Friday, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips — MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh —, though it does not specify if it was the voice of the Union minister. Out of the two clips, no names were taken in one of them though sources claimed that the conversation was between the former tourism minister and Gajendra Singh. On Saturday, the ACB registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act. On June 10, the ACB had also received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs following which they started a confidential investigation into the matter. After the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested two businessmen whose phone conversation was intercepted by officials, ACB had also initiated a preliminary inquiry into the involvement of three independent MLAs who were apparently offering money to political leaders on behalf of BJP though they are yet to be questioned in the matter. The alleged broker, Jain, was also arrested in the matter. “At present, Jain is under arrest by SOG and we will question him if the need arises as the investigation progresses," added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/acb-sends-notices-to-suspended-cong-mlas/articleshow/77077574.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Small private hospitals want to be non-Covid again or hybrid||MUMBAI: Faced with the prospect of running with empty beds, many smaller private hospitals and nursing homes that had been converted into Covid centres at the peak of the pandemic, have questioned BMC’s diktat to fill up jumbo facilities first before referring patients elsewhere. BMC’s plan to outsource 612 ICU beds in the jumbo facilities to private agencies has confused them. At least 150 nursing homes and mid-level hospitals here were told by civic authorities to cater to Covid cases early in April, when cases started to mount. While most were running to capacity till two weeks ago, the decline in cases also meant a dip in their occupancy rates lately. “We want more clarity on whether these hospitals can go back to becoming non-Covid hospitals, or if they can run hybrid centres, where they treat Covid and non-Covid cases,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president, Association of Medical Consultants. Only 55% of the city’s Covid beds are occupied now. TimesViewThis is the season when the city experiences a rash of water- and vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue and leptospirosis. By allowing small private hospitals to set aside a section of beds for non-Covid ailments, BMC would be able to provide the depth in health infrastructure needed for Mumbai to negotiate its way through a particularly tricky phase. The hospitals too would need to evolve strict protocols to ensure infections do not travel from Covid wards to other patients.AMC also sought clarity on BMC’s plan to prioritise admissions to jumbo facilities. “If BMC sends more patients to jumbo centres, what happens to these hospitals?” Dr Baid added. Allocation of beds is done by BMC’s ward-level war room. Dr Sunil Agarwal, proprietor of Sanjeevani Hospital (Malad), said his 100-bed hospital was converted into a Covid hospital in April. “I am a surgeon and would love to go back to operating. If BMC handles all Covid cases from now, we would be happy to return to non-Covid work,” he said. What has rattled doctors more is the decision to outsource ICUs in jumbo centres. BMC recently announced that private agencies would run ICUs (Rs6,000 per bed) and guaranteed 50% occupancy. Agencies shortlisted would have to bring their own staff to man the ICUs 24/7. “It’s a colossal waste of resource. Why is the same money not being used to make permanent ICUs in peripheral hospitals?” said a senior doctor. A former civic official said peripheral hospitals were in dire need of intensivists and better critical care services. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said critical care experts were tied up with major hospitals, so a decision was taken to outsource. “If more private hospitals want to switch from Covid to non-Covid, it can be considered as there will be a need to treat monsoon ailments. Smaller nursing homes can adopt the hybrid model if they have separate entrances/exits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/small-pvt-hosps-want-to-be-non-covid-again-or-hybrid/articleshow/77074304.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Fate takes away her eyesight and father, yet not a patch on Bhumika’s spirit||Nagpur: Destiny, it would seem, holds a grudge against 18-year-old Bhumika Wawre. In the last five years, Bhumika lost her vision, saw her mother suffering 35% burns and lost her rickshaw-puller father to pneumonia. But this gritty girl from Dayanand Arya Kanya Vidyalaya (DAKV) still managed to punch destiny right back in the face by scoring 68.9% in HSC (Science), and is all charged up for the next round. Money was always a struggle as neither father Ashok nor mother Rekha’s job as domestic help and catering worker was enough for the family of four. Trushant, two years younger than Bhumika, was another mouth to feed. “My life changed in 2015 when I was in Std VIII. I spent two months in the hospital due to brain fever and lost my eyesight completely during treatment,” she said. Soon after, the then principal of DAKV said that as a blind student, she needed a specialized teaching environment. Bhumika pulled out of the school but failed to find professional help even after a year, when a second tragedy struck. “In 2016, a boiling cauldron of dal fell on my mother during a catering job, which left her hospitalized for almost a month,” she said. Things changed when DAKV’s new principal Tejinder Venugopal took Bhumika under her wing. “I appeared for SSC as a private candidate but she allowed me to attend classes and record audio on a phone, and helped find a writer for SSC in which I scored 75%,” said Bhumika. Thanks to Venugopal, she took admission in DAKV’s junior college wing located on the same campus, and very close to her residence. Just when things started looking up, came the next tragedy. “My father was diagnosed with pneumonia in April 2019, and died soon after,” Bhumika recounted. This plunged the family into severe financial crisis. “My mother is the only earning member now and makes just over Rs5,000. But our rent itself is Rs2,500, and then there are groceries and other expenses,” said Bhumika, choking with tears multiple times. Bhumika is now planning to pursue a degree in computer applications — specifically from Ambedkar College — and joining a bank later on. “That’s my dream, but attending college is not going to be easy. Commuting to Deekshabhoomi is a challenge as we don’t own any vehicle. Fee for the course, books etc won’t be easy to manage either,” said Bhumika. Despite the challenges which still lie ahead, Bhumika knows that she will overcome everything. Though she does not have an immediate solution, Bhumika’s statement “kuch toh karna padega sir” (I will have to find a way) is testimony to her iron will.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fate-takes-away-her-eyesight-and-father-yet-not-a-patch-on-bhumikas-spirit/articleshow/77087623.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 21, 2020||Trichy||Karur SP felicitates recovered policemen||Trichy: Karur district superintendent of police P Pakalavan felicitated two police personnel on Monday who returned to duty after recovering from Covid-19. Sub-inspector Karthik and head constable Sethu attached to Karur town police station were felicitated with a bouquet and shawl for their selfless service. The SP also served nutritious snacks to all the police personnel in Karur town police station. The snack included a betel leaf, groundnut candy, cumin seeds, gram dhal and boiled egg. “We will be serving them the snack for a couple of days so that they become habitual in consuming them at home and remain immune to diseases,” said the SP. He said steps will be taken in all police stations in the district to display phone numbers of station sub inspector and inspector apart from the respective deputy superintendent of police and the SP. He added that people cooperated well during the full lockdown observed on Sunday where all shops were closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-sp-felicitates-recovered-policemen/articleshow/77074518.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Anti-corruption bureau sends notices to suspended Congress MLAs||JAIPUR: The anti-corruption bureau has sent notices to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and former tourism minister Vishwendra Singh following the FIR lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi claiming that the accused were in cahoots with others to topple the state government. Joshi had provided two audio recordings to the agency in which the politicians were apparently heard talking about horse-trading of MLAs. Dinesh M N (ADG, ACB) said, “The notices have been sent to the two individuals to record their statements in the matter. The notices have been sent to their residences.The audio clips have been sent to the FSL for checking their authenticity.” In the complaint filed on Friday, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips — MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh —, though it does not specify if it was the voice of the Union minister. Out of the two clips, no names were taken in one of them though sources claimed that the conversation was between the former tourism minister and Gajendra Singh. On Saturday, the ACB registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act. On June 10, the ACB had also received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs following which they started a confidential investigation into the matter. After the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested two businessmen whose phone conversation was intercepted by officials, ACB had also initiated a preliminary inquiry into the involvement of three independent MLAs who were apparently offering money to political leaders on behalf of BJP though they are yet to be questioned in the matter. The alleged broker, Jain, was also arrested in the matter. “At present, Jain is under arrest by SOG and we will question him if the need arises as the investigation progresses," added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/acb-sends-notices-to-suspended-cong-mlas/articleshow/77077576.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Anti-corruption bureau sends notices to suspended Congress MLAs||JAIPUR: The anti-corruption bureau has sent notices to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and former tourism minister Vishwendra Singh following the FIR lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi claiming that the accused were in cahoots with others to topple the state government. Joshi had provided two audio recordings to the agency in which the politicians were apparently heard talking about horse-trading of MLAs. Dinesh M N (ADG, ACB) said, “The notices have been sent to the two individuals to record their statements in the matter. The notices have been sent to their residences.The audio clips have been sent to the FSL for checking their authenticity.” In the complaint filed on Friday, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips — MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh —, though it does not specify if it was the voice of the Union minister. Out of the two clips, no names were taken in one of them though sources claimed that the conversation was between the former tourism minister and Gajendra Singh. On Saturday, the ACB registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act. On June 10, the ACB had also received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs following which they started a confidential investigation into the matter. After the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested two businessmen whose phone conversation was intercepted by officials, ACB had also initiated a preliminary inquiry into the involvement of three independent MLAs who were apparently offering money to political leaders on behalf of BJP though they are yet to be questioned in the matter. The alleged broker, Jain, was also arrested in the matter. “At present, Jain is under arrest by SOG and we will question him if the need arises as the investigation progresses," added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-sends-notices-to-suspended-cong-mlas/articleshow/77074998.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Anti-corruption bureau sends notices to suspended Congress MLAs||JAIPUR: The anti-corruption bureau has sent notices to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and former tourism minister Vishwendra Singh following the FIR lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi claiming that the accused were in cahoots with others to topple the state government. Joshi had provided two audio recordings to the agency in which the politicians were apparently heard talking about horse-trading of MLAs. Dinesh M N (ADG, ACB) said, “The notices have been sent to the two individuals to record their statements in the matter. The notices have been sent to their residences.The audio clips have been sent to the FSL for checking their authenticity.” In the complaint filed on Friday, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips — MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh —, though it does not specify if it was the voice of the Union minister. Out of the two clips, no names were taken in one of them though sources claimed that the conversation was between the former tourism minister and Gajendra Singh. On Saturday, the ACB registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act. On June 10, the ACB had also received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs following which they started a confidential investigation into the matter. After the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested two businessmen whose phone conversation was intercepted by officials, ACB had also initiated a preliminary inquiry into the involvement of three independent MLAs who were apparently offering money to political leaders on behalf of BJP though they are yet to be questioned in the matter. The alleged broker, Jain, was also arrested in the matter. “At present, Jain is under arrest by SOG and we will question him if the need arises as the investigation progresses," added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/acb-sends-notices-to-suspended-cong-mlas/articleshow/77077575.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 21, 2020||Noida||Lawyer out for walk robbed at gunpoint||GREATER NOIDA: A 44-year old lawyer was allegedly robbed at gunpoint near a police post in Bisrakh on Monday morning. The lawyer, Shailendra Somaiyya, is a native of B1 tower of Cherry Country society. He works as a legal advisor at a private firm, said police. According to the complainant, when he was out for a walk around 7am, two masked men came on a motorcycle and intercepted him on a service road near Ryan school roundabout. They allegedly pointed a pistol at him, snatched his gold chain and demanded everything else he had got with him. He said he gave some cash too that he was carrying except his mobile phone and immediately called up the cops when they fled. Harish Chander, DCP (Central Noida) said a police team soon reached the spot and received the complaint. “An FIR has been lodged under IPC Section 392 (robbery) and relevant CCTV footage is being checked at the road stretch to identify the accused. The available footage shows that they probably had a customised bike that had no number plate. Rest is being investigated,” he said. Following the alleged snatching, a lot of residents tweeted about the ineffectiveness of Bisrakh police in the area. They demanded increased surveillance and patrolling of the hotspots. “Such incidents are common in Noida Extension. The spot where the lawyer was robbed is just 500 metres away from the police post,” said Manish Tripathi, a resident of the same society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/lawyer-out-for-walk-robbed-at-gunpoint/articleshow/77074997.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Medchal, Rangareddy districts new hotspots||HYDERABAD: The second most populous district in Telangana — Medchal-Malkajgiri — is the second highest contributor to the Covid-19 positive cases tally in the state. The district, parts of which fall under Greater Hyderabad limits, has 6,400 cases. On an average, 200 cases are registered every day in the district. Rangareddy, adjoining district of Greater Hyderabad, is also not far behind. The district has recorded 4,900 cases so far. While 450 cases were reported on Sunday, Monday saw 300 cases more.  “We believe movement of people has led to new cases in peripheral parts of the city,” a district medical officer of health told TOI. Since the rising number is a major cause for concern, the health department has given instructions to stop issuing medical bulletins at the districts level. Both DMHOs of Medchal and RR said they had stopped the bulletins form Monday following directions from senior officials. Areas that fall under GHMC have 5,300 cases, while 950 cases were reported in municipalities like Jawaharnagar. Rural parts of the district like Turkapally have only 150 cases, according to the health department data. “There has been a sudden surge in the number of cases after unlock 2.0. We have increased tests, which are being done in 30 centres across GHMC and non-GHMC areas. Home quarantine kits are given to those who test positive,” Medchal DMHO K Veeranjaneyulu told TOI. In RR district, there has been a steady rise in coronavirus cases for the last one week. The district, which was recording 20 to 30 cases a day. witnesses 300 cases now daily. For instance, the district had 2,147 cases on July 7. Within two weeks, the tally doubled to 4,900 — 3,000 cases in Greater Hyderabad alone. RR district health officials said Saroornagar, Mansoorabad, Serilingampally, Hafeezpet, Raidurg, Manikonda and Sivarampally in Greater Hyderabad and Narsingi, Abdullapurmet Amangal, Moinabad, Manikonda, Balapur and Shamshabad account for spurt in the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medchal-rr-dists-new-hotspots/articleshow/77075002.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 21, 2020||Noida||Wife held with 4 others for killing Rabupura farmer||GREATER NOIDA: A 32-year-old woman was arrested on Monday for allegedly colluding with her brother-in-law to get her husband killed in a Rabupura-based village on July 17. Police said the woman, Varsha, had an affair with her brother-in-law Balwir, a native of Bulandshahr. The two allegedly hired three men - Monu and Naresh of Rabupura and Gully from Khurja - who killed her husband Praveen, a farmer. Police received the information of the death from village Pradhan, Rajesh Kumar who recovered the body and filed a complaint. “During the investigation, we recovered liquor bottles from the playground from where the body was recovered. The call record from Praveen’s phone shows that he last called his brother-in-law,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, DCP (Zone 3). During questioning, Balwir confessed to his illicit relationship with Varsha and that the duo hired contract killers for Praveen’s murder. “He said the deceased used to beat up the woman due to which she had asked him for help a few months ago. Over time they got close so much so that they planned to eliminate Praveen from their life,” said Singh, adding that the accused also had an eye on Praveen’s property. Praveen and Varsha had been married for the past four months. “After they decided to kill him, Balwir found three men whom he offered Rs 1 lakh out of which Rs 60,000 were paid in advance. On Friday night, he called Praveen for drinks at Rabupura town area where he introduced the killers to Praveen as his friends. All the men had alcohol and after a few drinks, they killed Praveen,” said Singh. The accused told police that they strangled him to death and later crushed his face and private parts with a plier. Following Balwir’s confession, police arrested the woman and the three killers on Monday. “All of them have been booked under IPC sections 302 (murder) 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence). They were produced in a district court that sent them to judicial custody,” added the DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/wife-held-with-4-others-for-killing-rabupura-farmer/articleshow/77075003.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Labour shortage hits outer ring road work||NAGPUR: Shortage of skilled workers has hit National Highways Authority of India’s (NHAI’s) ambitious Outer Ring Road (ORR) project. The work has progressed very little after the lockdown was imposed in March. The revised deadline for completion of the project before the lockdown was year end. But now this target is impossible to achieve. The ORR between Gavsi Manapur and Kamptee-Kanhan bypass was completed years ago and is open for traffic. The remaining portion has been divided into two packages — 33km-long which covered the stretch from Jamtha to Fetri via Gondkhairi and the 28km-long second one from Fetri to Pawangaon on Bhandara Road (beyond Kapsi). When lockdown was imposed, the first package was about 52% complete while the second was about 44% over. The figures have not changed much. An NHAI officer said that most skilled labourers were from outside the state and they had gone home when the lockdown had been imposed. “Now, they are afraid of returning to work because Nagpur has large number of Covid-19 cases. Still, we are managing with whatever labour is available. However, work will pick up pace only after Covid-19 threat subsides.” Even before the lockdown, the project was running behind schedule. The contract period expired long ago and the contractor had been fined. “We could not terminate the contract as we had not handed over the entire land. Now, 100% land required for the project is with him,” the officwer said. Under the project, NHAI will construct a new 40-km cement concrete four-lane road from Gondkhairi on Amravati Road to Bhilgaon-Sirpur on the Kamptee-Jabalpur section of NH-44 via Fetri on Kalmeshwar-Katol road, Bharatwada, Panjara on Koradi-Chhindwara section of NH 47. It will also widen the 21-km stretch from Gondkhairi to Gavasi Manapur on NH-44 from the existing two-lane to four-lane and convert it into concrete road. The ORR will also have an interchange with the under-construction Mumbai-Nagpur super expressway. NHAI will construct five railway overbridges, 20 minor bridges and 15 underpasses under the project. NHAI will levy toll to recover the project cost. Toll will be recovered by NHAI through a private agency other than the one executing the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/labour-shortage-hits-outer-ring-road-work/articleshow/77074503.cms||Ashish Roy
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metropolitan Region crosses 2 lakh Covid-19 cases amid surge in satellite cities||MUMBAI: The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) crossed 2 lakh Covid-19 cases on Monday, setting another grim milestone for the state that now has an overall caseload of 3,18,695. While Mumbai accounted for a little over one lakh cases, the other one lakh has come from Thane, Navi Mumbai, Palghar and Raigad that continue to add to the case tally in significant numbers. MMR added 3,235 cases on Monday, of which a majority (2,200) were from areas outside Mumbai. The region has seen an increase in cases in the last few weeks, where on most days the addition has been higher than that of Mumbai. The total cases in MMR, excluding Mumbai, has reached 1,00,847, while Mumbai’s tally touched 1,02,423. TimesViewThe accelerating rate at which infections are spreading in the MMR bodes ill for the region and contiguous areas, which include Mumbai and Pune. This is the most developed economic corridor in the state and country. Unless the administration is vigilant about the stretch as a whole, and deploys more manpower and resources to take preventive measures and ensure reliable healthcare, the process of reviving commercial and industrial activity will suffer disruptions. The danger of Covid-19 derailing Maharashtra’s economy is real, unless pre-emptive action is taken.The state, on Monday, reported 8,240 new cases and 176 deaths, taking the toll to 12,030. Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 41 deaths, the lowest since July 11, when the city had reported 39 deaths. The total Covid-19 toll in the city stands at 5,755. The case fatality rate of Mumbai was 5.61% and there were a total of 23,728 active cases in the city. The state now has 1,31,334 active cases and over 1.75 lakh patients have been treated and sent home. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took a review meeting on Covid-19 cases and monsoon-related ailments in Mumbai. Thackeray said that the WHO and other international organisations have appreciated the work done by the BMC in Mumbai, and he advised the officials not let their guard down as it was seen that whenever the public and government agencies became relaxed, a second wave was visible. “We are slowly and steadily opening Mumbai, and while we do that we shouldn’t be under pressure from anyone and take into account the health of the public,” Thackeray said. There has been a tussle between the ruling allies Shiv Sena and NCP over unlocking of the cities. The NCP has been vocal about giving more freedom. In the meeting, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that of the 831 containment zones in the city, the BMC has managed to “de-contain” 153. He said that preventive steps to control monsoon-related ailments too are being taken. Dharavi on Monday reported 12 new patients, taking the total number of positive patients from the locality to 2,492. Meanwhile, in Thane, where the volume of cases rose by 255 on Monday, taking the tally to 16,028, the civic corporation has decided to use services of private medical practitioners for Covid mitigation in the city in a bid to tide over the manpower crisis. With four deaths, Thane’s toll has reached 555. An elderly physician who owns a hospital in the city become the sixth doctor to die of Covid-19 from the lake city on Monday. Over 65 doctors have been detected positive there so far. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation reported 286 fresh cases. The NMMC’s total number now stands at 11,712, of which 7, 417 patients have recovered so far. The NMMC area also reported two deaths, taking its total toll to 345. The PCMC area too reported 112 cases, taking the total number to 4,990, while four deaths pushed its total death toll to 118; 3,409 people have recovered. The Pune Metropolitan Region on Monday added a record 2,601 cases, pushing its caseload to 54,013. The total fatalities reached 1,387 with 44 deaths reported on Monday. The PMC on Monday discharged 830 patients. The active caseload in PMC limits is now 14,757.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmr-crosses-2l-amid-surge-in-satellite-cities/articleshow/77075404.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Bakrid nears, confusion looms over goat markets||LUCKNOW: Muslim community is in a fix over Bakrid festivity this year. While just 10 days are left for the festival, the administration has not issued any guidelines regarding the sale of goats, bakra mandis and sacrifice. The moon sighting for the festival will take place on Tuesday which will decide whether Bakrid will be celebrated on July 31 or August 1. From the clerics to persons involved in the business of procuring and selling goats and those who celebrate the festival, confusion has been hovering above them all. “I had written to UP chief minister and later met him too. I was assured of guidelines to be issued for goat markets and other points to be taken care of during the festival in this pandemic. But we are still waiting,” said Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah, Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali. The cleric said that the moon for Bakrid will be sighted on Tuesday. “Bakrid is celebrated on the 10th day of the Islamic month Zilhij. If the moon is sighted on Tuesday, Eid will fall on July31, if n”t then on August 1,” he added. For the past 28 years, Mohammad Fazil (62) has been purchasing goats from Mohan, Malihabad and Bachrawan, to sell them at various goat markiets in the city. "I would buy the goats at least 20 days in advance. But the confusion this time has been such that I have placed my order with the ones I did business with, but haven’t been able to buy them,” said Fazil. “We have all been waiting for any news on goat mandis so that business can begin as transportation has also been in doldrums,” he added. But Mohd Zubair has already bought 40 goats, which, in the absence of the mandis, is costing him an additional Rs 500 a day on their fodder. “I bought the goats from Palsi bazaar which is close to Kanpur. But I don’t know what to do with them now. I have already spent money on buying them and on their fodder now. Everything has been on hold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bakrid-nears-confusion-looms-over-goat-markets/articleshow/77075009.cms||Yusra Husain
July 21, 2020||Noida||Renovations underway at Okhla Bird Sanctuary||NOIDA: The Okhla Bird Sanctuary that was closed for visitors during lockdown is being renovated by the forest department. The department on Monday said that a few additions have been made to the park and the renovation work will be over by September. Divisional forest official PK Srivastava said that October to March is the official migratory season for the sanctuary. "A board room for conducting meetings and discussions has been built and a washroom is also being constructed. All lights, fans, and bulbs in the park will be run on solar power. We have already received some panels and are waiting for more. Though there was a slight delay because of lockdown, we will complete everything by September," he said, adding that all water bodies will be cleaned after monsoon. The proposal for modernising the park, including setting up of study center, a washroom, surveillance cameras and light panels, were passed earlier. Following which, the Union ministry of environment and forest and the state forest department granted Rs 1 crore to the park a year ago to expedite some much-needed repairs and up-gradation. Srivastava added that the sanctuary is being developed to add some value for bird enthusiasts and students. "People will get to know more about the avian species through discussions and workshops that will be hosted here in the future. We want the sanctuary to become a centre for learning about birds," the DFO said, adding that each year the park welcomes around 80 species of birds each season. Bird enthusiasts have reported sighting European Hobby, Pelicans, Falcons, Greater Spotted Eagle, Barn Swallows and Mountain Swifts among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/renovations-underway-at-okhla-bird-sanctuary/articleshow/77075010.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
July 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy airport has handled over 100 rescue flights, 14,000 passengers||TRICHY: Ever since the state allowed repatriation of Tamils stranded abroad due to the lockdown, the Trichy International Airport has handled 100 flights covering 15 destinations across the world and brought back 14,897 people including Tamils since May 9. After Chennai, Trichy has handled the most number of flights and passengers in the state, sources said. The civil aviation ministry had cancelled all international and domestic operations across the country during the last week of March. Apart from chartered flights, the Centre had launched flights under Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indian nationals. The first flight operated by Air India Express landed in Trichy airport on May 9, Saturday night, carrying 178 passengers including 60 women, 6 children and one infant from Kuala Lumpur. Till July 19, 11,999 passengers have arrived from 15 destinations across the world on 72 carriers. During the same period, Chennai has handled 119 flights and 17,254 passengers. Madurai airport has handled 26 flights and 4,409 passengers, airport sources said. This apart, Malaysian carriers had operated eight services to Trichy airport to take back 1,220 Malaysian nationals. In the case of outbound services, 20 flights have departed from Trichy airport carrying 1,678 Tamil passengers to Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Muscat. “Although Trichy International Airport is a non-metro one, it has handled thousands of international passengers, next to Chennai, a metro airport. Malaysian and Singapore governments have extended their helping hand tremendously. This would improve ties between the two countries in the future,” said H Ubaidullah, an aviation enthusiast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-airport-has-handled-over-100-rescue-flights-14k-passengers/articleshow/77074525.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||District crosses 3k +ve cases, latest 1k came in 12 days||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed 3,000 in the district on Monday. The latest 1,000 cases were registered in 12 days, whereas first 1,000 cases came in 96 days and second in 25 days. However, compared to other districts, the situation in Nagpur district is better. The district stands at fifth place among 35 districts as far as population is concerned. In corona positive patients, the district is 10th to cross the 3,000 mark but first among 11 districts of Vidarbha. On Monday, 68 persons tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 3,027. The positivity rate has come down slightly to 6.11% in latest 1,000 cases; it was 7.31% in second 1,000 cases. On Monday, 92 persons from other districts and states also tested positive in the city. One worry for the district is that latest 1,000 cases came in 12 days with no major hotspot. First 1,000 cases were registered due to Satranjipura and Mominpura hotspots, followed by Naik Talao-Bangladesh and Central Jail in second 1,000. In the latest one, cases were registered from various parts of the district, which means wide spread of Covid-19, probably due to easing of lockdown and violation of guidelines by people. The number of cases in the city was 2,315 on last Monday. Cases have been registered from over 210 localities in the city by now. The number of areas with 10 or more cases has increased to 40. Cases are also on the rise in Nagpur Rural, with 76 localities affected. The number of cases in Nagpur Rural increased to 620 as on Monday. Out of total 13 tehsils, Bhiwapur is the only one without any case yet. Kamptee, which is the most congested town in Nagpur Rural, is emerging as a major hotspot with 155 cases as of now. The number of cases is likely to increase with most commercial activities permitted. Testing has also increased in the district. The number of tests done in the 82 days between March 11 and May 31 was 12,109. The number has increased to 49,527 as on Monday, meaning 37,418 tests were done in last 50 days. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP) have started rapid antigen tests in city and rural areas respectively, increasing the number of tests. Citing steep rise in cases, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had warned of a full lockdown with curfew in city if violation of guidelines by people and commercial establishments did not stop. He also started visiting markets and taking action from Monday. After his directives, traffic police have started to levy fines on autorickshaws, four-wheelers and two-wheelers flouting norms. The police department has also started to register FIRs. Home minister Anil Deshmukh and guardian minister Nitin Raut had given consent for 15-day full lockdown with curfew in city, and it is likely from July-end. To avoid a lockdown, mayor Sandip Joshi has continued inspection of markets and spreading awareness about importance of maintaining Covid distancing, wearing masks, and using sanitizers. The number of deaths has also started to rise in the district. Total deaths as on Monday were 55 with 30 registered in 20 days of July and remaining 25 in 112 days between March 11 and June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-crosses-3k-ve-cases-latest-1k-came-in-12-days/articleshow/77087689.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Stay indoors: Patient’s appeal goes viral||Lucknow: In a video appeal, a Covid-19 patient has urged residents to stay indoors to prevent a ‘Delhi or Mumbai-like situation’ in Lucknow. The video shot from his hospital bed has gone viral on social media. By Monday, the five-minute video garnered one lakh views on Instagram and 2,500 on Facebook. Aman Akhtar, whose Instagram profile describes him as an entrepreneur, urged people to follow safety precautions and lockdown guidelines in public interest. The 29-year-old tested positive on July 11 after complaining of chest pain and breathlessness. He is undergoing treatment at Lokbandhu Hospital. Sharing his experience of witnessing two patients dying in front of him, Akhtar said, “I don’t want to scare anyone, but I want to say that the virus will affect one and all, whether you are young or old. Those who are not wearing masks, meeting friends or family members thinking they cannot contract the disease, need to be more alert. I was extremely cautious in the past three months, yet I contracted the virus, maybe indirectly by getting in touch with an infected object or patient. It is because of my carelessness that I am here,” he said. “If you test positive, your body will fight the virus physically, but you will have to fight it mentally. For people who are going to offices or opening shops, I appeal them to wear masks, use gloves, not to walk in groups. Avoid creating a Delhi or Mumbai-like situation in Lucknow. All hospitals are fully occupied and the cases are rising rapidly. We can end the crisis only by being careful and alert,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stay-indoors-patients-appeal-goes-viral/articleshow/77075022.cms||Aditi Singh
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Human clinical trials for Covaxin begin at Nims||HYDERABAD: Two healthy volunteers were administered Covaxin, developed by city-based Bharat Biotech, as part of the first human trials to fight novel coronavirus at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (Nims) here on Monday. With this, the clinical trials have started at the premier institute, which is now the third in the country, to begin the human trials. Nims is among 12 institutions selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). On Tuesday, four more volunteers will be administered Covaxin, sources said. Both volunteers, who were administered the dose on Monday, are around 35 years and ‘completely healthy’. They would be kept under observation for 24 hours and monitored remotely on discharge. A second dose would be given to them after 14 days and in the meantime they would be monitored to see the extent of antibodies developed by their bodies and whether they develop fever.  “We are hoping to have 60-70 volunteers as part of the trial at Nims. Currently, there is a line-up of 17 candidates, who have volunteered for the trail. Their samples have been collected and forwarded to ICMR Delhi for approval. Volunteers have to undergo a battery of medical tests, including Covid-19 test, and only completely healthy volunteers are selected,” said a doctor associated with the trials. Vaccinated volunteers would be kept in ICU of the hospital for 24 hours and their health condition monitored. After 14 days, an assessment would be made on how the antibodies develop in their bodies. They would be confined to their home completely during the period. Until then, doctors would monitor the health of the volunteers by video calls. During this time, they would not be given any medicines, including essential nutrients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/human-clinical-trials-for-covaxin-begin-at-nims/articleshow/77075013.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 21, 2020||Delhi||ECA admissions back at DU without trials||NEW DELHI: Delhi University (DU) on Monday decided to bring back the admissions under the extra-curricular activity (ECA) quota this year. It had discontinued the quota except for through NCC and NSS certificates due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite some objections, DU’s standing committee decided to conduct ECA admissions on the basis of certificates following the admission committee’s suggestion in the wake of the Vice-President of India’s advice to reconsider the earlier decision. Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu is also the chancellor of the university. The standing committee also decided to give candidates registered on the admission portal a month, from August 1 to 31, to edit their forms for any mistake. Candidates can use the same period to change their ECA registration section and apply for admissions under the quota. DU has 5% seats for ECA and sports in each college. The minutes of a meeting of the admission committee on Saturday, accessed by TOI, revealed that there was lengthy discussions over ECA. It was informed that a sub-committee for ECA and sports met on Friday “to revisit the earlier decision of partial exclusion of ECA from the admission process and endeavours to find out a credible and viable mechanism of inclusion of all sub-categories of ECA”. According to the minutes, the application numbers have exceeded last year’s registrations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses, but the MPhil/PhD count has dipped by 8%. Dean of admission Shobha Bagai also informed the admission committee that National Testing Agency planned to hold the entrance tests from September 6 to 11. Standing committee member Arun Atree on Monday objected to conducting the admissions entirely on the basis of certificates. “There is no way of authenticating the credibility of the ECA certificates unlike sports as there is no government-approved institutions issuing these certificates,” he claimed. Atree suggested holding online trials. “But committee members cited lack of experts and infrastructure as the reason for doing away with even online trials. I gave my dissent that this will be unfair to deserving candidates and lead to impersonation cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eca-admissions-back-at-du-without-trials/articleshow/77074540.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Leaving antigen kits with people raises eyebrows||HYDERABAD: Though the state government began rapid antigen testing in a big way, its implementation is a cause for concern now. Authorities are handing over antigen test kits to people after conducting the tests instead of disposing it of themselves. However, officials said they are helpless because of the large volume of tests being done. “We are getting a large number of people antigen tested. Testing is done for 300 to 400 samples in each PHC. So, managing the test kits and the mad rush of people is a daunting task for us,” a health department official defended. Another downside was that the authorities have stopped giving a receipt or patient number to those who test antigen positive.  “The other day I had gone to a primary health centre in Medchal where they told me that I had tested positive for Covid-19. Some of the private hospitals, however, are refusing to admit patients if they don’t furnish the receipt from the authorities on being tested positive. I had to use influence to get a bed in an Ameertpet hospital,” KR Ramana (name changed) said. Till a couple of days ago, those who tested positive were given receipts on outpatient slips. However, the officials have done away with issuing the receipts, making it difficult for patients to approach the hospitals. While this is so, concerns are also abound over government not adhering to the guideline by following up with an RT-PCR test on a patient if his or her antigen test comes out negative. Symptomatic people who test negative are merely asked to do home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leaving-antigen-kits-with-people-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/77075019.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Gangster, wife injured as rivals barge into home and open fire||Nagpur: Industrial suburb of Kalmeshwar was rocked by gangland style shooting that left a goon and his wife injured. Rivals barged into the house of gangster Ganesh Meshram (32), accused in a double murder in 2017, in Hanuman Nagar in Hudco colony of Kalmeshwar and began firing on him. His wife Priyanka (26) dramatically jumped in front of her husband to save him and sustained a bullet injury in her stomach. She is learnt to be critical. Meshram got a bullet on his right thigh and another on the back. Three to four persons, wearing masks, forced their way into his home around 11am on Monday making Meshram run into the kitchen where the assailants followed him and opened fire. The injured couple was rushed to Mayo hospital by their friend Nitin Bagde who reached the place on receiving information about the attack. Rivalry between gangs of Meshram and Nikhil Maliye alias Golu is likely behind the attack. Around a fortnight ago, Meshram gang had attacked Maliye at Jaitala by sprinkling chilli powder on his face and tried to bump him off. Maliye too has two murder offences against him in the past including one of Shera in 2019 who was close aide of Meshram. Maliye had managed to escape but his car was smashed by the Meshram gang following which they were arrested but walked free on bail after three days. Rana Pratap Nagar police had taken action against both gangs. It is learnt rivalry between Maliye and Meshram gang was simmering in and around Jaitala locality. Meshram, who operated a gambling den in the outskirt of Hingna and Kalmeshwar, had shifted to a rented place at Hanuman Nagar in Kalmeshwar where the attack took place. Sources said the local crime branch (LCB) teams of Inspector Anil Jittewar and sub-inspector Sachin Mate have already picked up Maliye, one Farooque and another person for interrogation. Kalmeshwar police have registered a case of attempt to murder against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gangster-wife-injured-as-rivals-barge-into-home-and-open-fire/articleshow/77087733.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||2 cops with Uddhav son’s team test +ve||Mumbai: Two constables, part of a security team of Tejas (25), younger son of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, tested positive for Covid-19 last week. A Shiv Sena functionary said that Tejas is presently at a farm house in Kalyan. On whether Tejas had self-isolated himself, he said, “No. He had gone to the farm house in Kalyan during lockdown.” “The two constables were immediately transferred by home department,” the functionary added. Though Tejas belongs to a political family, he has kept away from the field. In 2019, after elder brother Aaditya announced he was contesting assembly polls, it was speculated that while Aaditya will be active in state politics, Tejas may follow suit and contest Lok Sabha polls. Uddhav had, however, denied it. The grandson of Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray is known as a wildlife researcher, having discovered a snake species in 2015, named ‘Thackeray’s cat snake’, and in 2019, along with a co-researcher, discovered a lizard species in Tamil Nadu, named as ‘Thackeray’s dwarf Gecko’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-cops-with-uddhav-sons-team-test-ve/articleshow/77074309.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nashik||2 robbers held within 24 hours||Nashik: Bhadrakali police on Monday arrested two robbers from different parts of the city after they had committed a crime in the Dwarka area of the city on Sunday morning.According to police, the suspects — Shankar Ridlon from Mahalaxmi Chawl in Bhadrakali and Nitin Pawar from Bajrangwadi near Nasardi Bridge — on Sunday morning had intercepted two bike-borne individuals. “Using a sharp weapon, the suspects threatened the victims, Gaurav Pardeshi and his friend Mosin Sayyad. They then forcibly took Rs 3,000 and a cellphone from Pardeshi while Sayyad managed to flee,” a police officer said.“The robbers then fled on their two-wheeler. Following this Pardeshi went to Bhadrakali police station and lodged a complaint against the suspects. Using the registration number of the two-wheelers that the suspects had used, the police managed to trace the address of one of the suspects and arrested him. Later, the second suspect was also arrested,” he added.The case was investigated by assistant police inspector DD Ingole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-robbers-held-within-24-hours/articleshow/77072480.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Thaw in relations? Telangana CM meets governor, lists out Covid measures||HYDERABAD: After a gap of more than 45 days, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday called on governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Bhavan. In the last couple of weeks, there was an unforeseen stand-off between the government and the governor, especially on the handling of Covid-19, lack of testing and related issues. In the meeting that lasted for about one hour, the CM is believed to have apprised the governor on several issues, including on the measures being taken by his government to combat the pandemic and on the demolition of the secretariat blocks and construction of a new secretariat complex. The CM had last met the governor on June 2. Raj Bhavan sources said that though it was just a courtesy call, Monday evening’s meeting assumed significance after the recent events wherein the TRS government thought the governor was exceeding her brief and stepping on to its shoes. The government, especially the CM, was upset with the governor taking an active role in calling for reviews, monitoring the Covid-19 situation and meeting doctors and officials. The relationship between Raj Bhavan and the government soured, leading to even instances of senior officials ignoring the governor when she called them over for meetings. However, Raj Bhavan sources had maintained that she was only concerned about the surge in coronavirus cases and how to contain the cases since she herself was a doctor. In the meeting, the CM is believed to have apprised the governor on several issues, including on the measures being taken by his government to combat the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thaw-in-relations-cm-meets-guv-lists-out-covid-measures/articleshow/77075025.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Business||New norms give e-tailers a month to address consumer plaints||NEW DELHI: Users of e-commerce platforms will now feel greater confidence in their shopping experience with new norms for grievance redressal in these entities kicking in from this weekend. E-tailers and sellers on such platforms will have to appoint executives for addressing consumer complaints and they won’t be able to impose any cancellation charge from buyers, unless the companies concerned pay similar charges when they cancel an order unilaterally for any reason. All sellers using e-commerce platform for marketing of their products will also need to display the country of origin of the items. Union consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan said the rules with provisions to protect the e-commerce consumers will be notified on Friday and the mandatory norms will come into force immediately. The rules also say that the products delivered to consumers must be the same as provided in descriptions and images. While sellers and inventory e-commerce will need to comply with this, e-commerce marketplaces will have to take such undertakings from the seller using their platforms. The rules prohibit e-commerce companies from manipulating the price of the goods or services to gain unreasonable profit through unjustified prices. The rules framed under Consumer Protection Act will be applicable to both domestic and foreign e-commerce firms offering service or selling items to Indian consumers. Failure to comply with these norms will amount to unfair trade practice and the Central Consumer Protection Authority can take action in such cases. The finalised rules say that the executive tasked for grievance redressal will have to acknowledge the complaint within 48 hours and will need to resolve it in 30 days. The rules have specified duties and liabilities of e-commerce marketplaces where sellers use online platforms for selling their products. Similar provisions have been made for inventory e-ecommerce entities, which buy products in bulk and then sell them online. There are strict norms even for sellers using the e-commerce marketplace. The rules specify that sellers cannot refuse to take back goods or withdraw services or refuse refunds, if these are found defective, deficient, delivered late, or if they do not meet the description on the online platform. Exception for delay in delivery will be only in case of force mejeure such as lockdown or natural disaster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-norms-give-e-tailers-a-month-to-address-consumer-plaints/articleshow/77075787.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||282 new cases: Lucknow tops UP Covid table||LUCKNOW: The surge in novel coronavirus infection is not giving any indication of subsiding as the city recorded 282 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, increasing the case count to 4,291 — highest in the state — since the outbreak. Lucknow pipped Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad to second and third spots with 4,251 and 4,048 cases respectively. The city earned the dubious distinction as in past 10 days, it has been reporting cases in three digits, and that too highest in state. In fact, on an average, 11 Covid patients were detected every hour in past five days. Though 1,520 of total 4,291 cases have been discharged after recovery, the city still has highest number of ‘active’ patients i.e. those undergoing treatment in hospitals. Another cause of concern is the increasing number of medical professionals getting infected. On Monday, four KGMU doctors, including a senior faculty and three residents posted in Covid ward tested positive. As many as 27 KGMU personnel, including 20 doctors, have tested positive in last 16 days. Total 48 KGMU staff members have fallen sick with novel coronavirus infection so far. Other cases included a pregnant woman admitted at Veerangana Jhalkari Bai women’s hospital in Hazratganj. The hospital was closed for 48 hours for sanitisation. It is the second time in week that the hospital was shut as a patient was found positive A male computer assistant posted in the secretariat was also found infected, taking the number of employees found positive to four in three days. A woman computer operator posted at 11th floor Shakti Bhawan also tested positive following which the office was closed for sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/282-new-cases-city-tops-up-covid-table/articleshow/77075027.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Sachin Pilot offered me money to join BJP: Congress MLA Giriraj Singh Malinga||JAIPUR: In a first direct allegation of horse-trading against Sachin Pilot, Congress legislator Giriraj Singh Malinga claimed the former deputy chief minister offered him money to change loyalties. The three-time legislator, who represents Bari constituency in Dholpur district, said Pilot made the offer to him more than once, beginning December last year. The MLA said he had informed chief minister Ashok Gehlot soon after that. “I had gone to his (Pilot’s) house when the delimitation of panchayats was going on (last quarter of 2019). It was a one-on-one meeting with him. Sachin ji (Pilot) did offer me money, but I declined and said I will not join BJP even after resigning,” Malinga said. As deputy chief minister, Pilot had held PWD and panchayat raj portfolios. Congress sacked Pilot from the posts of deputy CM as well as PCC chief on July 14 on charges of conspiring with the BJP to topple the state government. Based on Congress complaints, the Rajasthan special operations group served him notices on sedition charges, while the speaker served him defection notice, which was heard by the Rajasthan high court on Monday. Malinga said he received the offer again, prior to the Rajya Sabha elections in June. On being asked how much money Pilot offered him, Malinga said, “I was told I could ask as much as I wanted. There was no limit. ‘Aap toh muh kholo, kitna chahiye (you just tell, how much you want).” Explaining why he refused the offer, the legislator said, “I have come to Congress from BSP; now if I leave Congress, where will I go and what would I tell my voters?” Malinga was among the six BSP MLAs who merged with the Congress in 2009 when Gehlot became chief minister for the second time (2008-2013). In September last year too, all six BSP MLAs merged with the Congress, taking the Congress tally in the assembly to 107. “I informed the CM about the offer but he said everything would be okay soon. He said some people (MLAs) were getting restless but they will soon fall in line,” he said. Later in the day, chief minister Gehlot told reporters there were many MLAs like Malinga who were offered money to switch sides. Asked why he delayed action on Malinga’s complaint, the CM said, “The delay saved the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/sachin-pilot-offered-me-money-to-join-bjp-cong-mla-malinga/articleshow/77078295.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||Sachin Pilot offered me money to join BJP: Congress MLA Giriraj Singh Malinga||JAIPUR: In a first direct allegation of horse-trading against Sachin Pilot, Congress legislator Giriraj Singh Malinga claimed the former deputy chief minister offered him money to change loyalties. The three-time legislator, who represents Bari constituency in Dholpur district, said Pilot made the offer to him more than once, beginning December last year. The MLA said he had informed chief minister Ashok Gehlot soon after that. “I had gone to his (Pilot’s) house when the delimitation of panchayats was going on (last quarter of 2019). It was a one-on-one meeting with him. Sachin ji (Pilot) did offer me money, but I declined and said I will not join BJP even after resigning,” Malinga said. As deputy chief minister, Pilot had held PWD and panchayat raj portfolios. Congress sacked Pilot from the posts of deputy CM as well as PCC chief on July 14 on charges of conspiring with the BJP to topple the state government. Based on Congress complaints, the Rajasthan special operations group served him notices on sedition charges, while the speaker served him defection notice, which was heard by the Rajasthan high court on Monday. Malinga said he received the offer again, prior to the Rajya Sabha elections in June. On being asked how much money Pilot offered him, Malinga said, “I was told I could ask as much as I wanted. There was no limit. ‘Aap toh muh kholo, kitna chahiye (you just tell, how much you want).” Explaining why he refused the offer, the legislator said, “I have come to Congress from BSP; now if I leave Congress, where will I go and what would I tell my voters?” Malinga was among the six BSP MLAs who merged with the Congress in 2009 when Gehlot became chief minister for the second time (2008-2013). In September last year too, all six BSP MLAs merged with the Congress, taking the Congress tally in the assembly to 107. “I informed the CM about the offer but he said everything would be okay soon. He said some people (MLAs) were getting restless but they will soon fall in line,” he said. Later in the day, chief minister Gehlot told reporters there were many MLAs like Malinga who were offered money to switch sides. Asked why he delayed action on Malinga’s complaint, the CM said, “The delay saved the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sachin-pilot-offered-me-money-to-join-bjp-cong-mla-malinga/articleshow/77078293.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Nashik||2 arrested for assaulting constable||Nashik: Two people were arrested and two minor boys detained for assaulting a police constable who asked them to go home, when they had stepped outside without wearing masks in the Pushpak Nagar area of Mhasrool on Saturday night. While Dhanraj Lande (21) and Sushant Khare (19), both residents of Mhasrool, have been remanded in judicial custody, the minors will be produced before a Juvenile Justice court. Constable Jeebhau Chaure of Mhasrool police station was returning home from duty when he spotted a group of youngsters out in the Pushpak Nagar area without wearing masks. When he asked the youths to go home and ensure they wear a mask whenever they are in a public place, the youths started attacking him with stones and also damaged his uniform.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-arrested-for-assaulting-constable/articleshow/77072490.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Delhi||JNU receives record applications, 22% higher than last year||NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Monday announced that it had received a record number of admission applications this year. In a video message, JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar stated that this was the second year when the university was conducting its computer-based entrance examination in collaboration with National Testing Agency. “The varsity received a record number of applications this year at 1,35,462. This is nearly 22% increase,” said Kumar. Last year, the university had received 1,08,982 applications. These applications come from all states and union territories of our country, the VC added. He also said that this year, there is an improvement in gender representation and applications have come from different social categories. “This clearly indicates that JNU continues to remain a highly aspirational university among our nation’s student fraternity who have wholeheartedly embraced our transition to computer-based mode of entrance examination. We look forward to welcoming the selected candidates whenever the university reopens depending upon the Covid-19 pandemic situation,” the VC said. While he did not reveal the dates for the JNU entrance test, sources in NTA told TOI that the computer-based entrance exams may be held between September 14 and September 26. NTA will be conducting the entrance examination across 121 major cities nationwide. The varsity informed that the maximum number of applications have been received for its masters programmes followed by PhD and bachelors programmes. “Among a few programmes that have received significant applications are MA Political Science, MSc Life Sciences, Master of Computer Application, MA Geography and MSc Physics. For the first time, JNU will be admitting students to an Integrated BSc-MSc programme in Ayurveda Biology for which a large number of applications have been received,” JNU said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-receives-record-applications-22-higher-than-last-year/articleshow/77074556.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Man who duped 200 as ‘plasma donor’ arrested in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old man from AP was arrested for cheating over 200 people, including many from Hyderabad, by promising to donate his plasma and collecting money from them towards transport charges. Task Force police said Sandeep Reddy posed as a plasma donor and duped several people by collecting amounts ranging from Rs 300 to Rs 5,000. G Chakravarthy, additional DCP, Task Force, said Sandeep saw an opportunity in the pandemic and started cashing in on the nerves of desperate people looking for plasma donors to treat Covid-19 patients in their families. With a surge in demand for plasma and anti-viral drugs, Sandeep started browsing social networking sites to zero in on gulllible people. Once he sees a plea for plasma, he would contact the family and pretend to be a recovered patient. “Sandeep would then request them to send money for transportation. As soon as the money is transferred, he would go missing. He has also cheated some people in the guise of arranging Tocilizumab 400 mg, a drug used for treating Covid-19,” said Chakravarthy. The officer said 90% of those who fell for his offer deposited small amounts such as Rs 300. “The accused had even boasted to the kin of a patient that there is less than 1% chance of law catching up with him,” he said. Sandeep was booked under sections 406, 420 of the IPC and 66 of IT Act at Panjagutta and Banjara Hills police stations. The accused, who hails from Rajam in Srikakulam district, was handed over to Panjagutta police for further action. Police said Sandeep, a hardware engineer, began committing thefts when he could not find a job. After two thefts, the youth from Ponugutivalasa was nabbed and sent to jail also||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-poses-as-plasma-donor-cons-over-200/articleshow/77075030.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Sachin Pilot offered me money to join BJP: Congress MLA Giriraj Singh Malinga||JAIPUR: In a first direct allegation of horse-trading against Sachin Pilot, Congress legislator Giriraj Singh Malinga claimed the former deputy chief minister offered him money to change loyalties. The three-time legislator, who represents Bari constituency in Dholpur district, said Pilot made the offer to him more than once, beginning December last year. The MLA said he had informed chief minister Ashok Gehlot soon after that. “I had gone to his (Pilot’s) house when the delimitation of panchayats was going on (last quarter of 2019). It was a one-on-one meeting with him. Sachin ji (Pilot) did offer me money, but I declined and said I will not join BJP even after resigning,” Malinga said. As deputy chief minister, Pilot had held PWD and panchayat raj portfolios. Congress sacked Pilot from the posts of deputy CM as well as PCC chief on July 14 on charges of conspiring with the BJP to topple the state government. Based on Congress complaints, the Rajasthan special operations group served him notices on sedition charges, while the speaker served him defection notice, which was heard by the Rajasthan high court on Monday. Malinga said he received the offer again, prior to the Rajya Sabha elections in June. On being asked how much money Pilot offered him, Malinga said, “I was told I could ask as much as I wanted. There was no limit. ‘Aap toh muh kholo, kitna chahiye (you just tell, how much you want).” Explaining why he refused the offer, the legislator said, “I have come to Congress from BSP; now if I leave Congress, where will I go and what would I tell my voters?” Malinga was among the six BSP MLAs who merged with the Congress in 2009 when Gehlot became chief minister for the second time (2008-2013). In September last year too, all six BSP MLAs merged with the Congress, taking the Congress tally in the assembly to 107. “I informed the CM about the offer but he said everything would be okay soon. He said some people (MLAs) were getting restless but they will soon fall in line,” he said. Later in the day, chief minister Gehlot told reporters there were many MLAs like Malinga who were offered money to switch sides. Asked why he delayed action on Malinga’s complaint, the CM said, “The delay saved the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sachin-pilot-offered-me-money-to-join-bjp-cong-mla-malinga/articleshow/77078291.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vikhroli building gets 525kw/day solar power facility in 45 days||MUMBAI: Around 150 workers commissioned one of the biggest solar energy facilities over a 40,000 sqft roof of Embassy 247 Park building, a commercial complex in Vikhroli, by installing 1,591 panels in only 45 days. It will have 525kw power generation capacity per day, the highest, which is 25kw more than a similar system atop HDIL Dheeraj Dreams in Bhandup, commissioned last year. Mumbai Metro One, an infrastructure project, tops in generation capacity at 612kw. Embassy building is the largest self-generator of green energy among building structures in the city, translating into a huge green impact equivalent to plantation of 25,000 teakwood trees annually, said solar energy expert Gautam Das, an IIT-B alumni and CEO of Oorajn Solar, that led the mammoth task. He said the project will help reduce 16,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emission by avoiding consumption of thermal power, besides saving Rs 70 lakh on electricity bills every year. “The carbon reduction impact is equivalent to removing 600-odd cars from Mumbai roads every year,” he added, pointing out that break-even for this Rs 2 crore project will be achieved within three years. Certified as a green building, the complex recycles water, has energy-efficient lights and a waste management system. Oorjan has chosen Made in India German technology for the system, synchronised with grid power, to facilitate use of additional power (left after use by building complex) for common citizens. The electricity bill, generated through net metering, minuses the grid contribution, reducing the burden of billing on those who buy or hire outlets at the complex. The project was inaugurated recently by Sandeep Tapadia, who heads operations across Embassy office premises in Mumbai. Solar power is not only affordable and money-saving, but also saves the world from ever-increasing pollution, especially in Mumbai, which consistently features among top four cities in the world in terms of vehicular pollution, said solar expert Sunil Tonge. Power expert Pradip Bhargav said huge reduction in prices of photovoltaic plates made cost of solar power cheaper, compared to thermal power being sold by distribution companies. “Since advanced solar panels guarantee almost 100% saving and full payback in two to three years, such projects are sustainable in the long run. Hence, many residential, commercial and institutional complexes are going in for it,” he said. Ashok Pendse, a senior power expert, said in solar net-metering system (solar power generated and put on grid is deducted from grid power consumed by building to serve final billing), the biggest beneficiaries are commercial users who have to pay high prices to distribution companies for power at commercial rates. He said if ‘feed-in tariff system’ (rooftop solar tariff deducted from real-time changing tariff of solar power generated at utility or market-end) is adopted (as in Rajasthan, wherein tariffs are almost equal to that of cost of solar generation), it can threaten feasibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vikhroli-bldg-gets-525kw/day-solar-power-facility-in-45-days/articleshow/77074310.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot offered me money to join BJP: Congress MLA Giriraj Singh Malinga||JAIPUR: In a first direct allegation of horse-trading against Sachin Pilot, Congress legislator Giriraj Singh Malinga claimed the former deputy chief minister offered him money to change loyalties. The three-time legislator, who represents Bari constituency in Dholpur district, said Pilot made the offer to him more than once, beginning December last year. The MLA said he had informed chief minister Ashok Gehlot soon after that. “I had gone to his (Pilot’s) house when the delimitation of panchayats was going on (last quarter of 2019). It was a one-on-one meeting with him. Sachin ji (Pilot) did offer me money, but I declined and said I will not join BJP even after resigning,” Malinga said. As deputy chief minister, Pilot had held PWD and panchayat raj portfolios. Congress sacked Pilot from the posts of deputy CM as well as PCC chief on July 14 on charges of conspiring with the BJP to topple the state government. Based on Congress complaints, the Rajasthan special operations group served him notices on sedition charges, while the speaker served him defection notice, which was heard by the Rajasthan high court on Monday. Malinga said he received the offer again, prior to the Rajya Sabha elections in June. On being asked how much money Pilot offered him, Malinga said, “I was told I could ask as much as I wanted. There was no limit. ‘Aap toh muh kholo, kitna chahiye (you just tell, how much you want).” Explaining why he refused the offer, the legislator said, “I have come to Congress from BSP; now if I leave Congress, where will I go and what would I tell my voters?” Malinga was among the six BSP MLAs who merged with the Congress in 2009 when Gehlot became chief minister for the second time (2008-2013). In September last year too, all six BSP MLAs merged with the Congress, taking the Congress tally in the assembly to 107. “I informed the CM about the offer but he said everything would be okay soon. He said some people (MLAs) were getting restless but they will soon fall in line,” he said. Later in the day, chief minister Gehlot told reporters there were many MLAs like Malinga who were offered money to switch sides. Asked why he delayed action on Malinga’s complaint, the CM said, “The delay saved the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sachin-pilot-offered-me-money-to-join-bjp-cong-mla-malinga/articleshow/77075026.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre calls Telangana’s bluff on team’s findings||HYDERABAD: The Centre on Monday informed the Telangana high court that it had passed on the findings of the central team that toured the state in June in connection with prevalence of Covid-19. Assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao told this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy when the latter was hearing scores of PILs filed by professor PL Vishweshwar Rao of Telangana Jana Samithi and others. The ASG also said the Centre had released more than Rs 430 crore in the last few months to combat the virus. On Monday, advocate general BS Prasad told the court that they did not receive any information from the Centre. “Team told authorities to scale up tests when they were touring. Nothing much was heard from them later,” the AG said. The bench wondered why it would take 20 days for the letter to reach the state. It was at this time, the ASG furnished the letter (dated July 1, 2020) written by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan wherein she said that testing in state had been one of the lowest in the country and asked the government to ramp it up. “Low testing and high positivity are two areas of concern for us because as many as 17 districts in Telangana have crossed national average,” Preeti pointed out in her letter, addressed to chief secretary Somesh Kumar. Containment, surveillance and testing should be three areas government should focus on, she added. “There should be effective containment plans in Medchal-Malkajgiri, Sangareddy, Jangaon, Mahbubnagar and Warangal as they are emerging as new hotspots,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-calls-ts-bluff-on-teams-findings/articleshow/77075032.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan HC to continue hearing Sachin Pilot camp’s plea today||JAIPUR: Hearing on the joint petition by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress legislators, who have challenged speaker CP Joshi’s defection notices to them for failing to attend legislature party meetings, would continue in the Rajasthan high court on Tuesday. A division bench comprising chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta had been hearing the matter since Saturday, with senior counsels Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi representing the Pilot camp and senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi and advocate general MS Singhvi appearing for the speaker. Salve concluded his rejoinder submissions before the court rose for the day, while Rohatgi would argue again on Tuesday. The court extended its time till 6:30pm to let Salve complete his arguments. Salve argued that dissent against the style of functioning of a chief minister cannot be taken as switching party or giving up its membership. The senior counsel quoted a constitutional bench judgment in Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu and others that dealt with ‘crossing the floor’ in the House. Salve said expressing dissent against the party chief was not crossing the floor. The hearing on Monday started with Abhishek Manu Singhvi arguing that Pilot camp’s petition was premature and the court could not interfere before the speaker acting on the notices. The speaker had already assured the court that he would not act on the notices until 5:30pm on Tuesday. Singhvi said what conduct invites disqualification under Schedule X of the constitution was sole domain of the speaker and referred to the Ravi S Naik case in support. Senior counsel Devadatt Kamat, who appeared for Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, reasoned that statements issued by the dissident legislators and their refusal to attend the party’s legislature meeting should be seen as voluntarily giving up the membership. Speaker had issued notices to the 19 MLAs on complaint by the chief whip. Earlier in the day, advocate Poonam Chand Bhandari staged a protest outside the courtroom when he was not allowed inside. “I was later called inside by the chief justice who accepted my application on behalf of the ‘Public Against Corruption’, an NGO, to be party in the case,” Bhandari told TOI. The advocate said the application was to oppose striking down provisions of Schedule X of the constitution dealing with anti-defection. “If the provision is struck down, MLAs would defect without losing their memberships,” Bhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hc-to-continue-hearing-pilot-camps-plea-today/articleshow/77080146.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik police to increase patrolling on highways||Nashik: The Nashik Rural police have decided to intensify patrolling on highways and major roads passing through the rural areas of the district following the robbery at a petrol pump in Kalwan on Saturday night. Taking into account that the roads in the remote areas of the district are mostly deserted due to the outbreak of Covid-19, chances of highway robberies have increased. So, the rural police have decided to intensify patrolling on the highways and other roads passing through the district. Arti Singh, the superintendent of police, Nashik Rural, confirmed that highway patrolling will be intensified to keep a check on these robberies. As the flow of people and vehicular movement on the highways passing has reduced, the chances of such incidents taking place have also increased. Police officials said all the police stations generally have police personnel patrolling in their jurisdiction during the night to prevent such incidents. However, this patrolling will be intensified. On Saturday, a group of four people, two of them carrying sickles, came to a petrol pump at Nanduri on the foothills of the Saptashrungi temple and robbed the petrol pump owner of his gold bracelet, chain and a mobile phone, worth Rs two lakh. While the robbers had injured the owner and three of his employees, a group of workers, who were travelling in a pick-up vehicle, happened to arrive at the petrol pump to refuel the vehicle. On seeing the suspects trying to get away, they overpowered two of the robbery suspects. One of them was beaten to death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-police-to-increase-patrolling-on-highways/articleshow/77072504.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan HC to continue hearing Sachin Pilot camp’s plea today||JAIPUR: Hearing on the joint petition by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress legislators, who have challenged speaker CP Joshi’s defection notices to them for failing to attend legislature party meetings, would continue in the Rajasthan high court on Tuesday. A division bench comprising chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta had been hearing the matter since Saturday, with senior counsels Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi representing the Pilot camp and senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi and advocate general MS Singhvi appearing for the speaker. Salve concluded his rejoinder submissions before the court rose for the day, while Rohatgi would argue again on Tuesday. The court extended its time till 6:30pm to let Salve complete his arguments. Salve argued that dissent against the style of functioning of a chief minister cannot be taken as switching party or giving up its membership. The senior counsel quoted a constitutional bench judgment in Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu and others that dealt with ‘crossing the floor’ in the House. Salve said expressing dissent against the party chief was not crossing the floor. The hearing on Monday started with Abhishek Manu Singhvi arguing that Pilot camp’s petition was premature and the court could not interfere before the speaker acting on the notices. The speaker had already assured the court that he would not act on the notices until 5:30pm on Tuesday. Singhvi said what conduct invites disqualification under Schedule X of the constitution was sole domain of the speaker and referred to the Ravi S Naik case in support. Senior counsel Devadatt Kamat, who appeared for Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, reasoned that statements issued by the dissident legislators and their refusal to attend the party’s legislature meeting should be seen as voluntarily giving up the membership. Speaker had issued notices to the 19 MLAs on complaint by the chief whip. Earlier in the day, advocate Poonam Chand Bhandari staged a protest outside the courtroom when he was not allowed inside. “I was later called inside by the chief justice who accepted my application on behalf of the ‘Public Against Corruption’, an NGO, to be party in the case,” Bhandari told TOI. The advocate said the application was to oppose striking down provisions of Schedule X of the constitution dealing with anti-defection. “If the provision is struck down, MLAs would defect without losing their memberships,” Bhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/hc-to-continue-hearing-pilot-camps-plea-today/articleshow/77080148.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan HC to continue hearing Sachin Pilot camp’s plea today||JAIPUR: Hearing on the joint petition by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress legislators, who have challenged speaker CP Joshi’s defection notices to them for failing to attend legislature party meetings, would continue in the Rajasthan high court on Tuesday. A division bench comprising chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta had been hearing the matter since Saturday, with senior counsels Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi representing the Pilot camp and senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi and advocate general MS Singhvi appearing for the speaker. Salve concluded his rejoinder submissions before the court rose for the day, while Rohatgi would argue again on Tuesday. The court extended its time till 6:30pm to let Salve complete his arguments. Salve argued that dissent against the style of functioning of a chief minister cannot be taken as switching party or giving up its membership. The senior counsel quoted a constitutional bench judgment in Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu and others that dealt with ‘crossing the floor’ in the House. Salve said expressing dissent against the party chief was not crossing the floor. The hearing on Monday started with Abhishek Manu Singhvi arguing that Pilot camp’s petition was premature and the court could not interfere before the speaker acting on the notices. The speaker had already assured the court that he would not act on the notices until 5:30pm on Tuesday. Singhvi said what conduct invites disqualification under Schedule X of the constitution was sole domain of the speaker and referred to the Ravi S Naik case in support. Senior counsel Devadatt Kamat, who appeared for Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, reasoned that statements issued by the dissident legislators and their refusal to attend the party’s legislature meeting should be seen as voluntarily giving up the membership. Speaker had issued notices to the 19 MLAs on complaint by the chief whip. Earlier in the day, advocate Poonam Chand Bhandari staged a protest outside the courtroom when he was not allowed inside. “I was later called inside by the chief justice who accepted my application on behalf of the ‘Public Against Corruption’, an NGO, to be party in the case,” Bhandari told TOI. The advocate said the application was to oppose striking down provisions of Schedule X of the constitution dealing with anti-defection. “If the provision is struck down, MLAs would defect without losing their memberships,” Bhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-to-continue-hearing-pilot-camps-plea-today/articleshow/77080145.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Deploy fire tenders to sanitize Lucknow on Sat: Min to officials||LUCKNOW: Law and justice minister Brijesh Pathak has directed top district authorities to deploy fire tenders for complete sanitization of the city this Saturday. Amidst surge in Covid 19 cases in the state capital, Pathak on Monday convened a meeting of police commissioner Sujit Pandey, district magistrate Abhishek Prakash, chief medical officer and administrator, Lucknow Municipal Corporation and directed them to use fire brigades this weekend for complete sanitization the city. Pathak lamented that sanitization in few containment areas was not yielding desired results. Thus, the state capital should be completely sanitized this Saturday, he added. The authorities were also asked to increase the number of beds in hospitals. Besides, patients should not face any difficulty in availing ambulance service, said the minister who also holds the rural engineering services department. Pathak said that the Yogi government was making all out efforts to contain the spread of Covid 19 in the state. He exhorted the district authorities to ensure that benefits of government schemes reach the common man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deploy-fire-tenders-to-sanitize-lucknow-on-sat-min-to-officials/articleshow/77075038.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC to continue hearing Sachin Pilot camp’s plea today||JAIPUR: Hearing on the joint petition by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress legislators, who have challenged speaker CP Joshi’s defection notices to them for failing to attend legislature party meetings, would continue in the Rajasthan high court on Tuesday. A division bench comprising chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta had been hearing the matter since Saturday, with senior counsels Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi representing the Pilot camp and senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi and advocate general MS Singhvi appearing for the speaker. Salve concluded his rejoinder submissions before the court rose for the day, while Rohatgi would argue again on Tuesday. The court extended its time till 6:30pm to let Salve complete his arguments. Salve argued that dissent against the style of functioning of a chief minister cannot be taken as switching party or giving up its membership. The senior counsel quoted a constitutional bench judgment in Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu and others that dealt with ‘crossing the floor’ in the House. Salve said expressing dissent against the party chief was not crossing the floor. The hearing on Monday started with Abhishek Manu Singhvi arguing that Pilot camp’s petition was premature and the court could not interfere before the speaker acting on the notices. The speaker had already assured the court that he would not act on the notices until 5:30pm on Tuesday. Singhvi said what conduct invites disqualification under Schedule X of the constitution was sole domain of the speaker and referred to the Ravi S Naik case in support. Senior counsel Devadatt Kamat, who appeared for Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, reasoned that statements issued by the dissident legislators and their refusal to attend the party’s legislature meeting should be seen as voluntarily giving up the membership. Speaker had issued notices to the 19 MLAs on complaint by the chief whip. Earlier in the day, advocate Poonam Chand Bhandari staged a protest outside the courtroom when he was not allowed inside. “I was later called inside by the chief justice who accepted my application on behalf of the ‘Public Against Corruption’, an NGO, to be party in the case,” Bhandari told TOI. The advocate said the application was to oppose striking down provisions of Schedule X of the constitution dealing with anti-defection. “If the provision is struck down, MLAs would defect without losing their memberships,” Bhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-to-continue-hearing-pilot-camps-plea-today/articleshow/77075031.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||11-year-old ends life as bro takes his samosa; another teen kills self||Nagpur: An 11-year-old boy ended his life on Sunday after his elder brother took away his samosa at Ganga Nagar on Katol road. In another incident, a 13-year-old boy was found hanging from ceiling fan at his Anand Nagar home by the family on Monday morning. The 11-year-old had used his mother’s saree to hang himself in the kitchen. In the case of 13-year-old, the boy first covered his face with a pillow cover and then used a scarf to hang himself from the grill of the window in the drawing room as rest of the family slept inside. Gittikhadan police have seized his mobile phone, iPad and tablet to ascertain whether it was some online activity that may have prompted him to end life. Sources stated the teen was an early riser who would offer his parents warm water in the morning as a measure to fight Covid. Police said the teen was found standing on the floor and likely died due to tigtened noose around the neck. The suicides of two children, both student of Standard VIII, have left the city shocked. In the second case, the reason behind the teenager’s drastic decision was not known even to the family. His father, a cop with crime branch, could only state his son used to spend much time on mobile phone and iPad. The victim was also a topper in class. The teen’s father had gifted him the gadget about a month ago. Dr Sudhir Bhave, well-known psychiatrist, said the ‘frustration tolerance’ in the young generation had reduced considerably compared to earlier generation. “They seem not prepared to hear a “No’. After getting their demands fulfilled more easily than in yesteryears, the present generation seems to have become more prone to react adversely to anything not happening as per their wish,” he said. “The impulsivity in children is likely driving them to take such steps. We need wise parenting as one of the tools to avoid such tragedies,” he said. In the first case, the 11-year-old is learnt to have taken Rs 10 from home without informing parents and had purchased a samosa with it. His elder brother informed their mother about his brother’s taking away the money and buying samosa. He had also snatched the samosa from younger sibling and eaten it. The family is poor and the victim’s father makes ends meet by selling vegetables. Though their mother permitted younger son to buy another samosa, he went inside the kitchen and hanged himself. Gittikhadan police have registered the two cases as accidental deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-year-old-ends-life-as-bro-takes-his-samosa-another-teen-kills-self/articleshow/77087762.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||Amidst India-China standoff, security agencies keeping close eye on Barahoti in U’khand||Nainital: Even as India and China are engaged in a standoff in Ladakh, security agencies are keeping a close watch on Barahoti – a remote area in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district -- that has seen multiple Chinese incursions in the past few years. Officials say that even though no Chinese incursion has been witnessed in the Barahoti area so far this year, a tight vigil is being maintained. “Our personnel are on the ground and keeping a close eye on the area. So far, the border has remained peaceful. We will continue to maintain tight vigil,” said an official of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which has its presence in Barahoti as well as the Mana Pass, adjoining the border with China. Barahoti has been claimed by the Chinese as part of their territory since the 1950s. Though meetings were held between the Indian and Chinese side in 1954 to sort the issue, a consensus could not be reached and the territory has remained in dispute ever since. Though the Chinese have crossed several times into the Barahoti sector, the incursions have increased in the last few years. In September 2018, Chinese soldiers were reported to have entered almost four km inside Barahoti. In July of the same year, PLA soldiers also had a face-off with local Garhwali shepherds here. And in the previous year, that is 2017, two helicopters suspected to have originated from China were spotted flying in Indian airspace at Barahoti. In 2014, too, Chinese Army choppers had entered into Indian airspace at Barahoti. Explaining the importance of Barahoti, former Army officers said that the area is around 80 kilometer of pasture land surrounded by snow-capped mountains. “Because it is a prime pasture land which remains accessible during the summers as compared to the nearby areas which are covered with snow, the PLA and the Chinese government are eyeing the area. It is therefore necessary that India should maintain strong vigil in the area,” said Lieutenant General Syed Ata Hasnain (retd). He added that even though Barahoti is smallest among the contested areas, it offers scope to the Chinese army to attempt coercion without investing much of their troops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amidst-india-china-standoff-security-agencies-keeping-close-eye-on-barahoti-in-ukhand/articleshow/77072523.cms||Prashant Jha
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Bombay HC seeks status of activist-writer Varavara||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Monday directed the state and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to inform it about the status of hospitalized Telugu poet and activist P V Varavara Rao, who has been arrested in the Elgar Parishad case for alleged Maoist links. Rao, who has been in jail since 2018, is seeking interim bail on health grounds. Meanwhile, as news emerged that Rao had suffered a head injury during his time at JJ Hospital, his family issued a statement seeking transparency and official information on his health. The family said they were unaware about his head injury or that he was being shifted from one hospital to another as well as his deteriorating health condition. They said they found out from news reports and secondary sources. They have sought daily updates and permission to attend to him since he is reportedly incapacitated. The statement issued by the family seeks “immediate direction to the hospital administration or prison administration to provide transparent, official updates on Varavara Rao’s health status and line of treatment on a regular basis once or twice a day as long as he is in hospital.” Rao’s lawyers Sudeep Pasbola and R Sathyanarayanan submitted his bail plea ought to be considered since he was in a critical condition. “Rao, aged about 81 years, is suffering from multiple ailments,” Sathyanarayanan had said earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bombay-hc-seeks-status-of-activist-writer-varavara/articleshow/77075045.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Special Operations Group waits for Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's reply in audio clip row||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group (SOG) is awaiting the reply of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in connection with the notice served to him for his statement in the audio clips case. Sources in SOG Shekhawat and others who were earlier served notices would be sent reminders if they fail to respond. TOI was the first to report about the issue following which the minister alleged that SOG officials visited his residence though cops refuted the claims. The SOG team camping in Delhi are yet to locate MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma though notices have been sent to his various residences in Jaipur and Churu. Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS) said, “No team of SOG visited the minister’s residence and the notice does not mention anything about taking voice samples. It is a summon to the individual to record his statement and we have asked for a convenient venue, date and time for the same.” The summon was sent to Shekhawat based on the interrogation of Sanjay Jain who was arrested after two audio clips went viral in which he could be allegedly heard talking to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Gajendra Singh. The subpoena was sent to Shekhawat’s personal secretary on July 18 via Whatsapp at 4:33 pm, via email at 4:34 pm and at 4:36 pm by a phone call. In the FIR lodged on July 10 against two businessmen, Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh after their mobile conversation was intercepted by the investigating agencies, SOG had sent similar notices to 16 politicians including chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot though cops were yet to receive a response from any of them. According to officials, in such cases, reminders are sent to individuals and in case they still fail to respond, police can approach the court. Meanwhile, the SOG team which went to Manesar on Friday is yet to locate Sharma and officials refused to divulge the reason as to why they are looking for him despite the subpoenas already being sent to his residences. Cops claimed it was part of the investigation, but did not comment on the fact if Sharma will be arrested or brought in for questioning by the team once they are able to trace him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-waits-for-shekhawats-response/articleshow/77075046.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||Special Operations Group waits for Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's reply in audio clip row||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group (SOG) is awaiting the reply of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in connection with the notice served to him for his statement in the audio clips case. Sources in SOG Shekhawat and others who were earlier served notices would be sent reminders if they fail to respond. TOI was the first to report about the issue following which the minister alleged that SOG officials visited his residence though cops refuted the claims. The SOG team camping in Delhi are yet to locate MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma though notices have been sent to his various residences in Jaipur and Churu. Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS) said, “No team of SOG visited the minister’s residence and the notice does not mention anything about taking voice samples. It is a summon to the individual to record his statement and we have asked for a convenient venue, date and time for the same.” The summon was sent to Shekhawat based on the interrogation of Sanjay Jain who was arrested after two audio clips went viral in which he could be allegedly heard talking to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Gajendra Singh. The subpoena was sent to Shekhawat’s personal secretary on July 18 via Whatsapp at 4:33 pm, via email at 4:34 pm and at 4:36 pm by a phone call. In the FIR lodged on July 10 against two businessmen, Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh after their mobile conversation was intercepted by the investigating agencies, SOG had sent similar notices to 16 politicians including chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot though cops were yet to receive a response from any of them. According to officials, in such cases, reminders are sent to individuals and in case they still fail to respond, police can approach the court. Meanwhile, the SOG team which went to Manesar on Friday is yet to locate Sharma and officials refused to divulge the reason as to why they are looking for him despite the subpoenas already being sent to his residences. Cops claimed it was part of the investigation, but did not comment on the fact if Sharma will be arrested or brought in for questioning by the team once they are able to trace him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sog-waits-for-shekhawats-response/articleshow/77077275.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Special Operations Group waits for Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's reply in audio clip row||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group (SOG) is awaiting the reply of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in connection with the notice served to him for his statement in the audio clips case. Sources in SOG Shekhawat and others who were earlier served notices would be sent reminders if they fail to respond. TOI was the first to report about the issue following which the minister alleged that SOG officials visited his residence though cops refuted the claims. The SOG team camping in Delhi are yet to locate MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma though notices have been sent to his various residences in Jaipur and Churu. Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS) said, “No team of SOG visited the minister’s residence and the notice does not mention anything about taking voice samples. It is a summon to the individual to record his statement and we have asked for a convenient venue, date and time for the same.” The summon was sent to Shekhawat based on the interrogation of Sanjay Jain who was arrested after two audio clips went viral in which he could be allegedly heard talking to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Gajendra Singh. The subpoena was sent to Shekhawat’s personal secretary on July 18 via Whatsapp at 4:33 pm, via email at 4:34 pm and at 4:36 pm by a phone call. In the FIR lodged on July 10 against two businessmen, Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh after their mobile conversation was intercepted by the investigating agencies, SOG had sent similar notices to 16 politicians including chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot though cops were yet to receive a response from any of them. According to officials, in such cases, reminders are sent to individuals and in case they still fail to respond, police can approach the court. Meanwhile, the SOG team which went to Manesar on Friday is yet to locate Sharma and officials refused to divulge the reason as to why they are looking for him despite the subpoenas already being sent to his residences. Cops claimed it was part of the investigation, but did not comment on the fact if Sharma will be arrested or brought in for questioning by the team once they are able to trace him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sog-waits-for-shekhawats-response/articleshow/77077273.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Special Operations Group waits for Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's reply in audio clip row||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group (SOG) is awaiting the reply of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in connection with the notice served to him for his statement in the audio clips case. Sources in SOG Shekhawat and others who were earlier served notices would be sent reminders if they fail to respond. TOI was the first to report about the issue following which the minister alleged that SOG officials visited his residence though cops refuted the claims. The SOG team camping in Delhi are yet to locate MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma though notices have been sent to his various residences in Jaipur and Churu. Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS) said, “No team of SOG visited the minister’s residence and the notice does not mention anything about taking voice samples. It is a summon to the individual to record his statement and we have asked for a convenient venue, date and time for the same.” The summon was sent to Shekhawat based on the interrogation of Sanjay Jain who was arrested after two audio clips went viral in which he could be allegedly heard talking to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Gajendra Singh. The subpoena was sent to Shekhawat’s personal secretary on July 18 via Whatsapp at 4:33 pm, via email at 4:34 pm and at 4:36 pm by a phone call. In the FIR lodged on July 10 against two businessmen, Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh after their mobile conversation was intercepted by the investigating agencies, SOG had sent similar notices to 16 politicians including chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot though cops were yet to receive a response from any of them. According to officials, in such cases, reminders are sent to individuals and in case they still fail to respond, police can approach the court. Meanwhile, the SOG team which went to Manesar on Friday is yet to locate Sharma and officials refused to divulge the reason as to why they are looking for him despite the subpoenas already being sent to his residences. Cops claimed it was part of the investigation, but did not comment on the fact if Sharma will be arrested or brought in for questioning by the team once they are able to trace him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/sog-waits-for-shekhawats-response/articleshow/77077276.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Plea in HC to record rescued kids’ statements via videoconference||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the AAP government and Delhi Police on a plea highlighting the problems faced by children who have been rescued. The petitioner, NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, stated that in times of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the statement of rescued kids must be recorded via videoconferencing, instead of taking them to court. It also said that these children must be tested for Covid-19 at child care institutions or at the office of the SDM, and not at government hospitals. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan gave time to the government and Delhi Police till July 28 even as the NGO’s counsel, Prabhsahay Kaur, urged the high court to direct that till the next date of hearing, the children should not be taken to court to record their statement. The government informed the court that the administration was considering recording the statements via videoconference and suggested another option — magistrates going to child care institutions or homes for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-in-hc-to-record-rescued-kids-statements-via-videoconference/articleshow/77074569.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||‘Govt tapped Sanjay Jain’s phone, but not of any MLA and MP’||JAIPUR: The government did not intercept the phones of any public representative – MLAs and MPs - but only tapped the mobile of middleman Sanjay Jain who was subsequently arrested for purportedly plotting to dislodge the Ashok Gehlot government, informed sources told TOI on Monday. The union home ministry has sought a report on the Sanjay Jain phone interception case from the chief secretary of Rajasthan, Rajeeva Swarup. The report is almost ready and will be sent to MHA on Tuesday, according to informed sources in the home department. In the audio clips released by Congress party, Jain could be heard allegedly talking to Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. “A review meeting was held for all phone interceptions under the Indian Telegraph Act on Sunday and all such interceptions were found to be done in accordance with the provisions of the law. No phone of any public representative (MLAs, MPs) has been intercepted,” said an informed source in the home department. According to the source, only Sanjay Jain’s phone was intercepted and he was heard talking to Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The phones of these two people were not intercepted, said the source. The phone interceptions are done under the Indian Telegraph Act. “The MHA has sought a report on the Sanjay Jain phone interception case. They have asked us only about this particular case (Sanjay Jain phone interception case). Based on the information police had, his (Jain’s) phone was intercepted. He was one of the main persons (linked to alleged horse trading). So, they (MHA) have sought details about that,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-tapped-sanjay-jains-phone-but-not-of-any-mla-mp-shekhawat-bhanwarlal/articleshow/77075033.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 21, 2020||Amritsar||Agri ordinances: Punjab farmers take out tractor rallies||Bathinda: Amid growing opposition against the Centre’s farm sector ordinances, two farmer organisations — Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) and BKU (Lakhowal) — on Monday took out tractor rallies and protested across Punjab, seeking scrapping of the new laws. Aam Aadmi Party also protested in some districts of the state. Apart from the three ordinances, the farmers are also opposing the proposed electricity amendment bill and continuous hike in diesel prices. Another farmer body, Satnam Singh Pannu-led Kisan Sangharsh Committee has decided to hold a tractor protest on July 21, while 13 other farm organisations have decided to take tractor rallies to the residences of Akali-BJP leaders on July 27. These outfits are already holding rallies in villages in preparation for the July 27 programme. Although taking out rallies amid the pandemic remains a challenge, the leaders of various organisations feel they must oppose the “anti-farmer ordinances”, though with due precautions, as the ordinances are a threat to their very survival. AAP MLA and party’ kisan wing head Kultar Singh Sandhwan, who drove the tractor at Kotkapura protest, accompanied by another party MLA Baldev Singh Jaito, said, “These ordinances will keep on causing losses to farmers in the long run. The Union government through these ordinances wants to abolish the MSP regime which will not be tolerated and AAP will stand firmly against this injustice.” BKU (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “The three ordinances are completely anti-farmer, and their coming into force will be detrimental to our interests. So, we have decided to go ahead with the protests with Covid-19 precautions, including maintaining social distancing.” BKU Lakhowal general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said, “We want these ordinances withdrawn at any cost, as they are anti-farmer and will eventually take away the benefit of MSP from farmers. The farmers also want the proposed electricity amendment bill withdrawn immediately and prices of diesel decreased.” PHOTO CAPTION: AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Baldev Singh Jaito during a tractor protest in Kotkapura on Monday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/agri-ordinances-punjab-farmers-take-out-tractor-rallies/articleshow/77075054.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Track all patients, contacts to bring down deaths: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: As the daily number of Covid-19 positive cases in UP inches towards 2,000-mark, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has emphasised on door-to-door checking, 100% contact tracing and boosting immunity to control coronavirus spread. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi on Monday said the door-to-door survey which was carried out from July 1-15 would now be a continuous process. “Surveillance teams have been asked to carry out door-to-door assessment even in those areas which they have visited earlier. The CM has said it is imperative to identify positive cases, even if they are asymptomatic, refer such patients to hospitals to bring down death rate. If a person shows symptoms, rapid antigen testing should be conducted immediately,” Awasthi said. To ensure that the drive is effective, the CM has also directed all districts to compulsorily use rapid antigen testing kits. Awasthi said there were still some districts where rapid antigen testing was not being done. As cases continue to rise in the state, the CM has said that officials should focus on 100% contact tracing for all confirmed patients. “In all Covid-19 positive cases, tracing should be done the same day for which additional teams should be deployed in all districts. In Lucknow, where a 25-member team of teachers has already been appointed for the task, another 25-member team is being set up. The state capital has been recording the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases among all districts over the past few days,” Awasthi said. “When contacts are traced, health officials should check ID cards so that correct details like phone numbers and addresses can be taken down. This will make it easier to contact them in case they also test positive,” he added. The CM has also directed health and medical education departments to send special teams of doctors to districts where cases are high. These districts include Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Basti, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Ballia, Jhansi, Moradabad and Varanasi. The teams will be accompanied by nodal officers of these districts. The information department is also preparing for a massive awareness campaign under which police and local administration will use public address system to broadcast recorded messages on how to prevent Covid-19. Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey has also acquired 50,000 masks which will be distributed by cops to all persons who will be challaned for not wearing masks. The CM has said that Aarogya Setu and Ayush Kawach apps should be promoted to help people boost immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/track-all-patients-contacts-to-bring-down-deaths-yogi/articleshow/77075051.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||‘You don’t deserve praise’: Telangana HC rips into health officials||HYDERABAD: Telangana HC on Monday came down heavily on the health authorities for claiming that it had appreciated their efforts in fighting Covid-19. “When did we appreciate you (officials)? Telangana is testing the lowest in the country and recording third highest positive cases. None of our earlier directives is being implemented by the authorities despite repeated reminders from us,” a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said while hearing a batch of petitions that challenged the approach of the authorities in Covid-19 handling. “Officials are coming to court, listening to our recitals and resuming their routine,” the judges said. Referring to one of the bulletins released by the public health director in which he claimed that the court had appreciated the government’s efforts, the judge questioned advocate general BS Prasad as to why the officials were making such false claims. The AG apologised for the same. “Despite our repeated directions to increase the number of tests, it’s not being implemented. Whereas states like Delhi and AP are far ahead of Telangana in conducting tests that are at least five times higher than Telangana’s 6,000 tests per day,” the judges pointed out. Referring to the statistics provided by one of the advocates Gorantla Pujitha, the judges said the authorities were fudging the numbers and misleading people and the courts. “The state government is claiming that it is following ICMR guidelines but is giving no information to us on how many secondary contacts it has tested so far,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/you-dont-deserve-praise-hc-rips-into-health-officials/articleshow/77075057.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||3 dead, 11 missing after landslide in Munsyari; Badrinath highway blocked as torrential rains lash Uttarakhand||Pithoragarh/Doon: Torrential rains lashed several parts of Uttarakhand, especially the Kumaon region, on Sunday night and Monday morning. Three persons of a family died and five were injured in Gaila village in Munsyari area of Pithoragarh, while eleven people went missing in Tanga Muniyal village of Munsyari after the downpour triggered landslides in the area. Police and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams were engaged in rescue operations till the time this report was filed. Also, the highway leading to Badrinath was blocked after landslides at Bhanerpani, Lambagad and Totaghati. Pithoragarh district magistrate (DM) Vijay Kumar Jogdande told TOI, “On Sunday night, heavy rain and landslide damaged two houses in Gaila village and while three persons – Sher Singh, Govinde Devi and Manta – got buried under the debris and died, Digar Singh, Rukmani Devi, Prinka Devi, Sheela Devi and Manku sustained injuries. In Tanga Munyani village, two houses collapsed due to landslides in which one person was injured and 11 persons went missing. In Bata village, two houses were damaged. As houses have been reduced to rubble, as a result of which rescue workers are facing a challenge.” Dharchula in Pithoragarh district recorded the highest rainfall at 150mm, while Munsyari witnessed 80mm rainfall. Officials said that water level of all rivers has been increasing and Kali river has been flowing above the danger level at Dharchula. Incessant showers also lashed certain pockets of Garhwal region, resulting in landslides and road blockages at several places, causing inconvenience to the public. The Badrinath highway, which was opened a couple of days ago after being closed for 42 hours, got blocked again following landslides at Bhanerpani, Lambagad and Totaghati near Devprayag. Meanwhile, the Tanakpur-Pithoragarh highway (NH-9) was blocked for seven hours following a landslide at the Dhaun and Swala curve. According to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SOEC), almost the whole highway at Totaghati was damaged and only one meter of road has survived due to massive landslides and it might take some time to repair the road. Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre on Monday issued a red alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh and Bageshwar districts during the next 72 hours, starting from July 21. Dehradun, Haridwar, Tehri, Pauri, Nainital and Almora districts are also likely to receive heavy to very rainfall from Monday onwards. “In view of the predicted heavy to very rainfall with intense to very intense spells between July 21 and July 23, landslides, rockfall, road blockage and overflow of streams in vulnerable areas is likely during this period,” said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-dead-11-missing-after-landslide-in-munsyari-badrinath-highway-blocked-as-torrential-rains-lash-uttarakhand/articleshow/77072528.cms||Prem Punetha
July 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP leaves patients in home isolation to fend for themselves||BENGALURU: There were 7,143 patients in home isolation in Bengaluru on Monday, but several allege they aren’t receiving any help or support from the BBMP or the state health and family welfare department. In a circular, the directorate of health and family welfare services had said the district health authority/ BBMP will not only assess suitability of patient’s ‘house’ for home isolation, but also establish teleconsultation link to follow-up daily during the period of home isolation. Home isolation is not to be confused with home quarantine. Isolation is for confirmed patients, while quarantine is for contacts of patients or interstate and international travellers. “We have been at home for 13 days now, but neither BBMP nor health officials have contacted us or checked on our wellbeing. The BBMP has not provided us with anything,” said Rajath Rao, brother of a Covid-19 patient from Basavanagudi. Rao’s brother came from Andhra Pradesh on July 8 and showed symptoms that evening. He was tested at a private hospital and declared positive on July 10. He is in home isolation since. The patient is also diabetic. Rao says they are unable to purchase medicines from the local medical store. Another patient, Zoya A Khan, a software professional, who returned to Bengaluru from Goa on July 14, is in home isolation from July 17. Zoya, a resident of Kamannahalli, stays in her bedroom on the first floor of her duplex home, while her parents live on the ground floor. “When I tried contacting BBMP health official, they said since I was asymptomatic I could stay at home. But that is not it,” Zoya told TOI. “My home is in a containment zone and I cannot step out, even for medicines which I need. BBMP isn’t helping me or conducting any tests.” Shantala Prabhudev’s daughter tested positive after she went to a private hospital complaining of stomach pain. “On July 15, my daughter tested positive and doctors suggested home isolation,” Prabhudeva said. “We neither have a pulse oximeter or BP apparatus, what do we do? Why can’t the health department provide these things? Where is the teleconsultation facility and counselling?” A senior health official said they receive about 200 calls a day from patients in home isolation requesting medicines. “We do not have enough volunteers to deliver the medicines. BBMP needs to handle this,” the officer said. A senior BBMP health official, however, said that they are doing everything in their power to help the patients. “There are helplines which one can easily contact and necessary support would be extended to them,” the official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-leaves-patients-in-home-isolation-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/77073701.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Release Covid data daily: Telangana high court to collectors||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday directed the district collectors to release the daily statistics of the Covid-19 patients, tests, prevalence among various age groups, etc. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing petitions that challenged low testing in the state. The bench was furious when it came across reports that the government had asked the collectors to stop revealing the Covid-19 statistics. “This is nothing but keeping people in dark and misleading all,” the bench said. “This is the time to strengthen the medical facilities,” the bench said, expressing concern over the state of Osmania General Hospital which was flooded twice in a span of few days. Advocate general BS Prasad said that whenever government makes plans to rebuild OGH, some petition or the other is filed to stop it. Petitioner’s advocate Chikkudu prabhakar said that there is no stay on OGH development. Another counsel Aatif Salar said that there is an open government data launched in 2012. “State has access to this central government source and it can share data live. For reasons best known to it, the state government is refusing to share the data,” he argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/release-coviddata-daily-hcto-collectors/articleshow/77075062.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Avoid ‘jugaad’ in Covid control: Maya||BSP chief Mayawati has cautioned the government against jugaad (hack), saying concrete steps must be taken to control the spread of the virus. Advising the Centre and state government to remain sachet (alert), Mayawati said: “The way Coronavirus is spreading in the state is a matter of extreme worry. The central and state governments should take special precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/avoid-jugaad-in-covid-control-maya/articleshow/77075063.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhopal||Bundelkhand women replace bulls & plough the fields to appease rain gods||Bhopal: After a long dry spell across the state, farmers in Madhya Pradesh have started appeasing rain gods for the revival of the monsoon. Concerned over their kharif crops, they have started performing special puja in various places of Bundelkhand, notorious for successive droughts.This phenomenon was initially reported from a small village of Peeparkheri near Bina town of Sagar district in Bundelkhand on July 15 . Since then , these rituals are now continuing in various other villages too, including Piparia, Pandho, Niboria, Niboda etc. As a part of these rituals, the women ploughed the fields in hot and humid weather, replacing the bulls, to invoke the blessings of rain gods on Sunday. This was followed by a mass feast.A local priest Devshankar Dubey said, “People living in urban areas may term this practice as a superstition, but this is a popular belief in this part of Bundelkhand that if women replace bull and plough the fields, the rain gods are happy and monsoon is revived .”Rampyari Bai, a75-year-old woman of Peeperkheri said, “It has not rained here for the last 15 days. Soybean and other crops need water to grow; tiny soybean and urad plants may die if it doesn’t rain soon.”In fact, in large parts of Madhya Pradesh, the farmers are concerned over the long dry spell in the month of sawan. Following good rainfall in June, the farmers went ahead with sowing. But July till now has turned out to be almost a dry monthLooking at the sky , Rajaram , a marginal farmer in Tikamgarh said, “Our area is known for droughts. Last year, we had plenty of rainfall almost the whole year. But this time, we are waiting for rain to save our crops. How would I repay my loan if I don’t get a good yield?”After a record wheat yield in the rabi season, the state government had decided to go ahead with 1.3 lakh hectare more sowing in kharif season. Till now, over 100 lakh hectares of sowing is over against a target of 146 lakh hectares across the state. Mainly, soybean is sown in this region, but the farmers have shown a lot of interest in pulses including tur, urad and moong.To save the crops, in many villages, akhand Ramayan recital is also going on. At many places, special pujas are being performed in temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bundelkhand-women-replace-bulls-plough-the-fields-to-appease-rain-gods/articleshow/77074580.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
July 21, 2020||Vadodara||Head nurse at NCH dies of Covid-19||SURAT: The state-run New Civil Hospital (NCH), which has been designated for Covid-19 treatment, saw the first casualty of its frontline staff after 58-year-old head nurse, Rashmita Patel, succumbed to the infection, on Monday. Patel, a resident of Gandevi town of Navsari district, had been staying in NCH hostel since the lockdown in March and had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 6. As her mortal remains were laid in the casket and she was given a tearful guard of honour by staff members as a ‘corona warrior’ for serving in the Covid-19 hospital. She was admitted after developing severe cough and fever on July 6. However, there was an improvement in her health a few days ago but her condition deteriorated late on Sunday. Patel died at around 7am. Patel was also suffering from hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/head-nurse-at-nch-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77073675.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kochi||With 15k comorbid people in dist, families play bigger role||Kochi: Raising concern on the safety of elderly population, who are at higher risk of contracting the disease, health officials in the district have been stressing on the importance of the role played by family members in taking care of the vulnerable in their houses. Ernakulam has around 15,000 people with comorbidities availing services of Palliative Care. These patients have been undergoing treatment for several years. “Around 30% of the registered people are cancer patients and the rest are either stroke patients or those with other ailments. There are many patients, who have not registered with Palliative Care. Considering the current situation, nurses with us call the patients regularly and enquire about their needs. If anybody needs nursing care, the nurse visits the patient in person following all safety precautions. Medicines are transported to their houses with the help of volunteers or Asha workers. We also insist on reverse quarantine of elderly. We ask family members to adhere to safety precautions while attending the elderly and people with comorbidities. In Ernakulam, no registered patient has been tested positive so far. But in Thiruvananthapuram, some cases were reported,” said a district official of Palliative Care. Two of the six elderly people who died of Covid-19 in Ernakulam contracted the disease from their family members, who work outside. The four had underlying diseases like hypertension, diabetes and age-related ailments. Of the around 15,000 patients, 500 are from Chellanam area, which is one of three major clusters in the district. “All the positive cases in Chellanam have not developed any serious health issues. We follow up with patients with comorbidities. The issue comes up when they get infected with Covid. To address this, we have requested senior officials to provide a referral hospital facility nearby,” said a health official in Chellanam. Karuvelippady taluk hospital will function as referral hospital to admit people with comorbidities and subject them to antigen test. Meanwhile, all government taluk and taluk headquarter hospitals in Ernakulam have started subjecting people with comorbidities for antigen tests. If the patient is tested positive, he will be sent to Kalamassery medical college. If the result is negative, he or she will be admitted to the hospital. There are five taluk headquarters hospitals and seven taluk hospitals in Ernakulam. Most of these hospitals except Njarakkal and Karuvelippady have emergency and general medicine facilities. “There are 15,000 palliative patients with comorbidities in Ernakulam and it is a challenge. We have many patients who hesitate to go to hospitals for fear of contracting the disease. To streamline this, we have distributed antigen kits at these hospitals and the testing has started. There were issues regarding admitting patients earlier as there was no mechanism to identify whether the patient was Covid-infected or not. These taluk hospitals can manage emergency situations as they have basic emergency machineries," said Dr Mathew Numpeli, district coordinator, NHM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/with-15k-comorbid-people-in-dist-families-play-bigger-role/articleshow/77073693.cms||T C Sreemol
July 21, 2020||Surat||Head nurse at NCH dies of Covid-19||SURAT: The state-run New Civil Hospital (NCH), which has been designated for Covid-19 treatment, saw the first casualty of its frontline staff after 58-year-old head nurse, Rashmita Patel, succumbed to the infection, on Monday. Patel, a resident of Gandevi town of Navsari district, had been staying in NCH hostel since the lockdown in March and had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 6. As her mortal remains were laid in the casket and she was given a tearful guard of honour by staff members as a ‘corona warrior’ for serving in the Covid-19 hospital. She was admitted after developing severe cough and fever on July 6. However, there was an improvement in her health a few days ago but her condition deteriorated late on Sunday. Patel died at around 7am. Patel was also suffering from hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/head-nurse-at-nch-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77081095.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers, arhtiyas protest against new agri laws in Haryana||Chandigarh: Protesting against the central government’s three farm sector-related ordinances and rise in diesel prices, farmers on Monday took out tractor rallies in several parts of Haryana. At some places, arhtiyas (commission agents) also joined the rally. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana took out tractor rallies in Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra districts and submitted a memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to sub-divisional magistrates (SDM) of all blocks of the three districts. The memorandum demanded withdrawal of all the new ordinances and lowering the prices of diesel. BKU (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The government has brought three ordinances, which are a threat to the farmers and marketing board. Rather than guaranteeing the farmers of 100% procurement of crops on minimum support price, the government is working to end the mandi system. These ordinances will severely affect the livelihood of farmers, labourers and arhtiyas.” A similar tractor rally was taken out in chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency, Karnal, where farmers and arhtiyas raised slogans against the government. The protest was led by Rajender Arya Dadupur, state president of Haryana Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan, and Rajnish Choudhary, president of Karnal Arhtiya Association. Later, they handed over a memorandum addressed for the PM to SDM Narender Kumar Malik. The leaders said the government wants to end the relationship between farmers and ahrtiyas. With these ordinances, farmers, commission agents, munims, small traders and labourers would be adversely affected, they added. In Jind and Kaithal district, several farmers organised tractor rallies, along with arhtiyas, holding black flags. In Kaithal several farmers rising tractors tried to enter the mini-secretariat, but following police intervention, only one tractor was allowed and farmers submitted their memorandum to the district authority. Hoshyar Singh, a farmer leader, said, “The present Union and state governments are trying to impose black laws on farmers to ruin them. High diesel prices, move to end MSP, online sale-purchase of crops, etc are sure to go against the farmers and arthiyas.” In Jind’s Narwana town also several farmers from the nearby villages held a protest march against the government and raised slogans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-arhtiyas-protest-against-new-agri-laws-in-haryana/articleshow/77075064.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Risk of cyber frauds increasing with e-com, online transactions: HM||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, camping in city, has said there is an increasing risk of cyber-crime in the coming days with e-commerce and online transactions becoming more common. Seeing rising trend of online frauds during the lockdown, especially related to banking and debit and credit cards, the home minister has warned the citizens to be cautious while engaging in online transactions to avoid being duped of one’s hard earned money and savings getting siphoned off from bank accounts. The Maharashtra state cyber cell sources informed 1,488 cases of financial, banking and other online frauds were registered in the state this year till May while 88 cases have been detected and 96 persons arrested. Nagpur cyber cell, under Addl CP Nilesh Bharne and DCP Shweta Khedkar, could save and return Rs 19.76 lakh of citizens’ money taken from them by online tricksters. Deshmukh said life of people has increasingly started revolving around e-commerce and online transactions making them more prone to frauds. “Generally, the bank details are being asked during such transactions and people tend to divulge them leading to massive frauds with all savings are being drained out of the victim’s accounts,” said the home minister. Deshmukh said the people are required to be more aware and alert and not fall in the trap of the cyber fraudsters by sharing all personal banking details with them. “Much of our personal details get shared during the online transactions but we tend to get tricked by the fraudsters who extract even the sensitive information leading to massive personal losses,” he said. “We are registering and detecting cases but even the citizens are required to be cautious as cyber frauds are likely to increase in the coming days,” said Deshmukh. While sharing details of his instructions to cyber cops during last week’s meeting on law and order, Deshmukh said action would be initiated on any kinds of vulgar, objectionable, defamatory and communally coloured posts apart from the rumours especially related to corona on social media. Maharashtra cyber cell has informed 546 cases have been registered, including 46 non-cognizable ones, for misusing social media during the lockdown. In Nagpur, 12 offences were registered and nine were arrested by the cyber cell for mischief mongering on the social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/risk-of-cyber-frauds-increasing-with-e-com-online-transactions-hm/articleshow/77074288.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||Drop in enrolment for general degree courses feared||MYSURU: Going by the current trend, it looks like not many students are keen to study general degree courses, including humanities, given the low job prospects. This is likely to have an impact on lecturers in higher education institutions — they may even lose jobs if there is poor admission to general degree courses. Kadanur Shivegowda, principal of Govt PU College at Devaraja Mohalla here, said many of his students are not keen to join general degree courses. “They have plans to join skill-oriented courses like diploma and para-medical courses,” he said. R Shivappa, registrar of the University of Mysore (UoM), said that the admission to general degree courses may come down by 15%-20% this year. “It is because of the challenges posed by Covid-19. The trend may reflect across all streams,” he explained. Bengaluru University VC K R Venugopal said that this trend is temporary. “Inter-disciplinary study will gain significance once the situation returns to normalcy. Students will definitely show interest in the multi-disciplinary studies too,” he said. Till now, none of the major educational institutions in Mysuru has started filling vacant posts fearing less admissions. Single day admission process R Mugeshappa, joint director of the department of collegiate education, said this year, all colleges have been asked to complete the admission process in a single day to facilitate students. “Students can apply both online and offline for admission. Colleges have been asked to complete the process,” he said. Meanwhile, the department has asked all colleges to follow last year’s (2019-20) fee structure this year too. They have also been asked to be sensible while fixing fees for extra-curricular activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drop-in-enrolment-for-general-degree-courses-feared/articleshow/77074558.cms||Shrinivasa M
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||Diminishing population in villages along India-China border a cause of concern||Dehradun/Nainital: The diminishing population in villages along the border with China has been a major concern among the defence forces in Uttarakhand. Data from the migration commission suggests that at least 16 villages – within a 5-km aerial distance from the international border – have no families left. The issue of border security—Uttarakhand shares a border of almost 350 km with China – also came up during a meeting between CM TS Rawat and ITBP chief S Deswal at a meeting last week. After ITBP officials raised concerns on issues like reverse migration, road, mobile connectivity and power supply in areas near the border, the CM cleared funds of Rs 10 crore under the chief minister's border areas development projects. Meanwhile, district officials of Chamoli – the district in which both Barahoti and Mana Pass are situated – say that they are “constantly interacting with the villagers along the border and working to provide road connectivity as well as communication facilities to stop the migration from the Niti and the Mana valleys.” “We are interacting with families from at least nine villages in the border areas. Since the terrain is very difficult, transport is a major issue. Buses cannot run in the area, which is why we have deployed small vehicles for people’s movement,” said Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadauria. Villagers of these areas serve as critical sources of information for defence forces on the ground. Purandas Singh, a member of the Bhotiya tribe in Joshimath, told TOI, “People from our community traditionally trek with their herds for around 100 kilometres, crossing several villages up till Barahoti which is a pasture land with nutritious grass. The trek takes place by June-end and people come back to their respective villages by end of August. During monsoon, the grass gets wet in our region but it doesn’t do so in Barahoti since it is more of a cold desert. “ Singh added that on many occasions, the PLA soldiers have been found patrolling the Barahoti area. “We have had encounters with the PLA soldiers frequently. They used to destroy our camps and throw away our ration but thanks to ITBP, we got ration during such times. The ITBP wants us to visit Barahoti frequently in order to make India’s presence felt in that region. They don’t want it to remain a completely barren land. The herd community also gives local intelligence inputs to the Indian soldiers.” Another villager, Devendra Prasari, told TOI that over the years, the tradition of herding is becoming unpopular among the tribal members especially after the 1962 war with China. “Before the ‘62 war, the community members used to maintain their herds and also conduct trade with Tibetans. We used to sell them rice and jaggery while in return, we would get ghee or wool. But after the war, the trade with Tibet completely stopped which is the reason behind the fading interest of the community members in their traditional occupation. Currently, people are more interested in becoming government officers and moving to the plains,” said Prasari. The villagers said that lack of communication facilities is also one of the major reasons why people have chosen not to stay in the villages. “No mobile networks work in either the Niti or the Mana valley. Also, the only source of livelihood is agriculture which cannot sustain many,” said Dhamu Pal, a resident of Bampa village. Bhadauria meanwhile said that they are already in touch with the mobile operators to establish towers in the region and the communication facility in the area will be improved soon. “We have been in touch with mobile operators for some time and if everything goes as planned, mobile towers will come up in the region soon. Also, we are supplying knitting machines to the locals so that alternative livelihood opportunities can be developed,” Bhadauria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/diminishing-population-in-villages-along-india-china-border-a-cause-of-concern/articleshow/77072562.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 21, 2020||Goa||Pilerne man +ve, area to be sanitised||Saligao: The Candolim primary health centre (PHC) undertook collected samples of around 29 people on Monday after a man from Pilerne who had recently attended his child’s baptism ceremony tested Covid positive. The man was working as a supervisor at the Madkai industrial estate and was residing at Saulem in Pilerne. The health officer of the Candolim PHC, Dr Roshan Nazareth, said, “We carried out contact tracing of the family members and all those who have come in contact with the man and collected their swab samples.” All the 29 people have been asked to home quarantine for 14 days. It may be recalled that a woman from the village, who working at the Ponda primary health centre, tested positive on July 8. Pilerne sarpanch Sandeep Bandodkar told TOI that the panchayat will get the area sanitised and barricade it with the help of the policeto restrict the movement of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pilerne-man-ve-area-to-be-sanitised/articleshow/77075101.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Menhir traces Kollur region back to megalithic age||UDUPI: A team from the department of ancient history and archaeology, MSRS College, Shirva, during a recent exploration at the foothills of Mookasura Betta near Kollur have discovered a menhir, a cupule, a well-cut round shape in hard laterite and potteries of a megalithic period. The site is very near to the famed Kollur Mookambika temple, which, in turn, is one of the famous pilgrimage centres of Shakta cult in India. T Murugeshi, associate professor of the department, who led the team said menhirs are common feature in adjacent Malnad region. Mookasura according to Indian mythology was a devil king who was killed by Mookambika Devi in Kollur to restore dharma and hence the name Kolluru Mookambika. The menhir found lying on the ground is about 2.10 metre in height, 0.55-meter-thick, 0.65-meter-wide at the bottom and 0.55-meter-wide at the tip. Scholars have reported nearly 40 menhirs adjacent to Kollur at places such as Baise, Nilskal and Heragal, all in Hosanagara taluk. The name Baise is quite interesting and is a vernacular version of Sanskrit word – Mahisha, says A Sundara, scholar. With this discovery of antimquities, Kollur Mookambika can be dated to 1,000 BC or much earlier. Sundara dates megalithic menhir culture of Nilskal, Baise and Heragal to 1200–1000 BC. Murugeshi has already reported menhirs from Kurkal, Adkadakatte and Buddhanajeddu in the district and the latest one is the seventh of its kind. This discovery will mark the beginning of the megalithic culture of Kollur region too, Murugeshi avers. What are menhirs? Menhirs are upright standing stones and slanting. They are set up in memory of the dead and usually found near burial site. They are usually made of granite and can be found in various heights and are heavy. They are locally known as Anekallu, Dibbanadakallu, Garbiniyara Kallu and so on. Muralidhar Hegde, Ramesh Anagalli, Chandra U B Gaddemane, Raghavendra Itala, Janardhana Achari and Bhaskar Nuksal of Kollur aided and supported the discovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/menhir-traces-kollur-region-back-to-megalithic-age/articleshow/77074509.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University yet to publish errant colleges’ list as UG admissions begin||NAGPUR: Even though the Nagpur University (NU) has notified admission process for undergraduate (UG) courses, it is yet to publish the list of errant colleges that do not have sufficient facilities like classrooms, labs, and full time teachers. The college section said it had prepared the list but needed to revise it after certain colleges fulfilled the criteria. “The names of blacklisted colleges and courses will be soon published,” officials said. In the last couple of years, NU has been cracking down on errant colleges by freezing their admissions at the start of academic year. This practice had been helping students and parents in making an informed decision while preferring a college. Many fly-by-night operators and fraudulent institutions running from single rooms or flats go unchecked in the absence of the list that usually used to come by May-end. The list also reflagged several unapproved courses at well-known institutions too helping students not to go for them. An official said though the list would be published, students need not worry, as the UG admission registration was online where only approved colleges are included in the menu. Meanwhile, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) city president Amit Patle submitted a memorandum to Amravati VC Murlidhar Chandekar, who is holding additional charge of NU VC post. Patle demanded offline form filling and submission for students as many did not have the internet facility available. Patle also questioned NU’s move to cancel all exams in view of the pandemic. “If they can conduct online admissions, why can’t the NU not hold exams,” he asked. NU also extended the date for regisration to August 12 and August 14 for hard copies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-yet-to-publish-errant-colleges-list-as-ug-admissions-begin/articleshow/77074575.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Rare snake rescued from Kapsi, 2nd sighting in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: A rare yellow bellied green cat snake was rescued from Baradwari near Kapsi on Bhandara Road on Sunday night. This is the first record of this reptile species in Nagpur. “I got a call from Nishant Patel, who runs a steel furnishing unit, about the presence of a snake. What looked like a normal snake turned out to a rare one,” said sarpamitra Sagar Choudhari, a resident of Pardi. “I handed over the snake to Transit Treatment Centre, Seminary Hills,” he added. Herpetologist Parag Dandge said the first record of the yellow bellied green cat snake (Boiga Flavivirdis) in Vidarbha was at Kothari in Chandrapur. The snake was first reported by wildlife lover Umesh Zire. Zire said, “I had attended a call from Kothari and found it to be unusual. I took help if wildlife lover Roheet Karu and identified the snake.” “The snake is found in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Chattisgarh and Odisha. This is not a well-known species, and its ecology and biology is still poorly studied. Road mortality and habitat destruction is the threat like other reptile species from Vidarbha,” said Dandge. Choudhary said, “The unit from where I rescued the snake is surrounded by saw mills, where timber is bought from other states. The snake must have come along with a consignment of wooden logs.” Transit Treatment Centre RFO GN Jadhav said, “The snake will be released in its natural habitat on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rare-snake-rescued-from-kapsi-2nd-sighting-in-vidarbha/articleshow/77074377.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University yet to publish errant colleges’ list as UG admissions begin||NAGPUR: Even though the Nagpur University (NU) has notified admission process for undergraduate (UG) courses, it is yet to publish the list of errant colleges that do not have sufficient facilities like classrooms, labs, and full time teachers. The college section said it had prepared the list but needed to revise it after certain colleges fulfilled the criteria. “The names of blacklisted colleges and courses will be soon published,” officials said. In the last couple of years, NU has been cracking down on errant colleges by freezing their admissions at the start of academic year. This practice had been helping students and parents in making an informed decision while preferring a college. Many fly-by-night operators and fraudulent institutions running from single rooms or flats go unchecked in the absence of the list that usually used to come by May-end. The list also reflagged several unapproved courses at well-known institutions too helping students not to go for them. An official said though the list would be published, students need not worry, as the UG admission registration was online where only approved colleges are included in the menu. Meanwhile, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) city president Amit Patle submitted a memorandum to Amravati VC Murlidhar Chandekar, who is holding additional charge of NU VC post. Patle demanded offline form filling and submission for students as many did not have the internet facility available. Patle also questioned NU’s move to cancel all exams in view of the pandemic. “If they can conduct online admissions, why can’t the NU not hold exams,” he asked. NU also extended the date for regisration to August 12 and August 14 for hard copies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-yet-to-publish-errant-colleges-list-as-ug-admissions-begin/articleshow/77074320.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 21, 2020||Hubballi||Pipeline supplying cooking gas leaks in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: The residents of Navanagar area in Hubballi had a lucky escape when a calamitous situation was defused, and tragedy averted. A leak in a pipeline supplying piped natural gas (PNG) for cooking resulted in the highly inflammable substance gushing out. The pipeline in question was damaged when an underground drain (UGD) was being repaired. The leak understandably left the residents a perturbed lot. Alarmed, they immediately called the cops, who arrived with personnel from the fire department. Zonal assistant commissioner Ramesh Noolvi said that personnel from the Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Ltd (IOAGPL) arrived on the spot, and fixed the damaged pipeline, plugging the leak. The leak was detected near the Karnataka Circle in Navanagar. An official with the IOAGPL said that Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation personnel repairing the UGD had not intimated them about undertaking work near the pipeline. “Since PNG is lighter than air, there is no threat if it leaks,” he added. However, supply of cooking gas to around 300 homes has been disrupted owing to the mishap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pipeline-supplying-cooking-gas-leaks-in-hubballi/articleshow/77073075.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi, DK districts account for 188 fresh Covid-19 cases||MANGALURU/ UDUPI: While the double-digit fresh Covid-19 positive cases in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi brought some solace for the respective district administrations, five more deaths, including that of a 2-month-old infant in DK, gave authorities a cause for worry. Though an expert committee said the infant’s was a case of disseminated intra vascular coagulation (DIC), the DK administration has reserved its opinion on the cause. The two districts on Monday reported 188 fresh cases — Udupi 99 and DK 89. With the day’s mini-spike, the total number of positive cases in DK rose to 3,685 and active cases (after the discharge of 57 patients) to 2,055. The total number of those discharged so far is 1,548. On the other hand, Udupi’s total positive cases rose to 2,321. With the discharge of 22 patients (1,650 so far), the number of active cases stands at 661. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said 73 of the 99 cases were primary contacts, 23 were diagnosed as suffering from Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and two with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). Out of the 661 active cases, 174 are undergoing treatment in home isolation, the DC said, adding that a majority of the 99 cases that included nine children were reported from Udupi taluk. While Udupi had 56 cases, Kundapur and Karkala accounted for 36 and 6 cases, respectively. In Dakshina Kannada, 45 of the 89 patients were diagnosed as suffering from ILI, 16 with SARI, 11 are primary contacts, two had international travel history and the source of infection in 15 others is being traced. Four out of five who died on Saturday and Sunday had related co-morbidities such as diabetes, high blood pressure, multi-organ failure, DC Sindhu B Rupesh said. All these victims were men. Report on infant’s death Referring to the death of the infant from Bantwal taluk on July 17, the DC said the baby boy was admitted following high fever, vomiting and problems with breathing. The infant died a day later, and swab tests indicated it to be Covid-19 positive. A seven-member team of experts that studied the case, for it was deemed special and submitted a report on Monday. Experts found that the infant had vomiting issues from the 17th day of its birth. The parents took the infant to a private hospital on July 16 when the above conditions accentuated, the DC said, adding the child did not respond to treatment. The experts have surmised that the death of the child was due to DIC resulting from multi-organ dysfunction with Covid-19 test being positive was an associated finding. The report has been submitted to the government for consideration by experts in Bengaluru, she noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-dk-districts-account-for-188-fresh-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77074088.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 21, 2020||Hubballi||Congress leader writes to CM demanding care centres at Hobli level||BELAGAVI: Amid an exponential rise Covid-19 cases here, Congress working president Satish Jarkiholi penned a letter to chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday seeking Covid Care Centres at Hobli level in the district to curb deaths. The cases have now crossed 1,000 mark even as the district administration is grappling to provide facilities for patients requiring critical care. Satish, in his letter pointed out the need for additional labs to substantially increase Covid testing capacity. He wrote “the government has to establish two testing laboratories, one in Gokak and another at Chikkodi taluk.” He said the district is facing shortage of ambulances and human resource at the government facilities. He urged the government to deploy two ambulance each taluk of Belagavi — the largest district in the state. He further demanded the state to hire more health workers to match the caseload. The district currently has over 558 active cases, with 1,505 pending test results and 26 fatalities. Satish said Covid Care Centres must be set up at Hobli level and all taluk hospitals be turned into Covid Centres with sufficient beds. Deputy commissioner M G Hiremath said beds are being made available for patients at taluk hospital and soon administration will acquire 7,000 beds. “We are also thinking of hiring more staff in the coming days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cong-leader-writes-to-cm-demanding-care-centres-at-hobli-level/articleshow/77072576.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Alert staff douse fire at NMC HQ||NAGPUR: A fire broke out at property tax department on second floor of seven-storey headquarters of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in Civil Lines on Monday evening. Alert staff from the department swiftly doused the fire which started from an air-conditioner. Sources said employees from most of the departments leave for home by 6pm. At around 6.35pm, a thick smoke started coming from the second floor and within seconds flames engulfed an air conditioner in the property tax department. Employees removed the AC plug while Piyush Katte from water works department doused the fire with the help of an extinguisher. Fire brigade workers present on the ground floor also reached there within minutes. The NMC has failed to procure fire fighting compliance certificate for the entire building. A senior official from the fire and emergency services department said the building has only part compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alert-staff-douse-fire-at-nmc-hq/articleshow/77074492.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Captured tiger shifted to Gorewada||CHANDRAPUR: Problem tiger NT-1 that was captured at Talodhi range in Bramhapuri forest division was shifted to Gorewada zoo in Nagpur on Monday. The tiger was blamed for three human kills within a month. The tiger was captured in Gondipur beat. Sources in Talodhi range said that RFO Abhilasha Sontakke on Monday morning escorted the three-year-old male tiger to Gorewada. The medical examination on the tiger was done on Sunday night. After the wildlife veterinary doctor, TATR, Dr Ravikant Khobragade found that the beast was medically fit, higher-ups ordered the local officials to transport it to Gorewada. Sources informed that the captured tiger does not belong to Talodhi range and range office does not have its record. Officials suspect that the tiger was migrating and had opted to settle in forest on the border of Nagbhid and Talodhi range where it made three human kills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/captured-tiger-shifted-to-gorewada/articleshow/77074474.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Five booked for bid to grab land in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: Awadhootwadi police have on Sunday booked five persons who allegedly conspired to grab a piece of land situated in prime commercial area of the city. According to complainant Syed Habibul Hassan Kadri, a plot bearing survey No.24/1 along with an old British era bungalow thereon belonged to one lawyer Kazi Syed Karimoddin. After his demise, names of Kazi’s descendants were added in the revenue records. One of the sons of late Kazi is in UK and another stays in Nagpur. The said property was lying deserted for quite sometime. One Manoj Pandurang Patil, a resident of Kathoda village in Arni tehsil, claimed that his grandfather Shivram Vithoba Patil had purchased the property from Kazi. On the basis of an alleged fabricated will executed by Shivram Patil in his name, Manoj obtained property card after allegedly conspiring with land records officials. In 2019, Manoj registered a sale deed in Yavatmal sub-registrar’s office for selling the property for Rs1.42 crore, of which he had received Rs2 lakh and the remaining Rs1.40 crore to be paid in two instalments in 2021 and 2022, against which he had received two post dated cheques. After Kazi’s son residing in Nagpur came to know of the deal, he authorized one Syed Habibul Hassan Kadri, a resident of Ahbab Colony in Nagpur, to take legal action against Manoj and others. Hassan lodged a complaint with Awadhootwadi police following which five persons namely Manoj Pandurang Patil, Sakharam Janardhan Deodhare, Iftekhar Khan Gulab Khan, Alamgir Jahangir Khan Pathan, all residents of Digras, and Himmat Namdevrao Nagmode, a resident of Selu in Arni, have been booked under sections 420, 465, 467, 471, 120 B and 34 of Indian Penal Code. SP M Rajkumar told TOI that the accused have been asked to produce all documents and further action would be taken after verifying the papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-booked-for-bid-to-grab-land-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77074432.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe urges government to suspend NMC general body’s 5 decisions||NAGPUR: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will decide the fate of five resolutions passed by general body of BJP-ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has submitted the five resolutions to the government, seeking suspension of their execution, which is likely to intensify ongoing dispute between the civic chief and ruling party BJP. In reply to mayor Sandip Joshi’s letter asking for status of implementation of nine resolutions passed by the general body on June 26, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said the civic chief has sought suspension of five resolutions from the government. The Maharashtra Municipal Corporations (MMC) Act allows the civic chief to submit GB’s resolutions to the government for suspension, if the commissioner does not want to implement them. One of the five resolutions is the GB’s directive to civic chief to suspend additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, and his wife Dr Shilu, and launch inquiry against them through standing committee chairman. Another resolution is to submit proposal to government seeking withdrawal of offences registered against Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane. This was a major issue in NMC general body which stretched over five days. The other three resolutions are disciplinary action against chief accounts and finance officer for holding file of LED Streetlights for 135 days, statement of civic chief with house before July 6 for hiding detailed information on works with standing committee, and statement of civic chief over not seeking approval of leave from standing committee. Mundhe has sent the resolutions to the government on July 14. He also went to Mumbai on July 16, probably to discuss the issues with officials of urban development department, which will take the final decision. Joshi also informed the mayor that four resolutions of the general body have been implemented. The four resolutions include formation of six-member committee headed by standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke for an inquiry into five Dedicated Covid Health Centres developed by NMC, inquiry through chief engineer on expenditures incurred on repairing of chambers and decision within 15 days, inquiry on driver Pramod Hiwse’s promotion and report on inspection by chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai on Jafri Hospital. Joshi told TOI, “The civic chief cannot submit all resolutions for suspension. I will reveal the norms in the next meeting of general body. The reason for not suspending Dr Gantawar is best known to Mundhe. Also, the reasons for not implementing other resolutions are also known to only Mundhe.” If the government suspends the resolutions, the chances of war of words between MVA government and BJP will only increase. Ruling party BJP is up in arms against Mundhe since his joining in January. Joshi had also lodged a complaint with police against Mundhe, alleging violations in Smart City company — NSSCDCL. Joshi had ensured Mundhe was not appointed CEO of NSSCDCL. Resolutions Implemented * Formation of six-member committee to inquire into five Dedicated Covid Health Centres * Inquiry through chief engineer into expenditure on chamber repairing and decision within 15 days * Inquiry into driver Pramod Hiwse’s promotion and report within 15 days * Submission of report of inspection by CMO Dr Yogendra Savai on Jafri Hospital Resolutions Sent For Suspension * Submission of proposal to withdraw offences registered against corporator Nitin Sathawane * Disciplinary action on CAFO for holding file of LED Streetlights for 135 days * Suspension of deputy CMO Dr Praveen Gantawar and Dr Shilu and inquiry through standing committee chairman * Submission of civic chief’s statement before July 6 on hiding detailed information on works with standing committee * Submission of civic chief’s statement before July 6 for not seeking approval of standing committee for leave||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-urges-govt-to-suspend-nmc-general-bodys-5-decisions/articleshow/77074253.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Restore commission of arhtiyas: Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has demanded from the Centre to restore the commission of the arhtiyas (commission agent) to the “statutory norm” of 2.5% of MSP. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has written to Union minister for consumer affairs Ram Vilas Paswan, warning that any deviation from the existing policy could cause serious disruptions to the paddy procurement process. Claiming that the flat rate commission provided for rabi marketing season (RMS) was contrary to the statutory norms of 2.5% of MSP, Capt Amarinder has urged Paswan to accordingly amend the provisional cost sheet for RMS 2020-21, issued by his ministry. As per the sheet, the arhtiya commission had been allowed at a flat rate of Rs 46 per quintal, which appears to be based on certain estimates of the actual expenditure incurred, he noted. “Unrest is already brewing among the arhtiyas over this issue, which, if left unresolved, has the potential of seriously disrupting the smooth procurement of paddy during kharif marketing season 2020-21,” Amarinder has said. He said the existing practice of commission payable to arhtiyas is governed by the statutory provisions of the Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Act, 1961. He pointed out that Punjab was already passing through an acute financial crisis due to the slowdown in production and consumption patterns across all sectors of the economy as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite the problems, during RMS 2020-21 the arhtiyas contributed in ensuring hassle-free procurement, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/restore-arhtiyas-commission-at-2-5-of-msp-amarinder-to-paswan/articleshow/77075067.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chennai||‘More with less and digitisation will be new normal for business’||s the Tamil Nadu government goes about fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the state’s leading industry body Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) is nudging it to open up the hotel sector to facilitate business travel within the state, besides addressing key problems over power charges and need for spreading investments across the state. Chairman of CII Tamil Nadu Hari K Thiagarajan in an interview to TOI elaborates on the measures takenQ: How are the industries gearing up for a post-Covid scenario?We are gearing up well. We are seeing green shoots in pharma, IT, agriculture and insurance sectors and they will be the first to bounce back. Automobiles too, subsequently, as people would prefer private vehicles over public transport. But, 30%-40% of the MSMEs will take a hit, despite the financial support announced by the Centre. Lifeline packages are only for those who have chances of recovery. It is going to be the survival of the fittest. Industries have to cut costs and shed some fat. More with less, besides increased digitisation and automation, will be the new normal for survivalQ: What needs to be done for an economic revival?The world economy is looking up now and orders are coming in. As a result, operations have started picking up here too. We have held dialogues with various state government departments as we believe in deliberative democracy. The government has formed committees for normalising things and to prepare the industry for the new normal.Q: Any sectors that CII focused on during its interactions with the government?The tourism and hospitality are the worst hit. We met tourism secretary Vikram Kapur and highlighted the need for GST rebates, besides the necessity of a staggered opening for the industry with standard operating procedures in place. There is a need for hotels to open for guests, since all of them are not serving quarantine guests or travelers from abroad. It helps businesses, as non-availability of hotel rooms is affecting business travel within the state. Hotels should be permitted to operate at least 40% of the rooms.On behalf of the packaged food industry, we have taken up the issue of plastic ban. The 6-7 months inaction on alternatives of plastic is affecting the sector. Since alternatives will take time, a policy on the Extended Producers Responsibility is the need of the hour, wherein companies like Hindustan Unilever and CavinKare can work with local bodies to prevent plastic waste. It has to be a collective effort and the focus should be more on planning, than banning.Power is another area of concern. During lockdown, companies were asked to pay 90% of minimum demand charges. In case of several other states like Punjab and Gujarat, it is only 20%. Q: Any long term suggestion for sustained economic growth of the state?We need to focus on an equitable development of the state. Most of the large investments including the likes of Foxconn are centred around Chennai. Given the facilities and other infrastructure, the investors too will prefer that. Instead of burdening the Chennai infrastructure, why not bring them to beyond Trichy and Madurai. Trichy’s development centred around BHEL and its ancillary units, besides the educational institutions. There are also a few large industries including those by ITC and MM Forgings that have come up in the region recently. Districts like Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram hardly have any industries to showcase. The government needs to create dedicated industrial parks for these segments in the south, with access to sea water. Government should acquire land and allocate it to industries after putting up basic infrastructure like roads and water supply. Give them more subsidies and make them more attractive than Chennai. Incentives can be offered to companies for their expansion projects. We need to bring in a positive social change in the southern region, as lack of employment opportunities are either forcing people to migrate to Chennai and Coimbatore.Q: Tamil Nadu is reaching out to overseas investors. What more should the state do?The Covid pandemic has led to a rethink among global supply chains to opt for geographical de-risking. While several such companies are looking at the Far East, India and states like Tamil Nadu have to reach out to them repeatedly to attract their attention, since we have to go a long way in competing with China in providing industrial infrastructure.The Prime Minister is talking about being ‘atmanirbhar’ (self reliant). But, we have shut down a copper smelter in Tuticorin and started importing 40% of our copper requirements from China. While Sterlite had invested heavily, they are not being allowed to undertake maintenance for two years and 2,000 families have remained jobless. Even though the matter is in the courts and without taking sides, I would like to say the government and the company need to sort out the issue. Let us ensure self-reliance in things we produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-with-less-and-digitisation-will-be-new-normal-for-business/articleshow/77074623.cms||D Govardan
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Flood situation worsens at Chellanam on Day 2||KOCHI: The sea erosion at Chellanam that wreaked havoc along the coast on Sunday, continued on Monday too even more severely. Huge waves up to 3.5m high battered the houses along the coast leading to structural damage. Even at those places where the seawall was intact, the waves crashed over the rocks to flood the houses. More than 50 houses suffered damage in the foundation when the soil beneath the structures was washed away. Even though the district administration had announced emergency measures to check the flooding, residents said that no help was availed. Residents said they will stage protests in public violating the lockdown as no authorities including the panchayat members are not responding to their calls for help. Thousands of people are now forced to stay in flooded and sand-filled houses facing the risk of Covid-19 infection.  Even though lockdown is in effect in Chellanam panchayat, the rough sea has affected the Covid control measures as many people have to accommodate their relatives too in small houses. Some have even taken shelter on rooftop. “All the 21 wards of the panchayat are affected. Around 44,000 people are bearing the brunt of the sea. The lockdown worsened the situation and most of the panchayat officials including me are in home quarantine. Even if we go and visit the flooded areas, there is nothing we could do,” said Mercy Josey. “The floodwater reached up to my hip-level on Monday. The erosion started at 8.30am and continued till 4.30pm. The kitchens are filled with sand and clays and our water tanks have been polluted with dirt. We cannot even cook and the hotels are shut due to the lockdown. Toilet sewage pipes are blocked by the sand. The sea can destroy our house anytime and we are having sleepless nights,” said Joseph Arakkal, a resident of Bazaar. Harry V S, a resident of Chellanam, said the boundary wall of his house collapsed and the water tank was destroyed. “My mother is 81 and we could not take her to our flat in the city due to the containment there. And we cannot accommodate her in the flooded house. Hundreds are facing similar difficulties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/flood-situation-worsens-at-chellanam-on-day-2/articleshow/77073729.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Plea alleges malpractices in police exam||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday sought a response from the state government on a plea alleging malpractices in the written examination conducted by Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) for recruitment of sub-inspectors (SI) of police. K Thennarasu, a resident of Melur in Madurai district, in his petition stated that TNUSRB conducted the examination on January 12 and 13, and a selection list was released on March 16. The list revealed several malpractices as candidates who studied at the same coaching centres were selected. Of the total 969 vacant posts, 144 candidates who studied in the same centre in Vellore district were selected. Though he had submitted representations to the authorities concerned no steps were taken. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking cancellation of the examination and proceed with a fresh recruitment process. When the case was taken up for hearing, the additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that though the results were published in March, the petitioner had filed this plea after a delay of four months. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-alleges-malpractices-in-police-exam/articleshow/77075070.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||OF unions to decide on strike against corporatisation on 28th||NAGPUR: Unions in ordnance factories will be holding a meeting on July 28 to decide the date of indefinite strike against government’s plans to corporatize the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). This was decided in a joint meeting of three unions — All India Defence Employees Federation (AIDEF), Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation (INDWF), and Sangh Parivar-affiliated Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS) — held through videoconferencing a couple of days ago. A press release issued by AIDEF — one of the recognized unions — said though final decision on the strike will be taken on July 28, in the meantime if there is a decision on corporatisation, there will be a nationwide protest the very next day. Meanwhile, sources in the OFB said amid all the criticism faced over high cost of production, the factories have also been able to reduce the issue price of a number of items. The issue price is the rate at which an item is supplied to forces. High cost is one of the key reasons for which OFB is being billed to be unviable and corporatisation is being mooted. According to information shared with TOI, issue prices of products in 2019-20 were less by over 4% for the Army and by more than 6% for the Indian Air Force (IAF). The issue prices were also reduced by 3% on an average for the items supplied to the Navy and paramilitary forces. There has been consistent reduction in the rates during earlier years too. For example, price of Bridge Layer Tank was less by 5% in 2018-19 as compared to that for the year 2017-18. The price of Stallion Mark IV BSIII vehicle was reduced by 7% and there was a 10% cut for another vehicle used for carrying troops, says the data shared with TOI by the source. Both are work horses for the Army and used for transportation of troops and equipment. The rates of ammunition like 84mm and 155mm shells too have been reduced by 10% and 3%, respectively, said a source. Even indigenization has led to a signification reduction in cost. The indigenized T-90 tank engine handed over to the Army in 2018 cost over 35% less as compared to the Russian engine. The OFB-made bi-modular charge systems were also 10% less expensive than the imported ones. The cost of 84mm and 125mm tank shells have gone down by 40% and 26%, respectively, as compared to the imported ammunition of same calibre, says the data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-unions-to-decide-on-strike-against-corporatisation-on-28th/articleshow/77074651.cms||Shishir Arya
July 21, 2020||Madurai||CBI gets custody of three cops in Sathankulam case||Madurai: The Madurai chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court on Monday granted the CBI custody of three suspended Sathankulam policemen who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Beniks.The CBI filed an application before the court seeking custody of three policemen - head constable Samidurai and constables Vail Muthu and Chelladurai. After the application was filed, the three policemen, who were lodged in the Madurai Central Prison, were produced before the court. CJM T V Hemanandakumar granted the CBI the custody of three policemen and directed the central investigation agency to produce them before the court on July 23 evening.CBI officials took these three accused to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai to subject them to medical examination.The CBI had earlier taken custody of five policemen - inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj.The CBI is yet to take custody of constable Francis and special sub-inspector Paldurai who were also arrested in the case. Meanwhile, two CBI officials on Monday conducted an inquiry with two doctors and four nurses with regard to the treatment given to the victims at Kovilpatti government hospital in Tuticorin district. The CBI conducted the inquiry with Dr Venkatesh who treated the victims at the Kovilpatti sub-jail and Dr Balasubramanian, who treated them at the government hospital.After inquiring them for nearly three hours, the CBI officials left for Madurai.Health department officials too conducted an inquiry with Dr Vinila who had issued medical fitness certificates to Jayaraj and Beniks before they were remanded in judicial custody. It maybe recalled that the Kovilpatti judicial magistrate, who is conducting an inquest and a member of the State Human Rights Commission had already conducted an inquiry with Vinila.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbi-gets-custody-of-three-cops-in-sathankulam-case/articleshow/77075096.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bareilly||In 12 hrs, two minors killed in road accidents in Sambhal||Bareilly: In a span of 12 hours, two minors were among four killed in Sambhal district. A youth and his three-year-old cousin died when a mini truck hit their motorcycle on Monday morning near Saudhan, on Adampur road, under Hayatnagar police station. The child's mother was severely injured. The trucker fled after the accident. According to police, the deceased were identified as Bablu (20) and his cousin, Happy. The youth was taking his aunt, Ruby, and Happy to a shrine located near the highway, on his motorcycle when they were knocked down by a speeding truck coming from the opposite direction. Witnesses said the truck was a canter that sped away after the accident. A few hours earlier on Sunday evening, a 35-year-old man and his five-year-old son on a two-wheeler died on the spot after being hit by an unidentified speeding vehicle. The accident took place on Sirsi Gadhi road under Hayatnagar police station limits. In another accident on Sunday afternoon, two youths, Chaman (21) and Upendra (25), on a motorcycle were killed in a head-on collision with a car on Sambhal-Joya road near Akbarpur village under Asmoli police station. The impact was so severe that two policemen on way to Meerut from Budaun who were on another motorcycle were thrown off their vehicle and injured. The errant driver abandoned the car and fled. Police have seized the car In all three cases, FIRs have been lodged against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-12-hrs-two-minors-killed-in-road-accidents-in-sambhal/articleshow/77072565.cms||Maria Khan
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Plea against demolition of heritage school building||Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Madras high court seeking not to demolish the main building of the Karur municipal higher secondary school, since it was a heritage structure. The petitioner, Selva Nanmaran, an advocate and alumnus of the school stated that the main building was constructed in 1909 as per Mughal architecture. The building houses the office of the headmaster, staff rooms and few classrooms. Though it was constructed more than 100 years ago, it looks strong even today.He stated that under the guise of constructing additional classrooms, the Karur municipal authorities had planned to demolish the main building. The present strength of the school was only 1,000 and there was no requirement to construct additional classrooms.Nanmaran stated that he along with the alumni of the school staged a peaceful demonstration on June 6 against the demolition of the heritage structure and sent a representation to the municipal authorities. Even though the district collector was aware of this issue, no steps were taken to prevent the demolition of the ancient and heritage structure. Hence, the petitioner moved high court Madurai bench seeking for a direction to prevent the authorities from demolishing the heritage structure and to preserve it. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Monday, the counsel for Karur municipality submitted that the building was presently in a dilapidated condition. He further submitted that 90% the demolition was completed. Taking into account the submissions, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam sought response from the Karur municipality authorities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-demolition-of-heritage-school-building/articleshow/77075092.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Man who tried to stop cattle trafficking assaulted||MANGALURU: A youth from Surya village in Belthangady taluk, who had tried to stop a suspected illegal case of transportation of cattle, was assaulted by five unidentified persons on Kelthaje-Padu Road in the taluk on Monday. The victim is Guru Prasad, 22, of Surya in Nada village. He and his friends had attempted to track down a pick-up truck in which they suspected cattle was being transported illegally and chased the vehicle on motorcycles. However, the occupants of the truck managed to give the bike-borne youths the slip. When they were returning, five people, who came in a car (KA 21 P 1816) assaulted Guru and took away his purse, cash and a bracelet. A case of dacoity under Section 395 of IPC has been registered at Belthangady police station, SP B M Laxmi Prasad said in a communique here. Two more cases of cattle transportationIn another case of illegal cattle transportation, also reported in Belthangady station limits, police on night rounds flagged a recklessly driven pick-up truck at Kelthaje around 3.30am on Monday. Police chased the truck till its driver abandoned it near a mosque at Lalila and fled. Finding five cattle that were being transported in a cruel manner in the truck, police seized the vehicle and cattle valued at Rs 3.70 lakh. In yet another incident, personnel of Puttur town station on Sunday foiled an attempt to illegally transport cattle, arrested three youths in this connection and rescued four heads of cattle at Chikkamudnuru in Puttur taluk. Police also seized a pick-up truck that the accused — Muhammad Muwaj, 28, resident of Shantimaru, Vittal, Mohammad Harish, 38, of Kamblabettu, Vittal, and Mohammad Faisal, 24, of Kemmar, Koila in Kadaba — used for the purpose. Cases have been registered at Puttur and Belthangady town police station under various sections of Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Prevention Action, in connection with the above two incidents, under section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, under sections 66, 192 (A) of IMV Act and under Section 269 of IPC. The SP said that police are committed to checking all types of illegal activities in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-who-tried-to-stop-cattle-trafficking-assaulted/articleshow/77073773.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Civilians in cantt take on Army, send notice over Covid curbs||NAGPUR: The tussle between civilians living in Kamptee cantonment and Army authorities over lockdown rules has worsened. The residents’ association — Kamptee Cantonment Nagrik Mandal — has issued legal notice to station commandant Brigadier Sanjay Nand, who is also president of Kamptee Cantonment Board, and Abhijeet Sanap, cantonment CEO. The notice warns of criminal action or a PIL if the restrictions are not eased. The notice says that the Army has exceeded its powers by imposing restriction on the movement of civilians even as there were guidelines by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the state government on easing curbs under Unlock phase 1 and 2. In the cantonment, before June 22, residents were not allowed to move out of homes except between 10am to 2pm. After that it was twice a week from 10am to 5pm. Elsewhere, only night curfew was imposed during this period. The notice cites MHA circulars and state guidelines for the period, which allow unrestricted movement of persons and goods. The notice alleges that the Army adopted a dictatorial approach by literally imposing military law. Soldiers are guarding the area, and restricting all movement. This has stopped entry of even caretakers employed to look after senior citizens living alone inside the cantonment. Defence PRO Group Captain BK Pande told TOI the notice had not reached the concerned authorities yet. Meanwhile, corona cases have been reported in civilian bungalows within the cantonment too. Sources said four persons have been detected positive. At the same time, the military hospital is reported to have 15 to 20 patients undergoing treatment and 20 have been discharged. These are Army personnel and their kin, said a source in the cantonment. On Monday, a meeting was called by the station commandant in the presence of district collector Ravindra Thakre. Parmendra Wahie, president of the Nagrik Mandal, told TOI the residents pointed out that the civilian bungalows are in a separate demarcated area. “The area is not A1 defence land as put up by the Army but B3 and C-class land. Since the Army establishments are located separately, the civil area should be governed by police and not the Army.” A note issued from the defence PRO’s office said the meeting was held in the light of about 178 Covid cases being reported in civil area of Kamptee town, and also among civilians living within the cantonment. The meeting was to review the situation, during which the collector agreed to provide 1,000 Covid testing kits along with teams to carry out additional tests of civilians. The note adds, “The collector also exhorted civilians to adhere to the restrictions put in place for the cantonment as it is a sensitive area from security point of view also. He also assured the members and civilians that restrictions were for everyone's safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civilians-in-cantt-take-on-army-send-notice-over-covid-curbs/articleshow/77073754.cms||Shishir Arya
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Don’t pretend to care about farmers: Amarinder to Sukhbir||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday asked SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to stop “shedding crocodile tears” over the plight of farmers, whose very existence has been threatened by the farm ordinances passed by the Centre with the support of his party. “Having given its full backing to the ordinances, which was the first step towards elimination of the MSP regime, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has lost all locus standi to even pretend to care about the farmers, whose condition had deteriorated to abysmal levels under their rule,” said Amarinder. He said Sukhbir should not forget that as Union minister, his wife and SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal was part of the Cabinet meeting that stamped its approval on the ordinances that would totally destroy Punjab’s farming community. Ridiculing the SAD president’s offer to lead a delegation of farmer organisations to seek clarification from the Centre on MSP, Amarinder said it is evident that Sukhbir is totally disconnected from the ground situation. He pointed out that the ordinances are in line with the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar Committee, which had suggested dismantling the MSP structure. Having implemented the recommendation in the ordinances, the inference is logical that the MSP elimination would soon follow, he said, adding that Sukhbir is conveniently choosing to ignore that in order to protect the interests of SAD, in particular his own and his wife’s interests. “No purpose will be solved now by Sukbir pretending concern for the farmers, whose interests his own party was instrumental in damaging by being an active supporter of the ordinances. Left with no defence for SAD’s anti-farmer and anti-Punjab actions, Sukhbir is not trying desperately to save face with his offer,” said Amarinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-pretend-to-care-about-farmers-amarinder-to-sukhbir/articleshow/77075128.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Rise in +ve cases hits cops on duty||Kochi: With the pandemic spreading in the city, the panic has affected the police force as well after several policemen had to go into quarantine in the district. Police officers on condition of anonymity say that policemen should be tested even if they are secondary contacts. “A few of our colleagues had to go into quarantine, after an accused they arrested tested positive. However, these colleagues were working with us for about three days, making us the secondary contacts. It has been nearly a week since the incidents and we are yet to be tested. We come in contact with several persons in a day and we need to be sure that we may not turn positive in a later stage so that we can work without fear,” said a police officer. Police officers say that their workload has also gone up due to the Covid19 situation. “Now, we are tracking primary and secondary contacts. The rule is that we should visit houses of those in quarantine twice every day. This is apart from usual law and order duties. The chances of getting infected are also very high as avoiding physical contact while nabbing an accused is not always possible,” said an officer. However, senior officers say that the worry is unnecessary. “We are quarantining primary as well as secondary contacts. Tests for secondary contacts are not mandatory nowadays. If someone is a primary or secondary contact then they should quarantine themselves and seek leaves,” said a senior police officer with Kochi city police. An officer with rural police also said that policemen who have in any way contacted Covid patients are being quarantined immediately. “At least 30 officers of ours have already been quarantined for various reasons,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rise-in-ve-cases-hits-cops-on-duty/articleshow/77073756.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Govt caps charges at pvt med varsities||LUCKNOW: After allowing home quarantine for asymptomatic patients, the state government on Monday also announced special fee packages to be charged by private medical colleges from Covid patients. The decision to this effect was taken after a meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Aditynaath to review the Covid situation in the state. Medical education minister Suresh Khanna also attended the meeting. Talking to TOI here on Monday, additional chief secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey said private medical colleges were directed not to charge more than Rs 8,500 per day from a Covid patient. “This includes all charges. But, patients would have to pay for the Covid test,” he added. Similarly, a private medical college cannot charge more than Rs 16,200 per day from Covid patients needing ventilators. “Rs 1 lakh fine would be imposed on any medical college in the private sector violating this protocol,” he added. The above charges of Rs 8,500 and Rs 16,500 per day are for 'A' class cities. For 'B' class cities, charges would be 80 per cent of the above package and for 'C' class cities, the fee would be 60 per cent less than that of the A class city package. Dubey further said that there should not be any panic over shortage of beds in hospitals and medical colleges. As on Monday, 800 beds were available in medical colleges and an equal number of beds could be raised within three days. “The panic is baseless and unfounded,” claimed Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-caps-charges-at-pvt-med-varsities/articleshow/77075104.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Infected Covid-19 warriors defeat virus and fear, set to resume duty||NAGPUR: Several health care workers including nurses, resident doctors, attendants and lab technicians from both government and private medical set-up in the city have been infected with novel coronavirus during the spike in cases of Covid-19 seen in July. Some of these Covid warriors whom TOI spoke to said they not only defeated Covid-19 but also fears associated with it. Some of them are all set to rejoin their duties. “We all were aware about chances of cross-infection when we started working post lockdown,” said Sangeeta (name changed) who works at a dialysis centre in Nagpur. After one of the regular patients there tested positive for Covid-19, the entire centre was sanitized and all employees were tested for Covid-19. “I know the risks as well as restrictions needed to get out of this infection. I am asymptomatic at present and following all instructions given by the treating doctors,” she said. Dr Pooja (name changed), a resident doctor from one of the GMCs in Nagpur who had tested positive is now Covid-19 free and set to join her duties soon. “I am excited to get back to work in hospital. I was not working directly in the Covid ward, but still got infected somehow. Any health worker can test positive as we are highly exposed to the infection,” she said. However, Dr Pooja was not sure how well she will be received by the patients. “I am sure my colleagues will welcome me as they know all the facts. But, we are sceptical about public response,” she said. Before Nagpur, health professionals were found positive also in Akola and Amravati. Some of them have already joined their duties but have not revealed their Covid-19 status to the patients so far. In fact, Nagpur was one of the last cities in Maharashtra where health care professionals tested positive. Even today, the number of doctors testing positive in Nagpur is far less as compared to total number of patients. A lab technician from GMCH who tested positive two days ago is now undergoing treatment. He too is confident of getting back to work soon. A doctor from a leading charity hospital in the city, who is under treatment after testing positive, said that this will not deter her from working for poor people in the hospital. “I will be cured soon and get back to work. I must have developed antibodies as of now. So, I will be stronger when I rejoin duty,” she said. A nurse from a private hospital and a BAMS doctor who used to work in NMC’s quarantine centre have already recovered from the infection and taking rest at home. Both of them said they were eager to join duties. Tips from the winners - Anyone can get infected but it is not the end of life - First battle is against fear, stigma and myths regarding Covid-19 - Stay aware of the latest information given by authorities - If you are young, healthy and fit — you have all chances to get cured - Follow treating doctors and not ‘Google doctor’ during isolation - Support from family, colleagues and friends is major immunity booster - Once cured, follow all protocols of quarantine/isolation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/infected-covid-warriors-defeat-virus-and-fear-set-to-resume-duty/articleshow/77073750.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 21, 2020||Surat||Surat records 209 fresh Covi-19 cases, 10 deaths||SURAT: Surat city reported 209 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 10 Covid-19 deaths on Monday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, Rander zone reported the highest cases (40) followed by Athwa (30), Varachha (A) (30), Central (27), Katargam (26) and Udhna zone (23). Ten Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus on Monday taking the death toll to 397 in the city. About 96 patients fully recovered. They were discharged on Monday from various hospitals in the city. SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani on Monday asked saloon owners, barbers and beauty parlour operators to follow guidelines to stop the spread of the virus. “We advised Saloon owners or barbers to work half the workforce at their workplace and if the saloon is small, allow only one worker at a time to stop the spread of the virus,” said Pani. “Barbers will have to wear protective gears as precautionary measures. Everyone including customers need to wear mask compulsorily at saloons. All barber shops have to keep sanitizer compulsorily or else action will be taken against them. Every item should be sanitized or changed after using them once. They have been asked to ensure the proper disposal of discarded items and sterilize them,” added Pani. Meanwhile in Surat rural, 78 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday and seven patients succumbed to the virus. A total of 65 people have died due to Covid-19 in Surat rural till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-records-209-fresh-cases-10-deaths/articleshow/77073752.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Sayyed remanded to police custody for two days||NAGPUR: Sahil Sayyed, the alleged mastermind in honeytrap audio clip leak case, was remanded to police custody for two days till July 22 by a magisterial court after he was produced before it by the crime branch on Monday. He was arrested from his residence at Baghdadiya Nagar a day ago. Sayyed, booked in back-to-back four cases after the audio clip leak was first reported by TOI on July 10, was arrested in an offence of property grabbing registered at Pachpaoli police station. A case related to the honeytrap audio clip was registered last week after BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari approached Tehsil police. The cops are yet to arrest Sayyed in the case of honeytrap audio clip in which he is allegedly overheard conspiring to implicate Tiwari and another senior BJP leader to shield a senior health official. Cases related to Sayyed were transferred to crime branch after the intervention of state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The honeytrap case had taken political turn with both Deshmukh and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis labelling Sayyed as worker of the rival party. On Monday, Fadnavis had written another letter to Deshmukh stating his expectation that a fair and serious probe would be conducted in the cases related to Sayyed, especially in the honeytrap audio clip leak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sayyed-remanded-to-police-custody-for-two-days/articleshow/77073768.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Pandemic an ordeal for kids with special needs, their families||Madurai: While several students have adapted to e-learning and started attending their school classes online, the pandemic has been particularly hard on children with special needs. Their only respite was the time spent at their schools with teachers and friends. The pandemic is proving a tough ordeal for children with special needs and their families. Special educators are also worried that isolation at home for such children may have long term effects in their development. However, so far, the state government has not given any special support for needs of special children amid the pandemic. “It is highly difficult for parents to handle such children at home. Shut schools are a setback for children with learning disabilities as they require continuous support. They will be out of touch with our learning methods. Parents are also calling us as they are facing behavioural issues at home,” said Jeyapal A, founding member, Bethshan Special School, Madurai. Apart from routine classes, special schools also provide speech therapy, and physiotherapy etc. based on the child’s needs, which students are again missing out. Educators say this could further impair the development of the child. “The biggest problem now is isolation and disruption of routine. Most special children, especially those with multiple disabilities or learning disabilities, may not be able to understand about Covid-19 or why they are unable to go outside or to school,” said Dipti of Clarke School for Deaf and Blind. For parents it has not been easy to handle children with special needs. A parent, Saranya Nagarajan, who is also a working woman, is finding it difficult to handle her child and as she is working from home for up to eight hours. “My child needs to be kept engaged at all times. It is also difficult to keep an eye on him all the time. Any simple object at home, even a table fan, can harm my child if I’m not careful. Further, unlike school, where he can socialise with teachers and other students, I’m the only one there at home to engage him. It was difficult at first, but now I’m finding more ways to keep him engaged with pets or activities,” said Saranya. Another parent, R Vasumathi Rani who has two children with special needs said, “With two children, it is very difficult and at times, I’m not even able to keep them engaged. I try to get them do household work but they are unable to. My son has become more irritable and angry as he is not able to go out,” she said. At best, currently, special schools are in touch with their students over phone or video calls to check on them and counsel struggling parents. Some schools are also coming up with videos online for parents to help them engage their children. Activities that can be done at home are also being communicated to parents by special educators. “Most of the special children who study at our schools are from poor families. Online classes are also not possible as each child needs special attention of teachers and they won’t be able to concentrate. So far, best we could do was call up children’s parents via video calls to check on them,” said J Shamila Doris, general secretary, YMCA, Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pandemic-an-ordeal-for-kids-with-special-needs-their-families/articleshow/77075108.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s regal tradition of golden weaving tied in knots||CHENNAI: Chandru Perumal, owner of a silk sari weaving unit in Kancheepuram, begins his day by taking count of provisions required in the homes of his 20 employees. He has been buying groceries for them since business ran dry towards the end of March. Pls read entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-kancheepuram-is-trying-to-untie-the-lockdown-knot/articleshow/77078442.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadus-regal-tradition-of-golden-weaving-tied-in-knots/articleshow/77074643.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 21, 2020||Madurai||DSP directed to probe suicide of man due to custodial torture||Madurai: The deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Alangulam sub-division in Tenkasi district has been directed to probe a case in connection with the suicide of a man after alleged illegal detention and custodial torture by the police.Justice R Pongiappan of the Madras high court passed the order while hearing a petition filed by A Jamuna Bai, a resident of Kurumbalaperi in Tenkasi district on Monday. The petitioner stated that her husband Arulkumar alias Arunachalam, 38, owns a fish kiosk. On May 21, Arulkumar was picked up by sub-inspector Sureshkumar along with two other policemen attached to the Pavoorchattiram police station. His two-wheeler was seized and he was detained till 10pm without registering any FIR. The next day Arulkumar went to the police station to get back his vehicle. Since he did not return for a long time, she went to the police station and found her husband sitting naked with injuries inflicted on him by the police officials. She stated that though she took Arulkumar back to her house, he was in a very disturbed state of mind about the assault. On May 23, a distressed Arulkumar committed suicide by consuming poison. The FIR was registered under Section 174 CrPC stated that he had committed suicide in a drunken mood. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to transfer the investigation to the Alangulam DSP to ensure a fair investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dsp-directed-to-probe-suicide-of-man-due-to-custodial-torture/articleshow/77075099.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Virus claims biggest toll; 46 die in 24 hours||LUCKNOW: At least 46 persons – maximum in a single day -- succumbed to the pandemic infection Covid-19, taking the total number of deaths to 1,192 which is about 4% of all the deaths reported in the country. An analysis of the data revealed that over 41% of the deaths reported, so far, have taken place in July alone. Also, over 54% of the total deaths reported till date have taken place in 10 districts with Kanpur leading the list. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed concern over the rising Covid deaths. At a meeting of Team-11, he directed the health and medical education departments to take every possible measure to bring down the Covid mortality rate to the minimum level. On Monday, Kanpur recorded as many as 10 deaths followed by Lucknow with five deaths, Prayagraj four deaths, while three patients succumbed to the infection in Jhansi. Two deaths each were reported in Moradabad, Bareilly, Maharajanj, Unnao and Baghpat, while Hamirpur, Mirzapur, Fatehpur, Deoria, Mathura, Sambhal, Ghazipur, Barabanki, Basti, Varanasi, Firozabad, Saharanpur, Gautam Budh Nagar and Meerut saw one death each. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad attributed the deaths to co-morbid conditions and delays. “On assessing the deaths, it was found that over two-third of the deaths took place in people with underlying medical conditions, while in remaining cases, delay in reaching out to doctors was the main reason,” he said laying stress on the need for adhering to Covid-19 prevention norms in true letter and spirit. Prasad also stated that 1,924 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours. With this, the state tally crossed the 51k mark to reach 51,323. Lucknow continued to top the chart with 282 entries. With this, Lucknow became the home to the maximum number of coronavirus cases reported in the state so far besides being the district with most active infections (2,719). Kanpur, Varanasi and Gautam Budh Nagar followed with 174, 122 and 107 cases. Other cities with a high number of cases included Jaunpur (71), Ghaziabad (70), Ghazipur (68), Prayagraj (67), Gorakhpur (66), Jhansi (59) and Bareilly (55).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-claims-biggest-toll-46-die-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77075112.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Glitches mar first virtual standing panel meet||NAGPUR: Technical glitches marred the first-ever standing committee meeting of Nagpur Municipal Corporation via videoconferencing on Monday. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke and other members who attended the virtual meeting expressed anguish over poor voice quality, apart from low attendance of heads of various departments etc. The meeting started at 12 noon with additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi taking attendance of all heads of the departments, executive engineers and assistant municipal commissioners of 10 zones. As soon as meeting started, many standing committee members and even officials experienced poor voice quality, network issue etc. Zalke ordered show cause notices be issued to absentee officials. Zalke pointed out that conducting standing committee meeting via videoconferencing was not a solution to discuss issues related to civic amenities. Before declaring end of day’s discussion, Zalke directed the civic administration to note that panel remark is “unsatisfactory” for videoconferencing. “Instead we are very much comfortable with physical meetings,” Zalke said. Early this month, deputy municipal commissioner and in-charge NMC secretary Ranjana Lade had issued a notification stating that general body or any other subject committee meeting should be convened only if necessary. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, instead of holding meetings that require physical attendance, the same should be conducted through videoconferencing, said the notification. Zalke pointed out that when ministers can convene a physical meeting at divisional commissionerate and attended by over 50 persons, they why can’t the NMC allow the standing committee the same way. Only one proposal was submitted before the meeting. It pertained to continuing the service of technical consultant and retired NMC deputy engineer Chandrakant Gabhane to supervise the technical bids of road works funded by the state government was. Zalke rejected the proposal citing financial crisis. He expressed concern over deteriorating condition of pothole ridden roads and directed superintending engineer (public works department) Manoj Talewar to speed up repair works across the city. In another development, in a relief for the cash-strapped NMC the state government released of Rs100 crore as GST grants for June and July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/glitches-mar-first-virtual-standing-panel-meet/articleshow/77073758.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 21, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry budget presented without LG approval||PUDUCHERRY: The Puducherry government on Monday presented the budget for the 2020-21 financial year without approval of the lieutenant governor and without the customary address of the LG. Chief minister V Narayanasamy, who holds the finance portfolio, presented a tax-free Rs 9,000 crore budget after speaker V P Sivakolundhu temporarily withheld lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi’s address following a resolution passed by the assembly. Bedi had earlier accused the government of failing to submit the annual finance statement and demand for grants when her approval was sought. She wrote to Narayanasamy on Sunday night, insisting that the government submit the AFS and demand for grants and said she would fix a fresh date to present the budget. However, the council of ministers headed by the CM felt it was not necessary to send the budget file again to Bedi after the President and Union home ministry had accorded approval. Narayanasamy conveyed his decision to her in an official correspondence at 3.30am on Monday. Other businesses like discussion on the budget and demand for grant would be taken up on different dates after the business advisory committee issued a notification. Bedi wrote back on Monday morning, pointing out that the budget must be presented in the assembly only after the government “firms up its proposed expenditure for the year.” Later, in an audio message to the media, Bedi said the budget file was still with the chief minister who had not forwarded it to her as per the act and rules. “Our expenses, pensions and salaries from August will be affected. The blame must not be put on the Union government or the lieutenant governor. The blame will entirely on the chief minister, who is holding the budget file, despite being closely examined by the chief secretary and finance secretary. Therefore, if the chief minister or other ministers allege that the LG has delayed it, it is not [correct]. Why has he not forwarded the budget file received from the President to me so far? I have not written the rules. We inherited the UT act and business rules,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-budget-presented-without-lg-approval/articleshow/77074663.cms||Bosco Dominique
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE, education minister urged to look into ‘lack’ of PTA in schools||NAGPUR: Claiming that a majority of CBSE affiliated schools lack the mandatory provision of parents-teachers association (PTA), two lawyers rushed a letter to the central board’s Delhi headquarters and state education minister appealing to step in. Quoting May 8 Government Resolution (GR) issued for Covid-19 pandemic, they said if any facilities are not used by the children resulting in savings to the school this year, the benefits like reduction in fees should be passed on to the parents. “The decision was to be taken in the PTA’s Executive Committee as per the Department of School and Sports’ GR. In its absence, the parents are deprived of such benefits while the schools are profiteering,” said the lawyers, Nitin Lalwani and Roshan Kale. The duo claimed that most of these schools — including one of the topmost schools where their children are studying — also didn’t follow provisions of the ‘Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011’. “As per Section 4 of the Act, it’s mandatory that every private school shall constitute PTA. The duty is cast upon head of the institution, within 30 days from the beginning of each academic year. Every parent would be its member by paying Rs50 in urban and Rs20 in rural areas. The legislation further stipulates the formation of PTA’s Executive Committee and its configuration.” Citing Section 3 of the Act, the legal practitioners said it mandates that no school shall charge excess fees from the students. “While the school management shall propose the fees, the PTA’s Executive Committee may either approve the proposal or reject it. However, in absence of PTA it can’t be done, thereby defeating the very purpose of the enactment.” Lalwani and Kale stated that due to non-compliance of provisions by the CBSE schools, the government directives in May 8 GR couldn’t be followed. “It’s necessary that the authorities exercise their powers and take appropriate steps to ensure that PTA is constituted in every school and all provisions of the Act are strictly followed,” they said in the copy of letter that was also sent to the Ministry of Human Resources Development. # Functions of PTA as per fee act * Get information about fees for tuition, term & for co-curricular activities as decided by executive committee * Observe completion of syllabus as per the planning * Suggest measures and steps to be taken for academically weaker students * Assist school for planning other co-curricular activities and assess its need||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-edu-min-urged-to-look-into-lack-of-pta-in-schools/articleshow/77073779.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||5 months on, civic body fails to shift Station Road flyover shops||NAGPUR: The Jaistambh Square traffic improvement scheme is gathering dust in MahaMetro office as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has been unable to relocate shopkeepers having establishments under the Station Road flyover. The flyover is to be demolished to make way for a six-lane road in its place. MahaMetro has constructed temporary shops adjoining the railway station for housing the shopkeepers. These shops were ready in February. However, NMC has failed to shift the shopkeepers in the last five months. NMC market superintendent Shrikant Vaidya said the job could not be done due to lockdown. “Milind Meshram has taken over as the new in-charge of market department. I will hold a meeting with him and start the shifting process,” he told TOI. Mahesh Morone, former in-charge of market department, said he had given a deadline to shopkeepers to shift to the new complex, but before that market department’s charge was given to Meshram. Shopkeepers are reluctant to shift because they fear loss of business. Vinod Gupta, a shop owner, said he got business because his shop was located in front of railway station gate. “My customers are not Nagpurians, but railway travellers. When a train stops for about 15 minutes, they rush to my shop, have a meal, and board the train again. If I relocate to the new complex, passengers won’t be able to reach my shop in 15 minutes. My business will go down completely,” he added. Kalim Khan, another shopkeeper, said NMC was making them shift every now and then. “We had shops on Station Road years ago. Then NMC razed them and built this flyover. Now it wants to raze this flyover and build a road again. The new shops are also temporary. Permanent shops will be constructed for us after the six-lane road is complete. How many times will we shift our establishments,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-months-on-civic-body-fails-to-shift-station-rd-flyover-shops/articleshow/77073775.cms||Ashish Roy
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai’s neighbours average over 100 Covid-19 cases per day||Madurai: The neighbouring districts of Madurai, which became hotspots for Covid-19, started witnessing a gradual rise in cases with Virudhunagar, Dindigul, Theni and Sivaganga averaging more than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases daily in the past one week. Virudhunagar district averaged more than 200 cases. This has made health officials step up infrastructure in these districts.In Virudhunagar, which has 1,909 active cases, according to district collector R Kannan, 4,500 beds are available for Covid-19 care facilities. “We have 760 beds with oxygen at Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital and currently only 400 beds are occupied. However, more severe Covid-19 patients with comorbid conditions are currently being referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai as it is the only closest tertiary care centre,” he said. Though testing was only around 1,000 samples per day before, from Monday, it has been increased to 2,500 samples by including all contacts in containment areas.Dindigul has been reporting 127 cases per day on average during the past week, and the total active cases in the district is 893. The total cases was 891 in the past week.Speaking to TOI, district collector M Vijaya Lakshmi said that 600 beds are available in various medical facilities in the district, including Dindigul government hospital, taluk hospitals, and urban primary health centres (UPHCs). “Further, we have five educational institutions in Dindigul, Kodaikanal, and Palani with a capacity of 500 beds for Covid-19 care. If required, we have readied another 500 beds as well,” she said.In Sivaganga district, the current positivity rate is 10%. According to district health officials, the number of testing per day will be increased from 700 to 1,000 soon. “Triaging is also being done instead of admitting all Covid-19 patients to hospitals. Asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients are now being admitted to the two Covid-19 care centres in the district. Even in district headquarters government hospital in Karaikudi and Sivaganga Medical College Hospital, vacancies are still available,” said a senior health official.In Theni, which has 1,310 active cases, as many as 2,600 beds are ready for Covid-19 care treatment. Collector Pallavi M Baldev said that as cases were rising they were looking out for more facilities to add the bed strength. “The existing facilities have space for adding more beds, but we want to expand the place, so that the medical staff would not be stressed by attending to more patients at a same place,” she said. The existing beds are spread out in the Kanavillakku Medical College hospital in Theni, old GH building, Bodi Government Engineering College, Periyakulam GH, Thekkampatti Government Polytechnic and Kammavar College, Nadar Saraswathy Engineering College. New places including the Kullapuram Agriculture College had also been identified for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurais-neighbours-average-over-100-covid-19-cases-per-day/articleshow/77075118.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fresh breath of hope for Covid-19 patients||NEW DELHI: A dangerous aspect of Covid-19 is acute respiratory failure. Oxygen support then becomes essential, and failing that, the use of mechanical ventilation to help maintain oxygenation. And yet, according to doctors, there are some patients who don’t respond to these measures and succumb to the disease. In such circumstances, ECMO, or extracorporeal membrane oxygen, therapy may help by acting like an artificial lung that removes carbon dioxide and adds oxygen to the blood outside the body. Manipal Hospital, Dwarka, was faced with the oxygenation crisis about one and a half months ago when a 55-year-old person wheeled into the emergency with acute respiratory failure didn’t improve despite plasma therapy, oxygen support and even mechanical ventilation. As a last resort, the hospital decided to use ECMO to save his life, Dr Shrikanth Srinivasan, head of critical care medicine at the hospital, told TOI. The patient remained on ECMO for 11 days, and then put on a ventilator before gradually being weaned off it. “When we decided to put the patient on ECMO, we didn’t think he would survive for 24 hours because he wasn’t able to maintain oxygenation despite full ventilator support,” Dr Srinivasan said. “Carbon dioxide levels in his body were very high, but ECMO gave his lungs time to recover. The patient was discharged from hospital recently after being able to breathe on his own.” Following that success, Dr Srinivasan put four others similarly affected Covid patients on ECMO. “Two of them have been taken off the machine and are recovering well, while the other two still depend on the life-saving device,” he reported. ECMO helps alleviate acute respiratory distress — the key complication, frequently fatal, for Covid patients. ECMO was used to save critical patients with acute respiratory distress in swine flu cases too. “Swine flu patients recovered faster, but our limited experience around Covid shows that the disease and complications continue for a longer period,” Dr Srinivasan said. According to Dr Y K Misra, chief of clinical services at Manipal Hospital, ECMO is the last resort for Covid patients. “At present, very few medical centres use it for Covid,” he said. In India, there are no guidelines on ECMO use for Covid. However, the US Food and Drug Administration has permitted its use for the coronavirus infection. Dr Sumit Ray, head of critical care medicine at Holy Family Hospital, explained that theoretically ECMO should help Covid patients whose oxygen levels aren’t adequate despite full mechanical ventilation. However, he added, more data is required to assess its benefits in reducing mortality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fresh-breath-of-hope-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77096219.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Pvt schools begin fee collection||Madurai: Various private schools across Madurai district have begun fee collections both online and offline following the the Madras high court order on Friday allowing them to collect 40% of the annual fee before August 31 as advance for the academic year 2020-21. “Schools are already in touch with students as online classes are also being conducted and books are also being issued for all classes. School fees collection is smooth so far. However, even now, we are not pressurizing parents in any manner for fee payment,” said Senthilnathan M, president, private schools’ correspondents’ confederation. For offline payment, the schools are organizing slots for parents to reduce crowding. On the other hand, not all parents are eager to pay the fees at this time. “We are already facing financial difficulties due to lockdown as our own small textile business is shut down. So, we have had to take loans.We have asked for more time for payment, hopefully the school will allow,” said Vanitha G, a parent of students of a private school in KK Nagar. Schools, meanwhile, said that they are entertaining pleas by parents for postponement of fee payment on a case-by-case basis depending on the financial situation of the family. “Only as we start getting fee payment, can private schools also start returning to normalcy. It has been difficult for us as well in payment of salaries to teachers,” said an administrator at a private matriculation school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-schools-begin-fee-collection/articleshow/77075111.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lone electric crematorium sees rising body count||BHUBANESWAR: The crematorium at Satya Nagar — the only electric crematorium of the city — is handling five to six bodies every day, up from the roughly five it would handle every week before the Covid outbreak. Official sources said the majority of the bodies being disposed now are of Covid patients. The city has 1,100 Covid beds across three hospitals. These hospitals cater to patients from other districts too. The bodies of patients who pass away are sent to the city crematorium in accordance with established protocol. The crematorium also handles bodies of patients from nearby districts, like Cuttack and Angul, in case of any problems in those areas. In case of death of a Covid patient, the BMC brings the body to the Satya Nagar crematorium straight from the hospital. On an average, five to six bodies are cremated here every day. Some families prefer traditional wood cremation for their loved ones, said an officer of the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), under whose control lies the body disposal unit. Officials said the crematorium was sanitized twice daily and only authorized persons were allowed to enter. Police are also deployed during transportation and disposal of bodies of Covid patients. In 2016, the Odisha State Pollution Control Board had revealed that the smoke generated from burning of bodies at Satya Nagar contained PM-10, which can cause pulmonary diseases. While the permissible limit of PM-10 is 100 microgram per metre cube, the raw (unfiltered) smoke released through the grille of the crematorium contains PM-10 of up to 200 microgram. The Satya Nagar crematorium has been in existence since 2001. The BMC plans to create two more crematoria but they will be traditional ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lone-electric-crematorium-sees-rising-body-count/articleshow/77073778.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Bodies of missing persons fished out of backwaters||Kochi: Bodies of two men who went missing in the backwaters near Mulavukadu were recovered on Monday. The deceased have been identified as K L Shyam (42), a lawyer practicing in the high court, and his relative Sanjay (26). The mishap occurred near Sicily jetty at Mulavukadu at 6.30pm on Sunday while they were travelling in a country raft to a small islet after meeting a lawyer friend. Lijo of Kumbalam, who was on the boat, swam to safety. Mulavukadu police and scuba team of the fire and rescue service had launched a search on Sunday night but it was later called off. Their bodies would be handed over to relatives for cremation only after Covid test. While Shyam resides at Elamakkara, Sanjay is a resident of Kaniyankunnu near UC College. Shyam is survived by wife Neethu and daughter Meenakshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bodies-of-missing-persons-fished-out-of-backwaters/articleshow/77073793.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Goa board to cut 30% portion, Class XII in line with CBSE||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) on Monday issued a circular to schools informing them that the syllabus of all major subjects from Class IX to XII would be curtailed by 28-30%. The board said that for Classes XI and XII, portion will be curtailed in over 33 subjects across all four streams — arts, commerce, science and vocational. However, for the benefit of students intending to answer national competitive exams, the curtailed portion for Class XII will be in line with parts left out by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), . The board has also increased the weightage of practical papers for the Class XII exam. “Question papers in all practical subjects — physics, chemistry, biology, computer science, geology, geography and banking — will be of 70 marks instead of 55 from the March 2021 exam,” the board has said. The board said that although the decision is subject to final approval by the government, it has notified schools right away “to avoid anxiety among students, teachers, heads of institutions and parents” due to the delay in opening of schools thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The final circular will be issued after... suggestions from stakeholders and with the concurrence of the government,” board secretary Bhagirath Shetye told the schools. Goa board is only the second state board after the Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board to go in for syllabus cuts. Earlier this month, CBSE paved the way by cutting the portion for Classes IX to XII by 30%. Meanwhile, for Classes IX and X, Goa board has curtailed the portion by 28-30% for all first, second and third language subjects, besides mathematics, science and the social sciences. The board said that there will be no change for pre-vocation subjects for these classes, as “the portion is already limited”. TOI had reported on July 15 that the board’s academic council approved the truncation of the syllabus, a proposal that was discussed a day earlier by board officials with various boards of studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-board-to-cut-30-portion-class-xii-in-line-with-cbse/articleshow/77075125.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Youth arrested for girl’s murder||COIMBATORE: Police on Monday arrested a 21-year-old man, who allegedly stabbed a girl to death in front of her house in Perur two days ago. The accused was arrested from Kovaipudur. Police sources said the victim was a minor. “The 17-year-old girl was a BCom student at a private college in Perur. Though she was in love with the accused, she had ended the relationship in March after her parents discouraged her,” a police officer said. “He turned up at her house on Friday around 8.30pm. When the girl came out with her father, he stabbed her on her chest and abdomen using a knife. He also attacked her father.” Police booked the accused for murder and under the Pocso Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-arrested-for-girls-murder/articleshow/77074672.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu CM lays foundation stone for Rs 12.2 crore Keeladi museum||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday laid the foundation stone for a museum at Konthagai village near Keeladi in Sivaganga district. The museum will showcase the artefacts unearthed from the Keeladi ancient site. The museum will be built by the heritage wing of public works department (PWD) at Rs 12.2 crore on 81 cents of land. A statement from the government said that Keeladi is testimony to the civilisation of Tamils dating back to 2,600 years ago. The museum will highlight this rich civilisation by displaying the artefacts for the generations to come. The first excavation was carried out at Keeladi from 2014 to 2015. In 2014, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) started excavating the 110 acres site located 13km away from Madurai on the Rameswaram Road. ASI continued the second and third phase of excavations in 2015-16 and 2016-17 respectively. In consultation with the ASI, the state archaeology department started the fourth phase of excavations in 2017-18 with Rs 55 lakh sanctioned by the state government. As many as 5,820 rare artefacts and brick constructions dating back to the Sangam era were excavated in this phase. Close to 900 artefacts were excavated in the fifth phase excavation in 2018-19 that was carried out at Rs 47 lakh. It included different forms of brick constructions. The ongoing sixth phase began on February 19, 2020. So far more than 14,535 artefacts, including earthenware, iron articles, coins, rings, ivory articles, pottery with Tamil writings and markings were unearthed. Ministers K Pandiarajan (Tamil official language and Tamil culture) and G Baskaran (khadi and village industries board) were present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-rs-12-2-crore-keeladi-museum/articleshow/77075124.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Panchayat union stages protest||Madurai: A group of panchayat presidents from Chellampatti panchayat union, on Monday, staged a protest and submitted a petition to Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay urging him to restore the powers of floating tenders to panchayat presidents. Elections for the rural local bodies were conducted at the end of December, 2019 after a delay of three years. Officials acted as special officers during the absence of rural local bodies. Panchayat presidents from the Chellampatti union alleged that although people have elected their representatives, officials continue to carry out works themselves. They are not even consulted for the requirement of works to be taken up in each panchayat. President of federation of village panchayat presidents of Chellampatti union, P Mageshwari Pandian said that people elect representatives so that they can fulfill their requirements by themselves through their panchayat presidents. She said that officials are following package tender method, where one tender is floated for works to be carried out in a cluster of villages. Earlier, tenders would be decided by panchayat presidents themselves in each village. It deprives of their right, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/panchayat-union-stages-protest/articleshow/77075121.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chennai||20-year-old stalker electrocutes self after assaulting girl in Tiruvannamalai district||TIRUVANNAMALAI: A 20-year-old electrician ended his life by climbing an electric pole and touching a live wire at a village in Tiruvannamalai district on Sunday evening. He took this extreme step soon after attacking a 17-year-old girl when she refused to marry him. Police identified the man as D Prasanth from S Nimmiyandhal village near Keelpenathur taluk in Tiruvannamalai district. Based on a statement by the injured girl, police registered a case and are conducting an investigation. Senior police officer said the electrician was pursuing the girl, who was his neighbour. The incident took place on Sunday evening when Prasanth was returning home after work. He spotted the girl who was alone at home and proposed the girl to marry him. When the girl refused, he stabbed her and committed suocide climbing an electric pole near a farm land in the village. P Mahalakshmi inspector of Keelpenathur police station said “The girl who suffered injuries on her hand, head and body was rushed to Government Tiruvannamalai Medical College and Hospital and is being treated there. She is stable and will be discharged in a week. The body of the deceased was handed over to his parents after performing a postmortem on Monday . A case under Section 324 of IPC (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/20-year-old-electrician-commit-suicide-after-assaulting-a-minor-girl-for-refusing-to-marry-him-/articleshow/77074677.cms||Karal Marx
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Dubey aide Shyamu’s kin appear before SIT||LUCKNOW: The mother and sister of gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide Shyamu Vajpayee, who was arrested after an encounter by Kanpur police, reached the office of Special Investigating Team (SIT) in Lucknow to record their statements about the July 3 ambush in Bikru village in which eight policemen were killed. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up to probe cases against Dubey and his associates had opened office on fourth floor of Bapu Bhawan on Friday and appealed people to come with evidence against Dubey between 12 noon and 2 pm till July 25. On Monday, Shyamu’s sister Preeti, his mother Ram Laxmi and some relatives came to depose before SIT. Preeti told reporters, “My brother is innocent. He was picked up from the house a day after the ambush and shown arrested after encounter. Shyamu was not involved in the police ambush.” She, however, did not reveal what statement or evidence she had given to the SIT. Shyamu (33), a resident of Bikru village and an aide of ganglord Vikas Dubey, was carrying a bounty of Rs 50,000. He was wanted in killing of eight policemen and was arrested on late July 7 night along with co-accused Jahan Yadav and Sanju Dubey. The police had taken him to Shivli forest to recover firearms used in the crime and those looted from policemen. However, Shyamu had picked up the hidden pistol and opened fire at police team and tried to flee. When cops fired back in retaliation, Vajpayee was hit in the leg and was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dubey-aide-shyamus-kin-appear-before-sit/articleshow/77075126.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Trackmen diverted by Central Railway for clerical work||NAGPUR: In alleged violation of railway rules, the Nagpur division of Central Railway has deployed trackmen for administrative work at the divisional railway manager (DRM) office. “Trackmen is safety category staff and they are responsible for safety of thousands of passengers by maintaining the tracks. But officials are utilizing 25 of them for clerical work for the last 2 to 3 years,” said Central Railway Mazdoor Sangh (CRMS) divisional president Virendra Singh in a press release. Singh added that on rolls these trackmen are shown to be working at Ajni and are also availing all benefits like uniform and risk allowance, “but shockingly they are doing office work”. “There are 80 trackmen at Ajni but 25 of the ‘select’ employees have been posted in office by the senior divisional engineer (coordination), said Singh. “We drew attention of the administration to this serious matter several times but the issue has been ignored. After intervention by DRM, these trackmen were sent back to Ajni but after a gap were again deployed for office work. Due to deployment of field staff in office the existing trackmen have been put to additional burden,” Singh said. On the allegations, Central Railway spokesperson and assistant commercial manager (ACM) SG Rao said, “The services of trackmen are utilized for railway work only in the interest of administration. The staff is being used without jeopardizing safety.” However, CRMS leaders said trackmen are the lowest grade of railway employees who walk along the entire length of the track and check for fractures, weld failures and thickness of ballasts in the track. “They play most important role in identifying safety defects in tracks, as not doing so can result in train derailments. Their diversion for office work is a serious threat to safety and also violation of rules,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trackmen-diverted-by-crly-for-clerical-work/articleshow/77074673.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Chandrapur farmer injured in tiger attack||CHANDRAPUR: A 60-year-old farmer was seriously injured in tiger attack at Kavitpeth village under Rajura tehsil on Monday. The tiger attacked Tulsiram Atram when he was returning with his bullocks to the village from his farm. On getting information from villagers, foresters from Virur forest range reached the spot and rushed the farmer to Rajura rural hospital. Earlier, a tiger had killed five people in Rajura and Virur range. Despite orders to capture the feline, foresters have not succeeded in the last three months. CCF SV Ramarao ratified the latest incident but added that it needs to be established whether the same dreaded tiger is responsible for the attack on Atram. The villagers are terrified due to presence of a tiger during peak agriculture season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chandrapur-farmer-injured-in-tiger-attack/articleshow/77074685.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||AIIMS, IIIT join hands to develop unique device for Covid-19 tracking||NAGPUR: Two institutes of national importance — All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur and the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Nagpur — have joined hands to bring out an indigenously designed gadget for effective tracking and monitoring of Covid-19 patients. Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur has also collaborated for designing and packaging of the device and to make it tamper-proof. With the use of the device, vital parameters of Covid-19 positive patients can be tracked real-time. If the patient is suspect and in home quarantine, the device can monitor the movement of the patient and also provide real-time details of the vital health parameters to the health care professionals. The device is designed to overcome limitations of any existing online mobile apps for tracking and monitoring. The existing apps depend on continuous use of mobile phones and availability of stable internet connections. The wristband device, conceptualized by Dr Prathamesh Kamble, assistant professor, Physiology, AIIMS Nagpur, overcomes all the limitations. “The novel device can provide mobile-free operation, using a geo-fencing technology which will provide real-time alert on any breach in quarantine zone” said Dr Prathamesh. The technology is developed by Dr Mayur Parate and Dr Ankit Bhurane from IIIT Nagpur. “This device will operate on a technology which is more effective than GPS system,” said Dr Parate. “A compiled consolidated data can be added on a server for remote monitoring and display on dashboards of doctors as well as authorities. The database can be further integrated with official applications like Aarogya Setu,” said Dr Bhurane. The designing and packaging to make the device tamper proof is done by Dr Kaushal Desai, IIT, Jodhpur. Director of AIIMS Nagpur, Maj Gen (Dr) Vibha Dutta, SM said, “Tracking and monitoring all the contacts is a very labour intensive procedure, the wristbands will definitely make this task much easier and cost effective”. Dr Dutta has supported this invention right from its days of ideation and took extra efforts to facilitate its making despite the constraints of complete lockdown unavailability of raw materials. Dr OG Kakde, director; Dr A G Kothari, I/C dean and Kailas Dhakhle, I/C registrar from IIIT Nagpur and prof Professor Santanu Chaudhury, director, IIT Jodhpur also extended their support in the creation of this device.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-iiit-join-hands-to-develop-unique-device-for-covid-19-tracking/articleshow/77073784.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Slain gangster’s financier used clout to stop cancellation of arms licence twice||Lucknow: Jaikant Bajpai alias Jai Bajpai, the financier of gangster Vikas Dubey, wielded such a clout that recommendations were made on two occasions for the cancellation of his arms licence but he managed to avert action against him. According to officials, Bajpai was issued arms licence in early 2008 and managed to stop cancellation orders in 2014 and again in 2017-18 Arms officer at district collectorate, Kanpur Nagar, Jagpal Kumar told TOI that Bajpai procured licence (number 294) for a revolver in early 2008. However, Bajpai’s name figured in a case of attempt to murder, rioting, and rioting with deadly weapons after which the then SHO, Bajaria, wrote to then district magistrate Roshan Jacob on June 7, 2013 seeking cancellation of Bajpai’s licence. On June 30, 2014, Jacob also recommended for cancellation but Bajpai used his contacts to stop the order. Again in 2017-18, the then IG, Kanpur zone, directed for a probe into the assets amassed by Dubey’s aides. The inquiry was conducted by an ASP-rank officer who was posted in Kannauj at that time. In his report to the IG in 2018, the ASP also recommended cancellation of Bajpai’s arms licence but the order was never issued. A senior police officer in Kanpur said on the basis of the recommendation made by the ASP action was also initiated against two cops at Bajaria police station for misconduct. They were asked to reply as to how even after so many criminal cases, a report was filed in favour of the don’s associate. The SIT formed by the government to probe into the Bikru killings has the mandate to look into the properties amassed by Dubey and his henchmen and how the gangster managed to stock arms and ammunition at his residence in the village. After the ambush, Kanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar P said Bajpai’s licence would be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/slain-gangsters-financier-used-clout-to-stop-cancellation-of-arms-licence-twice/articleshow/77075137.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana secretariat demolition: Closed roads trigger cop-commuter dust-up||HYDERABAD: Commuters are continuing to bear the brunt of the decision to block all routes to the state secretariat, where demolition work is in progress. The restriction have forced them take longer diversions, translating into longer travel durations. “I got a pick up order at Kukatpally and the drop was at Domalguda. Ideally, after reaching Khairatabad, I would have taken the Khairatabad flyover. But due to the restriction, I had to go up to Gun Park, then to Basheerbagh, Liberty cross roads before finally reaching Domalguda. I had to travel nearly three to four kilometres more,” Karthik, a cab driver, told TOI. A private employee, Nilesh from Alwal, said that he had to change the route he earlied used to take to reach Humayun Nagar due to the road blockade at Tank Band, for those coming from Secunderabad. “I am now forced to travel via Begumpet, Punjagutta to reach Humayun Nagar,” he said. Not just commuters, the restrictions have also added to the woes of business establishments that exist along the roads. “We have absolutely no problem if the secretariat is demolished. But by blocking the road, our business is also getting curbed. The customers we get from passing traffic have stopped coming. Our business was already hit due to the lockdown and the road blockade is only adding to the financial pressure,” said Manipal Reddy, who had a DTP and Xerox business. When contacted, a police official at the top brass said on conditions of anonymity: “With the Supreme Court and High Court giving clearance for the demolition of secretariat buildings, there is no point in continuing the restrictions and creating hardships for commuters. But it is still unclear when the travel restrictions will be eased.” However, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar told TOI that restrictions will be lifted “in a few days”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sectt-demolition-closed-roads-trigger-cop-commuter-dust-up/articleshow/77074696.cms||Srinath Vudali
July 21, 2020||Goa||Goa sees youngest Covid-19 death as Chimbel man, 29, succumbs||PANAJI: The state saw its youngest Covid-19 death on Monday after a 29-year-old man from Indiranagar, Chimbel, succumbed to the infection at the Covid-ESI hospital in Margao. The man, whose death saw the state’s toll rise to 23, suffered from chronic kidney disease and was admitted to the hospital a week ago. He was later moved to the intensive care unit (ICU), and his condition deteriorated over the past two days, a doctor said. He is the second person from Chimbel to die of Covid — on Sunday, a 67-year-old man too succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, the state’s active count rose to 1,469 on Monday, with 196 new infections detected. However, 143 persons were declared cured and discharged. North Goa saw a rise in cases, with Sakhali reporting 19 new infections. Health official Dr Ulhas Dessai told TOI that most of the new cases reported were contacts of those who tested positive over the past few days. “All persons who tested positive on Monday have been sent to quarantine centres, and other measures have been taken,” he said. Mapusa also saw 11new cases. Also, a person in Parra who arrived from Gujarat a few days ago tested positive on Monday. Her family members have been quarantined. Porvorim bakers testing +ve is fake news: OfficialA pharmacy in Mapusa town was shut down after a staffer, resident of Sakhali, tested positive. Other staffers will be tested on Tuesday. With the new cases, Mapusa’s tally rose to 51. In nearby Cunchelim, 8 new cases were detected. Other areas in North Goa that witnessed a rise are Pernem, Candolim, Colvale and Porvorim, which has seen 26 cases in a week. A health official said that the new cases involve a hotelier and his employees. “His employees live in Panaji in his hotel premises, but he brought them to Porvorim for testing after he tested positive,” the official said. He also rubbished rumours that some bakers in Porvorim have tested positive. “It’s not true,” he said. The official said that the Porvorim cases are emerging from three different housing complexes in the area. In Salvador do Mundo, a person working in a bakery tested positive, and all his contacts have been traced and tested. Meanwhile in South Goa, cases in Vasco and Cortalim continued to rise. As many as 21 new cases were detected in various parts of Vasco, while Cortalim reported 44 cases. Other areas that reported new cases include Curtorim, Loutolim, Dharbandora, Ponda Cansaulim, Margao and Canacona. Five new cases were detected in the jurisdiction of the Curtorim primary health centre (PHC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-sees-youngest-covid-fatality-as-29-yr-old-chimbel-man-dies/articleshow/77075131.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Covid-19 positivity rate drops to 2.99%, lowest in nearly a month||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The total Covid-19 cases so far in the southern districts crossed 30,000 with the addition of 1,195 cases on Monday. The total of 30,373 positive cases in the 10 southern districts includes 15,042 active cases and 14,955 recovered people. The daily cases in the southern districts on Monday are also the lowest in the last seven days. However, 10 more deaths on Monday have taken the toll to 376. Meanwhile, the eight central districts of the state recorded 311 Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 7,182 on Monday. The region also recorded eight deaths. The region registered 1,000 plus cases in just three days to make the tally cross 7,000 cases in the eight districts. Positivity in Madurai dropped to just 2.99% on Monday, which is the lowest in close to a month. From nearly 16% about a week ago it drastically dropped to 8% four days ago and a little over 5% on Saturday and Sunday when the total positive cases were 185 and 206. On Monday Madurai recorded just 106 cases, the lowest in the district in the last 29 days. The previous lowest was 153 on June 22. “We have not reduced the number of sample collection. Today (Monday) we got the results of nearly 3,800 samples of which only 106 were positive, bringing the positivity rate to below 3%. As per the protocol we have collected 4,008 samples on Monday. There is a backlog of 4,355 samples. But when they get consolidated too we don’t expect any drastic increase in positive cases,” district monitoring officer for Covid-19 B Chandramohan told TOI. Among the 10 deaths, five are in Madurai, two in Ramanathapuram and one each in Virudhunagar, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts. A 34-year-old man from Kanyakumari with diabetes mellitus who died in a private hospital was the youngest in the region among the dead to be listed in the bulletin on Monday. Tuticorin with 200 cases recorded the highest number of cases in the region on Monday. Total positive cases in Tuticorin (2,077) crossed 2,000 for the first time. Tirunelveli had 180 cases. Three other districts in the south – Virudhunagar (169), Theni (107) and Tenkasi (103) – recorded more than 100 cases on Monday. Deaths were also reported in Trichy (4), Pudukottai (3) and Perambalur (1) districts taking the toll in the region to 81. Thanjavur remained on top with 83 cases on Monday pushing its total tally to 1,245 while Trichy recorded 77 cases. The total cases in Trichy district are 2,343. In Perambalur, around 100 relatives of a Covid-19 patient who took part in his funeral were traced and samples were collected for testing. A 3-day-old girl tested positive in Karur. Cases were recorded in Pudukottai (71), Tiruvarur (46), Ariyalur (14), Perambalur (7), Karur (10) and Nagapattinam (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-positivity-rate-drops-to-2-99-lowest-in-nearly-a-month/articleshow/77075130.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Public gather at Vaigai banks to offer rituals for ancestors despite warning, dispersed||Madurai: Despite warnings from the district administration and police that people should not gather in public places in the wake of the Covid-19 spread, close to 100 people gathered on the banks of the Vaigai river to offer tharpanam (a ritual done in the memory of ancestors) in view of the aadi amavasai on Monday. A police team led by Vilakkuthoon inspector dispersed the gathering. A priest involved in conducting the rituals was severely warned. He was allowed to go after he apologized for his mistake. While all the temples, riverbanks and seashores would be crowded with devotees on the occasion of aadi amavasai, people confined the rituals and prayers at home this time. Earlier, the Ramanathapuram district police had urged people not to visit temples and sea shores for the festival. Thousands would throng Rameswaram Sri Ramanathaswamy temple to take a dip in the sea after offering the ritual. Sathuragiri Mahalingam temple located atop the Sathuraigiri hill in Madurai-Virudhunagar border would also attract thousands of devotees throughout the state on the special occasion. Devotees would tonsure their head as an offering. Major falls such as Courtallam in Tenkasi district and Suruli falls and Kumbakarai in Theni districts were deserted due to restrictions. Police teams were deployed to make sure that people do not gather in places of worship. J Chelladurai, a resident of Iravathanallur, said that he used to visit Rameswaram during aadi amavasai every year, but he observed a simple ritual at home along with his family members on Monday due to the restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/public-gather-at-vaigai-banks-to-offer-rituals-for-ancestors-despite-warning-dispersed/articleshow/77075133.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||HC initiates suo motu proceedings on TOI news reports||Madurai: The Madras high court has initiated suo motu proceedings on two news reports regarding the delay in announcing the results of Covid-19 tests, that were published in the columns of the Times of India (TOI).The news articles titled ‘Communication delay between labs, health dept., adds to woes’ and ‘Delayed results may be giving virus time to spread faster, fear officials’ were published on July 19 and 20 respectively. A perusal of these news reports would disclose many things including that the results of swab samples taken for Covid-19 have not been made known and takes considerable time. Since the matter relates to public cause during Covid-19 period, the administrative judge of Madurai bench justice M Sathyanarayanan directed the registry to take up this matter as suo motu public interest litigation.Hence, the registrar (judicial) of Madurai bench registered this PIL seeking for a direction to the respondents to answer the following queries: Whether the district administration and health officials are fully geared up to do periodical tests. The availability and use of RT-PCR test kits in a speedy and timely manner. The reasons for delay in announcing the results of tests taken in respect of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Availability of quarantine/isolation wards to treat the symptomatic patients with details on sanitation and other basic facilities like bathrooms and washrooms and their maintenance to avoid Covid-19 and other infections. Availability of PPE kits in respect of frontline health works such as doctors, paramedical staffs and postgraduate medical students. Availability of crematoria and burial facilities for people who die due to Covid-19 infection. The PIL is to be taken up for hearing on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-initiates-suo-motu-proceedings-on-toi-news-reports/articleshow/77075113.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt staffers protest depts restructuring, central pay scale||Chandigarh: The Punjab government employees’ unions on Monday held protests in Chandigarh against the state government’s decisions of rationalisation of various departments, recruitment of new employees on the central government pay scale, delay in implementation of pay commission and various other issues. State government employees carrying black flags held protests during the lunch hour near the Punjab civil secretariat and in Sector 18. State convenor Sanjha Mulajam Manch Punjab and Chandigarh, Gurmail Singh Sidhu, said the state government was taking such decisions without taking the employees into confidence. Regarding recruiting new employees on the pay scale as being drawn by their Union government counterparts, Sidhu said, “How can there be two pay scales for the same post and work for the old and new employees? It is illegal.” The employees said that the Punjab cabinet’s recent decision to restructure the water resources department would reduce lower posts but will benefit the senior rank officers. Employees also fear that the state government could bring some changes in the pay scales and existing benefits to the employees which would go against employees. The protesting employees also questioned the rationale behind benefits of pensions to MLAs and MPs when the pension facility has been done away with for the employees. “If an MLA is elected for six times, he gets six pensions. What is this logic?,” said Sidhu. He added that the state government was moving in the direction of privatisation but it was not a time to take anti-employees decisions when they were serving at the frontline to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Employees will continue their protests on a daily basis during the lunch time or after the working hours, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-staffers-protest-depts-restructuring-central-pay-scale/articleshow/77075135.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Man poisons kids to death, tries to kill self||MADURAI: A 42-year-old man from Palamedu in Madurai district murdered his two children on Monday by feeding them poison. He also attempted to commit suicide by consuming the same. The deceased children were identified as K Siddharth, 6, and K Koperuncholan, 8. T Kumar, 42, an autorickshaw driver and his sons were found in an unconscious state at the Kannadi temple in A Periyakulam around 2.30pm. They were immediately sent to the Palamedu primary health centre where Sidharth was declared brought dead. Kumar and Koperuncholan were shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital, but the latter died on way to the hospital. Police said that Kumar’s wife Usha Rani had developed an extramarital relationship with Kanagaraj, a supervisor in Palamedu town panchayat. On Monday morning, Kumar attacked Kanagaraj with a sickle leaving him with injuries on the right hand. Kanagaraj was admitted to a private hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-poisons-kids-to-death-tries-to-kill-self/articleshow/77075120.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||Cops bust spurious scented tobacco making unit||CHANDRAPUR: Ramnagar police from the city on Monday raided a farmhouse under Chichpalli police outpost and busted an adulterated scented tobacco making unit. Cops seized material and tobacco worth over Rs50 lakh and arrested three people in this connection. Officials informed that the action was taken by a team led by SDPO Sheelwant Nandedkar and Ram Nagar PI Prakash Hake. The accused, identified as Shamim Kamble, Shailesh Patel and Muhammad Abdul alias Shadaba Sheikh, were found making fake brand of Maza tobacco by mixing Maza, Eagle and Hukka brands at the unit on Valni-Chek Nimbala road. Cops seized adulterated tobacco and other material worth over Rs50 lakh from the spot. The facility had a machine to seal the mixed (adulterated) tobacco in boxes (tins) of Maza brand, which was then sold in the market illegally, said the sources. Scented tobacco is banned in Maharashtra, still some brands are popular in the state. Cops said that scented tobacco was sold at a premium during lockdown due to large-scale demand in markets of Chandrapur and Ballarpur cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-bust-spurious-scented-tobacco-making-unit/articleshow/77074689.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 21, 2020||India||Bengal records ‘specific’ Covid community transmission||KOLKATA: Bengal has recorded some “specific” community transmissions of Covid-19 infections, prompting the state government to go for complete lockdown across the state twice a week. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by CM Mamata Banerjee. The new regime will start from this week — on Thursday and Saturday. About 60% of Bengal’s positive Covid-19 cases till date are infections that have occurred in July. The state again saw a record spike in the number of infections (2,282) on Monday and logged 35 deaths, only one less than the daily highest of 36 till date. The last statewide total lockdown day that Bengal saw was on May 31. The bi-weekly statewide total lockdown, however, will not be applicable to banks as the state government has told them not to work on Saturdays and Sundays. A meeting will take place every Monday to decide on the weekly lockdown schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-records-specific-covid-community-transmission/articleshow/77075856.cms||Debashis Konar
July 21, 2020||Goa||Gollant ward of Siolim barricaded||Saligao: Following five Covid positive cases in Gollant ward of the Siolim-Marna panchayat, the local ward member along with the Anjuna police began erecting barricades in the area on Monday. “We have undertaken the barricading of the area under the supervision of mamlatdar Sandeep Gawde to restrict the movement of the people until the awaited test reports are received,” said panch member William Fernandes, while also stating that rice was distributed to each of the 25 families. The Mapusa fire station personnel also sanitised the entire area, said Fernandes. It may be recalled that on July 14, the village had reported its first positive case after a man from the Gollant ward, who was employed at the Verna industrial estate, contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gollant-ward-of-siolim-barricaded/articleshow/77075134.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Madurai||Special sub-inspector of police dies of Covid-19 in Madurai||MADURAI: A special sub-inspector of police attached to the Checkanurani police station in Madurai district died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment in Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here in the early hours of Monday. SSI Pandi, who hailed from Kovilangulam village, was transferred to the Checkanurnai police station a couple of months ago. Earlier, he was serving at the Nagamalai Pudukottai police station. Pandi and three constables tested positive for Covid-19 on June 27 after a man, who visited the station to lodge a complaint, had tested positive for coronavirus infection. Pandi had underlying health conditions like wheezing trouble and diabetes. He was admitted to GRH and was treated in an intensive care unit. He is survived by his wife, Vasanthi, and two sons and a daughter. Pandi joined the police department as a constable in 1989 and was promoted as an SSI seven years ago. He was the first cop to die of Covid-19 in Madurai district. Sources said that the number of Covid-19 infections among police personnel in Madurai city units has crossed 180 and most of them have been discharged after treatment. A higher police officer said that the infected personnel are treated separately at the railway hospital and supplied with nutritious food. As many as 55 police personnel have been infected so far in Madurai rural police unit, of which 50 are discharged. While asymptomatic police are treated in a specially created facility for Madurai rural police unit at Kappalur, those with comorbid conditions and severe symptoms are treated at the GRH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/special-sub-inspector-of-police-dies-of-covid-19-in-madurai/articleshow/77075123.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Goa, an all-weather ‘sun and mist’ destination for winged visitors||PANAJI: For migrant birds, Goa is not just a ‘sun and sand’ destination to escape the cold climes, like it is for many foreign tourists. Lack of food in frozen conditions and search for better breeding set-ups drives them away from home, say ornithologists. The misconception, that winged visitors arrive here for the sunny weather, has persisted for decades. It has been associated with western tourists indulging in bird sighting while on their holidays. “Over the years, foreign tourists recorded their sightings on various logs around the world, which painted a picture of high bird density here from November to March, but zero sightings from April to October,” senior birder Savio Fonseca said. “In fact, during the rainy season, we get to see a range of interesting birds. One is the pied cuckoo or Jacobin’s cuckoo. Known as the harbinger of the monsoon, it migrates from Africa to India. As with most cuckoos, it lays its eggs in nests of monsoon-breeding babblers.” In the midst of sparkling greenery, waterfalls and gurgling streams, monsoon birding offers a different experience. “Abundance of insects and worms helps resident and migrant birds breed during the rainy season,” a birder Philip Fernandes said. “The monsoon is a good time to spot sea birds near jetties, river mouths and the coast,” said Mandar Bhagat, who is a member of the Goa Bird Conservation Network (GBCN). One among the birds spotted only during this time of the year is the highly-creative Baya weaver bird. “The sight of a male bird tying the first knot for the nest is a treat to watch. If the female accepts, the male then goes ahead and completes the nest,” birder and photographer Shailendra Naik said. The mid-monsoon phase, when vegetation blooms into even more colourful shades, is very conducive. “Birding is more exciting on lateritic plateaus due to this luxuriant carpet. Birds like quails and lapwings become active, often accompanied by early winter visitors like the Pacific golden plover,” Bhagat said. The other monsoon migrant birds one can enjoy watching are the yellow bittern, cinnamon bittern, rain quail, jungle bush quail, and the Malayan night heron. “At this time, conditions are dry in Sri Lanka, hence the heron comes to Goa,” Fonseca said. Birding has greatly enhanced Goa’s tourism profile. It is, however, the western tourists who hand-held the birth of the state’s tourism industry, who must also be credited for initiating local interest in avifauna. These tourists, essentially British birders, would engage cabbies for birding, inspiring them to become birders of sorts. Local interest in birding may have taken some time to breed. Now, a growing number of local birders post their daily sightings on the bird portal, eBird, proving that Goa is an all-weather attraction for avifauna, though the winged visitors during the wet season are lesser in number. Local birders, in a few surveys organised by the GBCN, have even studied pelagic birds, which inhabit the deep seas, but get pushed shoreward due to gusty winds. “We have also seen some rarely-spotted birds such as the red-billed tropic bird and masked booby and various petrels,” Fonseca said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-an-all-weather-sun-and-mist-destination-for-winged-visitors/articleshow/77075139.cms||Paul Fernandes
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Quarantine leeway for some international flyers||NEW DELHI: Pregnant women and parents with children below 10 years may be exempted from the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine while flying into Delhi from abroad. The IGI Airport on Tuesday listed four categories of international arrivals with no onward connection for exemptions, which also include those who have suffered a death in the family and those suffering from any serious illness. The exemption will be decided on a case-by-case basis by government officials in the “meet and greet” corridor inside the terminal. “Airlines may notify passengers at time of reservation that the receiving Indian state government(s) may authorise exemptions from institutional quarantine,” according to a statement. An undertaking form is required to be completed and emailed to airportcovid@gmail.com along with documents such as a medical or death certificate, and copies of passports and flight tickets. Flyers coming from abroad are supposed to undergo seven days’ institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by seven days of home quarantine. In Delhi, one has to undergo the mandatory health screening and a secondary screening at a Delhi government post before proceeding to the quarantine location. After thermal screening, domestic passengers with no symptoms will be permitted to home quarantine themselves for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/quarantine-leeway-for-some-intl-flyers/articleshow/77096269.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nashik||100 booked daily in old city for ignoring Covid norms||Nashik: The Bhadrakali police said they were taking action against nearly 100 people every day for violating mask-wearing, social distancing and other specified norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection in their jurisdiction. While Covid-19 is spreading fast across the city, the markets here have been continuously witnessing a heavy rush of people ignoring Covid safety protocols. The problem is particularly serious in the Main Road area. Sajan Sonawane, senior PI of the Bhadrakali police station, said they are focused on ensuring strict bandobast is the containment zones and are not allowing people to step out of their homes in the old city area. Moreover, the police are taking action against people under section 188 of the IPC in the non-containment zones. Sonawane said that over the past few weeks, they have been taking action against at least 100 people (on average every day) for not taking the necessary preventive measures. Officials said while residents in the containment areas re strictly adhering to the lockdown rules, people in the marketplaces across the city were ignoring the norms. Apart from the Bhadrakali police, the traffic police and the Nirbhaya mobile units are also taking action against people riding bikes with pillions, not using masks, not maintaining social distance in public places, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/100-booked-daily-in-old-city-for-ignoring-covid-norms/articleshow/77072687.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||Rainfall leads to collapse of boundary in Doon||Dehradun: Panic struck residents of Suman Nagar locality near Rajpur Road after a boundary wall collapsed due to rainfall on Sunday. The debris from the collapse blocked as many as five houses. Additionally, rainwater entered some of the houses and the residents struggled to drain it out. As soon the wall collapsed, a police team along with officials from the district administration reached the locality to help out the residents. Govind Singh, a resident of the area, said, “We got really worried as almost eight feet of water entered the house which caused significant losses. Later, the MLA of our area Ganesh Joshi visited us and promised that he will get a new wall constructed for us. We hope that the work will take place soon so that our safety isn’t compromised.” The officials from the district administration also asked the residents to not dig up mud for any purpose, especially during monsoon. The residents have also been promised some financial assistance which will help recover some losses they have suffered due to the incident. Vimla Joshi, another resident, said, “The wall collapse scared us but fortunately, no one got hurt. However, rainwater entered houses and the debris blocked our entry and exit points. We are taking precautions to stay safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rainfall-leads-to-collapse-of-boundary-in-doon/articleshow/77072672.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Days after controversial circular, Goa govt shunts out education director||PANAJI: The state government on Monday removed education director Vandana Rao from her post “with immediate effect”, and asked deputy director Santosh Amonkar to hold charge “until further orders”. The government’s order transferring Rao comes days after many, including ports minister Michael Lobo, called for her ouster. On Thursday, Rao issued a communication asking school managements to pay their teachers’ salaries from their institutes’ own funds for the month of July. She said that the temporary arrangement was necessary after some employees of the directorate of education were quarantined after a colleague tested positive for Covid-19. The next day, the state government withdrew the communication, and chief minister Pramod Sawant, who also holds the education portfolio, said that Rao didn’t put up the file to him before issuing the order. The withdrawal come amid a barrage of complaints from school managements that it was impractical and issued without consulting or understanding the financial conditions of schools. Rao has now been appointed additional collector, North Goa, and will also hold charge as chief executive officer, of Goa Investment Promotion and Facilitation Board. Apart from Lobo, who said that Rao had “messed up the education department”, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat also called for Rao’s removal, and said that an official with “local roots who can connect with the education fraternity” in Goa should be appointed to the post. Rao was appointed director of education in August 2019. Earlier, various associations representing teachers, school headmasters and higher secondary school principals had expressed anger against Rao for not issuing orders based on the Centre’s directives that allow teachers to work from home due to the Covid threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/days-after-controversial-circular-govt-shunts-out-education-director/articleshow/77075136.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Surat||Forest officer pays surprise visit to SMIMER in PPE kit||SURAT: Patients and nursing staff at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) run SMIMER Hospital were surprised when an IFS officer Puneet Nayyar, wearing a PPE kit, started inquiring about their health and other requirements. Nayyar, deputy conservator of forests (DCF) at Surat, has been appointed as officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 and is coordinating work at SMIMER hospital. “I personally visited the hospital for a surprise check at the Covid-19 hospital and interacted with doctors, nursing staff and patients. Though I also had initial apprehensions, but then I thought it’s better to be on ground zero and motivate the team,” Nayyar told TOI after spending over an hour in the Covid-19 hospital. “I interacted with 35 patients and took their feedback over various services. It was heartening to know that almost all patients gave a positive feedback for the staff and amenities,” he added. “Our initiative of on-duty doctors calling patients’ kin and updating them about their health status is receiving very good response as people are anxious to know about their kin,” said Nayyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/forest-officer-pays-surprise-visit-to-smimer-in-ppe-kit/articleshow/77073879.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||SC notice to speaker, 2 mins on MGP plea||Panaji: The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to Goa assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar, deputy CM Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar on a petition filed by the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) seeking a direction to Patnekar to expedite a disqualification petition it filed against Ajgaonkar and Pauskar, who are former MGP MLAs. The petition in the SC also seeks to bar the two ministers from entering the assembly while the petition is pending. It is likely to come up for hearing on August 7. “The apex court has (issued notice in) the MGP petition, and it will be heard along with the Congress petition against the speaker and ten former Congress MLAs on August 7,” MGP’s Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said. Ajgaonkar and Pauskar were both elected on an MGP ticket in 2017, but in 2019 broke away from the party and joined BJP. Subsequently, they both became ministers in the Pramod Sawant-led government. MGP, in its petition, said that there is an SC precendent in which the top court declared that a Manipur MLA would cease to be a minister due to the speaker’s delay in deciding his disqualification plea, and also barred him from entering the assembly. The regional party moved the SC regarding Ajgaonkar and Pauskar last month. Recently, state Congress president Girish Chodankar approached the court seeking an urgent hearing in a similar plea, in which 10 former Congress MLAs joined BJP. Congress and MGP had filed disqualification petitions before Patnekar, but the hearings got deferred. MGP challenged the two MLAs’ claim that two-thirds of its legislature party merged with BJP. MGP, which started the term with three MLAs in the 40-member house, now has one (Dhavalikar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-notice-to-speaker-2-mins-on-mgp-plea/articleshow/77075144.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 15-day deadline to allot land for big investment projects||LUCKNOW: For major investment projects in the state, UP government has now set a maximum time limit of 15 days for allotment of land after it receives an application. On Monday, the government issued an order, setting timelines for allotment of land for various categories of investment projects under the UP Industrial Investment and Employment Promotion Policy, 2017. It states that land allotment for mega, mega plus and super mega industrial units will be fast-tracked to be completed within 15 days of receipt of application. A monthly cycle for land allotment will be fixed, under which allotment through e-auction for applications received by a certain date will be carried out by the end of the month. The steps, being taken to improve ease of doing business in the state, will be implemented by land owning agencies like Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority, UP State Industrial Development Authority, Lucknow Industrial Development Authority (LIDA), Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority, Satharia Industrial Development Authority and Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Ltd. Industries minister Satish Mahana said: “UP is getting investment proposals from many multi-national and national investors, especially in focused sectors like defence, aerospace, logistics, warehousing and electronics manufacturing. To build investor confidence in the state, it is necessary to have land available and a policy for quick allotment,” he said. Mahana added that all major industrial development authorities are also working to create a GIS linked online land bank to enable prospective investors to select land of their choice in a transparent manner. Additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar said that in case of mega, mega plus and super mega industrial units, investment would be calculated on the basis of their detailed project report at the specified norm of a minimum Rs 2 crore per acre to ensure that investors do not obtain land more than what is required for their projects. “Along with this, we are also working to increase our land bank. Industrial development authorities have been asked to organize camps for land purchase through mutual agreement. Another system they have been asked to consider is to change land use of an available plot to industrial, as per law, and compensate for it when new land is purchased,” Kumar explained. He added that industrial authorities had been asked to cancel allotment of unutilised land after a prescribed time to ensure that no land remained blocked endlessly. Another system for opening up land was to allot land meant for specific industries under reserved industrial areas to other industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/15-day-deadline-to-allot-land-for-big-investment-projects/articleshow/77075141.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||29 nodal officers to monitor MoUs signed with govt||Lucknow: Under a new policy where all memorandums of understanding signed between the UP government and a potential investor will be monitored by various departments, the IT and electronics department and the industries department have appointed 29 nodal officers to provide support to the MoU signatories. Additional chief secretary IT and industries Alok Kumar said that till now, six nodal officers have been appointed by the IT and electronics department for implementation of 101 MoUs while 23 nodal officers have been appointed by the industrial development department for providing support to 150 MoU signatories. “To instil confidence in the investor about the seriousness of the government in pushing for these MoUs, even senior level officers like secretary (industries), CEO of UPSIDA, managing director of PICUP, special secretary (IT & electronics), additional CEOs of NOIDA, GNIDA authorities and UPSIDA have been appointed as nodal officers of the MoUs,” he said. The nodal officers, as per a decision taken by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in June, will have to track every single MoU which the government has signed since the February 2018 Investors’ Summit and on which work is yet to start. The industries department revealed that 1,045 MoUs were signed during the investors’ summit. During the two groundbreaking ceremonies that followed, 371 MoUs were initiated. Of these, 106 projects have started commercial production while another 162 projects are in active implementation stage. About 43% of the proposed investments are in the pipeline. Kumar has directed officials to access the MoU Tracking Portal for the contact details of investors. “It will be the prime responsibility of the nodal officer to be in constant touch with the investor. Nodal officers will have to act as facilitators to resolve issues being faced by investors. In our first meeting, I was informed that a nodal officer had been able to get an investor a fire NOC pending for months within two days of being appointed nodal officer for the MoU,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/29-nodal-officers-to-monitor-mous-signed-with-govt/articleshow/77075145.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Agra||3 SNMC docs appointed nodal officers in other cities||Agra: After the success of the much-talked-about Agra model of containment, the state government has appointed three doctors of the Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) here as nodal officers in medical colleges of Meerut, Varanasi and Muzaffarnagar. The doctors have been assigned the task to improve the medical facilities for Covid and non-Covid patients. The move came after the three cities reported a significant increase in the number of Covid patients in the recent past.SNMC’s ENT department head Dr Dharmendra Kumar has been appointed nodal officer for Heritage Institute of Medical Sciences in Varanasi, Dr Manish Kumar Bansal of medicine department has been appointed nodal officer for Shubharti Medical College in Meerut and Dr Shailendra Chaudhary has been appointed nodal officer for Muzaffarnagar Medical College. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “The state government has appointed nodal officers in all the 28 medical colleges in the state. Three doctors of the SNMC have also been sent to medical colleges in three different cities. They have been tasked to ensure standard medical services in the medical colleges and also to see to it that the set protocol for treatment of Covid-19 patients is followed. The doctors will also look after the safety of the staff serving in the medical colleges. These doctors will serve as nodal officers for at least next two months.”The three senior doctors of the SNMC appointed as nodal officers were involved in the treatment of Covid-19 patients and other administrative works related to the college. According to the Agra unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), absence of three senior doctors for two months is likely to affect the medical services at SNMC. President of IMA Agra unit Dr Ravi Mohan Pachori said, “SNMC is suffering from lack of doctors and there is high load for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Sending three doctors to other medical colleges will adversely affect medical services at SNMC. We have been demanding the state government for fresh appointment of doctors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-snmc-docs-appointed-nodal-officers-in-other-cities/articleshow/77072702.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Landslide strikes Pinavoorkudy||Kochi: A major landslide hit Pinavoorkudy ward in Kuttampuzha panchayat, 30km away from Kothamangalam town, on Monday, causing widespread damage to many houses and shops. The landslide also triggered flooding in nearby areas as water level rose in Pinavoorkudy thodu. However, no causality was reported till the newspaper went to press. The fire force vehicle which was heading to the spot for rescue operations, had to be halted midway as flood water entered its censor system. Later, the personnel had to travel on a tipper lorry to reach the incident spot, which was deep inside the forest. Meanwhile, flood water entered many houses in Pinavoorkudy and Urulanthanny wards. “If the rain continues, landslide will occur again in the same area. Landslide had occurred in the same area last year as well. As a result, a crack had developed on a small portion of a hill. Water entered into the houses and shops situated on the sides of Pinavoorkudy thodu. We will shift families to relief camps if heavy rain continues,” said Suseela Loujan, Pinavoorkudy ward member. When water entered houses in Urulanthanny, a two-member family had got isolated. They were rescued by local youths. People said more landslides will occur if rain continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/landslide-strikes-pinavoorkudy/articleshow/77073873.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt leaving farmers at mercy of market forces: Selja||Chandigarh: HPCC president Kumari Selja on Monday accused the state and Union governments of working for capitalists and corporates, saying the agriculture-related ordinances introduced by the Centre will make farmers bonded labourers and render the locals unemployment. “The way contract farming has been proposed, it will certainly make the farmers bonded labourers. Only companies will indulge in contract farming and everyone knows about their power. Hence, one can imagine the condition of farmers,” she said during a media briefing on a day members from the farming community protested the move in parts of the state. “With the option of free trade and free sale of grain stocks, you are finishing the mandi culture and this will pose major threat to economy of state as well. Where will the labourers and those associated with local mandis go? Government has to answer these questions,” she added. Selja also slammed the Haryana government for increasing the premium to be paid by farmers for crop insurance. Referring to amendment in Essential Commodities Act, she said it would lead to stocking and blackmarketing of essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-leaving-farmers-at-mercy-of-market-forces-selja/articleshow/77075146.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||‘Bike Bot’ scam: ED attaches Rs 103 crore assets||Lucknow: The enforcement directorate (ED) team probing the ‘Bike Bot’ scam has on Monday attached movable and immovable assets worth over Rs 103 crore. The assets attached by the Lucknow zonal office include 26 immovable properties worth about Rs 101.5 crore and bank balances totalling Rs 2.3 crore in 22 accounts. The ‘Bike Bot’ was floated by Sanjay Bhati, owner of Garvit Innovators Promoters Limited (GIPL), as a “multi-level marketing scheme” which promised to double people’s investment. The plans were floated in August 2017 and the collection of money from investors, customers and repayments to them continued till early 2019. Later, the promoters opened offices in Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi, Agra and Mathura. Jaipur resident, Sunil Kumar Meena was the first to lodge an FIR against GIPL in 2019. Later, Noida police commissioner had asked the DGP for an EOW probe, which began in May. On February 22, searches were also conducted by ED at 12 locations which resulted in the recovery of several properties and incriminating documents. Later, 19 immovable properties in the name of Garvit Innovative Promoters Ltd in Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Kanpur and Indore were traced and verified from the sub-registrars concerned. Seven other properties in the names of third parties have also been verified. Further investigation of the remaining proceeds of the scam is in progress and the role of several other persons is being examined. ED is also coordinating with the EOW, UP Police in the matter, said an ED officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bike-bot-scam-ed-attaches-rs-103-crore-assets/articleshow/77075164.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nashik||Milk dumped to draw govt’s attention||Nashik: A group of dairy farmers in Akole town, of Ahmednagar district, on Monday, dumped their milk stock on the road to draw the state government’s attention to their deteriorating financial condition brought on by the Covid-related lockdown. The stir was organised by the Dudh Udpadakh Sethkari Sangharsh Samiti, the apex body of different dairy farmers’ outfits in the state. The farmers gathered near the milk collection centre at Akole town raising slogans on the need for the government to intervene. Ajit Navale, the chief of the samiti, told TOI that the lockdown in the state has aggravated the financial problems of lakhs of milk farmers. “The milk farmers are financially distressed as the price of the commodity has been going down following a significant dip in the demand. We want the state government to provide Rs 10 per litre as a subsidy to each milk farmer and transfer the amount directly to their bank account,” said Navale. According to him, the milk farmers are currently compelled to sell milk at around Rs 16-18 per litre, against the Rs 30- 35 per litre price milk commanded before the lockdown began. “As the demand for milk had decreased during the lockdown, the state government had started a scheme of buying around 10 lakh litre of milk from farmers daily at Rs 25 per litre to push the prices in the market. But it did not yield positive results,” added Navale. Atish Shelke, a milk farmer, said the constant rise in prices of cattle fodder has only added to the woes. “We have incurred losses by spilling milk on the road but it was necessary to draw the attention of our government,” said Shelke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/milk-dumped-to-draw-govts-attention/articleshow/77072719.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Soldier among 4 held in arms, drug smuggling racket||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police arrested an Army jawan, along with three others, for their involvement in a cross-border illegal arms and drugs smuggling racket busted last week with the arrest of a BSF trooper. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said Army soldier Ramandeep Singh, was apprehended from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh where he was currently posted, on the basis of disclosures made by BSF constable Sumit Kumar arrested a week ago by Jalandhar Rural police. Ramandeep’s three accomplices, Taranjot Singh alias Tanna, Jagjit Singh alias Laddi and Satinder Singh alias Kala, have also been arrested. They are being brought here on production warrants. Police have also recovered Rs 10 lakh from Kala. With this, the total amount of such money seized in the case has reached Rs 42.30 lakh. Sumit, who belonged to Ramandeep’s village Magar Mudian in Gurdaspur, had disclosed that he was lured by his village classmate and now Army jawan into a cross-border narco-weapons smuggling racket. The duo was also lodged together in Gurdaspur jail after committing a murder in their village. Sumit was released on bail in January 2018 and Ramandeep in September 2019. The DGP said Ramandeep was running the racket in conspiracy with Tanna and Kala. Whereas Kala was for some time lodged in Amritsar jail where he came in contact with a Pakistani national Maulvi alias Mulla, who introduced him to Pakistani smugglers. After Kala said that they needed the involvement of a BSF man in the racket, Ramandeep persuaded Sumit to join the racket. DGP Gupta said these accused were suspected to have been smuggled in 42 packets of heroin, a 9 mm foreign-made Pistol (with 80 live rounds and 2 live rounds of 12 bore gun) so far. They had received Rs 39 lakh as drug proceeds from Pakistan-based smugglers out of which Rs 32.30 lakh was received by Sumit to be distributed equally between him and Ramandeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/soldier-3-others-nabbed-in-drugs-weapons-smuggling-case/articleshow/77075157.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad bylanes see heavy traffic||SECUNDERABAD: With offices resuming on Monday, people living in and around AOC Circle bore the brunt of Local Military Authority’s decision of closing the roads. The narrow bylanes abutting AOC remained packed beyond capacity due to the de-route. As many as half-a-dozen bylanes, including Shastri Nagar, Old Gandhi Nagar, Sanjivaiah Colony, Shobhana Colony and residential colonies in Trimulgherry, Marredpally, Tukaram Gate, Dayanand Nagar, Uttam Nagar and other areas in Secunderabad cantonment witnessed heavy traffic. Till July 17, about 3.5 lakh commuters used to travel through Allahabad Gate, Wellington Road, Gough Road and Ordnance Road before they were shut from Saturday. While earlier commuters coming to Secunderabad from Hyderabad used to enter from Allahabad Gate (near Mahendra Hills), they are now forced to use Tukaram Gate, Lalaguda (south) and Dayanand Nagar to reach Safilguda. People coming from Secunderabad Club used to travel through Wellington Road to go to Safilguda and other parts of North-Eastern residential colonies through AOC Circle, They now have to take a detour of Trimulgherry and KV Junction. “There is no option for me except to travel longer due to the sudden closure of Ordnance Road,” said Chandrakanth, a resident of Anandbagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/secbad-bylanes-see-heavy-traffic/articleshow/77074718.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 21, 2020||Agra||97 test positive for Covid-19 in five western UP districts, four die||AGRA: As many as 97 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in five districts of western Uttar Pradesh on Monday, while four succumbed to the deadly virus. At least 37 people, including a cook and a sweeper at a juvenile home and a teacher, among others, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Monday, taking the district tally to 1,774. Meanwhile, a casualty took the toll in the district to 83, confirmed Meerut chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Raj Kumar. However, the toll in Bareilly district reached 33 as three elderly people died during the course of treatment. The district, meanwhile, recorded many as 24 positive cases, said ACMO Dr Ashok Kumar. Shahjahanpur and Budaun districts, meanwhile, reported 16 and four fresh cases, respectively. With 16 new Covid-19 cases the Agra district tally reached 1,517, while nine patients were discharged after they recovered. The fresh cases, however, include three patients of acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Out of the 1,517 cases, 82.72% have been declared cured and discharged. The district has, however, as of now, 169 active Covid-19 cases. Agra CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,254 people have been cured of the viral infection and discharged. Besides, we are screening the people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas, and collecting samples of the suspected patients for a lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/97-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-five-western-up-dists-four-die/articleshow/77072707.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bareilly||97 test positive for Covid-19 in five western UP districts, four die||AGRA: As many as 97 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in five districts of western Uttar Pradesh on Monday, while four succumbed to the deadly virus. At least 37 people, including a cook and a sweeper at a juvenile home and a teacher, among others, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Monday, taking the district tally to 1,774. Meanwhile, a casualty took the toll in the district to 83, confirmed Meerut chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Raj Kumar. However, the toll in Bareilly district reached 33 as three elderly people died during the course of treatment. The district, meanwhile, recorded many as 24 positive cases, said ACMO Dr Ashok Kumar. Shahjahanpur and Budaun districts, meanwhile, reported 16 and four fresh cases, respectively. With 16 new Covid-19 cases the Agra district tally reached 1,517, while nine patients were discharged after they recovered. The fresh cases, however, include three patients of acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Out of the 1,517 cases, 82.72% have been declared cured and discharged. The district has, however, as of now, 169 active Covid-19 cases. Agra CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,254 people have been cured of the viral infection and discharged. Besides, we are screening the people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas, and collecting samples of the suspected patients for a lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/97-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-five-western-up-dists-four-die/articleshow/77083995.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||CM requests defence minister to renew lease of Gorkha Military Intermediate College||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has requested Union defence minister Rajnath Singh to renew lease of the buildings and the land of Gorkha Military Intermediate College, Dehradun Cantt, at minimum rates. CM Rawat has said that Gorkha Military Intermediate College is being operated on a land of 3.542 acres on lease from the Department of Defence since 1927. He added that classes are being conducted from Class VI to XII in this school and children of soldiers, ex-servicemen, underprivileged employees receive education at a nominal tuition fee there. Also, free education and textbooks are provided to the students of Class VI to IX. CM Rawat informed the Union minister that the school’s manager met him with the request for the renewal of the lease of the building and land. The school management was recently asked to vacate the school building and land. The CM stated that a low tuition fee is taken from students and the salaries of the teachers and other employees are paid from the grant received from the state government. Additionally, the school management committee has very limited income. He added that due to limited resources, the school management is unable to pay the lease amount at increased rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-requests-defence-minister-to-renew-lease-of-gorkha-military-intermediate-college/articleshow/77072716.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||CBI has illegally withheld handing over of sacrilege case files: Punjab||MOHALI: In the resumed hearing on the closure report and application filed on stopping investigation by SIT in all three cases of Bargari sacrilege, CBI special judicial magistrate G S Sekhon, while deferring the case hearing, directed the state, complainant and accused to share the copies of replies filed by them with each other. The case will next be heard on July 29.The court has also warned all counsels that “the party who will not argue the matter on the next date of hearing will be presumed to be not an interested party and the court will proceed as per the law”. However, Punjab state in its reply filed through district attorneys Sanjiv Batra and R K Salwan — assisted by Sarabjit Singh, AIG from bureau of investigation of Punjab — alleged that CBI had in an illegal and unjustified manner withheld handing over of case files. District attorneys prayed before the court that in view of the orders passed by the Supreme Court and the high court of Punjab and Haryana till date, the CBI had no jurisdiction over the present matter. It was submitted that the said actions of the CBI clearly amounted to contempt of orders passed by the Supreme Court and the high court and the state government reserved its rights to take action with regard to the same. The state also reiterated that according to the facts and circumstances, the director of bureau of investigation of Punjab had marked the investigation of the case to a special investigation team (SIT) headed by Ranbir Singh Khatra. The present SIT, in terms of the January 25 judgement of the high court and February 20 order of the Supreme Court, and in terms of Section 173 (8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), had jurisdiction and competence to conduct further investigation. Accused Sukhjinder Singh, through counsel R K Handa, also filed an application for seeking interim stay to restrain Punjab from proceeding with a parallel investigation.Handa had earlier filed an application in which he stated the SIT probe was a criminal contempt and i could not do investigation when CBI already had the case. Advocate Gagan Pradeep Singh Bal, counsel for complainant, filed a reply that SIT probe was not criminal contempt. Healso filed an application that accused can’t be listened in court at this juncture of hearing, instead they should be removed from court hearing. “CBI is stating the SIT investigation should be stopped as SLP review petition is pending in Supreme Court. In our reply, we have said the review petition has only been inserted in diary, but CBI has not given the application number assigned to the review petition by the Supreme Court, so CBI is just wasting time of court and trying to halt the investigation of SIT,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-has-illegally-withheld-handing-over-of-sacrilege-case-files-punjab/articleshow/77074708.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||No UAE residency visa, Indian expats’ kids can’t fly home yet||MUMBAI: While UAE-residence visa holders stranded in India for the past three months have started flying back home, young children, largely sons, of Indian expats living in UAE can’t, yet. The boys were rendered ineligible to board flights by a triptych of factors—they had left their homes in UAE for universities, schools and colleges in the US, Canada, UK and India; their UAE-residence visas lapsed in the past few months; and lastly, they happen to be stranded in India. Under the Indian government guidelines, currently only those Indian expats who are UAE-residence visa holders can board the Vande Bharat Mission Air India flights or Emirates flights from India to UAE. Under the UAE norms, a male child’s residency visas, procured through sponsorship by their expat fathers, are valid only up to the age of 18. Thereafter, the teenagers have to apply for a fresh residency visa. Till now, teenagers who leave for universities in the US and Canada and turn 18 when abroad, return home using their US visa, which grants entry into UAE with a visa on arrival. Once home, they apply for a new residency visa. Those studying in India and other countries fly back home before they turn 18 to apply for a fresh UAE residence visa. Children whose fathers have changed jobs and now have a new residence visa permit also have to fly back to UAE for a new residence visa. But this year, the coronavirus pandemic and the travel restrictions it brought along, put up stumbling blocks along their path. Which is why, Prithvi Venkatkrishna has been stranded in a Bengaluru cricket academy since March. A student of an international school in India, he flew home to UAE during Christmas holidays last year to apply for a new UAE-residence visa. But a last-minute exam scheduled by his school forced the 17-year old to rush back to India. He was booked to fly back to UAE in March, but couldn’t due to Covid-19 travel restrictions. He turned 18 in early July and now has no valid UAE-residence visa to fly back home. He managed to procure a tourist visa though, but the Indian government lets only UAE-residence visa holders board flights. About 40 expat parents of kids, like Prithvi, stranded in India have come together on a WhatsApp group to appeal to the Indian and UAE governments. Many more such kids would be stranded in India, the parents surmised. “We’ve appealed to the Indian government that children with tourist visas should be allowed to board flights to UAE,” said Suguna, Prithvi’s mother. Those who haven’t managed to procure a tourist visa yet are in deep trouble. According to media reports, India is currently not in the list of countries whose expats can apply for a visit/ tourist visa. The problems for most of these kids began after the Covid pandemic shut down schools and colleges, and students were asked to vacate hostels. A 19-year old engineering student, who was studying in Toronto, returned back to India on a Vande Bharat Mission flight as his parents were stranded in India. Now, his parents can fly back as they have UAE residence visas, but he cannot. He has managed to get a tourist visa. "Had he been in any other country, he could have flown back home to UAE with the tourist visa,” said his mother. Among those studying in India and stranded here is an engineering student in Vellore, who managed to reach Kochi during lockdown, where he has been staying with a relative his parents barely know. Parents of a 12-year-old studying in a school in Panchgani said that their son has been living in his aunt’s house in Mangalore since March. Another parent said their 20-year old son, a hotel management student, has been stranded in a Delhi guest house with bare minimal resources and facilities for the past 45 days without any local friends or relatives. ``My son is amongst the very few who could not return home as we have settled in UAE,’’ said the parent, in a letter sent to Indian and UAE government officials. Among the stranded kids is a three-month-old. ``I came to India with my two-year-old daughter for my second delivery. My baby was born during lockdown, but the birth certificate is pending with the embassy in Delhi for attestation. Can I get a resident visa permit without birth certificate attention or a visit visa for my baby?’’ asked the mother, an Abu Dhabi residence visa holder. If not, she and her children would be stranded here for a very long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-uae-residency-visa-indian-expats-kids-cant-fly-home-yet/articleshow/77074716.cms||Manju V
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Age-old drug to rein in corona?||LUCKNOW: Medical experts from across the country are trying to formulate a consensus on exploring the role of an age-old drug 'ivermectin' in the treatment of Covid-19. They have also decided to take out a white paper on the drug's efficacy in treating this viral disease. Discussing the role of 'ivermectin' in treating Covid-19 at a national webinar on Monday, Dr Suryakant, president, Indian College of Allergy, Asthma and Applied Immunology, who was a keynote speaker, said that the medical fraternity is perplexed why the powerful pharma industry is not exploring the efficacy of 'ivermectin' which is available at just Rs 50. The webinar, which was organized under aegis of the Academy of Advanced Medical Education, aimed at formulating a white paper for exploring the role of 'ivermectin' in Covid-19 treatment. Eminent national experts Padamsri Dr D Behera from Chandigarh, Dr VK Arora from Delhi, Dr Agam Vora from Mumbai and Dr T Mohan Kumar from Coimbatore also expressed their views on the topic. Dr Suryakant said that 'ivermectin' had been a widely used, FDA approved anti-helminthic drug which is mainly used for worm infections like River blindness, ascariasis, filariasis and other such diseases. Recently, there have been reports of its efficacy against SARS Cov-2 as well, he said. Dr Suryakant, head, department of respiratory medicine, KGMU, presented an overview of the drug and also enlightened participants regarding the interesting history behind the discovery of this drug. In 1970, microbiologist Satoshi Omura collected a soil sample from woods close to a golf course in Kawana, on the south east coast of Honshu, Japan. Omura isolated and cultured a bacteria from this soil and together with Wlliam Campbell from New Jersey tested for its anti-parasitic effects. They were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology/Medicine in 2015 for their discovery. From a fortuitous discovery on a Japanese golf course to a Nobel Prize, the impact of 'ivermectin' on human health to date has been extraordinary. It is not the first time that antiviral properties of 'ivermectin' have been explored. It is shown to be effective against dengue and influenza. The in-vitro antiviral activity of 'ivermectin' against SARS-CoV-2 has further extended the antiviral spectrum of this drug. As 'ivermectin' has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), repurposing it for anti-SARS-CoV-2 therapy would not be a problem. Dr Suryakant, former president of Indian Chest Society (ICS) and National College Of Chest Physicians (NCCP), said the expert group has reviewed all available evidences and data from clinical trials of 'ivermectin' and would soon present a decisive comment about how it may prove to be beneficial to Covid-19 patients. Nevertheless, compared with other pharmacotherapeutic options currently available in market, 'ivermectin' may have leverage. Adverse effects of 'hydroxychloroquine' or 'lopinavir’and 'ritonavir' combinations are not seen in patients who are on 'ivermectin'. Compared to these drugs, 'ivermectin' is safe and has a lesser side effect profile. Besides, the treatment regimen with 'ivermectin' may turn out to be more cost-effective. The therapeutic regimen with 'hydroxychloroquine' and 'azithromycin' combination comes out to be five−six times more expensive than the one with 'ivermectin'. The same can be said about the other antivirals which are priced at exorbitant rates. These factors may prove 'ivermectin' to be a viable option for India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/age-old-drug-to-rein-in-corona/articleshow/77075184.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Cusat opens polar research centre||KOCHI: Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) joins national and international institutions working on polar regions with the setting up of a joint centre for polar sciences research. The centre will be a platform for research scholars from Cusat and the National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research (NCPOR), Goa. This follows the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the two institutions last year for long-term collaboration in academics and research. Several avenues of academic and research collaborations having mutual benefits have been spelt out in the MoU. The Cusat-NCPOR centre for polar sciences will be inaugurated online by ministry of earth sciences (MoES) secretary M Rajeevan in the presence of Cusat vice-chancellor K N Madhusoodanan and NCPOR director M Ravichandran, at 11am on Thursday. Cusat is one among the few universities which cater to the entire spectrum of studies in marine sciences, through postgraduate teaching and quality research in all branches of marine sciences such as marine biology, marine geology and geophysics, physical oceanography, chemical oceanography and atmospheric sciences. NCPOR, which is under the MoES, is the only national centre in India which coordinates Indian research initiatives in the Antarctic, Arctic, Southern Ocean and the Himalayas. Besides national level coordination of polar and ocean research, NCPOR is also engaged in frontier research in the areas mentioned above. NCPOR also caters to the requirements of research students taking up polar research for their master’s and doctoral work there by contributing to capacity building in frontier areas of polar research. This centre will be hosted at the school of marine sciences, Cusat. A A Mohamed Hatha and P S Sunil will be the centre director and academic/research coordinator respectively. “In the wake of the various climate change events which is affecting all aspects of the global environment, Cusat’s school of marine sciences will also be able to participate and contribute to global and national research,” said Sunil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-opens-polar-research-centre/articleshow/77073890.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 21, 2020||Amritsar||SIT replies to dera followers’ petition||Bathinda: The special investigation team (SIT) on Monday told the Faridkot judicial magistrate first class (JMIC) Chetan Sharma that the challan filed by it on July 6 in case of theft of Bir of Guru Granth Sahib from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara was legally sound as no court not stopped it from investigations. The SIT also filed a written reply in response to an application moved by arrested Dera Sacha Sauda followers in the court on July 9, challenging the filing of charges against them and holding that as CBI had held them innocent, they should be released. They also pleaded that CBI be allowed to carry on investigations and SIT should be stopped doing so. The court has posted the matter for August 3. It also extended the judicial custody of five dera followers — Ranjit Singh, Nishan Singh, Baljit Singh, Randeep Singh Neela and Narinder Sharma — till August 3 as they appeared before the court through video conferencing. Meanwhile, the SIT moved an application in the court of duty magistrate Ekta Uppal, seeking arrest warrants against Punjab Police SP (then Kotkapura DSP) Baljit Singh in the Kotkapura firing case. It said Baljit had failed to join investigations despite having been been sent summons twice. The court, however, allowed the production warrants of then Kotkapura police station SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher in the Behbal Kalan firing case, after he was nominated in the Behbal Kalan case. He is expected to be presented in the court on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sit-replies-to-dera-followers-petition/articleshow/77074711.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Seven new Covid-19 cases in Margao, total hits 47||MARGAO: South Goa has been witnessing a steady rise in Covid positive cases over the last few days. In Margao, seven new persons tested positive for the virus, taking the total number of active positive cases under the jurisdiction of the Margao urban health centre to 47. A family of six from Dabhal and a family of four from Curchorem are among the ones who have tested positive, taking the total number of active positive cases under the jurisdiction of the Curchorem community health centre to 15. Sources said the Curchorem family had recently travelled to Sakhali where they were tested positive and admitted to a Covid care centre there. Health officer of Curchoerm community health centre Mohanrao Dessai maintained that there has been no local transmission so far. The number of positive cases under the jurisdiction of Vasco primary health centre shot from 272 on Saturday to 294 on Sunday, even as 21 more cases were detected on Monday taking the tally to 315. Fourteen new cases were detected in areas under the jurisdiction of the Cortalim PHC, taking the total number of active cases to 369.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/7-new-cases-in-margao-total-hits-47/articleshow/77075154.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Delay in new BJP executive worries cadre||LUCKNOW: The delay in the formation of a new executive of the ruling BJP has left most of the state corporations and boards headless as the party had announced that those who won't get a berth in the state executive would be accommodated in these government bodies. Among the corporations and the boards acting without heads are the SC/ST Welfare Commission and the Backward Caste Welfare Corporation and as a result thousands of applications and petitions of aggrieved persons are lying unattended. Swatantra Dev Singh, who was appointed as the BJP state president on July 4 last year and was formally elected by district office-bearers last November, was expected to announce his new team by December to lead for 2022 assembly elections. But, so far, he has not been able to constitute his team and is running the show with a team set up by his predecessor Mahendra Pandey who is now a Union minister. Insiders said that a consensus is yet to be reached on the appointment of office-bearers in the two frontal organisations of the BJP, the Yuva Morcha and the Mahila Morcha. This could be one of the reasons for the delay in setting up a new state executive, they said and added that there was also a possibility of some state office-bearers getting a place in the national executive of the BJP. “As their names are yet to be finalised it is also resulting in delay in formation of the state committee,” sources said. Meanwhile, Swatantra Dev Singh stated that the committee would be announced soon as only a few cosmetic changes would have to be made in the existing team. “Koi jaldi nahi hai. Sab kaam to ho hi raha hai (There is no hurry. The organisation work is going on smoothly),” he added. However, the delay has left the BJP rank and file restless as the party leadership had announced that those who would not be included in the panel would be accommodated in the state boards and corporations. Posts of chairman, vice-chairman and advisors in over 100 corporations have been lying vacant since long. The party cadre is resenting that over three years have passed to the formation of the BJP government in the state and barring a few who have become MPs and MLAs, they have not been offered any post by their own government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/delay-in-new-bjp-executive-worries-cadre/articleshow/77075201.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 21, 2020||Nashik||Cantt board to turn school into Covid unit||Nashik: The Cantonment Board, Deolali (CBD), is taking steps to convert one of its schools into a 90-bed isolation facility in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the area.Senior officials of the board said that most of the patients from nearby villages have been arriving for treatment at the Cantonment hospital, prompting them to think about the isolation facility. “Currently, there are 60 Covid-19 patients. While some have been advised home quarantine, some are taking treatment at the Cantonment hospital. Hence, a Covid care facility in the area is inevitable,” said a senior official from CBD.The official said that if required, the board may even take a decision on complete lockdown in the Deolali Camp area, as and when required. The CBD has also made wearing of masks compulsory in the area. Officials said people found moving around without masks were being slapped with Rs 200 fine each. “A special team of the CBD takes photos of the people found roaming without wearing masks and penalises them,” said the officials. Besides, there are dedicated vehicles which makes rounds in all the wards in the Cantonment area and sprays disinfectant to contain the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantt-board-to-turn-school-into-covid-unit/articleshow/77072731.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Gangster attempts suicide in jail||Patiala: Police here on Monday registered a case against Nabha jail escapee and gangster Kulpreet Singh alias Neeta Deol for allegedly attempting suicide inside the Nabha district jail around 11.30pm on Sunday. According to sources, police had in March this year registered a case against two warders of the district jail on charges of supplying a mobile phone to the gangster. Sources said a few days ago, police added the name of Neeta’s wife in the FIR due to which he attempted suicide inside his cell on Sunday evening by hanging himself. He was spotted by some warders, who immediately rushed to his rescue. On July 10, jail officials had recovered yet another phone from his possession. Neeta was one of the six inmates of Nabha jail who escape in November 2016. He was later arrested by the organised crime control unit (OCCU). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gangster-attempts-suicide-in-jail/articleshow/77074715.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Many students from Telangana look to seek admissions in private universities||HYDERABAD: As uncertainty prevails over EAMCET and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), majority of students from the city and elsewhere in the state are seeking admissions in deemed or private universities. Though the exams are scheduled to be held in September, many think that they may be delayed further. With several private universities such as SRM Institute, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) among others cancelling their entrance examinations coupled with the fact that many parents are not inclined towards their wards appearing for examinations during the pandemic, is driving students to choose deemed universities. “After the announcement of the cancellation of the entrance examination, we received 10,000 applications in a day,” said GV Selvam, vice-president, VIT University. He said that every year they receive over 2 lakh applications and added that the number of applications may go up significantly as quite a few students are cancelling their plans to go abroad. “Based on Class 12 marks, JEE or SAT (Scholastic Assessment Test) we are going to release a rank list in August,” he added. Likewise, sources from one of the well-known deemed universities said that admissions have gone up this year as many students are preferring local varsities. Lovely Professional University, which many students from Telangana and AP join every year, has also seen a 25% increase in the number of applications received. “This might be because of the way we handled things during the pandemic,” said Aman Mittal, additional director, Lovely Professional University. Citing reasons for opting for these institutes, parents said they don’t want to wait till September or October to secure a seat. “I have sent my son’s applications to almost all private and deemed universities in Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka and even received provisional admission from a couple of them. I want him to secure a seat in computer science engineering in one of the institutes so there is no pressure on him to appear for entrance examinations,” said B Sanjana, a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-students-look-to-seek-admissions-in-pvt-universities/articleshow/77075180.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 21, 2020||Nashik||‘Keen on cargo flights from Nashik’||Nashik: Private airline company SpiceJet is keen on starting cargo flights from Nashik and has already started a survey to find the export potential of the district. Apart from agricultural produce, goats, pharma and other industrial products are exported at large from Nashik. “We are planning to start cargo operations from Nashik shortly and we have already begun with the groundwork. We have initiated discussions with freight agents like Halcon and industry bodies to assess and develop the market from Nashik,” an official from SpiceJet said. “We have plans to develop Nashik into a cargo hub that caters to the entire district and adjoining industrial belts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/keen-on-cargo-flights-from-nashik/articleshow/77072739.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 25 crore/month power bill relief for Hyderabad water board||HYDERABAD: After more than five years, the fund-starved Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) on Monday received clearance from the Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC) for the revised power tariff. “The revised power tariff will be implemented (retrospectively) from April 2018. With this, the water board can save nearly Rs 22 crore to Rs 25 crore in monthly power bills. At present, the water board is getting Rs 90 crore bill for power consumption for drawing water from Godavari and Krishna drinking water sources and supplying potable water to 9.8 lakh consumers on alternate days,” a senior HMWS&SB official told TOI. “A few years ago, the water board had brought to the notice of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao the issue of accumulation of power dues of nearly Rs 800 crore with Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL). The CM had then issued a GO regarding implementation of revised power bill, following which the ERC gave the nod. However, due to several reasons, the proposal had been pending,” added the official. The water board is spending Rs 40 to Rs 45 per one kilo litre for purifying water in different stages, but collecting Rs 8 to Rs 10 per kilo litre on subsidy prices from the consumers. The balance amount saved due to revised power tariff will be utilised for water and sewerage network maintenance works, said the official. On Monday, the water board team led by its managing director, M Dana Kishore met MA&UD minister KT Rama Rao at Pragathi Bhavan and informed him about the ERC’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-25cr/month-power-bill-relief-for-water-board/articleshow/77075161.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 21, 2020||India||Airborne transmission of Covid possible, wear masks in enclosed spaces: CSIR||NEW DELHI: Amid recent acknowledgement from the World Health Organisation (WHO) over emerging evidence of airborne spread of the novel coronavirus, the head of India’s premier R&D body has said that airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is indeed a “distinct possibility” and suggested wearing masks even in “enclosed” spaces. Coronavirus: Follow live updatesCouncil of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) chief Shekhar C Mande sought to bring clarity on the issue in his blog post referring to findings of various studies and said, “All these emerging evidences and arguments suggest that indeed airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is a distinct possibility.” Elaborating on how one can keep oneself safe in such a scenario, Mande wrote: “The answers are intuitively very straightforward – avoid large crowded gatherings, keep enclosed places like workplaces well ventilated, and most importantly, continue wearing masks even in enclosed spaces.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Indication from the WHO had come after 239 scientists from 32 countries through an open letter urged the global health body and other scientific organisations early this month to look at the issue. He said wearing masks appears to be the most effective strategy, and possibly mandatory for all to follow. Attempting to respond to the debate whether the transmission is airborne or not, Mande said even while the debate on whether infected surfaces are a source of infection rages on, the primary route of infection can be understood to be through inhalation. Read AlsoOxford vaccine offers hope, Serum to seek clinical trials in IndiaThe first set of results from early-stage clinical trials of the Oxford University Covid-19 vaccine candidate show the vaccine is safe and induces an immune reaction, according to results published in the Lancet, a medical journal, on Monday. The results from Oxford were followed by Indian vaccine“It is well known that when people sneeze or cough, they release droplets in the air... The larger droplets readily settle on surfaces, whereas smaller droplets or the droplet nuclei remain suspended in atmosphere for a longer duration. The larger droplets formed by an infected individual during coughing, sneezing, talking or singing therefore do not travel far. They settle down quickly. However, the smaller droplets can remain suspended in air for a considerable duration,” said Mande The earlier social distancing measures and other precautions suggested by WHO and others are based on the understanding that the SARS-CoV-2 transmission is mainly through larger droplets, which settle on surfaces. Read AlsoPandemic exposes scientific rift over proving when germs are airbornePandemic exposes scientific rift over proving when germs are airborneAppealing to medical community to recognize the potential of airborne spread of COVID-19, the 239 scientists in their open letter wrote: “There is significant potential for inhalation exposure to viruses in microscopic respiratory droplets (microdroplets) at short to medium distances (up to several meters, or room scale), and we are advocating for the use of preventive measures to mitigate this route of airborne transmission.” Watch Covid-19: Airborne transmission of virus possible, wear masks to stay safe, says CSIR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/airborne-spread-is-a-possibility-use-masks-says-csir-chief/articleshow/77075867.cms||Vishwa Mohan
July 21, 2020||Bareilly||10-year-old boy buried alive as school’sboundary wall collapses on him in Kheri||Bareilly: A boy out on a walk with his father on Sunday evening was buried alive after the boundary wall of a school in Mohammadi area of Lakhimpur Kheri collapsed on him. The boy was rushed to a hospital, where doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival. Doctors said the boy suffered critical head injuries resulting in his death. The body was handed over to the family on Monday after autopsy. Police said the wall collapsed due to heavy rainfall throughout the day, and thus, the death would be covered under the Natural Calamity Act and the family would be paid compensation. Mohammadi police station SHO inspector Sanjay Tyagi said Avnish Kumar was going along with his father Deepak when the boundary wall of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Girls’ School collapsed on him. The wall was in a dilapidated condition and the school administration had sought funds for its repairing, but the Covid-19 lockdown delayed the administrative procedure, said the SHO. The SHO told TOI, “No FIR has been filed in the case. A team of revenue officers met the aggrieved family on Monday and assured them of compensation as per the set guidelines.” On July 17, a 45-year-old woman and her four children died on the spot after the wall of a neighbour’s house collapsed on them — apparently after it was violently shaken by a troop of monkeys — in Wazib Khel locality of Shahjahanpur. Similarly, a couple died while their three minor children were critically injured after a wall collapsed on them in Jhakroli village of Kalaan area in Shahjahanpur district on June 21. In Bareilly and Budaun districts, five people were killed after a dust storm followed by heavy rain hit the Rohilkhand region on May 10. A nine-year-old boy died while two minor children were injured after a wall collapsed on them in Isanagar area because of heavy rainfall on May 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-year-old-boy-buried-alive-as-schoolsboundary-wall-collapses-on-him-in-kheri/articleshow/77071715.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Jalandhar man commits suicide, streams it live||JALANDHAR: A man here committed suicide by hanging and streamed it live on Facebook. Working as caretaker of the house he lived in, he blamed the owner of the house for pushing him to take the extreme step. In the video recording, just before tightening the noose, a weeping Gurpreet Singh said he had been living in the house in Green Model Town area as a caretaker, while owner Harpreet Singh Batth was staying in Urban Estate. He said he lost work due to lockdown and later started working as the caretaker of the house.  “I used to work at his house since early morning till late night, but the owner refused to pay me anything for sustenance and rather started asking for rent of the house, though I was earlier told that I would have to only look after the house for living here. He assaulted me and even insulted me before my friends. Now, I can’t pay Rs 84,000 being demanded by him. He is threatening me to throw me out while I have no source of income after losing work,” Gurpreet said weeping in the video and mentioned his little daughter’s name. His wife later saw him hanging and he was rushed to a local hospital with the help of neighbours, but he could not be saved. The police have registered a case against Batth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jalandhar-man-commits-suicide-streams-it-live/articleshow/77074717.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nagpur||CAP row: Jr colleges outside city limits to face HC scrutiny||Nagpur: Taking cognisance of alleged unholy nexus between junior colleges and coaching institutes, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Monday allowed petitioners to add names of such colleges as respondents. While hearing a plea by 30 junior colleges from city, a division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Nitin Suryawanshi directed the petitioners to complete formalities within three days and asked the registry to issue notices to through online mode. Next hearing is scheduled after two weeks. The department of school education and sports secretary, director of secondary and higher secondary education and deputy director of education have been made respondents in the case. Alleging commercialization of Standard XII education, city-based petitioners led by New English High School Association and others contended that many no-grant colleges have mushroomed in the areas coming under Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA), which are outside the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits. All such colleges have tied up with private tuition classes. Since, the centralized admission process (CAP) is conducted for colleges under NMC limits, those under NMRDA directly admit students on recommendations of the coaching classes, said the petitioners. Through counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni, the petitioners pointed out that government has made it mandatory to install biometric machines in all such colleges to check the attendance, but the managements, with the blessings of education department officials, have shifted those machines to the coaching classes being run in city. According to them, even infrastructure of such unaided colleges is insufficient to accommodate thousands of students, but the alleged neglect by authorities has led to continuation of such unethical practices. As per rules, such colleges are neither required to provide the infrastructure details, including appointment of teaching staff, nor are the students required to attend classes regularly. The petitioners argued that due to such illegal practices adopted by the colleges outside NMC limits, parents as well as meritorious students prefer admission there while city institutions are facing huge vacancy of seats for the last three years. “Admission of students in such colleges are made even before the declaration of Standard X results, as per directives of the coaching classes, which charge hefty amounts and parents oblige to them,” said Kulkarni. The petitioners prayed for quashing and setting aside the government resolution (GR) of June 23 asking the education department officials to conduct the CAP for junior college admissions in city. In alternative, they demanded to include colleges coming under the NMRDA area also in the CAP. They further insisted on permitting admissions based on merit while following all reservation policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cap-row-jr-colleges-outside-city-limits-to-face-hc-scrutiny/articleshow/77086051.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Demolition diversion causes ‘sleepless nights’||PUNE: Over the past three days, increased vehicular movement has shattered the peace and quiet in the residential parts of Model Colony, with traffic being diverted from Ganeshkhind Road to accommodate the demolition of the University and E-Square flyovers. Barricades have been put up on routes leading to Aundh, Baner and Pashan and vehicles are being diverted through Dhotre Path and via Om Supermarket Chowk. “Traffic coming from Shivajinagar and headed to Aundh, Baner-Pashan or Mumbai has currently been diverted onto Dhotre Path till the flyover demolition is complete. From here, vehicles are directed towards Om Supermarket Chowk and from there, straight towards Senapati Bapat Road and then right onto the university Chowk,” assistant police inspector Prakash More of the Chatushrungi traffic division said. Residents say the new traffic diversions have turned their once peaceful neighbourhood into a highway, with constant movement of vehicles, including trucks, heavy vehicles, ambulances and buses. Sanjay Shinde, resident of Suyog Society in Model Colony, said the sudden increase in traffic has been giving his family sleepless nights. “The constant noise of trucks and heavy vehicles at all times has cost us our peace of mind. My wife, who is a cancer patient, and my mother-in-law (72) have been unable to sleep for the past three nights. The road has practically become a highway,” Shinde said. This has also curtailed residents’ movement, Shinde said, recalling how he had to wait for a considerable length of time to be able to turn into his society recently. Frequent movement of trucks too poses a danger to pedestrians, especially children, residents said. “Fully loaded trucks pass through the road, which has housing societies on both sides. My house is by the roadside and the movement of trucks is causing sleepless nights. Noise pollution levels have peaked here. If this is the scenario during the lockdown, I shudder to imagine the traffic load here when the lockdown is lifted,” another resident said. Others said heavy vehicles are driven in a rash manner, posing a risk to the residents, especially children. “Just the other day, a truck hit a tree branch (very close to the power lines), which then fell on the road. Children got scared. This is a hazard to the residents,” Anita Khanna, another resident, said. Hark Kami, a security guard in a society here, sleeps near the society’s gate at night. “I wake up with a jolt every time a truck passes by — it’s like sleeping on a highway,” he said. The police, however, said there was no other option. “This is the only route to divert the traffic going toward University chowk while the demolition is under way. From Chandni Chowk to SPPU and further on to Khadki, University chowk is a single-point access. Once the demolition is complete, traffic movement will become normal,” assistant inspector More said. Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole said he would take this up with the relevant authorities. “Before the lockdown is lifted, all the authorities involved will be meeting to discuss an alternative traffic management plan for the post-lockdown period,” Shirole said. Sujit Patwardhan, trustee of the NGO Parisar, criticised the plan to demolish the flyover only to build a new one. “The authorities continue to prioritize flyovers, wide roads and parking lots, which ultimately are conducive to vehicular traffic. It’s inevitable that these problems will crop up. Instead of patchwork remedies, the city needs to take bold steps to prioritize non-motorized transport and public transport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demolition-diversion-causes-sleepless-nights/articleshow/77074720.cms||Neha Madaan
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Bengaluru firm develops app for medical students in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Amidst the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate medical students of Telangana will have access to curriculum-based medical education content with 3D animations on a learning application MediMagic developed by a Bengaluru-based firm. According to a circular issued by the Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS), Warangal, the app, developed by Vinformax, encompasses 3D animated content for pre-clinical and para-clinical lessons mapped to the Medical Council of India prescribed curriculum. “The app is free for medical students of KNRUHS till October 31. The app can be used by the students for self-learning while reading textbooks. Concepts and images in the textbooks can be visualized from the videos in the app,” read the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bluru-firm-develops-app-for-medical-students/articleshow/77075191.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM to convene meeting of personal staff of ministers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM state secretariat has decided to convene a meeting of personal staff members of CPM ministers in the wake of recent allegations against the chief minister’s office and former secretary M Sivasankar. The meeting to be chaired by state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan will be on Thursday, it is learnt. According to sources, the invites were handed over to members of the personal staff of CPM ministers. Members of personal staff of ministers from other constituent parties of the LDF are also likely to attend the meeting. The CPM leadership has communicated about the meeting to leaderships of other parties as well so that the parties concerned will direct the personal staff to attend the meeting. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will also speak to personal staff members during the meeting. The CPM secretariat that met here last week expressed serious reservations over the deterioration of professional standards in the office of several ministers. Though M Sivasankar is not a party nominee, the party was in receipt of reports about deviation from other officials. BJP state president K Surendran levelled allegations of corruption against C M Raveendran, senior official in the CMO and also a staunch CPM man. Soon after taking over office in 2016, LDF government introduced a code of conduct for personal staff. The code of conduct had barred personal staff members from entertaining middlemen and lobbyists, and to refrain from making unnecessary recommendations in appointments and transfers. The LDF state committee meeting has also been planned for next week. During a discussion held between state secretaries of CPM and CPI on Saturday, it was decided to convene the LDF meeting on July 28. Meanwhile, in a letter to CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that Kerala government led by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has introduced a consultancy raj in the state. “Doesn’t this constitute a deviation from your party’s position on hiring international consultants under the influence of funding agencies that may be detrimental to the country’s and state’s interest?” he asked. “International funding agencies such as World Bank are calling the shots, with the government carrying out their diktats. I regret to state that your silence on crucial issues related to the functioning of the LDF government is rather deafening,” he said in the letter. The opposition leader also alleged that one of the main aims of the ‘consultancy raj’ is to carry out backdoor recruitment, a new extension of nepotism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-to-convene-meeting-of-personal-staff-of-ministers/articleshow/77072741.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Rebate on power bills of weaving units||Lucknow: In a much-needed relief to handloom sector in times of losses due to coronavirus crisis, the UP government will provide rebate to weavers on power consumed in their units. The scheme will be applicable in retrospective effect from January 1, 2020. According to t department of textile and handloom, weavers will be given a rebate of Rs 3.5 per unit in different categories. The cost will be borne by the department. In an order dated July 17, additional chief secretary, textile and handloom, Rama Raman said small weavers having carding machine of 0.5 horsepower would be given rebate of Rs 3.5 up to 120 units. In an order dated July 17, additional chief secretary, textile and handloom, Rama Raman said small weavers having carding machine of 0.5 horsepower (HP) would be provided rebate of Rs 3.5 up to 120 units. The cost of power consumption beyond 120 units will have to be paid by the weaver. Likewise, those having 1 HP machines would get rebate up to 240 units. Both these categories are covered under LMV-2 (non-domestic with load up to 5 Kw) and LMV-6 (small and medium power with load between 5 Kw and 75 Kw). Power consumption on pre- and post-power loom activities of carding machines will be included in the limit of 120 and 240 units, the department said. Those weavers who have registered themselves in district industrial centre and have received certificates will be able to avail benefits of the scheme. The provisions also entail that the weaver should not be less than 18 years of age and should be engaged in weaving business. New weavers will have to procure a certificate from the district industrial centre to be eligible for the scheme. The weavers will be required to have electricity connections in their name and will have to submit their Aadhaar card number, name of bank, account number, IFSC code, mobile number and weaving machine number. The list of weavers seeking rebate will have to be attested by regional commissioner (handloom) as well as power department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rebate-on-power-bills-of-weaving-units/articleshow/77075218.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: From immunity to want of fresh air, many ‘reasons’ to keep the mask away||CHENNAI: Despite repeated campaigns on the need to use facemasks, some in Chennai don’t care, even in crowded areas. TOI on Monday questioned 25 residents on why they did not wear a mask. Almost 70% of them said masks were suffocating when worn for long hours and they remove it for a while to get some fresh air. Pain behind the ears or itching due to sweat was also a ‘reason’ many put forth. Difficulty in communicating with customers deterred grocers, auto drivers and street vendors from covering their mouth and nose with masks. Despite risks, daily survival forced them to take such risks, they said. A few others argued that their immune system was strong enough to fight Covid-19 and taking a bath after going back home from work would suffice. Some said they had an unnecessary urge to touch their nose or face with a mask on. Psychologists said people in Chennai are not used to wearing masks in the past and any change will face initial resistance. However, people needed to put safety first, they said. "For example, athletes who are used to running barefoot, will find spike shoes difficult. But soon they’ll understand that spikes will help them in running fast. Similarly people here too will understand how masks can save their lives and will get accustomed," J David Samson from Association from Indian Psychologists. Dr T N Ravishankar, head of Chennai-based Sudar Hospital, said when something is tied around the nose it will be difficult to breathe. Readings from a pulse oximeter will suggest that oxygen saturation levels do drop by two points with masks on. But it is a necessary evil which they have to undergo to save lives. "If people have breathing difficulties, then they can find a secluded place and breathe a few minutes and wear them back after that. There is no other option," he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/from-immunity-to-want-of-fresh-air-many-reasons-to-keep-the-mask-away/articleshow/77074721.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In Govandi society, ‘in-house’ doctors on call 24x7 for residents||MUMBAI: When their son had tested Covid-19 positive a few weeks ago, a septuagenarian couple, quarantined in their apartment on a BMC-sealed floor, had found a counsellor in their neighbour—Dr B Ramnarayan, a general physician, who had comforted them and had even monitored their medical parameters till they overcame the phase. Dr Ramnarayan is part of a medical task force that Runwal Centre, a cooperative housing society in Govandi, has put together comprising seven medical practitioners —a neurologist, a pediatrician, a gynaecologist, a plastic surgeon and general physicians—willing to give their time and medical advice to residents at a time when visiting their doctor or a hospital has become a last resort due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Runwal complex, spread over five wings, houses around 242 residents, among whom many are practising doctors in prominent hospitals. “While we have been educating residents on wearing masks and social distancing, in May, we decided to create a pool of doctors so that in case of a medical need, members could seek guidance from the right source,” said S Venuji, secretary of Runwal Centre. “There have been a few emergencies when our doctors helped bridge the gap for patients till they could be hospitalised.” That’s what this doctor couple, Dr Varun and Ajita Dixit, did when an elderly neighbour complained of severe toothache in the middle of the night. “We helped alleviate his pain with a numbing gel before he could visit his dentist the next day. One has to be cautious about dispensing medicines,” said Dr Varun, a plastic surgeon. Dr Ajita, a pediatrician, helped a one-year-old neighbour get vaccinated. “When the need arose, our decision to volunteer was an obvious extension of our practice...But...we make sure that we don’t step into areas that aren’t our specialisation,” said Dr Varun, who helped the housekeeping and security staff with pointers on the right use and disposal of masks and gloves. Dr Rajshree Jadhav, a former medical superintendent at a BMC hospital, has been providing free care-on-call and home consultancy. “You can’t charge your extended family, especially at such a time of crisis,” she said. Apart from setting up their in-house doctors’ taskforce, this society has also recruited a team of resident volunteers, called Runwal Covid Warriors, to regulate distribution of vegetables and other provisions and keep check on whether anyone from containment zones is entering the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-govandi-society-in-house-docs-on-call-24x7-for-residents/articleshow/77074722.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bareilly||Four involved in online gambling, one cow slaughter accused nabbed||Pilibhit: Police on Monday arrested four people involved in online gambling and betting, and another person alleged to have been involved in cow slaughter and carrying a bounty of Rs 25,000, from two different police station circles. They also recovered from their possession cash and tools of online betting, and sent the accused to jail. According to Jahanabad police station SHO Harsh Vardhan Singh, the cow slaughterer, identified as Fida Hussain (39) of village Aimi, was arrested from Khamaria bridge on the Bareilly-Haridwar highway (NH-74). He has 12 cases registered against his name under the state’s Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, and was also wanted under the Gangster Act, which had recently been applied to him. District police had announced an award of Rs 25,000 for his capture, said the SHO. Meanwhile, the SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, Shrikant Dwivedi, after obtaining search warrant to conduct raids on illegal casinos of the four accused of betting from police superintendent Jai Prakash Yadav, said the police raid party was attacked with assault knives during the raids, though the cops managed to escape narrowly. He said the accused were identified as Amit alias Himanshu Mishra (30), Shri Krishna Chandra Mishra (52), both of Sher Mohammad locality, Raja Gupta (32), a resident of Asafjan locality and Rohit Singh (42) of Khushimal area. The four accused were mediators in a gambling and betting network operated from Delhi. They used to forward particulars of the person placing a bet to Delhi for monetary transactions. Police recovered from their possession 10 smartphone sets, Rs 32,000 in cash, a powerbank, two calculators, two assault knives, 11 registers and four diaries containing transaction details. They were booked under Section 307 (attempt to kill) of IPC, sections 3 and 4 of the Public Gambling Act 1867 and Section 25 of the Arms Act, Dwivedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-involved-in-online-gambling-one-cow-slaughter-accused-nabbed/articleshow/77071740.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: NGT nod to secretariat demolition||HYDERABAD: The state’s decision to build a grand secretariat complex got a fresh boost on Monday after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) refused to intervene in the demolition of the secretariat buildings. Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy had filed a petition in NGT over demolition of old secretariat. Meanwhile, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao will hold a high-level meeting with officials and Chennai-based architects Oscar and Ponni on Tuesday for the proposed secretariat complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-nod-to-sectt-demolition/articleshow/77075198.cms||Roushan Ali
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman kills self, in-laws booked for harassment at Khairatabad||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old housewife committed suicide after facing alleged dowry harassment by her husband and in-laws at Khairatabad on Sunday. A dowry death case was registered against the woman’s husband and in-laws. The victim, Shazia Tarranum, from MS Maqta, Khairatabad, had married Mohammed Omer, 30, in 2017. Four months ago, Shazia went to her parent’s house after facing harassment. Her parents discussed the issue with elders and sent her back. However, the harassment continued for additional dowry. Around 8.30 pm on Sunday, the victim committed suicide by hanging at her husband’s house. A week after their marriage, police said Omer, her mother-in-law Asia Begum, brothers-in-law Mohd Ghouse and Siddiq, sister-in-law Saira Begum, quarrelled with her over petty issues and dowry. They reportedly would not even give her proper food. According to cops, she used to inform these issues to her parents over phone calls and visit her parent’s house whenever she could not bear the harassment. After the victim’s father approached police, and Shazia’s in-laws and husband were booked for dowry death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-kills-self-in-laws-booked-for-harassment/articleshow/77074724.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Weekly checks, reopening schools in safe areas top ideas for learning||PUNE: The State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) has come out with recommendations to ensure that all students learn every day after studying the results of a rapid assessment survey of students from class I to VIII. The recommendations include what must be done at the state, district and teacher level and call for a separate plan for children with special needs and tribal students. The suggestions comprise calling and checking on students every week, preparations to reopen schools in remote-safe areas, building online material in local languages (Kannada, Gujarati etc) to bridge the gap. The recommendations call for a hybrid model of education to make sure that students spend at least 1-2 hours on home learning. This hybrid model includes use of TV, WhatsApp and other mediums. “While there is an order not to open schools till July 31, there are many hamlets in remote areas where home learning is not possible without a teacher. Here, we have roped in volunteers and worked on a model where teachers can go to a place where 3-4 students come together and teach them. There have been no Covid-19 cases here and the teacher stays in the same area,” Vikas Garad, deputy director of SCERT, said. Dinkar Patil, director of SCERT, said all the recommendations are based on a survey done in June. “Another survey will gauge the impact of home learning packages to understand the best practices and the loopholes,” Patil said. The recommendations also urged teachers and cluster heads to identify at-risk children and make a school-wise/ child-wise plan to ensure children learn at home and return to school when appropriate. “Teachers must call students every week, check the progress and problems. We will also randomly call them to see if they are getting help to learn at home,” Garad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weekly-checks-reopening-schools-in-safe-areas-top-ideas-for-learning/articleshow/77074726.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||School survey may not evoke much response||Hyderabad: With the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) asking parents to send their opinions on when schools should be reopened by July 20, education officials and school managements said seeking a reply at such short notice may not yield any result. They said not many would be able to send in their responses as there was not much time to communicate as the copy from MHRD was received on Saturday. Monday was declared a holiday on account of Bonalu. “We have shared it in several parent groups on social networking sites, but won’t be able to say if there is any response as parents will have to send their responses directly through emails,” Hyderabad district education officer B Venkata Narassama said, adding that the circular was released during holidays, the ministry might consider responses even if they reach a day or two after the deadline. Private school managements said that if the ministry was serious about the survey, it should give enough publicity. “Those in rural areas were unaware of the survey. In urban areas, only educated people with access to internet heard about it. Instead of giving a day or two, MHRD must give more time so that survey reflects opinion of majority of Indians,” Telangana Recognised School Managements’ Association president Y Shekar Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-survey-may-not-evoke-much-response/articleshow/77075203.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||Rs 140 crore mismanagement: Mumbai University senate calls for meet sans VC||Mumbai: Senate members of Mumbai University have called for a special meeting chaired by the governor, who is also the chancellor, after expressing “loss of confidence” in the vice-chancellor as the varsity conferred the best employee award on an officer against whom charges of financial mismanagement were levelled. In a letter sent to other members of MU’s various statutory bodies, the governor and education minister, the senate members also demanded that VC Suhas Pednekar ought to sit out the special senate meeting. “We have serious doubts on your morality and integrity as you hold the highest administrative position in the university and hold a statutory responsibility of upholding the statutory provisions and impartial administration,” the letter read. On Sunday, TOI had reported about MU conferring the best employee award on deputy registrar Rajendra Ambawade against whom an inquiry was conducted for depositing the varsity’s Rs 140 crore in Yes Bank five days before this financial institution collapsed. Senate members on the inquiry panel said that an interim report was submitted to the VC three months back, along with immediate measures needed to be taken to bring certain “non-statutory” practices to halt. But there was a stoic silence, with no follow-up action, they claimed. “The committee reserves its right to investigate into any financial transactions entered during the lockdown... we reserve our right to lodge an FIR ...as we suspect wide conspiracy revolving around investments of liability funds of the university and exchange of perks in return,” said the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-140cr-mismgmt-mu-senate-calls-for-meet-sans-vc/articleshow/77074729.cms||Hemali Chhapia
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: DJs, dancers, fitness trainers keep their professions alive, virtually||KOCHI: Though the lockdown has given a kick in the teeth for several self-employed people like DJs, Zumba trainers, fitness trainers, dance and music teachers, affecting their livelihood, many have adapted to the changed social scenario and have been relying on online platforms to keep their professions alive. While many DJs conduct online gigs, dance and music teachers are holding live video sessions. Fitness trainers are now training and motivating their clients’ early morning through Whatsapp video calls. They say their customers are adapting well to the new virtual lifestyle. Susheela Pai, owner of Mudra Centre for Dance, is now hosting online classes in Bharatanatyam, Kathak, contemporary and Bollywood styles. She said even though 40% of her students have stopped the classes once lockdown started, many new students have joined the online sessions from distant places like Delhi and Dehradun. She said even though online lesson are challenging and do not offer the professional satisfaction like real classes, it is inevitable due to the pandemic. “The number of students has been split into small groups to ensure smooth interaction during online session. Besides group sessions in Google Meet, we give personalized training for some students according to convenience. The recorded versions of classes are also given to them through Whatsapp for practice as rhythm and music won’t be in sync during live sessions. The doubts are cleared through personal video chats,” she said. DJ Savyo, one of the leading disc jockeys in the city, has conducted a live DJ show amid the lockdown to keep up his fans’ spirit. The DJ, sound and light engineers and drummer performed their parts by sitting in their own house using VirtualDJ software. The final output looked much similar to a DJ party with all the sounds and flashy lights. The show was conducted on Facebook live and thousands had attended it. “The jobs of artists like us were completely affected due to the lockdown. So, we thought of doing online gigs. Though online DJ shows are common, it was for the first time we conducted a live session in the state. The shows are never the same now without live crowd and party vibe but we don’t have much options now. I conducted a ticketed online DJ show and the money was handed over to the Ernakulam MP to get flight tickets for NRKs struggling to repatriate,” Savyo said. As far as fitness is concerned, for many it’s workout from home these days. Personal fitness trainers are now guiding their clients through video chats. Lack of workout equipment and weights is a challenge. So, many are focusing on fat-loss workouts using dumbbells and ground exercises. Diet plans and home-based workout schedules are given to clients through Whatsapp and Instagram. “Besides giving online lessons, I send recorded workout videos that show how to do exercises accurately. The diet plan and workout schedules are changed every two weeks. Their sleep hours, daily food intake etc., are recorded online,” said Arun Menon, a personal fitness trainer in Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/djs-dancers-fitness-trainers-keep-their-professions-alive-virtually/articleshow/77073934.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Green card cap: Protests by NRIs rock US states||HYDERABAD: Indians in the US staged multiple protests over the weekend, demanding the green card backlog to be addressed. Hundreds of agitators in Illinois, Michigan and Nebraska spoke for the passing of the Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act of 2019 in senate. The $386 bill hopes to remove the cap on the issuing of green cards. Speaking to TOI, Sai Teja, who attended the rally in Chicago, Illinois, said the passage of the bill has been long due. From Tarnaka in the city, Teja came to the US in 2005 and got an H1B or temporary work visa in 2007. He is still waiting for a green card. “Senator Dick Durbin is the only senator blocking the bill,” said Teja. Having worked on the Wall Street and being a tech consultant who has helped firms upgrade modernize applications, he is among the thousands of high skilled workers in the US who have been waiting for a permanent residency for decades. At least 70 people, including children, participated in the rally in Chicago on Sunday. Suma (19) and her sister Hasini (12) were at the rally. Suma, who was born in India, may find her dream to become a doctor tougher to achieve because she does not have a green card. “I want the bill $386 to be passed so that I can pursue be a doctor and serve the community here,” she said. On Saturday rallies were also held in Michigan and Nebraska simultaneously. Over a 100 participated in a walk to the Michigan Capitol building shouting slogans like “the American dream is broken”, “country of birth is not a skill”, “H1B is indentured servitude” and “save our kids from deportation”. Amit Ranjan, one of the organizers of the rally, said, “Many students come to the US pursuing the American dream. However, what they do not realize is that solely because of their country of birth they are treated significantly differently from their counterparts. They are forever stuck on temporary visas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-card-cap-protests-by-nris-rock-us-states/articleshow/77074736.cms||Uttara Varma
July 21, 2020||Hubballi||SI brews kashaya in station to keep her colleagues healthy||DAVANAGERE: Kashaya, the home-made ayurvedic concoction, has found its way into Azad Nagar police station in Davanagere in the time of pandemic. The soothing fragrance of the herbs wafts through the station during morning and evening hours as sub-inspector KN Shailaja brews the refreshing kashaya twice a day and serves it to her colleagues. Police are in the forefront in the fight against coronavirus and hence they need to keep their immunity system well. Highly recommended by the Ayush department and endorsed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself, kashaya, the traditional herb-infused liquid, is increasingly becoming popular among people as an immunity booster. “I regulalry prepare kashaya at home for my family members. So, I thought of serving it to my colleagues too during this tough and challenging time,” said Shailaja. More than 17 containments zones were identified under Azad Nagar police station limits after the first Covid-19 case was reported on April 29 from Bhasha Nagar. Police are in high risk category as they move around as Covid warriors in the city, including containment zones and sealed areas. While they have been provided safety gear and sensitised about social distancing, they need to be healthy and fit too. Shailaja is convinced about the power of kashaya to boost the body’s immune system and ability to fight harmful viruses. She prepares hot kashaya at the police station twice a day — at 11.30am and 6pm. “For us, police station is like a second home. It does not cost me much to get the ingredients and I feel it is my pleasure to serve my colleagues,” said Shailaja. Her initiative has been received enthusiastically by one and all, who love to sip the tasty and healthy kashaya. Shailaja said superintendent of police Hanumantharaya provided her an induction stove and vessels required for brewing the herbs. Hanumantharaya lauded Shailaja’s initiative and said all police stations should adopt similar method so as to keep the cops in good health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/si-brews-kashaya-in-station-to-keep-her-colleagues-healthy/articleshow/77072871.cms||SA Gangaraju
July 21, 2020||Nashik||NMC to daily conduct 1,000 antigen tests starting today||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday said it will start conducting around 1,000 antigen tests per day in the city from Tuesday. The rapid antigen tests will be conducted in all active containment zones across the six divisions of the municipal corporation. The civic body has received over 9,000 rapid testing kits from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and has conducted around 1,200 tests. “Now, we have decided to conduct 1,000 rapid tests every day in the containment zones in Nashik East, Panchavati, Nashik West, Cidco, Nashik Road and Satpur divisions. The tests are being conducted for early detection of patients,” an NMC official said. “As we are increasing the number of tests, there will be rise in the number of positive patients in the city. Hence, people should not panic. Our objective is early detection of patients and make them free of Covid in the next few days,” he added. The official said that the civic body has also made arrangements for adequate number of beds for new patients. “Apart from antigen tests, we will continue over 500 RT-PCR tests per day in the city. Moreover, we are also starting mobile clinics at 20 locations in the city to examine the health of comorbid patients and conduct their antigen tests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-daily-conduct-1000-antigen-tests-starting-today/articleshow/77072765.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 21, 2020||Pune||Engineering student hangs self||Pune: An engineering student (20) from Rupinagar in Talawade was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his house on Sunday. Senior inspector Satish Mane of the Chikhali police said, “Prima facie probe revealed that the youth ended his life after his father reprimanded him for quarrelling with his sister.” The youth’s father went to call him when he did not come for the dinner. When there was no response despite repeated knocks, the man forcibly opened the door and found his son hanging to the fan with a sari. The youth was rushed to a hospital, where the doctors pronounced him as dead, Mane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engineering-student-hangs-self/articleshow/77074732.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||After lockdown, S Goa back to normal; markets remain shut||Margao: As the three-day lockdown ended at 6am on Monday, it was business as usual in most parts of South Goa. However, the new municipal market of Margao remained closed on Monday and will remain shut for a week as per a decision taken by the market association as Covid cases are on a rise in and around Margao. Shops in the vicinity of the new municipal market also remained closed on Monday. In Curchorem, as the lockdown was extended by the traders’ association, no shop or commercial establishment remained open, barring milk booths, pharmacies and petrol pumps. However, a crowd was witnessed at a fair price shop in Tilamol as the biometric reader malfunctioned leading to inordinate delay in dispensing the commodities to the customers. This led to commotion as customers began arguing with the dealer over the issue and demanding that he switch over to the manual mode of entering the records. The government had earlier directed the fair price shop dealers not to use the biometric machines until May 31 after concerns were raised by the public about contracting the infection while registering one’s thumb impression. Director of civil supplies, Siddhivinayak Naik when contacted ruled out switching over to the manual mode of registering the records by the FPS as “no instructions have been received from the government of India” in that regard. Meanwhile, Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro on Monday handed over Ayush-authorised immunity booster to the sarpanchs of all panchayats of Navelim constituency, which will be distributed to all residents. However, chairperson of Margao Municipal Council Pooja Naik alleged discrimination along party lines in distribution of the medicine. “It is unfortunate to inform the citizens of Fatorda and Margao about the kind of politics being played by the government with regard to distribution of immunity booster tablets which are supplied by the ministry of Aayush. Workers of the BJP are seen distributing the tablets only to voters of the BJP which is unfortunate and uncalled for during this pandemic that affects everyone and not just people of one political party,” Naik said in a statement, adding that the MMC had never differentiated between citizens along party lines with regard to helping them with supplies, sanitisation etc during the days of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-lockdown-s-goa-back-to-normal-markets-remain-shut/articleshow/77075228.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Volunteers help clean up Musi riverfront||HYDERABAD: In a bid to restore Musi river, volunteers working with the Musi Development Corporation are helping clean-up the riverfront from Osman Sagar dam till Narsingi bridge. “We have been carrying out clean-up activities over the past one-and-a-half months. In view of Covid-19, about 20 volunteers take part in every clean-up session,” said Rajashree Pinnamaneni, who is with the Gandipet Welfare Society (GWS). The volunteers are covering a 5km stretch. “We have finished work on two-and-half km stretch and cleared around 10 tonnes of garbage. About 1km stretch near the dam can’t be reached by machines. So a group of volunteers are cleaning it every weekend,” she said. She said the clean-up will most likely be completed over the next two weekends. After this, the volunteers plan to help set up two sewage treatment plants. “This will help treat waste water flowing at the start,” said Rajashree. “The volunteer-government connect will allow speedy restoration of the lake,” Vrinda Chouhan, a volunteer, said. She said garbage removal, desilting and removal of weeds obstructing the flow of water is some of the work being done.  Tweeting about it, MAUD principal secretary Arvind Kumar said: “With the help of local residents and about 20 volunteers, the (GWS) takes up cleaning of Musi from Gandipet gates till Narsingi every weekend 6.30-9 am. Great work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/volunteers-help-clean-up-musi-riverfront/articleshow/77075209.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: Highest single-day spike in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru||HASSAN: Although the spike in Covid-19 cases in Hassan district has not been as alarming as in neighbouring Mysuru and Mandya, the graph is certainly heading upwards. On Monday, Hassan recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases – 67 – thus taking its overall tally to 953. A patient also succumbed to the novel coronavirus on Monday, the district’s death toll owing to the pandemic going up to 29 as a result. Of the 953 patients with Covid-19, only 355 are active cases. The victim, a 42-year-old man from Hassan city, had been admitted with a history of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and diabetes, and was admitted to the designated Covid-19 hospital two days ago. Ironically, he was confirmed with Covid-19 after he breathed his last on Monday. Of the 67 fresh cases reported on Monday, 23 were from Hassan taluk. Authorities in the district health department admitted to facing difficulties in tracing the source of the infection among 33% of the freshly reported cases. The situation was not dissimilar in Chikkamagaluru district, which also recorded its highest spike in one day, with 43 people being confirmed infected. A dozen of the cases were reported in Chikkamagaluru taluk. The total number of cases in the Malnad district has now risen to 334, of which 171 are still active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/highest-single-day-spike-in-hassan-cmagaluru/articleshow/77073856.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Plastic menace: Experts stress the need to reuse components of PPEs||MANGALURU: There is a growing concern over the surging plastic waste, thanks to the increasing use of PPEs like gowns, aprons, face-shield, goggles, shoe covers, masks and gloves by healthcare workers. Speaking on the issue, Dr Indrani Karunasagar, director of Nitte University Centre for Science Education and Research, said with Covid-19 cases expected to rise further, plastic in the form of PPEs and other medical equipment are important for protecting the frontline workers. “International organisations like WHO have come out with guidelines for the rational use of PPEs. We need to look at how much plastic waste we are generating during the pandemic, and how are we managing this hazard. The need of the hour is to reuse certain components of PPEs like goggles, aprons, masks and gloves after disinfecting them in sodium hypochlorite.”. According to senior international food safety consultant Dr Iddya Karunasagar, even the general public are using plastic gloves, face-shields, single-use masks wrapped individually in plastic. “Think of the plastic waste being generated even as Covid-19 cases are rising. As the resources are scarce, the Washington State Department of Health has suggested extended and reuse of PPEs by healthcare personnel. With growing demand for gowns, gloves and masks, there is also the fear of poor-quality products being pushed into the market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/plastic-menace-experts-stress-the-need-to-reuse-components-of-ppes/articleshow/77074027.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||Youth +ve in KDMC antigen test, -ve in pvt lab 2 days later||Kalyan: A 25-year-old Kalyan resident tested positive for Covid-19 in an antigen test on Saturday, but showed negative in a private lab test on Monday. Vivek Kamble told TOI: “I did not have fever, but felt weak so I got tested at KDMC’s Covid test drive in my area on Saturday.” As antigen test results are available in under 30 minutes, Kamble soon got a call from a civic official that he had tested positive and could get admitted to the Covid care centre in Bhiwandi. Kamble opted for home isolation, but decided to undergo a test at a private lab on Monday. “I was shocked when the lab report was negative,” he said. In case of symptomatic patients, an antigen negative test is followed by the RT-PCR test; an antigen positive test is accepted as right. Activist Anil Kakde has demanded a probe into the incident, but KDMC health officer Pratibha Panpatil said it’s not uncommon for patients who test positive to turn negative the next day. “The results depend on the viral load in the body,” she said. On Monday, KDMC recorded 427 Covid-19 cases and nine deaths, taking the total case tally to 16,334 and death toll to 255. —Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/youth-ve-in-kdmc-antigen-test-ve-in-pvt-lab-2-days-later/articleshow/77074734.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 21, 2020||Agra||500 saplings planted 3 weeks ago in Agra perish due to lack of proper care||Agra: Over 500 saplings planted by the horticulture department in the first week of July at Paliwal Park here have either withered due to lack of proper watering and care or consumed by. stray animals in the absence of tree guards.During the statewide plantation drive, around 3,500 saplings were planted at Paliwal park. Of these, some 500 saplings have perished.Park staff claimed that stray animals entered the park and consumed the saplings as the boundary railing was broken. They had brought the matter to the notice the higher authorities. SK Verma, horticulture inspector said, “The railing of the park is being repaired. There is no requirement for tree guards as duties have been assigned to guards for protecting each sapling. Water is drawn from a submersible pump installed at the park for watering.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/500-saplings-planted-3-weeks-ago-in-agra-perish-due-to-lack-of-proper-care/articleshow/77072768.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: IMD warns of squally weather, strong winds||KOCHI: After several days, Kerala got a feel of the monsoon season as strong winds accompanied by heavy rainfall in spells hit the shores of the state. Coastal regions, especially the low-lying areas of Ernakulam and Alappuzha, felt the sea surge onto the land, inundating homes and farms. The sea continued to be rough since Sunday, with squally weather and wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph hitting the coasts. This is likely to prevail along and off south Kerala coast and fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that there would be strong winds of 50-60 kmph along the southwest and west-central Arabian Sea on Tuesday too. Yellow alert has been sounded for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki. A cyclonic circulation over the southeast Arabian Sea off Lakshadweep and Kerala coasts persists which will bring heavy rainfall in the region. There will be severe thunderstorms accompanied by lightning, IMD warned. Lakshadweep islands are on orange alert for very heavy rainfall of 12-20cm on Tuesday and Wednesday. IMD officials said that the upper air cyclonic circulation now seen over Kanyakumari is expected to move westward to Lakshadweep-Maldives area and cause strong winds and very heavy rainfall there till morning of July 23. Strong winds are also expected along and off Kerala coast for the next three days. On Monday, there was moderate rain in many places in the state and over Lakshadweep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/imd-warns-of-squally-weather-strong-winds/articleshow/77072756.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||MCC’s Rs 50 lakh musical fountain still awaits inauguration||MYSURU: Even though Mysuru City Corporation is in deep financial crisis; it has taken up useless projects spending crores of rupees of public money. More than three years ago, the cash-strapped corporation had installed a musical fountain at NR Subbarao Park in Niveditha Nagar. The fountain was similar to the one in Brindavan Gardens, KRS Dam and cost MCC a whopping Rs 50 lakh. But it is yet to be inaugurated Former Sharadadevi Nagar corporator JS Jagadeesh told TOI that he managed to get special grants of Rs 75 lakhs from the state government for the park. “As the park is on seven acres, I planned to develop it as a model in the city and installed the musical fountain more than two years back and developed the rest of the park with the remaining amount. But till date, the fountain has not been inaugurated. The effort which was put to get the amount sanctioned has gone waste as it is not useful for the public,” he said. He also warned that he would protest if the MCC continues to neglect the park. Morning walkers in the park and Niveditha Nagar residents Sridhar Murthy and his wife Gayatri said some local residents including themselves had met the local corporator several times and appealed to develop the park. “Our pleas have fallen on deaf ears and the park is in a pathetic condition,” they said. However, ward corporator Nirmala Harish said the fountain will be inaugurated soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mccs-rs50-lakh-musical-fountain-still-awaits-inauguration/articleshow/77074487.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||Government has resolved Kurubarahalli land dispute: R Ashok||MYSURU: Revenue minister R Ashok on Wednesday said the state government has freed 354 acres of land from B kharab title located on the foothills of Chamundi Hills. After holding a meeting with revenue officials, he told reporters that the 40-year battle of residents had ended as the land will be handed over to MUDA and residents can have the documents including khatas in their name. “The 354 acres including 205 acres of Kurubarahalli survey number 4, 105 acres of KC Layout and 44.2 acres of JC Layout are free from B Kharab title. The deputy commissioner has been directed to provide khathas for the residents,” he said. Ashok said the people who had purchased land from MUDA had fought for more than 40 years to get khathas. “More than 25,000 to 30,000 people were in trouble. Considering their plight, the government has decided to resolve the problem and hand over the land to MUDA,” he said. Reacting on the allegations made by former CM Siddaramaiah on irregularities in the purchase of medical equipment to contain coronavirus, Ashok said the government has records for every penny spent on the items. “Siddaramaiah has alleged irregularities to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore. We are ready to provide all the documents and accounts to the former CM at his door step. Siddaramaiah alleges the government has spent Rs 3,500 crores for the items but we have spent only Rs 4,00 crores. He is misguiding the public. All the items were purchased through tender,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-has-resolved-kurubarahalli-land-dispute-ashok/articleshow/77074369.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||Cooperate, else we will use police force, Pratap Simha tells people of NR segment||MYSURU: A day after the Mysuru district in-charge minister constituted a task force to monitor the transmission of the novel coronavirus in the four assembly segments in the Heritage City, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha – owing to Narasimharaja (NR) constituency MLA Tanveer Sait’s ill-health, the MP has been asked to head the team in the segment – on Monday warned the residents of NR segment that they would be inviting police action if they refused to cooperate with the government agencies in tackling the pandemic. Sima on Monday visited various hospitals that have been empanelled for Covid-19 duty in NR constituency. Warning miscreants against indulging in misinformation campaigns, the MP said, “We are responsible for the safety of one and all. All the people in the constituency must come forward to be tested. If you try to protect others, there will be an explosion in the number of cases. Religious leaders have been taken into confidence, and private hospitals are on board with our plan.” Simha said that he had appealed to the state government to extend free treatment for all Covid-19 patients, including those receiving treatment in private hospitals. The MP opined that extending the lockdown would make little difference. “What we need to do is change our healthcare system,” he said. Meanwhile, Mysuru district health officer Dr R Venkatesh said that as many as 20 teams had been deployed to cover NR segment, and test as many people as possible. “The teams have been provided with antigen testing kits. We have tested 137 people using the kits thus far and 30 have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. People must exercise utmost caution. We are hopeful of their cooperation in our efforts to arrest the spread of the infection,” Dr Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cooperate-else-we-will-use-police-force-simha-tells-people-of-nr-segment/articleshow/77073426.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: In video, man reveals how hospitals refused to admit his sister||BENGALURU: In a five-minute video clip that has gone viral, a Kamakshipalya, Bengaluru, youth who identified himself as Raghu said he lost his elder sister to Covid-19 after several hospitals refused to admit her , citing non availability of her Covid19 test reports, even as she faced breathing problems. Raghu, a resident of Kamakshipalya, said, “We hunted for five days for a hospital that would admit my sister. Regardless of influence and money, nothing helped.” Raghu could not be contacted to find out details about what exactly happened to his sister. In the video, he says, “We gave my sister’s samples to a private lab in Nagarbhavi. Her condition was so bad, there was no way we could keep her home till the results came. We finally got my sister admitted to KC General Hospital through a doctor whom we know. They said no ICU, no ventilator. The doctor said that they will give her oxygen and asked us to find another hospital.” He goes on to say, “We kept calling the lab from the morning of the third day, but did not get a report. Meanwhile, my sister’s pulse rate dropped. The hospital asked us to take her home. They did a rapid test and it showed negative. With this report we took her to other hospitals, but staff told us rapid tests are suspect and they need a RT-PCR test. We went to 7-8 hospitals and en route she died. Since KC General had given us a negative report, we brought the body home.” Raghu said he received a call from the lab at around 8.30pm on Saturday, telling him his sister was infected. “A BBMP official finally called and told us to be careful. They told us to wrap the body in a polythene bag which we had to go buy,” he said. “I have children and elders at home and I really don’t have the strength to go through all this again. The BBMP wanted us to do the last rites on our own. They said they will come and stand afar... I was like, it’s my sister and I will do the last rites. I just want people to know what happened,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-video-man-reveals-how-hospitals-refused-to-admit-his-sister/articleshow/77074305.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Pune||DD Sahyadri telecasts 30-min lessons for pupils||Pune: DD Sahyadri on Monday started telecast of 30-minute episodes of educational programmes for students from class I to VIII. The programmes will be telecast every day from 7.30am to 12.30pm, except on Sundays. The project named Tilimili is a collaboration between State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) and the Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited and will consist of 480 episodes. After telecasting episodes which will be divided into 60 topics in 60 episodes on 60 days, the project will end on September 23. A rapid assessment survey conducted by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and Unicef found that about 70% of the households in Maharashtra have televisions. The state which has introduced home learning for students in schools is trying to reach students using this medium. Deputy director at SCERT Vikas Garad said, “Today was the first day, and we received reports from the teachers saying that the programmes were good. They are made to resemble a classroom with a teacher. This helps in guided learning as well as peer learning among students. We are urging parents to attend these programmes and help students complete the activities assigned. We are covering the three-month syllabus since the school reopened through these programmes. Teachers will help students via call and other mediums.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dd-sahyadri-telecasts-30-min-lessons-for-pupils/articleshow/77074730.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 21, 2020||Mysuru||Turned away by private hospital, woman delivers baby in car||SHIVAMOGGA: A woman from Thirthahalli taluk in Shivamogga, who was denied admission by a private hospital, delivered baby on the way to another hospital in the wee hours of Monday. Writhing in labour pain, the woman, a resident of Kankalli village of Dyamanakere gram panchayat, was first taken to Thirthahalli taluk hospital, but the maternity division had been sealed after a staffer tested positive to Covid-19. As suggested by the health department staff, the family members rushed her to a private hospital. But the hospital insisted on a Covid negative report. When all their pleas to admit her went unheard, they decided to take her to Shivamogga, 60km from Thirthahalli, for the test. However, a few miles from Thirthahalli, the woman gave birth in the car. Both the mother and baby are doing fine. The family members said they were not aware that the government hospital’s maternity section was closed. “The private hospital staff thought that the government hospital had denied treatment to her. So they demanded a non-Covid certificate. Left with no option, we planned to take her to Shivamogga government hospital. However, she delivered a baby girl outside the hospital. The government hospital in Thirthahalli admitted her after she delivered,” they said. Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar has sought a report from Thirthahalli taluk administration and promised action. Thirthahalli tahsildar Sripad told TOI that the health department has started an inquiry into the incident. “We’ll take the statements of family members and the private hospital management,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/turned-away-by-private-hospital-woman-delivers-baby-in-car/articleshow/77074343.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hubballi||Private doctors want a centralised care centre in Haveri||HAVERI: In the wake of the state government roping in private hospitals to admit and treat Covid-19 patients, doctors in these healthcare institutions of Haveri have suggested setting up a centralised Covid Care Centre. They have pointed to the Sindhagi Shantaveereshwar Ayurvedic College as a possible choice for such a centralised unit. The rationale for a centralised Covid unit is that such a set up would not hamper operations in the out-patient department of different private hospitals. Additionally, these private doctors are of the opinion that arresting the transmission of the novel coronavirus would be much easier if patients assigned to non-government healthcare institutions were to be treated at one place, similar to the existence of the designated Covid-19 hospital. A petition has been submitted to Haveri deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai demanding such a unit. Dr Ravikumar Malladad, founder of the Malladad Rudramma Memorial Hospital, said that since each private hospital had deputed one or two doctors on Covid-19 duty, the entire institution would have to be forced shut if they were to get infected. “Many private hospitals are situated in areas where the population density is high, and residents are likely to oppose our institutions admitting Covid-19 patients. So, a common care centre is the best solution to the problem,” he said. Gynaecologist at Parvatamma Heggeri Hospital Dr Triveni Heggeri said that she lived along with her family on the top floor of a building that also housed the hospital. “There are elderly people and children at home, and having a Covid-19 ward at our hospital, one that we will have to routinely pass by, is likely to put them in danger,” she said, batting for a centralised Covid-19 unit in the district. Meanwhile, Dr BG Veerapur of Veerapur Multispecialty Hospital, sought clarification on the honorarium that doctors and other healthcare personnel from private institutions who would be assigned Covid-19 duty would be given. He said that that he was willing to support the Haveri district health and family welfare department in its efforts to tackle the pandemic. Haveri DC Bajpai said that he had considered the demand put forth by the private doctors, and would work on setting up a centralised unit, albeit with riders. “We have already set up three Covid Care Centres in Basapur, Halakeri and Dudihalli, where private doctors can treat patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/private-doctors-want-a-centralised-care-centre-in-haveri/articleshow/77072997.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
July 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic forces DK,Udupi colleges opt for online admission process||MANGALURU: Serpentine queues in front of prestigious colleges for new admissions soon after the announcement of PUC results was a common sight until recently in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. With Covid-19 playing spoilsport, this year, the admission process, including interviews, has gone online. Several colleges, which have cut off marks for admissions, are giving it up this year as they fear it will not attract candidates. Some colleges that spoke to TOI said they have already admitted students for UG courses and are likely to go for online classes from September first week.  “Online admission is not new to the institution. Since two years, admission is processed online except for the final interview where a candidate is called in person to the campus. But this year, the entire process including the final interview was done on video call where parents too were present,” said Sister Venessa, principal, St Agnes College, who conducted 30 interviews through video calls on Saturday.  “It is good to be safe during this pandemic,” she said. The rush began after the announcement of PU results this Tuesday. As usual, the commerce stream is preferred more compared to science and arts in all colleges. “There is a lukewarm response for science courses since CET/NEET/JEE examinations are pending,” she added. Alwyn V D’Sa, associate professor of English and controller of examinations (CoE), St Aloysius College termed the period a difficult phase in the education sector and said they are accepting online applications and scrutinising them. The college had gone online four years back and it is now coming handy. “The admission process has already begun.” The college comprises 80% locals, 5% NRIs and rest from Kerala and North East. “We are mulling to start online classes in the coming month. Before going online, we are conducting surveys on connectivity and other aspects of online classes. Communication is made to all students and call will be taken based on survey outcome,” he said. D’Sa also stressed that conducting examinations for final year students will be a herculean task as students from the institute are scattered across India. Online admission for allied health sciences courses except for engineering and medical courses have begun at Manipal Academy of Higher Education, said Dr HS Ballal, pro-chancellor, MAHE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-forces-dkudupi-colleges-opt-for-online-admission-process/articleshow/77074215.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||No accord on board to vet Punjabi songs: Surjit Patar||CHANDIGARH: There had been deliberations on the need to constitute a censor board for screening of vulgarity and violence in Punjabi songs for the past almost a decade. However, various stakeholders in the Punjabi music industry and the state government could not reach a consensus on the board’s constitution. Punjab Kala Parishad chairperson Surjit Patar told TOI, “There had been numerous meetings since the previous SAD-BJP government’s regime regarding the requirement to come up with the censor board but we could not reach a consensus for different reasons.” Various stakeholders and intellectuals were of the view that it would not be appropriate to come up with such a body which checks all the songs as the government could use it as a tool to curb freedom of speech and block songs which raise questions against it. Another reason was given that many of the songs were being released from a platform which does not come under the jurisdiction of Punjab or Delhi. It was also argued by various artists that even the internet has so much content which is not appreciated by everyone but it depends on an individual whether to see it or not, said the Padma Shri awardee poet. Rather, Patar added, various stakeholders suggested that organisations like the Punjab Kala Parishad should promote parallel good music and there should be a dedicated period in schools and colleges to educate students about the good taste of music. “There were suggestions that motivation or social pressure can play a crucial role in promoting good music,” said Patar. “We don’t see any easy solution to handle such stuff as of now,” said Patar. However, he agrees that there should be some system of checks and balances. He urged the public to reject songs glorifying violence and vulgarity. Once, Amar Singh Chamkila used to sing vulgar songs but the impact of lyrics now doubles with the videos, he added. Though Punjabi movies are scrutinised by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) before their release but there is no institution in the country which provides a certificate for the release of any song or album in any of the languages. Punjab’s minister for tourism and cultural affairs Charanjit Singh Channi had informed the Punjab assembly in August last year that since the matter regarding constitution of a censor board comes within the preview of the Union government as per Schedule 7 of the Constitution, the Punjab government had urged the Centre to legislate on this “most urgent matter”. Though Channi did not answer TOI’s queries on the issue, Patar replied that as per his knowledge no reply has been received from the central government. Even in August 2012, then Punjab minister for tourism and cultural affairs Sarwan Singh Phillaur had mooted the proposal to constitute such a censoring body for screening of the lyrics and content of videos to ensure that only the screened content reaches people. Mohali police had in July last year registered an FIR against rapper Honey Singh for using vulgar language in his song ‘Makhna’ on a complaint filed by Punjab state women commission chairperson Manisha Gulati. She told TOI, “The women commission had also written to the state culture affairs department and the Centre that there should be a censor board to check such songs. But, I think any concrete decision is yet to be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-accord-on-board-to-vet-pbi-songs-patar/articleshow/77074739.cms||Sanjeev Verma
July 21, 2020||Pune||Criminal held on murder bid charge||Pune: The Yerawada police on Monday arrested Mohsin alias Moba Shaikh (37), a criminal on record, for attempting to murder a constable at Laxminagar slums here on March 10. A police team from crime branch (IV) was checking criminals in slums before Holi when Mohsin and his accomplices brutally attacked constable Sagar Ghorpade and fled. Yerawada police earlier arrested two suspects, but Mohsin was on the run. On Sunday, assistant inspector Bhimrao Nanaware received a tip-off the criminal was residing at Wagholi. Nanaware and his team took the criminal into custody. He was arrested under relevant sections of the IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-held-on-murder-bid-charge/articleshow/77074740.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government to fill all posts in BC corporations by July-end||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has decided to fill all the nominated posts of the BC corporations by the end of the month. The chief minister held a review meeting with the BC welfare department at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday. There are 52 BC corporations and each would have a chairman and a governing body consisting of seven to 12 directors. The officials said 13 corporations were created by the previous TDP government to help 62 sub-castes in the BC list. However, the present government has created 52 corporations benefiting all 139 sub-castes in the BCs list. On an average a corporation was created for the BCs with a minimum population of 30,000, the officials said. Moreover, 2,12,40,810 BCs have received benefits to the tune of Rs 22,685.74 crore from the government during the last year, they said. The chief minister told the officials to ensure that all the 139 sub-castes benefit from the proposed skill development colleges to be established in every Lok Sabha constituency in the state and directed them to ensure that the most neglected sub-castes in the BCs list benefit from the BC corporations. The chief minister also told the officials to focus on the neglected nomadic castes who have been ignored over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-fill-all-posts-in-bc-corporations-by-july-end/articleshow/77072785.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Pune||Trio in police net for killing security guard over money in Pune||PUNE: Three persons were arrested on Sunday on the charges of abduction and murder of a 55-year-old security guard of a warehouse in Ranjangaon MIDC, about 58km from the city. “Probe revealed that money was the motive behind the murder of the security guard, Ramasaray Mishra,” superintendent of police (Pune rural) Sandip Patil told TOI. The officer said a police team led by inspector Sureshkumar Raut arrested the trio within 24 hours of receiving a missing person complaint from the supervisor of a private security agency of which Mishra was a member. “Mishra’s body was recovered from Bhima river at Vadgaon Rasai village on Sunday,” Patil said. The arrested trio has been identified as Laxman Shinde (20), Kamlesh Pawar (21), Vikas Jagtap (21). Their two aides were absconding, officer added. “Shinde and Pawar, were working as porters in the same warehouse where Mishra used to work as a security guard,” assistant inspector of the Ranjangaon police Prafulla Kadam said. Kadam said on Saturday evening, the police visited Mishra’s room in the warehouse. “We found his room to be scattered and there were some blood stains on the floor,” Kadam said. When the police scoured the footage from the CCTV in the area, they identified a suspicious car. “With the help that footage, we took the trio into custody on Sunday,” Kadam said. Kadam said Shinde and Pawar knew Mishra had Rs3 lakh saved in his account. “The trio, and their two aides, went to the warehouse in a car on Saturday. They threatened Mishra to come along with them till the ATM. When he resisted, the suspects thrashed him, leading to Mishra’s death,” Kadam said, adding, “They dumped Mishra’s body in the Bhima river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-in-police-net-for-killing-security-guard-over-money/articleshow/77074737.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik containment zone number falls||NASHIK: Though there has been a spike in number of Covid-19 cases being reported from across the district in the past three weeks, the number of containment zones in the city has gone down from 419 (on June 3) to 201. The number of Covid-19 cases has however increased from 2,182 on June 30 to 5,700 on Sunday. According to a civic official, the recovery rate has increased from 42.60% on June 30 to current 65%. “We have deployed a total of 400 teams to conduct door-to-door survey of residents in all containment zones to find out suspected patients. We have also increased the swab sample testing from 200 to 500 tests per day. This has helped us reduce the number of containment zones in the city,” he said. Earlier, Nashik East division had the maximum number of patients among all the six divisions of the municipal corporation. “But the number of patients in division has also reduced in the division in past few days. Now, Nashik East division is on the third position in terms of active patients,” the official said. “Of the total 1,419 patients in Nashik East division, over 900 patients have so far been discharged. The division now has only 374 active patients. Moreover, 175 of the total 250 containment zones have been cleared as no positive cases were not reported there in the past 14 days,”he added. Panchavati division is currently on top for maximum number of cases. The area has reported 1,522 cases so far of which 750 have been discharged||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-containment-zone-number-falls/articleshow/77072782.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 21, 2020||Mumbai||30 cop notices to cricket assn over Rs 14.8cr dues: RTI||Mumbai: The Mumbai Police has sent around 30 reminder notices to the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) for non-payment of Rs 14.8 crore security fees of various IPL matches and tournaments held in the city since 2013, an RTI query has found. In its reply to activist Anil Galgali, police said in the last eight years, the MCA has only given Rs 1.4 crore for the 2018 IPL security. Galgali has written to the CM, home minister and additional chief secretary (home) demanding that an FIR be filed and the district collector seize MCA property to recover the dues. —S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30-cop-notices-to-cricket-assn-over-rs-14-8cr-dues-rti/articleshow/77074742.cms||Ahmed Ali
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Gino K Jose finds his lost rhythm in cooking||KOCHI: While many artists have adapted to the Covid-19 challenge and started relying on online platforms for staying live their professions, many others who couldn’t do so are trying their luck in other fields to make a living. Disc Jockey (DJ) and renowned drummer Gino K Jose a.k.a Junior Sivamani, a native of Paravur, had to try his luck at cooking when the lockdown shut his options for conducting gigs. Gino, who had to undergo a surgery before lockdown, could not get any shows after getting discharged. Being the sole breadwinner of the family, he dusted out his culinary skills started Gino’s Kitchen at his rented house in Edappally. He now prepares and delivers food in many parts of the city. Also, within a short span of time, his dishes like kizhiporotta, vinthaloo became a hit. Even celebrities have shared their reviews on social media praising his culinary skills. With more customers calling him for dishes he prepare, Gino has increased the list of dishes on his menu card. He even prepares food for two hotels in Angamaly and caters to many celebrities in music and film fields. “I had to undergo a surgery for hernia on March 9 and by the time I got discharged the lockdown had started. Meeting two ends became difficult and my wife Sindhu and kids were worried. The only option was to cook and sell food. Before becoming a professional artist, I had worked as cook in many hotels after completing my Class X. So I refreshed those experiences and started making steamed tapioca and chilly chutney. It became a hit among my friends and they suggested that I try other dishes too,” said Gino. Later, he started making many vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes. His wife Sindhu too joined the kitchen. Orders are taken through Facebook and Whatsapp and food is delivered to places within 10km radius. “We are happy people are accepting our initiative. Though shows have started again, I would like to continue with my culinary skills,” said Gino.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gino-finds-his-lost-rhythm-in-cooking/articleshow/77073989.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 21, 2020||Amaravati||AP government to fill all posts in BC corporations by July-end||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has decided to fill all the nominated posts of the BC corporations by the end of the month. The chief minister held a review meeting with the BC welfare department at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday. There are 52 BC corporations and each would have a chairman and a governing body consisting of seven to 12 directors. The officials said 13 corporations were created by the previous TDP government to help 62 sub-castes in the BC list. However, the present government has created 52 corporations benefiting all 139 sub-castes in the BCs list. On an average a corporation was created for the BCs with a minimum population of 30,000, the officials said. Moreover, 2,12,40,810 BCs have received benefits to the tune of Rs 22,685.74 crore from the government during the last year, they said. The chief minister told the officials to ensure that all the 139 sub-castes benefit from the proposed skill development colleges to be established in every Lok Sabha constituency in the state and directed them to ensure that the most neglected sub-castes in the BCs list benefit from the BC corporations. The chief minister also told the officials to focus on the neglected nomadic castes who have been ignored over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-to-fill-all-posts-in-bc-corporations-by-july-end/articleshow/77079251.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TRS fields backward classes ministers for joust with opposition||HYDERABAD: In a supposedly strategic move, the TRS is reportedly fielding four of its ministers from backward classes to counter the allegations levelled by the opposition against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and the state government. While ministers KT Rama Rao and Harish Rao have mainly confined themselves to commenting on national issues or targeting state presidents of opposition parties, four ministers—Talasani Srinivas Yadav, V Srinivas Goud, Gangula Kamalakar and Eatela Rajender— have now emerged as ‘frontline warriors’ for defending KCR. Talasani and Srinivas Goud have been particularly harsh in countering the allegations of the Congress and BJP leaders on issues such as failure of KCR in handling Covid-19 situation, KCR going to his farmhouse in the midst of the pandemic, secretariat demolition, breaching of Kondapochamma sagar project canal, drainage water flooding Osmania General Hospital wards, alleged low testing to check Covid spread and ‘hiding’ of actual number of deaths due to the pandemic. Though sources in TRS say that it is a clever political move as any harsh comment by opposition parties against BC ministers would be projected as an insult to the community, the Congress and BJP leaders brushed it off as ‘bad mouth politics.’ State Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the TRS ministers neither have weight nor credibility among people. “Earlier, the rebuttals were given by seniors such as Tummala Nageswara Rao, Kadiam Srihari, KTR and Harish who at least have some standing. I don’t consider these ministers who are doing all the talking as worthy enough to even be bothered about. They are political lightweights,” he said. BJP MLC N Ramchander Rao said irrespective of the social background of these ministers, TRS is using those who have got a bad mouth. The TRS is promoting those using unparliamentary language to counter opposition, and it is unbecoming of them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-fields-bc-mins-for-joust-with-oppn/articleshow/77075230.cms||Roushan Ali
July 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite multiple FIRs, Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala evades law||PATIALA: Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala has been booked in multiple cases by the Punjab Police for promoting violence and gun culture, but he is yet to be arrested. On Monday, the state crime branch registered a fourth case against him at Mohali’s Phase IV police station for glorifying use of weapons and boasting about the various first investigation reports (FIRs), including the one under the Arms Act, in his latest song ‘Sanju’. The singer has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 188 (disobedience to order) and 294 (obscene acts and songs) and 504 (provocation to break public peace). Mansa police had booked Moose Wala for a similar offence on February 1, based on the Punjab and Haryana high court ruling in September 2019, banning glorification of liquor, wine, drugs and violence in Punjabi songs. On May 4, another case was registered against him and eight others, including five cops, under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act and sections of the Arms Act in Barnala. The case was registered after a video of the singer firing an AK-47 rifle at Badbar police firing range during the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 went viral on social media. The very next day, a third case was registered against him and eight others under the same sections in Sangrur district for using a 9mm pistol to fire a few shots at Ladda Kothi firing range. Later, after the HC directions, sections of the Arms Act were also added to the two FIRs, making the two cases non-bailable. The state police had then set up a special team, which claims to have carried out raids to arrest the singer, but not find him. Curiously, despite being wanted by the police of two districts, Moose Wala was only challaned, and not arrested, when caught driving an SUV with tinted glass in Nabha on June 6. The district police had later released a statement, saying it was for the Sangrur and Barnala police to proceed further in the two cases. The eight other accused in the two cases had moved bail applications before Sangrur and Barnala courts. While the Sangrur court granted them bail, the Barnala court rejected their applications. On June 30, Moose Wala had moved the Sangrur court and was granted interim bail on condition that he joins the investigations within seven days. A day later, he released ‘Sanju’ in which, by ADGP Arpit Shukla’s own admission, he made mockery of the judiciary, the police and the advocates. The ADGP said, ‘His latest act clearly shows that the singer is incorrigible and was repeatedly committing such offences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-multiple-firs-moose-wala-evades-law/articleshow/77074744.cms||Manish Sirhindi
July 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Doctor treating Covid-19 patients jumps to death at Stanley hostel||CHENNAI: A 24-year-old post-graduate doctor at Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital jumped to his death from the third floor of the men’s hostel on the premises early on Monday, police said. He had been involved in handling coronavirus patients. A few internal WhatsApp groups for doctors at the hospital initially claimed that the deceased Kannan, an orthopaedics specialist, ended his life due to work pressure, but police denied the allegations, saying inquiries were on. The native of Udumalaipet in Tirupur district who completed his MBBS at Government Thanjavur Medical College didn’t leave any suicide note, an officer said, adding that Kannan joined the hospital in June. A few doctors told police they had seen Kannan, a bachelor, attending to patients till 1.30am on Monday. Then he returned to his hostel. Around 4am, some doctors spotted him lying on the ground near the hospital and informed the hospital authorities who alerted police. A team from the Seven Wells police station rushed to the spot and found him dead. It was believed that he had jumped from the third floor where his room was located. The body was sent for autopsy. Police informed his family members and registered a case under CrPC 174 (unnatural death).  Flower Bazaar deputy commissioner of police E Karthik said, “Inquiries found he was new to the hospital. He may have been a topper in medical college.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doctor-treating-covidpatients-jumps-to-death-at-stanley-hostel/articleshow/77074747.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Pune||Ornaments stolen from temple||Pune: Gold ornaments worth Rs15,000 were recently stolen from the Vithhal-Rukmini temple at Shinde village in Khed taluka. The theft came to light on Sunday after Baban Ghanwat, the trustee and priest of the temple, lodged an FIR with the Chakan police. The temple was closed due to the lockdown when the incident occurred. Police said that the suspects entered the sanctum sanctorum of the temple and stole gold ornaments worth Rs 15,000 worn by goddess Rukmini. The theft had probably taken place two days ago but it had come to light later as the temples were closed because of the lockdown, the police added. “Our investigation is on,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ornaments-stolen-from-temple/articleshow/77074746.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Police start penalizing cyclists for straying||Kolkata: Police have started challaning cyclists who are encroaching upon roads that are banned for them. Guards were “forced to act” and fine cyclists Rs 100 for deviating from demarcated zones in central business district thoroughfares like Park Street and Camac street. “We have often intercepted cyclists on these roads and counselled them. But we had marked out the serial violators,” said a senior officer from the south traffic guard. A similar drive was undertaken on EM Bypass. “We have earmarked the cycle routes travelling towards Sector V from Park Circus. But there were a few violators who insisted on taking EM Bypass. Not only is it a security hazard, it is also a major threat to motorists. We had to send a signal,” said an officer. However, no cycles were seized in the process. The police action — though limited — was quick to attract public scrutiny. A video of the police action was tagged to the Kolkata Police Twitter account and questioned were raised about the need for such an act. “I cycle to my office at Shakespeare Sarani for a month now. Today, a cop stopped me, gave me a white paper with a KP stamp and asked me to pay Rs 100 after travelling all the way to the local traffic guard. Is this why our government is planning to build dedicated cycle tracks in the city by December?” asked a cyclist on Monday. Police stressed the action was limited only to a few specific guards “where the problem is acute”. “We have got no clear orders from Lalbazar. We have been merely asked to ensure no one is obstructing the flow of traffic,” explained an officer. For future, police have decided on a few provisions under which cyclists can be penalized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-start-penalizing-cyclists-for-straying/articleshow/77073946.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||With cases surging in districts, PHCs to be made Covid-ready||HYDERABAD: With a significant rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the districts, a more comprehensive health strategy has been conceived to make available healthcare right at the primary health centres (PHCs). This includes testing positive cases at district hospitals, area hospitals and primary and urban health care centres. More beds are being allocated, particularly for Covid-19 cases in the hospitals, and equipped with oxygen facility. Some districts have got additional ventilators. “We are decentralising health care down to the village level,” said Nalgonda district collector Prashant Jeevan Patil. In the district, there are 460 cases, including 361 active cases. There have been six Covid-related deaths. “There is also a long-term plan for the next six months,” he said. In the Government General Hospital in Nalgonda, 100 beds have been dedicated for Covid-19 cases. An ICU with 15 beds has as many ventilators. “So far, 240 cases have been treated successfully,” he said. Nalgonda district got 2,500 testing kits, which have been sent to PHCs. Those with Covid-like symptoms and history are being tested at the three area hospitals. These hospitals have 100 beds each and 20 beds are dedicated for Covid-19 cases. “The idea is to handle the cases in the district itself and not having to refer them to Hyderabad,” the collector said. Karimnagar has also witnessed a surge in the cases. “Those who are vulnerable are being tested,” Karimnagar DMHO Dr G Sujatha said. As many as 554 positive cases have been detected in the district since the first case was reported in March and 109 have recovered. From among the 443 active cases, 380 are in home isolation. There have been 11 deaths in the district. On Monday, district collector K Shashanka visited Prathima hospital to take stock of Covid-19 facilities. “What we are noticing is that more than one positive case is being detected in many families. In one instance, we had 12 positive cases from a family,” Dr Sujatha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-cases-surging-in-districts-phcs-to-be-made-covid-ready/articleshow/77075236.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Turned away by seven hospitals, 7-month-old girl dies||BENGALURU: In the second such incident in less than a week, a seven-month-old girl suffering from fever and Influenza Like Illness (ILI), died at Channapatna town in Ramanagara on Monday morning after one government hospital and six private facilities allegedly declined to admit her citing the Covid-19 chaos. The child was the younger daughter of mason Pradeep and daily-wage worker Nandini, residents of Petekeri in Channapatna. Trouble began on Sunday evening when the yet-to-be-named baby developed fever. At 6pm, the couple took her to a nearby clinic where the doctor said the infant was showing ILI symptoms and suggested she be hospitalised immediately. “First, they took the child to Channapatna government hospital, where the doctor was not available. After being denied admission, they rushed her to a nearby private hospital, where the staff declined to admit her as their own doctor had tested positive for Covid and was undergoing treatment. Pradeep then visited another small private hospital on the outskirts of Channapatna, but was turned away. The couple visited two more hospitals and two clinics in Ramanagara, which also refused admission. Then they returned home,” family sources said. The girl breathed her last on Monday morning. Pradeep again rushed her to the government hospital, where doctors confirmed she was dead. On July 13, a one-month-old boy with heart-related complications had died after around 10 hospitals refused to admit him. The parents had roamed around with the child for 36 hours, covering a distance of 200km in Bengaluru. The distraught father had then staged a protest outside chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s residence, demanding legal action against hospitals for denying admission to his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/turned-away-by-seven-hospitals-seven-month-old-girl-dies/articleshow/77074278.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
July 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Patoda civic chief, driver in ACB net||Aurangabad: Chief officer of the Patoda Municipal Council in Beed district and his driver landed in a trap set by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for taking bribe on Monday evening. The bribe had allegedly been sought to clear a bill pending with the civic body. A case was registered at the Patoda police station. The arrested accused have been identified as CO Shashikant Bhosle and his driver as Pradeep Wagh. Bhosle and Wagh were arrested after Wagh, allegedly on Bhosle’s instructions, accepted Rs 60,000 in powdered currency notes at a location about 3km from the Patoda civic body’s office. ACB superintendent of police Arvind Chawria said there was a bill pending for the works carried out under the sanitation department. “The contractor was unwilling to bribe the officer, so he approached the ACB,” said Chawria. “The officer asked his driver to collect the bribe. As soon as Wagh took the cash, he was arrested. Another team arrested Bhosle from his office,” said Beed deputy superintendent of police (ACB) Balkrishna Hanpude Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/patoda-civic-chief-driver-in-acb-net/articleshow/77072860.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 21, 2020||Pune||Firm manager dies as bike hits median||Pune: A motorcyclist was killed and the pillion rider was seriously injured after their bike hit the median along the road from Mundhwa to Magarpatta Chowk around 7am on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as Pawan Kumar (28) from Andhra Pradesh, currently residing at Magarpatta City. He was a manager in a private firm. The injured pillion rider, Anthony D”souza, is recuperating in Sassoon General Hospital. Inspector (crime) Humraj Kumbhar from the Hadapsar police said, “The motorcyclist was heading in the direction of Hadapsar from Magarpatta. He lost control over the vehicle and grazed the road divider around 100m before the Noble Hospital flyover.” Kumbhar said, “Kumar died of heady injury. The pillion rider, D’souza, got his leg fractured and suffered injury on his head.” “The injured victim’s condition is reported to be stable but he is not in a position to record his statement,” Kumbhar added. Sanjay Mane (42), a security guard of a jewellery store in Mundhwa, also the complainant in the fatal accident case, said, “I was performing duty, when I heard a loud noise on the road.” “I rushed out and saw that the bike had grazed the divider and the victims were lying on the road. The rider’s helmet had come off. The pillion rider was not wearing a helmet,” Mane added. The police have registered an FIR against the deceased, Kumar, under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firm-manager-dies-as-bike-hits-median/articleshow/77074743.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Guv sympathetic to issue: Nimmagadda||Vijayawada: Retired IAS officer and former State  Commissioner (SEC), Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, met governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at Raj Bhavan on Monday. He is also learned to have submitted a representation to the governor and copies of HC orders on his case. It is said that the former SEC has explained the case from the beginning to the governor and briefed him about his latest case of court of contempt petition in the High Court. While referring to the earlier judgement of the HC, that had directed the state government to reinstate him as the SEC, Ramesh Kumar is said to have requested the governor to intervene and direct the government to implement the court orders. He said that the government had filed for a review of the high court orders in the Supreme Court, which had upheld the orders. While it is not known what the governor said, the former SEC told the media, present outside the Raj Bhavan, that the governor was sympathetic to the issues he raised. He expects the Raj Bhavan to act in his favour and reinstate him as the SEC respecting the orders of the High Court. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guv-sympathetic-to-issue-nimmagadda/articleshow/77072820.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Four affected zones under watch ahead of containment-list revision||KOLKATA: The containment list for the city is likely to undergo some key changes with a crucial meeting on micro-level policies scheduled on Wednesday. Four zones at four corners of the city — Garia-Jadavpur, Kankurgachi-Phoolbagan-Ultadanga, Bhowanipore-Ballygunge and the Parnasree area — will be under the scanner of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police as they take fresh stock of the containment policies. Sources on Monday said the civic body’s Covid-combat team was in favour of a strict lockdown for at least another week. “A preliminary discussion was held in the civic headquarters last week. The matter was communicated to Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the state home secretary and the nodal officer for Kolkata. A decision will be taken by the state health department in consultation with KMC and the cops,” said a civic health department official. However, the source conceded that the concept of a total lockdown for a prolonged period may not be accepted by the state administration. According to a KMC official, importance will be given to a semi-containment strategy that is mulled in specific pockets of the city. the model is being experimented at Vidyasagar, Sree Colony, Bijoygarh and Parnasree. Far from being a full containment zone, where every economic activity is stopped, this model helps to regulate movement to a particular place and time. The steps include access control of markets, fixed timings for markets, setting up of temporary barriers and conducting awareness campaigns on the need to maintain social distance. “At Bijoygarh, we experimented with the model over the weekend. While the traders are getting jittery — with the local market remaining shut for a fortnight in two quick phases — we do not want to shut the markets forever. But efforts are on to keep the markets open on alternate days,” said ward coordinator Debabrata Majumdar. Anindya Raut, Borough III coordinator who looks after some of the worst containment areas in the Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi-Ultadanga-Beliaghata belt, said he was open to trying out a mixed “containment policy”. “Instead of shutting down everything, we can concentrate only on the affected buildings and keep a constant vigil,” he said. Police said they had placed certain proposals for KMC to mull over — from finalizing the total number of zones to implementing a lockdown in these places. Interestingly, these changes are not only restricted to different clusters within the same area but spread out geographically across the city. At Bhowanipore, for example, one address in Chakrabria is likely to come out of the containment list but chances of a couple of additions from the same area are not ruled out. The same pattern was visible in Phoolbagan and Beliaghata as well. While one containment zone in Phoolbagan — Ramkrishna Samadhi Road — has not recorded a new case, two addresses in Kankurgachhi have reported multiple cases this weekend. Amongst the new areas that will keep both KMC and police worried is the Sikdarpara Street at Posta. A new containment zone in Ballygunge will see strict lockdown in the coming days. Police are also worried about Paharpur in Garden Reach, the first containment zone in the densely populated Port area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-affected-zones-under-watch-ahead-of-c-list-revision/articleshow/77073941.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents bicker over axing of trees for hall in GHMC park||HYDERABAD: While several resident welfare associations have trying to increase the green cover over the city by participating in Haritha Haram, association members of Shaktinagar in Moosapet, along with civic officials, allegedly axed around 10 trees in a Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) park . However, the chopping of trees, which were around 15-20 years old, did not go down well with some residents who rued and called the act irresponsible. “Some families had planted the sampling around two decades ago and nurtured them. Suddenly, these trees have been axed,” said a resident from the area. The trees were cut for building a community hall in 200 square yards of park land. But some residents have said that an additional community hall will of no use due to the ongoing pandemic and in future too. “We already have a community hall in our society. Building another concrete structure in park land seems like encroachment to us,” said a senior citizen. According to association members, the park is being built with GHMC’s fund. “Only one or two residents have a problem with the construction as they fear that ventilation to their house will be affected. There were only three trees which were in weak condition and only those were cleared by GHMC. The hall is also being built with GHMC funds not with the society funds,” said Sai Reddy member of Shaktinagar welfare association. Meanwhile, GHMC officials have said that the trees were not chopped. “GHMC never axes trees. Instead, we translocate it. The park will be inspected on Tuesday,” said K Sridevi, GHMC deputy director urban biodiversity wing, Kukatpally zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-bicker-over-axing-of-trees-for-hall-in-ghmc-park/articleshow/77074756.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chennai||Cases/lakh in Manali more than Royapuram, Tondiarpet||Chennai: Royapuram, Tondiarpet and Thiru-vi-ka Nagar are the three zones that have remained under the scanner of Greater Chennai Corporation officials due to high Covid-19 caseload right from the start of the epidemic. However, a key indicator analysed by the corporation has shown that public health efforts also need to be focussed more on Manali in North Chennai, which has had a low caseload as compared to others. As of last week, Manali was the ‘reddest’ zone based on the metric of positive case incidence per lakh population. While this metric for Manali was 1,404, the corresponding figure for Royapuram was 1,303. Tondiarpet was at 1,222. Manali is a sparsely populated zone where around 1.3 lakh people are spread across 42.33 sqkm, while in Royapuram around 7 lakh people live in the same area. According to corporation statistics, if active case incidence per lakh population is considered, then Manali’s number is 263, second to Kodambakkam’s 288. Though this is a variable figure, an official from Manali said the cases were rising in the zone and they had initiated stronger containment measures. The corporation’s latest statistics show that in the past seven days, cases have increased by 3.7% in the zone. Dr P Ganeshkumar, an epidemiologist with the National institute of Epidemiology in Chennai, told TOI that the incidence per lakh population metric is not useful to indicate the spread of the disease, but helps give an idea to public health experts to plan strategy. “One also has to check if the testing is uniform across all zones,” he said. Corporation data shows that though only 355 camps were held in Manali till July 20, the average number of people attending per camp was 76, highest across all zones. A senior corporation official said fever camps in Manali attract more people as it is like a rural area with a skeletal medical infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases/lakh-in-manali-more-than-royapuram-tondiarpet/articleshow/77074758.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Agra||UP cops land in Bihar to nab AMU student who threatened girl over veil on social media||Agra: After filing a case against him, a police team from Aligarh has reached Bihar to arrest a Bachelor in Architecture (BArch) student of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) who is accused of threatening a fellow engineering girl student on the social media that she would be forced to wear a “brass hijab”.“A case was registered against the suspect on the basis of a complaint given by the girl. A police team went to his house in Bihar, but it was locked,” said Anil Samaniya, circle officer (CO) of Civil Lines in Aligarh.The varsity has also constituted a three-member committee to probe the matter. A show-cause notice has also been issued to the student seeking his reply.According to the complaint filed by the girl, the suspect had used “uncivilized language” against her on a social media site while she was only expressing her opinion that “girls were being forced to cover themselves in some colleges”. She also alleged that the student along with some others had been targeting her since the CAA/NRC bill was passed as she had supported it. She claimed that she had received abusive messages that time too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-cops-land-in-bihar-to-nab-amu-student-who-threatened-girl-over-veil-on-social-media/articleshow/77072841.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Be responsible, says #MaskUpKolkata||KOLKATA: Kolkata police on Monday launched the #MaskUpKolkata campaign from Lalbazar. The strategy this week would be two fold — one, to reach out to maximum people and two, identify and intensify the drive to find and “isolate” the offenders. “This time, we will not just fine them. Instead, we will ensure that these people are instantly isolated and then socially compelled to wear a mask. The idea is to ensure that every citizen demands that his or her fellow citizen is wearing a mask,” said official at Lalbazar. Commissioner Anuj Sharma flagged off the programme, reiterating the need to wear masks. Over the next few days, every police station and traffic guard will distribute masks — some of them with the police emblem and the publicity logo on them. “Tableaux have been designed. All police kiosks will carry advertisements with the tagline in Bengali — Ekhono corona, royeche dapot, baire berole mask e support. “A few police stations in the country are asking those not wearing masks to do sit-ups. While that might not be the case here, the violator here might be asked to join the campaign by standing at the crossing or asking him to pledge before others that s/he was guilty and that his/her offence will not be repeated,” said a senior traffic department officer. “This is like the helmet syndrome. Several of them are wearing them only after spotting cops. They are forgetting that they are to use the mask as a prevention against the virus,” added a senior divisional officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/be-responsible-says-maskupkolkata/articleshow/77073978.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 21, 2020||Pune||Dismissed cop, scribe & RTI activist face 3rd case||Pune: The Hadapsar police, after their Kothrud and Samarth counterparts, have registered a third criminal case against a dismissed constable, a local journalist and an elusive RTI activist, among 10 people, on the charge of cheating an autorickshaw driver of Rs30 lakh in the name of investment in three plots on Senapati Bapat Road and in Shivajinagar for high returns. “The driver (30) had put in his Rs10 lakh savings and borrowed Rs20 lakh from a relative for investing in the three plots. But he never got the promised returns,” Hadapasar police senior inspector Ramesh Sathe said. The FIR stated that the suspects approached the complainant in 2015 through a common contact and urged him to invest in the plots for handsome returns. The suspects took Rs30 lakh from the complainant and kept on promising handsome returns on his investment, but did not return the money. The Khadak police on Sunday booked the dismissed constable and his two aides on the charge of cheating a Chikhali woman (40) of Rs20 lakh on the pretext of selling a land in Undri. They did not own the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dismissed-cop-scribe-rti-activist-face-3rd-case/articleshow/77074751.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Surat||Mandatory antigen test holds up migrants’ return||SURAT: As the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has made the rapid antigen tests for the migrant workers mandatory to contain the spread of the coronavirus infection, the textile units owners have started contacting their workers requesting them not to come back for now. The primary reason being the unit owner has to bear the expense of the rapid antigen test of his workers, which costs about Rs 835 per person. Textile unit owners said that the textile industry was already under financial stress with less than 15% units operational and adding the cost of rapid antigen test of the workers will be an extra burden on them. Jitendra Vakharia, president of South Gujarat Textile Processors’ Association (SGTPA) told TOI, “Less than 40 textile mills out of the total 350 mills in the city have become operational with less than 30% workers in each unit. The textile processors were trying all possible ways to bring the migrant workers back to the city, but the efforts have been stopped after the mandatory rapid antigen test of the workers was ordered by the administration.” Vakharia added, “There is severe financial crisis in the industry due to the weak demand. In such circumstances, the mill owners are unable to spend Rs 835 on each worker to get them tested for Covid-19. We need the financial support of the government for carrying out the tests.” On an average, each textile mill employ about 500 workers. Kamal Tulsiyan, president of Pandesara Mill Owners Association said, “We don’t oppose the mandatory antigen test of the migrant workers, but this is going to be a huge financial burden. Over 15 lakh workers have gone to their natives. It they return one can calculated the financial implications.” A textile mill owner asking anonymity said, “About 200 workers from Orrisa were about to come to Surat in next 10 days, but we have asked them to stay in their villages after the mandatory rapid antigen test guidelines was issued. We cannot afford to spend money at a time when business is nil.” Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “SMC will be providing the health teams for carrying out the tests, while the industrial units will have to pay for the test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mandatory-antigen-test-holds-up-migrants-return/articleshow/77074015.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: NIA questions UAE consul general’s gunman in hospital||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths questioned S R Jayaghosh, the gunman of UAE consul general, in connection with the gold smuggling case. Jayaghosh, who is under treatment after an unsuccessful suicide bid, was quizzed by the NIA officials on Sunday. The questioning was to find out his role in the gold smuggling through diplomatic channels. It is learnt that Jayaghosh has accepted that he had accompanied former PRO of the UAE consulate Sarith Kumar to the airport to collect the baggage addressed to the consulate. However, he said he was not aware that gold was being smuggled in that baggage. He said it came to his notice only after the news broke out through the media. The NIA sleuths also questioned his close association with Swapna Suresh and Sarith. The NIA had earlier collected the call details of Jayaghosh who had made calls to both these people. Jayaghosh was earlier working with the immigration desk of Trivandrum International Airport. Hence the NIA sleuths are probing whether he had helped the gold smuggling racket while he was on airport duty. Police have provided security for Jayaghosh in the hospital and it is learnt that NIA will be taking him for more questioning once he is discharged. He is recovering from a minor surgery. Meanwhile, the customs conducted a raid at the flat where charge d’Affairs (attaché) at the UAE consulate, Rashid Khamis Al Sheimeili, was staying. It is learnt that he has been recalled by the UAE government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-questions-uae-consul-generals-gunman-in-hosp/articleshow/77072821.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid ward duty mandatory for pvt doctors||Aurangabad: Sudhakar Shinde, the CEO of Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, the flagship health programme of the Maharashtra government, said that it is “essential as well as mandatory” for private doctors in Maharashtra to discharge duties in Covid-19 wards of the state-run hospitals. Shinde, who held a joint review meeting at Osmanabad in presence of health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday evening, also warned that doctors shying away from Covid duties would lose their licence. The stand taken by the state government not gone down well with the state unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA), which has said that its members were always ready to serve the society, but such a “diktat” was uncalled for. “Private doctors should come forward and discharge their duties in state-run hospitals during the current pandemic. The respective district administrations are vested with powers to rope in such doctors for handling Covid-19 related responsibilities,” Shinde said. He added that the government invests considerable resources towards medical education of doctors and it is time for them to pay back to the society as a social responsibility. IMA Maharashtra president Avinash Bhondwe said it was unfortunate that the top health authorities are going after private doctors in public. “Our members are always ready to rise to the occasion as and when any crisis occurs. However, instead of holding any formal discussion with us on Covid management and jointly preparing a road-map, the government authorities are making vague statements in public,” he said. IMA has around 40,000 registered members in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-ward-duty-mandatory-for-pvt-doctors/articleshow/77072850.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Grievance redressal box at collectorate||Hyderabad: With increasing cases of Covid-19 affecting official work, Nizamabad Collector C Narayan Reddy has decided to do away with weekly Prajavani programme conducted every Monday. Instead, he asked people coming to meet him to drop their grievances in a specially installed box on the collectorate premises. Several other district collectors have announced the same measures to check Covid-19 spread. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grievance-redressal-box-at-collectorate/articleshow/77075237.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh housing board starts issuing notices for illegal constructions||CHANDIGARH: The CHB has issued notices to 10 violators who raised fresh constructions in their dwelling units or on government land in sectors 44 and 45 and Manimajra and other areas, an exercise that was at halt during the coronavirus lockdown. The enforcement wing of the CHB has demolished over 100 illegal constructions in the city till date. According to the procedure, in case the allottee does not stop the illegal constructions, they will be demolished the very next day. However, if the they are stopped, the allottee will be given three days to remove the violations. CHB officials will conduct a fresh inspection and in case of non-removal of the violations, a demolition drive, at the risk and cost of the allottee, will be scheduled. A senior CHB official said that though necessary precautions are taken during the demolition, there is still a possibility that adjoining structures may get damaged and the allottee will be responsible for such extra damage to their own or adjoining units. The committee dealing with need-based changes found that about 90% of the CHB dwelling units had some or the other structural violation. The changes include additional rooms and toilets, conversion of balconies into rooms and of courtyard, and building stairs on government land. For availing benefit of regularisation scheme for need-based changes in CHB flats, the UT administration has made submission of certificate of structural stability from a qualified empanelled structural engineer registered with it mandatory. The administration order said, “Allottee/occupant is required to submit a certificate of structural stability from a qualified empanelled structural engineer registered with the Chandigarh administration in the interest of safety of the occupants and in the interest of public safety. During this period, the allottee/occupant himself/herself will be responsible for any loss/injury/ public safety because of such violations”. The order further stated, “The allottee/occupant is required to remove all violations on his/her risk and cost, at the earliest, within the period being permitted with the penalty. In case of non-removal of the violations, the allotment may be cancelled and possession of the dwelling unit may be resumed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chb-starts-issuing-notices-for-illegal-constructions/articleshow/77073998.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Eco-tourism workers join forest patrol team||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh forest department has hit upon a unique idea to stop poaching of animals and illegal felling of trees. They have decided to include the staff of eco-tourism centres in the forest patrolling squad. There has been apprehensions of poaching of wild animals during the lockdown period as tourism activities inside the forest have been suspended. However, forest officials claimed, despite a few incidents of smugglings and poaching, the poachers failed to make inroads in the forest areas. “The idea was to increase patrols and set up base camps of the patrolling team inside the ‘sensitive’ forest ranges of the state. The only problem with this security enhancement was manpower crunch. Since the tourism centres inside the forests were completely closed we have included the staff of these centres in the patrolling team,” Ananth Shankar, divisional forest officer of Visakhapatnam told TOI. In Andhra Pradesh, Agency areas like Rampachodavaram and Chintur in East Godavari and the Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve are vulnerable to poaching. In Visakhapatnam, the Kambalakonda Wildlife Santuary is vulnerable as it is located in the middle of the city. Forest officials said, it’s not an easy job to keep a strict vigil on the poachers in these regions. The job became all the more difficult following the sudden lockdown as there was hardly any human movement inside the forests. “The decision to include eco-tourism staff was helpful as most of these people are from local tribal villages inside the forests and they also acted as ‘informers’. Altogether some 400-odd tribal watchers help us in patrolling,” a senior forest range officer told TOI. Soon after the lockdown was imposed, forest officials formed patrolling teams comprising around 10 persons, including a beat officer or an assistant-beat officer and tribal watchers, to patrol and keep a vigil using surveillance cameras installed in forests to prevent movement of poachers. Although Andhra Pradesh has no history of organised hunting rackets, but there are habitual offenders. “We have given instructions to our officials to keep a watch on the movement of habitual offenders and persons who are facing PD Act and has a criminal history of hunting animals,” the range officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eco-tourism-workers-join-forest-patrol-team/articleshow/77072849.cms||Arpit Basu
July 21, 2020||India||Covid testing up, but worry over false negatives missing re-test||NEW DELHI: Use of rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 have come under the scanner with several instances of false negatives reported from the field and samples testing negative not being tested through the “gold standard” RT-PCR kit as mandated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “Testing has increased tremendously because of use of rapid antigen testing but a lot of false negatives are missed out. Negatives are not being tested through RT-PCR for confirmation as mandated under the testing protocol. This is impacting the testing positivity. It is a serious concern because it poses a potential risk of community transmission,” a senior official told TOI. This means many states showing a steady decline in detected cases with increased diagnosis may actually be at risk of wider transmission. Sources said more than 60% of the tests are rapid antigen tests. Many states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have taken to rapid antigen tests to ramp up testing. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The rapid antigen test is cheaper, faster and can be conducted outside of laboratories, which makes it more accessible. However, its results need to be interpreted with caution. According to ICMR’s testing protocols, while positive results from a rapid antigen test can be taken as positive, samples testing negative must be confirmed through a follow-up RT-PCR test. However, in many cases the second step of confirmation through an RT-PCR test is being allegedly skipped, leading to concerns that false negatives may be spreading infection in the community. “In Delhi, we have seen over 18% of negative rapid antigen results testing positive under RT-PCR,” the official said. Besides, the use of rapid antigen tests has also resulted in underutilisation of the 1200-plus labs equipped for Covid testing, he added. India’s positivity rate has been largely hovering between 8-9% during the first two weeks of July. It has been rising since then with sample size crossing the 3-lakh a day mark. ICMR approved rapid antigen tests on June 14 and advised using it in containment zones and hospital settings in order to facilitate quick diagnosis. In its guidelines, ICMR said symptomatic individuals who test negative by rapid antigen tests will have to mandatorily undergo an RT-PCR test to rule out a false negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-testing-up-but-worry-over-false-negatives-missing-re-test/articleshow/77075906.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Miscreant tries to rob petrol pump employee of Rs 10 lakh, fails||Chandigarh: An unidentified person tried to rob Rs 9.75 lakh from employees of a petrol pump near Axis Bank in Manimajra on Monday morning. One of the employees was assaulted and injured. A case has been registered. In his complaint, Jai Singh, 36, a resident of Manimajra said he works as a cashier at HP petrol pump near Kalagram. At 11.30am, he said he went to Axis bank in Manimajra with his colleague Girdhari Lal on a bike. When they reached the bank, a man wearing a helmet and mask came up to him and hit him with a sharp-edged weapon on the right hand, with which he was holding the cash bag, said Jai Singh. When the bag fell, the accused picked it up and ran. Jai Singh said he, with a bleeding hand and Girdhari Lal chased the man and raised an alarm. At this, two passersby also chased the accused. The complainant said they pelted stones at the accused, one of which hit him and he fell down. On seeing three persons chasing him, the accused fled from the spot, leaving the cash bag behind. Jai Singh informed the police about the incident. A PCR vehicle reached the spot and rushed Jail Singh to the Manimajra civil hospital. Maulijagran police also reached the spot and cordoned off the area to nab the accused , who managed to escape nevertheless. Police are scrutinising CCTV footage to trace the accused. Police suspect the accused had been planning the robbery for the past few days. Other employees of the petrol pump are being grilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/miscreant-tries-to-rob-petrol-pump-employee-of-rs-10-lakh-fails/articleshow/77074010.cms||Pawan Tiwari
July 21, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown regime a challenge for pvt firms||Kolkata: The sudden announcement of the biweekly lockdown — and not much clarity on the days in coming weeks — stumped private offices as they scampered to change schedules and cancel meetings to work around the lockdown calendar. “We had a major meeting this Thursday, which we had to postpone till next week. The problem is we don’t know the exact days of lockdown next week other than Wednesday. I believe complete lockdown is necessary given the current situation we are in but had there been more clarity or fixed days for every week, it would have helped us plan our schedules,” said an official of an engineering firm in Kolkata. A senior official, however, said the dates were being intimated in advance so that offices can get ready and plan accordingly. The dates will be announced much in advance in future as well, he added. While some offices started sending out WhatsApp messages and mailers to their employees, asking them to work from home on lockdown days, others like those in IT and ITeS wondered if they can apply for special e-passes to bring in employees in like they could do during the previous lockdown periods. “From past experience, we have realized work from home is not a feasible solution for BPOs. But we don’t know if we can apply for e-passes this time as well,” said an HR manager of a BPO in Sector V. Some offices have already started chalking out contingency plans to adapt to this new form of lockdown. “If the government announces complete lockdown on Thursday and Friday, we may ask our employees to not to come to office on Fridays as well. We will tell our employees to work at office from Monday to Wednesday and ask them to work from home on other three days,” said Priyansu Maji, a city-based fashion designer. Some employers also suggested that the government can also go in for lockdown on alternate days of week. “In any case, most of our employees are working from home and we are calling them to office only on days of emergency. We are thinking of asking them to come to office on alternate days and work from home on rest of the days. The lockdown can be better maintained this way,” said Suvajit Dutt, a partner at a graphic designing and digital marketing firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-regime-a-challenge-for-pvt-firms/articleshow/77073992.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 21, 2020||Aurangabad||MIM, BJP in Beed demand waiver off electricity bills||Aurangabad: Party functionaries of AIMIM and BJP in Beed held separate protests demanding that the state government waive the electricity bills charged during the coronavirus-related lockdown that have caused economic hardships to people. The AIMIM workers, led by Gaffar Quadri, called for a call five-minute power blackout in the city areas from 8 pm on Monday, as a part of their deman. He said the income of people from different section of society took a hit due to the lockdown, so they are demanding waiver of power bills from March to July. The Beed unit of the BJP, in a protest led by Ramesh Pokale and Rajendra Mhaske, sought waiver of power bills, especially for households and farmers, due to the current financial crisis. The BJP workers said the agitation would be intensified if the government failed to waive the power bills of citizens and farmers. While the demand for waiver off electricity bills was raised in the recent past, the state power utility has ruled out such a possibility citing its poor financial condition. It has already announced the cancellation of late payment charges for the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mim-bjp-in-beed-demand-waiver-off-electricity-bills/articleshow/77072889.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||‘Covid pandemic is a wake-up call for all’||Panaji: Covid-19 has surfaced as a wake-up call for each one of us to not look at the Indian health system in silos, but rather as an entire continuum of care where both public and private sector can collaborate as one to bring synergy and strengthen the healthcare, said Varun Jhaveri, officer on special duty to the CEO of National Health Authority. Jhaveri was part of a web panel discussion organised by the healthcare management team at Goa Institute of Management (GIM). The discussion was on ‘The role of private health sector in a public health emergency: Experiences and lessons from Covid-19.’ The session had industry stakeholders who spoke on the contributions, initiatives and innovations being taken up by healthcare organisations in its efforts at responding to a public health crisis. “Covid-19 is actually the catalyst to change that the world would have otherwise seen 10 years down the lane,” director of marketing and founding member of Innovaccer, Sachin Saxena, said.  “Covid built a huge stress on the entire system with shortage of physicians and nurses as they were getting infected by the virus, unwillingness of patients to step into hospitals- resulting in low OPD footfalls, non-availability of flights, operating costs going up and increased costs for uninterrupted supply chain movement, all with the obligation to ensure patient’s safety at all costs,” vice president (South Asia), Zimmer Biomet, Kaustav Banerjee said. The panel also discussed the challenges of costs of products and services within private sector and the need for increasing emphasis on prevention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-pandemic-is-a-wake-up-call-for-all/articleshow/77075266.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Helplines flooded with calls from anxious students about to start college||Kamini.Mehta@timegroup.com Chandigarh: With class X and XII results out and admission season all set to begin, counsellors managing helplines are inundated with calls from anxious students. Every day, the 84 counsellors receive 150 to 200 calls. While Class XI admissions will begin from Tuesday, the director, higher education said the college prospectus can be expected by Friday this week. Common questions being asked by students who have cleared Class X are about the school and streams they should select and what avenues the stream opens for them. Some want to know previous years’ cut-offs in different streams to be able to choose a stream. Some have been calling to know if they will be able to get admission in their preferred school and stream with the percentage they have got. Director, higher education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The prospectus will be available by Friday.” Like school admissions, college admissions will also be held completely online. Class XI admissions will begin from Tuesday with the registration process. BOX | Help desk will function in the following schools GGMSSS-20-B; GMSSS-21; GMSSS-26; GMSSS-27; GMSSS-33; GMSSS-40; GMSSS-44; GMSSS-45; GMSSS-MHC; GSSS-Manimajra Town; GMHS-24; GHS-38B; GMHS-41A; GMHS-42; GHS-47; GHS-53; GMHS-Dhanas, RC-II; GMHS-Manimajra; GMHS-Karsan; GMHS-Manimajra, PK-I. Time | 9am to 1pm BOX | NIELIT Centre Students can also use the support of NIELIT Centre, Sector 30 from 10am to 5pm on all working days. Before visiting NIELIT Centre, students have to take prior appointment on phone: 0172-2650121, 01881257061. BOX | Get the prospectus here www.chdeducation.gov.in www.nielit.gov.in/chandigarh BOX | How to register >There is only one registration form for all streams. >Registration form is to be filled online for a fee of Rs 130 >Fee will be payable through Net Banking/ Credit Card/ Debit Card >After logging in on the website, a candidate can generate his/her account by filling in the basic details >A unique ID and Password will be generated, which the candidate has to remember or write down for any future reference >Maximum 20 options for different schools streams can be given in registration form. Candidates scoring above 60% have to up a minimum of 10 options of schools and streams of his/her choice. Candidates having below 60% marks are required to fill minimum of 15 options for school/stream >Candidate can edit the submitted registration form till July 30 i.e. the last date for filling of Registration Form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/helplines-flooded-with-calls-from-anxious-students-about-to-start-college/articleshow/77074002.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana provided highest credit to SHGs||HYDERABAD: Telangana provided the highest percentage of credit linkages to Self Help Groups (SHGs) among the states during the period when the country is battling Covid. In what can be regarded as a sign of robust rural economy in the state, credit linkage process to SHGs from April to mid July show that women availed Rs 1,951 crore. This is 17.56% of the state’s credit linkage target for this financial year. Interestingly, this is almost double the the credit linkage provided to SHGs in the state during same period last year. Between April and July last year, Rs 760 crore of credit linkages were provided to SHG women.’ When contacted, Sandip Sultania , secretary, rural development department attributed this to the financial discipline of the SHGs, “All the districts have performed well. Due to the efforts of the state government and the financial discipline displayed by SHGs we were able to achieve this.”Of the 31,733 groups, 36.37% have received credit so far. Manipur, with 12.11% credit linkage, target is second after Telangana. Executive director of ISB’s Centre for Analytical Finance, Prasanna Tantri, said that this is a reflection of agriculture scene in the state. “The agriculture scene is good and lot is happening on that front. Sales are picking up and people are ready to invest. However, as always there could be mild element of distress borrowing,” Prasanna Tantri said. Among districts, Kamareddy with 41% of credit linkages emerged on top, followed by Vikarabad at 32%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-provided-highest-credit-to-shgs/articleshow/77075241.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Housing dept readies design for Veligonda project oustees||Ongole: Nearly 15 years after the launch of Veligonda project, the lifeline of drought-hit Prakasam district, the state government has set the stage for construction of rehabilitation colonies for the project oustees. The housing department has finalised the designs and sent them for the government’s approval. About 7,555 families will get new houses in the rehabilitation colony. Each family would be given about 250 sq yards of land free of cost in which a house would be constructed with Rs 5.5 lakh. “We will call for tenders for construction of houses after getting the nod from the government,” said Gangadhar Gowd, special deputy collector of the project. The state government has decided to grant a one-time cash compensation as part of the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package. The oustees who opted for a house in the colony would get Rs 6.36 lakh as additional cash compensation. While the SCs would get another Rs 50,000, the STs will get Rs 75,000 as incentive. The government has decided to grant a one-time settlement amount of Rs 12.5 lakh if the beneficiaries do not want to take the house. Newly married couples are included in the beneficiaries’ list. During the initial survey conducted 15 years ago, there were only 4,500 beneficiaries and now another 3,000 families have been added to the list. With chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy setting August deadline for completion of the first phase of the project, contractor firm Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) is fast tracking it. Realising that Meil might complete the project ahead of the timeline, education minister and local legislator Adimulapu Suresh has urged revenue authorities to expedite rehabilitation and resettlement work. The minister has prevailed upon the chief minister to grant Rs 1,400 crore to take up the rehabilitation work which has been pending for over a decade-and-half. “The chief minister has not only granted funds for implementation of R&R package but also instructed the officials to ensure that best infrastructure is provided at the colonies,” said Dr Suresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/housing-dept-readies-design-for-veligonda-project-oustees/articleshow/77072921.cms||Samdani MN
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||In Telangana, students form village circles to transform learning in rural areas||HYDERABAD: There is a significant learning process taking place in the villages because of the efforts of more than 2 lakh students who study in social welfare and tribal welfare residential schools and colleges but are now staying home due to Covid. These students are now involved in teaching the younger lot and thereby ensuring that the latter do not suffer any break in the learning process. They started forming village learning circles (VLCs) and teaching children in their villages. The aim of these VLCs is to ensure that poor students do not lag behind when the schools are reopened because the parents could not afford online education. Telangana, it can be recalled, has been at the forefront in achieving a phenomenal academic progress in its social welfare and tribal welfare residential educational institutions. The students of these institutions are applying innovative methods they were taught in schools and colleges at the VLCs . RS Praveen Kumar, secretary of Telangana social and tribal welfare residential educational institutions and who transformed these institutions into centres of excellence, is behind the idea of promoting VLCs. Though children were enjoying an extended vacation, Praveen foresaw a problem that was going to cripple them in the form of digital deprivation in the days to come. His answer to the problem was the VLC. His call was so powerful that his students started forming VLCs in thousands of villages. According to Dr B Venkat Raju, content manager, social welfare residential institutions, the number of VLCs will soon touch 50,000 and each VLC is teaching around 10 students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-form-village-circles-to-transform-learning-in-rural-areas/articleshow/77075247.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Indore||Indore: Local ayurvedic units ‘immune’ to Covid-19, see 20% growth||INDORE: The traditional ayurvedic medicines manufacturing units of Indore have registered a growth of over 20 per cent post Covid-19 led by sales of immunity booster supplements and cough syrups as the focus has shifted to inner well-being to keep the deadly virus at bay. The rapid spread of Covid-19 across the world has brought people back to the roots giving a thrust to ayurvedic medicines segment. Following a steep rise in demand of ayurvedic products to fight the virus, manufacturing units have scaled up the production of immunity boosters, tablets, syrups and supplements to cater to demand in domestic and export markets. Rajesh Sethiya, president, Madhya Pradesh Ayush Chikitsa Parishad said, “Sales have seen an unprecedented jump in the past few months. Post Covid-19 people have realized the importance of herbal and side effect-free ayurvedic products to keep themselves strong and healthy. Immunity boosters are selling like hot cakes.” Upbeat on the sudden spike in demand from domestic consumers and new markets outside the country, most manufacturing units of the city are now planning to expand operations and production capacity. According to the association, Indore has around 210 ayurvedic medicines manufacturing units while the state houses over 600 units. Manufacturers said the demand for herbal hand sanitisers have also picked up in the market. Another ayurvedic manufacturer Rishabh Kumar Patni said, “Export demand has risen in the past few months and unlike 3-4 units earlier more manufacturers have started shipping medicines across the world such as Sri Lanka, the United States and many South East Asian countries.” Manufacturers said the potential for ayurvedic medicines is huge and demand in coming years looks robust though labour crisis is affecting production activities at units. They said the industry is facing a shortage of labour after the exodus of workers in lockdown. Neemuch, Mandla, Raipur, Kolkata, Amritsar and Delhi are the main markets for sourcing herbs and medicinal products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/local-ayurvedic-units-immune-to-covid-see-20-growth/articleshow/77074028.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||127 new Covid-19 cases found in U’khand, 3 deaths reported||Dehradun: With 127 fresh cases reported in the state, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 4,642 on Monday. Also, three deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported on July 20 taking the toll of the virus in the state to 55. For the third day in a row, Haridwar reported the maximum of 95 new Covid-19 cases. Among these, 84 were the contacts of earlier detected cases while travel history of other 11 cases wasn’t available till the time of filing this report. “Almost 50% of cases reported in Haridwar on Monday were contacts of SIDCUL employees,” said a health department official. Also, among the nine positive cases reported in Nainital on Monday, three were BJP party workers who had come in contact with previously infected Haldwani district president and spokesperson, confirmed Nainital CMO Dr Bhagirathi Joshi. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that seven new cases each were reported from Dehradun and Uttarkashi districts while Tehri reported six new cases on Monday. Three fresh cases were also reported from Almora district. “Among the three deaths reported on July 20, one was a 58-year-old man who died due to cardiac arrest at AIIMS Rishikesh. The second death was of a 35-year-old who was brought to the emergency ward of AIIMS Rishikesh on Sunday after he had started bleeding profusely. His sample was tested positive for COVID-19 and he died during treatment,” said Tripathi. He added that the third death was of a 63-year-old woman who died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College. Her sample tested positive for Covid-19 after death. As per the death summary, the cause of her death was Type 1 Respiratory failure/ARDS/Bilateral Pneumonitis. Meanwhile, 3,625 samples were collected for testing on Monday and the pendency of Covid-19 reports in the state reached 9,400.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/127-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-ukhand-3-deaths-reported/articleshow/77072915.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Panel figures out ways to promote PU students||Chandigarh: A sub-committee constituted to take a decision on admission and promotion of Panjab University students is chalking out a module for the purpose. Under the module, to which majority gave their consent, students should be graded 50% on the basis of internal assessment marks and 50% on the basis of previous performance in examinations. A proposal to the effect will be submitted for final approval to the special committee constituted by the Syndicate for admission and examination for campus and colleges. The module will be implemented on students who have cleared the last semester and do not have re-appear in any subject. Another recommendation of the committee was that all the faculty deans will be asked to make a small committee of their respective stream like law, sciences, engineering and language to work out how to implement this module in their respective departments. No suggestion has been mooted on how to conduct the final-year exam for the campus department. Members also discussed the online admission procedure. Enlisting agencies for the purpose was suggested but the issue of fund crunch was raised. Members said they should get a report from the computer department on how to go for online admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panel-figures-out-ways-to-promote-pu-students/articleshow/77074023.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 21, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC pitches for idols made of Shadu clay||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Monday appealed to the citizens to install idols made from Shadu clay for the upcoming Ganeshotsav. Stating that no procession either on the day of installation or immersion will be allowed this year, civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey said the Shadu clay idols would be highly useful during the pandemic considering the personal and public safety. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-pitches-for-idols-made-of-shadu-clay/articleshow/77072909.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chennai||Follow Covid norms, but give enough time for final rites: Madras HC||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has directed the state government to provide adequate time to perform religious rites by the family of deceased Covid-19 patients before cremation or burial. However, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha made it clear that the Covid-19 protocol to cremate such bodies should not be violated. The bench passed the order on a suo motu plea initiated by the court following the vandalism and denial of decent burial of a city neurosurgeon Dr Simon Hercules, who died of Covid-19. When the plea came up for hearing on Monday, senior counsel Ravi Kumar Paul submitted that the health and corporation officials in Chennai are showing undue haste in cremating or burying dead bodies of persons who died of Covid-19. “Adequate time is not given even to perform the last rites as per their religious beliefs,” the senior counsel said. Recording the same, the court passed the order and directed the government to ensure presence of police during such cremation to avoid untoward incidents. The body of Dr Hercules was taken to a Christian cemetery at Kilpauk, but it could not be laid to rest there as residents of the area assembled in large numbers and opposed the burial. They attacked an ambulance carrying the body. As a consequence, the body was taken to Velangadu and buried. In the process, the ambulance in which the body was taken and the persons accompanying the body were attacked. There was a law and order and public order problem on account of the said act and as a consequence, some public servants were also injured. The court took suo motu cognizance of the issue and initiated the present PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/follow-covid-norms-but-give-enough-time-for-final-rites-hc/articleshow/77074768.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Invisible enemy’ messing with mind, experts urge caution||Bhubaneswar: The nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 and the subsequent job losses, financial distress, fear of getting infected and living away from the loved ones and more importantly the uncertain future has told upon the mental health of people. “Every other person is experiencing stress and anxiety though the intensity varies. Mental well-being plays a vital role in keeping the immunity strong,” said Dr S K Padhy, additional professor, department of psychiatry, AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. “Detecting or identifying the signs of depression or anxiety among people is very important. If the person is showing suicidal tendencies or getting panic attacks then it can be treated with multi-sectoral approach of medication and counselling,” Dr Padhy added. Mental health experts advise people to stay emotionally connected with loved ones with the help of technology during these social distancing times. “We should remain connected through telephonic conversation, video calls, text messages and social media. There is a need to express our feelings than suppressing them. We have to maintain a routine that includes physical exercise, nutritious food, sleep and entertainment,” said Namita Mohanty, former professor of psychology, Utkal University, and city-based counsellor. Agrees Dr Subhendu Narayan Mishra, professor in psychiatry, IMS and SUM Hospital. “Family and technology play a vital role as we need to speak to each other, spend time and try to keep everyone relaxed and stress-free. It is advisable to replenish our energy by taking healthy food and drinking water regularly,” he said. The isolation is impacting the elderly and children too. Children also get bored by staying indoors and they require special attention. Experts feel it is time to pursue our hobbies and passions. In case of children, story-telling sessions and engaging them through art and craft, music and dance and indoor games are very important. “Do things that you wanted to since long, but had no time for. You can spend time with your family, pet animals, revisit old memories by going back to an album, list your achievements and celebrate the happy moments in life. Stay connected, use this time to build your relationship,” said Dr Padhy, adding a healthy mind strengthens immunity by regulating neuro-hormones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/invisible-enemy-messing-with-mind-experts-urge-caution/articleshow/77074035.cms||Minati Singha
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Heads will roll, warns HC as it slams Telangana government’s Covid work||HYDERABAD: Making no bones about its displeasure over government’s handling of Covid-19 cases, the Telangana high court on Monday summoned chief secretary Somesh Kumar, GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar, public health director and senior officials to be present in the court on July 28. Expressing concern over the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in Hyderabad and districts, the court said the situation in the state was turning from bad to worse. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave one week’s time to the authorities to buck up and implement its orders on ramping up Covid-19 testing and disseminating information on the pattern of the spread. The judges said any laxity on the part of the officials hereafter would result in the guillotine falling on their necks and heads would start rolling. Referring to a news report published in TOI on cases shooting up in the districts, the judges wanted to know whether hospitals were ready to deal with the spurt. They also directed authorities to reimpose lockdowns in short spells to check the spread of the virus. Hearing scores of petitions on the virus spread, lack of testing and beds in hospitals, the judges asked: “There is a talk that by coming September half of the global population will be affected by the coronavirus. That means two crore cases in Telangana. Are we ready to face it? We are not clear where we stand when the cases are less than a lakh.” At this point, advocate general BS Prasad conceded that lifting of lockdown had resulted in a nationwide spurt. The judges immediately reminded him about Karnataka deciding to impose a 10-day lockdown in Bengaluru again. “Why don’t you (government) go for lockdowns for shorter periods and in specific areas if required,” they sought to know. The AG assured the court that the government would rectify all the shortfalls and combat the virus. Turning critical towards the authorities for ignoring the directions of the court despite repeated reminders for their implementation, the judges said: “The same directions are being issued by the Union health ministry and the ICMR also. But the state government is blissfully ignoring them. It wants people to grope in the dark and live in the bliss of ignorance.” Pressing the issue further, the judges reminded that the government, in the medical bulletins issued in June, had said that the incidence of Covid-19 was found more in the age group of 21 to 34 years. “Till then we were told that only children below 10 and older people above 60 were vulnerable. This information needs to be disseminated so that youngsters will also start taking precautions,” the judges said, lamenting that they were still waiting for the authorities to share vital data with people. “Similarly in GHMC areas, the authorities should alert people about where the incidence of Covid is thick and where it is thin. The figures should be shared with residential colony associations and the media on a regular basis. This direction too has been ignored,” they pointed out. “Ensure that all the critical information is published by regional media, TV media and also the English press.” The bench was particularly critical at the way the situation had been handled by the authorities. “This is not a fight between the court and you. This is a war that should be waged by all branches of the state in a combined and coordinated way,” the bench said, addressing the AG. Stating that Telangana stands at the bottom with the lowest number of tests done per million and third in the highest incidence of Covid-19, the bench wanted the government to reveal its containment policy along with particulars of containment zones. “You (government) say that there are two lakh rapid antigen test kits. But, you will never tell people as to where they can avail them.” It said the government must come out with details on Covid-19 designated hospitals, beds with ventilators, beds with oxygen facilities, etc, so that people would know where to rush in the last minute with their kin gasping for breath. “You say you have WhatsApp numbers for people to air their grievances. But nobody has a clue. Publish them widely in the media and also in your daily medical bulletins. In areas under GHMC, allot more number of WhatsApp numbers,” the bench said. The court also summoned principal secretaries of municipal administration and health departments and director of medical education to appear before it on July 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heads-will-roll-warns-hc-as-it-slams-t-govts-covid-work/articleshow/77075518.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||Online delivery of Kedarnath prasad begins, 30 bookings on day 1||Dehradun: The portal “Hilansh Shree kedarnath Prasadam” — developed for delivery of Kedarnath temple prasad (religious offering) to people — received as many as 30 bookings on the first day of its launch. The website — onlineprasad.com — was launched by MLA Rudraprayag Bharat Singh Chaudhary on Monday. According to the authorities, the bookings were made by people from Rudraprayag, Kolkata, Bengaluru, and others. For each pack of prasad, one has to pay Rs 451, including shipping charges which will remain the same for both India and abroad. District magistrate Vandana Singh told TOI that a team of rural development department of Rudraprayag has collaborated with the portal for door-to-door delivery of prasad. “This was the idea mooted by the chief minister that in the time of pandemic when devotees from across the country are not able to come to Kedarnath, we must ensure that the prasad reaches their homes. We started the bookings for delivery of Kedarnath prasad today (July 20),” she added. Also, 599 passes for Char Dham Yatra were issued on Monday. So far, a total of 18,804 registrations have been done for the yatra since July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/online-delivery-of-kedarnath-prasad-begins-30-bookings-on-day-1/articleshow/77072960.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Panjab University HRDC staff unpaid for past three months||CHANDIGARH: Five employees of the Human Resource Development Centre, (HRDC), Panjab University, who should have been designing online training modules for the 2020-21 academic session are scrambling to get their salary from April to June. HRDC employees submitted a representation to vice- chancellor (VC) Professor Raj Kumar saying that the finance department has refused to process their salary bills on the grounds that UGC grant has not been received. In the representation, they stated that the UGC grant should not be linked with salary, since HRDC is part of the University and grants are received only on reimbursement basis. Besides, they pointed out that the University already has HRDC assets and funds amounting to Rs 22 lakh as security, which can be utilised to pay staff salaries. They urged authorities to take up their case with the UGC for timely disbursement of salary. Referring to the UGC directives of July 1, PUTA president Rajesh Gill asked all HRDCs to organise capacity building programs to train teachers in online teaching and learning. She underlined the need for development of SOPs for the purpose and said reaching out to students in remote areas without internet facility would be a major challenge. However, she said such problems would have to be dealt with on war footing. She also raised the issue of staff salaries with the VC and said that the university would have to conduct the next semester in concurrence with the Covid-19 situation. Professor S K Tomar, honorary director, HRDC conceded to the fact that the staff has not been paid as authorities have not received the grant. He said the institute is fully funded by the UGC and salary is given through their grant and expressed the hope that the UGC would release the grant for salaries by the first week of August. Earlier, employees received salary from January to March in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-covid-19-crisis-pu-hrdc-staff-unpaid-for-past-three-months/articleshow/77074042.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress dares Telangana CM on tree census||HYDERABAD: Raising serious concerns over the claims of the state government that crores of saplings have been planted as part of Haritha Haram programme, state Congress treasurer G Narayana Reddy dared CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to conduct a tree census in the state. He alleged that Haritha Haram was a major scam in which crores of public money was siphoned off. “The state government is claiming that 159 crore saplings have been planted since 2015. It should ratify its claim by conducting a tree census. If the government fails to prove its claim, it should tender an apology to the people of the state,” he said. Stating that an RTI query has revealed that Rs 3,630 crore was spent for planting of saplings as part of Haritha Haram between 2015 and 2020, the Congress leader alleged it was a scam and said that Rs 6.91 crore were spent on purchasing green khandwas for the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-dares-cm-on-tree-census/articleshow/77075255.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||In Telangana, four held for selling Covid drugs at higher rates||HYDERABAD: Four persons were arrested for selling Covid-19 medicines at higher price than the maximum retail price (MRP) on Monday by the special operations team of Rachakonda police. The SOT slueths, acting on specific information, arrested the accused B Ashok Kumar (35, owner of Sri Banadana Medical Shop from AS Rao Nagar), B Sharath (23, employee of Ashok Kumar), G Vamshi (24, cab driver) from Kushiaguda and Subhash from KPHB Colony. The accused were intercepted at Kushaiguda when they were procuring generic versions of Remdesivir and Favipiravir medicines which are being used as anti-viral medicines to treat Covid-19 patients. “The accused were selling Remdesivir (Covifor) injection for Rs 30,000 and Flavipiravir (FabiFlu) tablets box for Rs 4,000 against the MRP of Rs 5,500 and Rs 3,500 respectively,” SOT Inspector Naveen Kumar said. Police seized three vials of Remdesivir (Covifor) injection and one box of Favipiravir tablets from their possession. The accused, along with the seizures, were handed over to Kushaiguda police. Seven people were also arrested on Sunday for illegally procuring and sale of Covid-19 drugs at exorbitant rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-held-for-selling-covid-drugs-at-higher-rates/articleshow/77074765.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Resume RTC and Metro services, Congress tells Telangana government||HYDERABAD: Congress has demanded the state government resume public transport in Greater Hyderabad. “While it is true that people must stay at home to keep themselves safe from Covid-19 infection, it is also true that many from the poor and middle sections of society have to go out daily to earn their livelihood. The state government must work out a solution wherein people should have access to affordable and safe public transport,” Telangana Congress spokesperson Syed Nizamuddin said on Monday. TSRTC and Hyderabad Metro Rail were not operating their services from March 22 in view of the coronavirus-forced lockdown. Though the closure of public transport was essential to prevent the spread of Covid-19, he said the circumstances have changed now as several other services have been restored as part of unlock 1.0 and 2.0. The state government should consider resuming the public transport in a regulated and controlled form, he said. “When RTC buses can be operated in the districts wherein Covid-19 cases are being reported, why not in Greater Hyderabad in a controlled-manner,” Nizamuddin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/resume-rtc-and-metro-services-cong-tells-govt/articleshow/77075250.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Four senior officers appointed to address public issues||PANCHKULA: The administration has appointed four senior officials to address problems of people living in tehsils and sub-tehsils of the district. Deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja said Raipur Rani, Panchkuka and Kalka Tehsils as well as Barwala and Morni sub-tehsil will have supervising officers for public interface. The deputy commissioner stated that additional DC Manita Malik has been appointed for Panchkula tehsil, SDM Kalka Rakesh Sandhu for Kalka tehsil and SDM Panchkula Dheeraj Chahal for Raipur Rani tehsil. Executive officer, Zila Parishad Nishu Singhal has been appointed for Barwala sub-tehsil and Morni. The DC said these officials will supervise all document-related official work of the administration. They will also make sure that work related to registration and acceptance of mutation and all others are handled by local officers in their respective tehsils. Officers concerned will visit their tehsil twice a week to ensure residents are able to get their work done without problems. They will submit a detailed report to the DC office on a regular basis so that progress of work can be assessed. The move came in the wake of deputy commissioners of various tehsils moving complaints to the DC against irregularities in work by local officials who in the absence of checks by their seniors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/four-senior-officers-appointed-to-address-public-issues/articleshow/77074076.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 21, 2020||Lucknow||Advani , Joshi, Uddhav on list of invitees for Ram temple bhoomi pujan||Ayodhya: Frontline leaders of the Ram Temple movement, including former prime minister LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, are on the list of invitees for the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya on August 5, which is likely to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Others in the list include RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray. The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust is trying to keep the number of invitees limited owing to the Covid pandemic. Sources said the number of invitees could be around 300. However, the Trust plans to recreate the same atmosphere when shilanyas for the Ram temple was done by Vishwa Hindu Parishad in Ayodhya on November 10,1989, after the then PM Rajiv Gandhi gave permission for it. “Trust members are of the view that LK Advani took the Ram temple movement to the masses, and other key BJP leaders also helped in popularising it,” said Trust member Kameshwar Chaupal. The list of invitees will be finalised soon, he added. “The present generation of BJP leaders was not active in the temple movement that brought political gains for BJP. Most of the senior BJP leaders who steered the movement are no longer in active politics,” said Santosh Dubey, an accused in Babri Masjid demolition case. “Five silver bricks will be set inside the sanctum sanctorum during bhoomi pujan’ by PM Modi. These bricks symbolise the five planets as per the Hindu mythology,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, spokesman of Trust president Nritya Gopal Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/advani-joshi-uddhav-on-list-of-invitees-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77075280.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||3 T students stuck in Russia return home||Hyderabad: Three students from Telangana, who are pursuing medical studies in Russia and were stuck there due to the Covid-19 situation, have returned. Their problem was taken up with the Union external affairs ministry by the Mahbubnagar district administration. The students were put in a quarantine facility in Jaipur, Rajasthan. The Mahbubnagar district authorities spoke to the Jaipur authorities and assured them that the students would be put in home quarantine for 14 days and Covid test would be done for them. Following this, the students were sent to Mahbubnagar. The families of the students thanked Jadcherla legislator C Laxma Reddy and Mahbubnagar district collector S Venkat Rao for their help in bringing their children home. The issue was represented to the state government and the help of the Union external affairs ministry was sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-t-students-stuck-in-russia-return-home/articleshow/77074774.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||Driver caught carrying Delhi’s pilgrims to Kedarnath on local ID||Haridwar: A driver carrying four pilgrims from Delhi to Kedarnath without a valid pass was held by local police on Monday. A case was registered against driver Senpal, resident of Delhi's Vishvash Nagar, under sections 417 (punishment for cheating), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act. RK Saklani, SHO of Muni-ki-Reti police station, told TOI, “The accused driver got his driving license made on a Haridwar address and he got the passes for pilgrims on this address. The pilgrims had not even got themselves tested for Covid-19 test. This is against law. We have registered a case against the driver and further probe is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/driver-caught-carrying-delhis-pilgrims-to-kedarnath-on-local-id/articleshow/77072978.cms||MS Nawaz
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Doctor on contract loses Covid battle in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Dr Javed, a 42-year-old contractual employee with Delhi government, breathed his last on Monday fighting Covid-19 for almost a month. He didn’t suffer from any comorbidities. His death has sent shock waves through the ranks of contractual workers, who have not been given any health benefits by the government. The association of such doctors is now contemplating either going on a strike or tendering their resignation. Their decision would depend on their meeting with Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. TimesViewAcross India, health workers have perished battling coronavirus. Each of them is a war hero, a ratna of Bharat. It is sad that the deceased’s family is being denied health benefits in this case because he was a contractual worker. A welfare state must find ways and means to help them. That’s the least one can do for those putting their life on the line in these extraordinary times.In the first week of July, TOI had reported how contractual employees had been demanding health benefits, more importantly in the time of Covid. Those employed under National Health Mission (NHM) on contract were braving the apathy of the government and left to fend for themselves. Javed is survived by his wife, Dr Heena Kausar, who works with a private hospital in Haryana, and two children, a son aged six and a 12-year-old daughter. A weeping Kausar told TOI over the phone that contractual workers, whether doctors or paramedics, were risking theirs and the lives of family members working every day during this pandemic. “My husband is no more and nothing can fill that void. But it’s high time the government does something for their employees who are taking care of the public. The least the government can do is ensure health benefits. My children are young and there is a long road ahead for them,” said Kausar. When Javed tested positive for Covid-19, his wife had to rush him to a private hospital in Haryana from where he was brought back to Delhi for treatment. A doctor working on contract said, “We have been demanding health benefits for around a decade now. The government should give it to all employees who contact the virus. We have also been fighting the battle of deduction of leaves during our quarantine period.” Dr Alka Choudhary, Delhi president of NHM Doctors’ Welfare Association, said, “Dr Javed was dedicated to his profession and kept working every day to treat Covid-positive patients. He fought a long battle with the virus before he succumbed to it. His wife should be given compensation within a week without having to run around for it. We have also sent an email to the health minister to meet us in person and resolve our issues. The fraternity is demoralised and demotivated with Javed’s demise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctor-on-contract-loses-covid-battle/articleshow/77074777.cms||Sakshi Chand
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Irrigation department gets new name||HYDERABAD: In a first step to revamp the irrigation department, the Telangana government has rechristened it as water resources department. Chairing a review meeting on irrigation on Monday, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced the government was ready to sanction 1,000 posts for providing irrigation water to 1.25 crore acres in the state. Irrigation officials submitted a draft proposal on revamping the department on Monday. He said the department should gear up to draw four tmcft water from Godavari and three tmcft from Krishna a day. KCR said the government was spending thousands of crores on irrigation projects. “All irrigation wings should be under one umbrella and the entire state should be divided into regions and zones. A chief engineer will be in-charge for each region. All projects, reservoirs, checkdams and lifts would be under his control,” he said. The CM said maintenance all pump houses would be handed over to power utilities. KCR told officials that actual estimations should be prepared on the requirements of staff and present staff right from engineer-in-chief to lower level staff after reorganisation of the department. He also asked the officials to prepare manuals for projects, reservoirs and tanks and estimates for maintenance of various projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irrigation-dept-gets-new-name/articleshow/77075258.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Engineer filling failed ONGC well attacked||AHMEDABAD: A civil engineer working for a private company contracted by ONCG, was beaten up by four masked men on July 16 when he was monitoring the filling of a failed oil well at Damalia village of Dehgam taluka of Gandhinagar district, according to the FIR filed on Sunday. Sanjog Waghmare, 33, a resident of Singarva and a civil engineer with a firm named Oil and Gas Skill Private Limited, in his FIR at Dehgam police station said that his company has been contracted by Bharat Petro Resources Limited and digs oil wells for ONGC. If a well dug in a field fails, Waghmare’s company has to fill it and return the land to the owner in its original form, the FIR states. “On the morning of July 16, the vice-president of Bharat Petro Resources, Tushar Dutta, called me up and said that I would have to go to Damalia village to monitor the filling of an oil well. When I was monitoring the work and working on my laptop, four masked men armed with sticks arrived,” states the FIR. He states in the FIR that they began abusing him and asking him why he was ruining their field and then attacked him with sticks. A security person from Waghmare’s company rescued him from the four men. He said the four men also tore his register containing records for that field. Waghmare then called the police control room and filed a complaint of assault, criminal intimidation, negligence leading to spreading of an infection and abetment against the four unknown men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/engineer-filling-failed-ongc-well-attacked/articleshow/77074767.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Unidentified men booked for acid attack||Times-News Network Patiala: Police booked a few unidentified persons after two men faced acid attacks at different areas of Nabha town in Patiala district. Police said the two victims were friends. They were attacked by two unidentified and masked men on a bike. The incident took place on Sunday night when one of the victims, Manpreet Singh, was on his way home on his bicycle. CCTV footage of the two bikers attacking one of the victims has gone viral. The other victim, who was attacked near Shiv Puri Colony in Nabha has been identified as Deepak Kumar. He was attacked after Manpreet allegedly called him for help. “Both the victims were rushed to Nabha civil hospital immediately. Manpreet Singh was attacked first. Two masked men on a bike reached near Manpreet from the opposite side and threw acid on him near Bathindia Mohalla. We have got the CCTV footage of this incident. It is learned that Manpreet called his friend Deepak Kumar for help a few minutes after the attack but the accused managed to reach Deepak also. The victims are undergoing treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. We have booked the unidentified men and investigations are on”, said SHO, Nabha Kotwali police station sub-inspector Gurpreet Singh. Nabha DSP RK Chibber said, “We are also carrying out probe that from where the accused managed to get the acid as guidelines of Supreme Court are very strict in this regard. One of the victims works as a fruit vendor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unidentified-men-booked-for-acid-attack/articleshow/77074087.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Surat||945 from India join global campaign to save NRG boy||SURAT: A global campaign has been launched to save the life of a four-year-old Gujarati boy living in the UK who suffers from a rare genetic disorder that has resulted in a drastic reduction of all blood cells and impaired bone marrow function. Veer Gudhka, whose parents hail from Jamnagar, suffers from Fanconi anaemia and the campaign has been launched to find a matching stem cell donor, which will enable his bone marrow transplant. “As many as 945 people from India, mostly Gujaratis, have registered as stem cell donors in this campaign. Doctors say Veer’s stem cell did not match with nearly 3.3 crore samples received as part of this campaign,” said Jalpa Sukhanandi, region head, DATRI, India’s largest unrelated blood stem cell donors’ registry. On July 19, Veer’s father Nirav and mother Kripa addressed Gujarati community in the state and Mumbai appealing for people to come forward and register as stem cell donors. “Matching stem cell donors is now very urgent. We are asking you to help us save our four-year-old son by registering as a stem cell donor,’‘ Kripa said addressing the community. Veer’s parents and family members, who belong to the Jain community, have been running the online campaign (helpveernow) through social media. Veer’s red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets have dropped to dangerously low levels, which means that he needs a bone marrow transplant at the earliest. “Since ethnicity plays a large role in the probability of finding a match, chances of finding a matching donor within his own community are high,” added Sukhanandi. For Veer’s survival, he needs a generous stem cell donor from anywhere in the world. Anyone could be the one to save his life. He needs to find a lifesaving stem cell donor if he is to survive. “When he was first diagnosed a few months ago, we thought he would not need a transplant but now that looks like the sole life saviour. We are extremely worried as time is running out for him,’‘ Veer’s father Nirav appealed in a video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/945-from-india-join-global-campaign-to-save-nrg-boy/articleshow/77074096.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||IMA: Use pvt sector after all govt facilities are utilised||Panaji: The Indian Medical Association (Goa) and Association of Private Nursing Homes have said that the government should not consider the private sector for Covid patients until the government facilities in the state are fully utilised. Stating that they are pained by the decision of the government to utilise 20% of the ICU facilities in the private sector, they said that it is not a practical decision. They questioned how Covid patients would be segregated from the others. Private sector cannot be considered as of now as all the government facilities are yet to be utilised since segregation of non-Covid patients of cardiac, kidney, cancer and other patients and Covid patients is extremely important, the associations stated requesting the government to withdraw the order directing private hospitals to reserve 20% of their beds for Covid patients. The government can utilise its facilities at Ponda, Asilo, Hospicio, Chicalim and GMC which has a total of 2500 beds they suggested. “When the government facility is utilised by 75%, then private hospitals have to essentially pitch in,” the associations further stated, challenging the government to demonstrate how to start a covid positive hospital in one of the existing ICUs in GMC so that it can be replicated in a private set-up. “If government can do this in all existing ICU facilities in govt sector than we will come forward and replicate it in our hospitals,” they stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ima-use-pvt-sector-after-all-govt-facilities-are-utilised/articleshow/77075285.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mask fines fetch cops Rs 2.4 crore since April 1||NEW DELHI: Even as doctors and experts stress the importance of wearing masks in the time of the novel coronavirus, many Delhiites appear to be least bothered about covering their faces. Police have collected an amount of Rs 2.4 crore in fines from people caught without masks in the past three and a half months.As many as 47,970 violators have been booked since April 1. Police officers say that FIRs have also been registered for disobeying government orders against some of the violators. The cops have so far distributed 1,35,083 masks among the violators. According to the Delhi Police data, south Delhi had the maximum number of violators with 5,539 cases registered till date. This was followed by southwest Delhi, where 4,564 cases were registered in areas like Vasant Kunj, Kapashera and Rajokri. Only three people without masks were caught in northeast Delhi. The government had earlier made provisions for strict fines for mask violations. “People not wearing masks when outdoors may also have to pay a fine of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 for subsequent violations,” said Mandeep Singh Randhawa, Delhi Police spokesperson. Another officer added that not wearing a mask while stepping out of house can even land a violator in jail for up to six months. Almost 90% of the violators are caught while driving cars or outside residential colonies. “While they come up with several lame excuses, we tell the violators how mask can keep them safe from the infection,” said a police officer. People stepping out of homes with handkerchiefs wrapped around their faces improperly may also be booked for not wearing masks. “There is a standard for masks, which requires double-layer protection. It should cover the nose and the mouth till the chin. Not following the set standard will attract a fine,” said the officer. These masks may be standard masks available with the chemist or even homemade washable masks that can be reused after following proper washing and disinfecting procedures. “When a person is found walking or riding without a mask, they are asked about the reason for not complying with the government order. If they have a genuine reason behind not wearing a mask, the cops are either providing them with surgical masks or asking them to get one. If the reason is found to be flimsy, they are being detained and booked for violation of government order.” Watch Delhiites pay Rs 2.4 crore fine for not wearing masks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mask-fines-fetch-cops-rs-2-4cr-since-april-1/articleshow/77074808.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI election: Allegations are flying thick and fast||AHMEDABAD: After the resignation of election officer, P K Laheri, for the upcoming elections of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), contesting members have alleged that the executive committee has been interfering in the decision-making process of the elections. Bhavesh Lakhani, convener of BJP’s business cell in Gujarat, who is contesting for the post of vice-president at the upcoming election, on Monday, represented the issue before Pankaj Patel, the chairman of the empowered Apex committee. Lakhani issued a media statement stating that the executive committee is unconstitutionally pushing its agenda for conducting e-voting during the elections. “The apex committee must take charge of the management at GCCI so that whatever decisions are taken are in line with GCCI’s constitution,” said Lakhani. GCCI elections were scheduled to held on July 11. However, the former election officer, P K Laheri, had recommended deferring the elections in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and they were deferred. It is after two years that an electoral process was set take place for the top posts of president and vice-president at GCCI. Lakhani is in the fray against K I Patel, the founder of Aries Color Chem Private Limited in Vatva and Ashok Patel of Masta Bearing Housing Private Limited. On the other hand, Jayendra Tanna, president of Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF), is in the fray against Hemant Shah, the chairman of Navin Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-election-allegations-are-flying-thick-and-fast/articleshow/77074773.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||FIR registered against firm after nearly 300 employees test Covid positive at Haridwar unit||Haridwar: After 288 employees tested positive at an industrial unit in Haridwar’s SIDCUL area on Sunday, Haridwar police on Monday registered a case against the management of the company, to which the unit belongs, for violating the pandemic guidelines. According to police, the firm’s management did not ask for the travel history of two workers who had returned from leave from other states and made them join work immediately, without a quarantine period. “The first case surfaced at the unit on July 3 and the second on July 7. One of the workers had returned from Delhi, while we were looking into the travel history of the other. The company didn’t ask for their travel history and told them to resume work without maintaining any distance from other coworkers,” said SIDCUL station house officer (SHO) LS Butola. The unit was closed on orders of district magistrate C Ravishankar on July 16, after the number of infected people rose to 20. Two days later, Ravishankar declared “a large outbreak of Covid-19” at the unit, as the number increased to 60 within a span of 10 days. The infected workers at the firm were not only from the SIDCUL area but spread across Rishikesh and Jaipota on Haridwar-Laksar road. The rapidly rising numbers sent local residents into panic. On Sunday, as the number of infected persons rose to 220, the unit’s spokesperson released a statement, saying, “We can confirm that several employees at our Haridwar factory have been diagnosed with Covid-19, a majority of them asymptomatic. This came to light after we started a Covid-19 testing programme. To curtail further spread (of the infection), we are carrying out contact tracing amongst our employees and workers.” On the day, the DM said that nearly 168 people had been pressed into contact tracing and 100 containment zones were being made to contain the spread. Haridwar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “We had asked all industries to follow the guidelines of Covid-19. Our local police teams had been spreading awareness on precautions to take against the coronavirus. An investigation has been initiated after this case of negligence (at the SIDCUL unit) surfaced.” “A case has been registered against the plant’s management and some other office bearers under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271(disobedience to quarantine rule), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management act,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fir-registered-against-firm-after-nearly-300-employees-test-covid-positive-at-haridwar-unit/articleshow/77073010.cms||MS Nawaz
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Sand mafia racket busted, 6 held||HYDERABAD: A sand smuggling racket was busted and six persons arrested by Rachkonda’s special operations team on Sunday. The police also seized Rs 3.2 lakh cash along with other iincrimating evidence. The gang was found smuggling sand from a site in Malyala village of Mulugu district using fake transit passes with the help of outsourcing employees of the Telangana State Mineral Development Corporation. The offenders were identified as Bonu Kiran Kumar, a businessman from West Godavari district, Kammachichu Rajashekar, Manthena Bhargav and Gaddam Laxman, supervisors at sand reach in Malyala village, and P Naveen Kumar and Konda Mallikarjun, both outsourcing employees of TSMDC. Last month, Bachupally Madhukar and Kore Ramakrishna were caught illegally transporting sand. According to police, their confession brought the racket to light, after which the six others were arrested. According to police, the employees of TSMDC, security guards and supervisor of the sand reach were offered Rs 5,500 to issue a transit pass to each vehicle. The gang was also using fake transit passes with the help of on-duty employees of TSMDC since March. “In a day, 30 lorries were illegally loading sand. So far close to 500 lorries were allowed to illegally transport sand from Malyala sand reach,” said Rachakonda CP Mahesh Bhagwat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sand-mafia-racket-busted-6-held/articleshow/77074785.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Railways look for new streams of traffic||MANGALURU: The pandemic has forced Indian Railways to innovate its business model and look for new streams of traffic through its zonal units. A case in point is a move by the Palakkad division of Southern Railway to transport refined palm oil packed in 15litre tins and 10litre carton boxes in 42 BCN rake from Panambur station to Lucknow. KAMCO power tillers have also been sent from Palakkad station to northern eastern states. Recently, South Central Railway had also made a first-of-its-kind move to run international parcel express carrying dried red chillies from Guntur to Bangladesh. To aid this process, zonal and divisional railways, under the respective zones, have set up business development units (BDUs), including one at Palakkad railway division that has jurisdiction over Mangaluru. BDU caters to the transportation needs of various sectors, including non-bulk goods traffic like white goods, finished goods, manufactured products, agricultural produce and raw material. It will facilitate industry/ trade representatives and rail freight customers to get in touch with the railways at zonal and divisional levels and help in expeditious clearance of their proposals for freight movement, which will benefit both the industry and the railways. Pratap Singh Shami, divisional railway manager (Palakkad division), has set up the BDU in line with BDUs at zonal and divisional level as per directions from the railway ministry. “In addition to Palakkad, BDUs are also being set up at Thiruvananthapuram, Madhurai, Tiruchchirappalli, Chennai and Salem,” Shami said, adding BDU will work under the supervision of C T Sakkeer Hussain, additional divisional railway manager-II. In Palakkad division, good sheds (loading and unloading points) are available at Pollachi Junction, Palakkad Junction, Tirunaavaya, Angadippuram, Nilambur Road, Kallayi, West Hill, Tikkotti, Etakkot, Valapattanam, Nileshwar, Bunder (Mangaluru Central) and Panambur (Mangaluru Port). To ease the freight handling, many more facilities are being added to the goods sheds as per the directives of the ministry, Shami explained. Members of BDU will initiate steps to attract new streams of traffic by frequent interaction with trade and industry to understand the existing pattern of goods transportation and explore the possibility of attracting additional freight traffic to railways. BDU will also serve as a nodal point for speedy operationalisation of new traffic proposals after due analysis. BDU of Palakkad division can be contacted on 0491-2556198/ 9746763956 or ccpgt@pgt.railnet.gov.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rlys-look-for-new-streams-of-traffic/articleshow/77073031.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Former TTD chief priest dies of Covid-19 in Tirupati||TIRUPATI: TirumalaTirupati Devasthanams (TTD) temple former chief priest Srinivasa Murthy Deekshitulu, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and was being treated at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) in Tirupati, passed away on Monday morning. He was 75. “He was also suffering from other co-morbidities. He was a diabetic and had kidney related problems. He passed away while undergoing treatment early this morning,” SVIMS director Dr B Vengamma said. The septuagenarian is suspected to have contracted the infection from one of his family members who tested positive recently. His elder son Archakam Peddinti Dayanidhi Deekshitulu works at the TTD-managed Govindaraja Swamy temple in Tirupati, while his younger son Narasimha Deekshitulu works at Tirumala temple. Both have given their samples for test and the results are awaited. The former chief priest belonged to the Archakam Peddinti Mirasi family, one of the four hereditary priest families which, it is said, were ordained by Lord Venkateswara himself to perform kainkaryams at Tirumala temple several centuries ago. The other three are Paidipally, Gollapalli and Tirupatamma families. Srinivasa Murthy served Lord Venkateswara at the hill temple for over five decades, which includes his stint as chief priest for around 20 years. He was one of the four hereditary priests who were forcibly retired from their posts in 2018 by the erstwhile TTD trust board during the TDP regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-ex-chief-priest-murthy-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77075519.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 1,800 call to volunteer for Covid-19 vaccine trial at AIIMS, only 100 required||NEW DELHI: The first phase of trial for Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), began in AIIMS on Monday. Though the city institute needs only 100 participants for the trial, 1,800 people registered to volunteer for the tests. Dr Sanjay K Rai, a professor in the community medicine department at AIIMS, who is heading the trials, told TOI that their phone hadn’t stopped ringing since Saturday when they received approval for the first phase trial. “We have now stopped taking calls,” Dr Rai said. “We are considering only email and WhatsApp messages sent to the centralised number for registration.” The trial will involve healthy people, aged between 18 and 55 years, with no existing medical conditions. Dr Rai said all participants will be screened for co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and renal diseases as well as their current immunity status. Women who are not pregnant will also be selected to be a part of the trial in the first phase. “Those who have no known comorbidity will be administered Covaxin. Such persons will be followed up continuously over the next few months to assess the safety and efficacy of the Covid vaccine,” Dr Rai explained. Because the follow-up of people from other states isn’t so easy, AIIMS has decided to enrol only people from the capital and NCR for the trial. However, officials said, 50% of the people who have volunteered for the trail are from other states and they are likely to be rejected. Apart from AIIMS Delhi, 11 other hospitals including, AIIMS Patna and PGI Rohtak are conducting trials for Covaxin. In total, according to AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, 375 people will be vaccinated in the first phase of the trial which focuses on assessing the safety to humans of the vaccine and calculation of the dose range. In the second phase, Dr Guleria added, 750 people aged between 12 and 65 years will be recruited. “In that phase, we will see how immunogenic the vaccine is and it will subsequently be followed by phase III, which involves a larger test population to assess the vaccine’s efficacy and therapeutic benefit,” the AIIMS director said. Asked when a vaccine would be available, Dr Guleria said it would all depend on whether everything worked out in a consistent manner. “If everything is ideal, then by the end of the year or early next year, we should be in a position to say that we can start manufacturing the vaccine. But then, there are a lot of ifs and buts involved,” he said. The AIIMS director said making a new vaccine would be a great achievement for India. “We are very good in mass production,” noted Guleria. “But this is one of the rare occasions when we are leading in research and development as well.” There are three formulations of Covaxin. Dr Rai, who is heading the trials at AIIMS Delhi, said each participant would be given any one of the formulations in two doses two weeks apart. “The first 50 will get the lowest strength dose of the vaccine. If it is found to be safe for them, then it will be given to another 50 patients in higher doses,” Rai explained. The minimum time required for the first phase trial results to emerge will be four-six weeks. Watch Delhi: AIIMS begins first phase of Covaxin trial, 1,800 call to volunteer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1800-call-to-volunteer-for-vaccine-trial-at-aiims-only-100-required/articleshow/77074783.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation requests govt to raise development funds from 15% to 25 %||JAIPUR: Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC), adversely affected during the Covid- 19 crises, has demanded to increase the share of the Rajasthan Transport Infrastructure Development Fund (RTIDF) from the state government. At present, the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) receives 15% share from RTIDF. The corporation has requested to increase the funds up to 25%. In absence of any communication from the Centre about reopening of its services, Jaipur Metro is set to lose revenue every month if it remains idle. A JMRC official said, “The revenue earning source of Metro was affected during lockdown. In a span of 2 months almost Rs 2.5 crore each month was lost. Considering these circumstances, the request was sent to the state.” Unlike other state Metros, the maximum share of operational losses of Jaipur Metro are being borne by residents since the state government is raising money for RTIDF by levying cess on several services. After RTIDF fund was increased to 15%, the JMRC was approximately receiving Rs 42 crore and gap of deficit amount (operational losses and earning) was covered. Once, share is increased, the JMRC might receive above Rs 50 crore. On an average, the Metro is incurring approximately Rs 40 crore expenditure per annum that includes maintenance and operational cost, salaries and other fixed expenses. A source said, “Even though ridership of Metro is less and reached 20,000 passengers daily, it boosts some revenue. Moreover, as Phase I(B) corridor is ready, the revenue and ridership were expected to increase.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmrc-requests-govt-to-raise-devpt-funds-from-15-to-25-/articleshow/77074780.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Crooks from China use Tinder to lure, take money and vanish||HYDERABAD: Fraudsters who duped a city-based businessman of Rs 17.5 lakh in the guise of online forex trade have cheated at least six others in similar fashion after befriending them on online dating networks, including a retired armed forces officer who lost Rs 23 lakh. The accused, suspected to be operating from Hong Kong, had used phone numbers of Hong Kong (+852), Singapore (+65) and the UK (+44), used Indian agents who provided them local bank accounts. One such local associate, K Rajesh Kumar, an engineering graduate from Kondapur arrested by police for duping city-based businessman K Umakanth of Rs 17.5 lakh was found to have acted in collusion with the absconding accused suspected to be from China. Their modus operandi was to befriend the victims posing as a woman on Tinder or WeChat and then lure them to online forex trade and crypto currency with a promise of quick money. After the victim transferred money into an Indian bank account provided by the fraudsters as investment, the accused showed profits in dummy online trading account and even transferred some money to gain their trust. But once the victim had transferred a significant amount, they would cut off contact and disappear. Two accused, who spoke to one of the victims as ‘Mina’ on online dating platform Tinder and ‘Mike’ on social networking network WeChat, also used various aliases such as Nancy, Lilly, Sully and Sean. Rajesh told police that he had met Sean in China during a business visit in 2017 and, on his request, provided local bank account for online trading. When police analysed the three bank accounts provided to Mike and Mina by Rajesh, they noticed that seven from Hyderabad, Pune, Mumbai and Chennai had deposited Rs 44 lakh into the accounts. When cops contacted the other depositors, they told police about forex trade and crypto currency investments through Mike, Mina, Lilly and Nancy. The investors, including the ex-armed forces officer, told cops about nine other bank accounts into which some of them transferred their investments. “Some other bank accounts are in Delhi and other places. So, we suspect that there could be other agents like Rajesh in the country and more victims. Some other investors are not yet convinced that they were duped and some do not want to lodge a complaint, ” a Cyberabad police officer said. As the money is being transferred to fraudsters in the form of BitCoins and the only communication with the victims was through text messages on Tinder, WeChat and WhatsApp (no voice calls or video calls have been made), police said that it would be difficult to trace the accused suspected to be in China. “We have filed a petition in court seeking custody of Rajesh to gather more details about the fraud,” Cyberabad assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Ch Y Srinivas Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crooks-from-china-use-tinder-to-lure-take-money-vanish/articleshow/77075520.cms||Mahesh Buddi
July 21, 2020||Patna||Break Covid-19 chain: Central team to Bihar govt||PATNA/GAYA: The three-member central team has instructed the state government to enforce more strictness in the containment zones and limit people’s movement over there in order to contain coronavirus spread. It has also asked the state officials to prepare a strategy for tracing and breaking the Covid-19 chain. The instructions came on a day when state reported 1,076 fresh Covid-19 cases and eight deaths, taking the toll to 187 and total number of infected people to 27,455 up till now. Total 17,525 Covid patients have recovered from the virus infection while there were 9,731 active cases in Bihar. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 938 people have recovered and 10,118 samples had been tested in the last 24 hours. The central team, led by Union ministry of health and family welfare’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal, inspected the GB Road containment zone and Covid treatment centre at the Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH) at Gaya on the second day of its two-day visit to Bihar. Later, they had a meeting with health minister Mangal Pandey, state chief secretary Deepak Kumar, principal secretary to chief minister Chanchal Kumar, state health department principal secretary Udai Singh Kumawat and department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, along with other officials. Sources said the team has asked Bihar government to continue with house-to-house screening at regular intervals and rope in more health workers for this work. Lav asked the state to strengthen its medical teams and motivate doctors for the treatment of Covid patients. He assured a training session of Bihar doctors with those at AIIMS-Delhi. He also asked the officials to address the concern raised by people on social media regarding Covid-19 in Bihar. While talking to the media after the meeting, Pandey said the team was happy with the efforts made by a state like Bihar with huge population in containing Covid-19. “They have given some suggestions as to how to improve treatment facility with the help of private and government medical colleges and hospitals. We have thanked the Centre for its support and our principal secretary has in writing apprised them of the requirement of oxygen cylinders and medicines,” said Pandey. According to ANMMCH superintendent Dr Harichand Hari, the team members expressed serious concern at the exponential growth of Covid cases during the last couple of weeks and warned against the situation getting out of control. The team asked the hospital authorities to work as a team and not to shirk ward duty and demanded for real time data update. The team also sought clarity behind the cause of deaths and not to mess up with the data. Meanwhile, as per the state health department, the maximum 196 Covid-19 cases were reported from Patna. Other districts which reported large number of cases included Bhagalpur (98), Samastipur (77), Bhojpur (76) and Rohtas (56). Two deaths were reported from East Champaran and one each from Begusarai, Bhojpur, Purnea, Sheikhpura and Siwan. Among the deceased, one was from AG Colony and another from Dariyapur in Patna. They died at NMCH in Monday. NMCH nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the AG Colony resident, 58, had hypertension, diabetes and tuberculosis. “Dariyapur resident, 57, died due to cardiac arrest. Two other deceased were from Rohtas and Saran,” said Dr Mukul. Five Covid-19 positive people also died at AIIMS-Patna, including four from Patna, its Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. One was a 72-year-old Bhattacharya Road resident while another was a 78-year-old resident of RPS Mor. The third was a 66-year-old resident of ward number 64 in Patna City and the fourth was a woman (65) from Bakhtiyarpur. One deceased, 40, was from Kaimur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/break-covid-19-chain-central-team-to-state/articleshow/77074109.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Virtual lessons still a far cry for special children||JAIPUR: Out of seven government schools for the disabled in the state, only two have started virtual lessons for students while others are yet to chalk out a plan. The Government Deaf Higher Secondary School at Banswara has 96 students but only one special teacher. “Non-availability of special teachers has been an issue in classroom teaching as students do not understand anything. Now everyone is uploading content for general students but for disabled students we are unable to upload videos without trained teachers,” said a teacher. Of the seven schools for disabled students, four are for deaf and dumb students and three for visually impaired. In Ajmer’s Blind School, authorities claimed they are forwarding audio-visual content provided by the government to students. However, no special plan for the students chapter-wise has been finalised. Rajasthan Special Education Organization president Dipendra Singh Chauhan said neglect of disabled students will further lower enrollments. “There is a scarcity of special education teachers in Rajasthan and this pandemic has been disastrous for them. No curriculum has been designed for such students yet. I had spoken with government teachers in different districts and they said that under the ‘SMILE’ programme, no orders have been received for special students. Such a poor state of special students in Rajasthan,” said Chauhan. A senior government official claimed that they were in the process of finalising a plan to upload virtual lessons for special students which will take time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virtual-lessons-still-a-far-cry-for-special-children/articleshow/77074788.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Virtual lessons still a far cry for special children||JAIPUR: Out of seven government schools for the disabled in the state, only two have started virtual lessons for students while others are yet to chalk out a plan. The Government Deaf Higher Secondary School at Banswara has 96 students but only one special teacher. “Non-availability of special teachers has been an issue in classroom teaching as students do not understand anything. Now everyone is uploading content for general students but for disabled students we are unable to upload videos without trained teachers,” said a teacher. Of the seven schools for disabled students, four are for deaf and dumb students and three for visually impaired. In Ajmer’s Blind School, authorities claimed they are forwarding audio-visual content provided by the government to students. However, no special plan for the students chapter-wise has been finalised. Rajasthan Special Education Organization president Dipendra Singh Chauhan said neglect of disabled students will further lower enrollments. “There is a scarcity of special education teachers in Rajasthan and this pandemic has been disastrous for them. No curriculum has been designed for such students yet. I had spoken with government teachers in different districts and they said that under the ‘SMILE’ programme, no orders have been received for special students. Such a poor state of special students in Rajasthan,” said Chauhan. A senior government official claimed that they were in the process of finalising a plan to upload virtual lessons for special students which will take time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/virtual-lessons-still-a-far-cry-for-special-children/articleshow/77079293.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||GUJCET rescheduled for August 24||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Common Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET) has been rescheduled to August 24. The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) said in a media statement on Monday. Earlier, the exam was scheduled to be held on August 22. The decision to postpone the exam by two days has been taken on account of Samvantsari and Ganesh Chaturthi festival which falls on August 22. Earlier the exams were to be held in July end but they were delayed to August due to Covid-19 crisis. More than 1.25 lakh students from across the state are expected to appear in the GUJCET exam. GSHSEB, which conducts GUJCET, has seen 12,5781 class XII (science) students registering for the exam. This consists of 49,888 students from Group A, 75,519 from Group B and 374 from Group AB. The state level exam is held annually for science students seeking admissions in degree engineering and pharmacy courses in government, grant-in-aid and self-financed engineering institutions in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujcet-rescheduled-for-august-24/articleshow/77074775.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Virtual lessons still a far cry for special children||JAIPUR: Out of seven government schools for the disabled in the state, only two have started virtual lessons for students while others are yet to chalk out a plan. The Government Deaf Higher Secondary School at Banswara has 96 students but only one special teacher. “Non-availability of special teachers has been an issue in classroom teaching as students do not understand anything. Now everyone is uploading content for general students but for disabled students we are unable to upload videos without trained teachers,” said a teacher. Of the seven schools for disabled students, four are for deaf and dumb students and three for visually impaired. In Ajmer’s Blind School, authorities claimed they are forwarding audio-visual content provided by the government to students. However, no special plan for the students chapter-wise has been finalised. Rajasthan Special Education Organization president Dipendra Singh Chauhan said neglect of disabled students will further lower enrollments. “There is a scarcity of special education teachers in Rajasthan and this pandemic has been disastrous for them. No curriculum has been designed for such students yet. I had spoken with government teachers in different districts and they said that under the ‘SMILE’ programme, no orders have been received for special students. Such a poor state of special students in Rajasthan,” said Chauhan. A senior government official claimed that they were in the process of finalising a plan to upload virtual lessons for special students which will take time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/virtual-lessons-still-a-far-cry-for-special-children/articleshow/77079295.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: PIL seeks equal treatment for convicts too||AHMEDABAD: A PIL in the Gujarat high court on Monday asked for equal treatment of all jail inmates, whether they are undertrial prisoners or convicts, so far as extension of temporary bail during Covid-19 pandemic is concerned. The PIL has stated that the high-power committee (HPC) as well as two order by the high court passed on May 22 and June 29 extended temporary bail for all undertrial prisoners till August 31. The PIL cited an order passed by the Supreme Court for temporary release of convicts with some suggested framework that the HPC may waive off the requirement of filing application by a convict, its verification by jail authorities with regard to the convict’s behaviour in prison etc. and consider their release in this troubled time, particularly when the virus transmission has been reported inside jail premises also. The PIL seeks equal treatment for all categories of prisoners – undertrial, convict and detainees and urged the HC to grant similar benefit to convicts and detainees, the way undertrial prisoners have been benefited. Those who failed to surrender to jail after the temporary release should be pardoned and the jail authorities should not make adverse remarks against them in their jail records, submitted petitioner’s advocate K R Koshti. The PIL was heard on Monday and the HC has reserved its order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-equal-treatment-for-convicts-too/articleshow/77074778.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||Keep updated records of dilapidated building, locations vulnerable to natural calamities: CM to state officials||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday expressed grief over the Pithoragarh accident in which three people died and some others went missing. He directed the authorities to carry out the rescue and relief operations on a large scale. On the instructions of CM Rawat, one more team of SDRF has been rushed to the spot for the rescue operation. The CM also asked the district magistrates to keep an updated record of dilapidated structures and areas that are vulnerable to landslides and natural calamities during monsoon. He added that the list should be regularly updated so that the authorities are prepared in case of any natural calamity. CM Rawat has ordered secretary of disaster management and IG SDRF to keep in touch with the district magistrates to get the issues solved at the earliest. The CM has instructed DM Pithoragarh to ensure that there is no laxity in relief and rescue operations. He also maintained that the compensation amount should be provided to the families at the earliest. “When it comes to natural calamity, we need to remain alert at all times. DMs have been told to remain prepared and I have assured them that there will be no shortage of funds or resources in such cases. From our end, we need to remain alert and keep our preparations ready,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/keep-updated-records-of-dilapidated-building-locations-vulnerable-to-natural-calamities-cm-to-state-officials/articleshow/77073034.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 21, 2020||Chennai||Hospitals in Chennai have more Covid-19 patients from nearby districts||CHENNAI: The city has been reporting a steady decline in daily cases of Covid-19 in the past 20 days, but its neighbouring districts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur are seeing an uptick in cases. City hospitals including the four government medical colleges treating critically-ill patients say more patients from the neighbouring districts are now occupying their beds. “While Chennai may have seen a substantial decline in the number of cases, hospital beds in city are still full. This is because these districts have limited critical care beds and most people say they can access Chennai hospitals faster than those in their own districts,” said a joint director of public health. “For instance, a patient in Mogappair may find it easy to reach Chennai than travel to Tiruvallur GH,” he added. On Monday, the government dashboard showed that some of the 81 private hospitals in Chennai had 100% bed occupancy. In Chengalpet, 70 of the 175 beds in five hospitals were vacant. More than 75 patients were admitted to Dr Rela’s Institute of Medical Sciences in Chromepet. In Kancheepuram, of the 718 beds in six hospitals, 605 were vacant. In Tiruvallur, of the 356 beds in eight hospitals, 290 were vacant. Chennai, which recorded 2,182 cases on July 1, reported 1,298 cases on Monday. The adjoining districts, which together had 459 cases on July 1, had 1,137 cases on July 20. While cases in Chengalpet and Kancheepuram nearly doubled, Tiruvallur recorded a 55% increase. The case fatality rates in these districts were also marginally higher. While Chennai had a death rate of 1.6%, Chengalpet had 2% and Tiruvallur 1.8. In Kancheepuram, fatality rate was nearly equal to Chennai. Among the three districts, Tiruvallur had the highest number of active cases at 3,457 and the lowest doubling period – time taken to double the total number of positive cases – of 16 days compared to 46 days in Chennai. There are 2,187 people still under treatment in Kancheepuram, which has a doubling period of 19 days. Chengalpet, with 2,549 active cases, had a doubling period of 26 days. “Lower doubling time indicates the infection is on the rise. Districts should ensure they hold fever camps and test people with symptoms. People should be fined for violation of social distancing norms or not wearing masks,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “Chennai may have flattened the curve, but it will continue to be at risk unless neighbouring districts act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hospitals-in-chennai-have-more-patients-from-nearby-districts/articleshow/77074789.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Virtual lessons still a far cry for special children||JAIPUR: Out of seven government schools for the disabled in the state, only two have started virtual lessons for students while others are yet to chalk out a plan. The Government Deaf Higher Secondary School at Banswara has 96 students but only one special teacher. “Non-availability of special teachers has been an issue in classroom teaching as students do not understand anything. Now everyone is uploading content for general students but for disabled students we are unable to upload videos without trained teachers,” said a teacher. Of the seven schools for disabled students, four are for deaf and dumb students and three for visually impaired. In Ajmer’s Blind School, authorities claimed they are forwarding audio-visual content provided by the government to students. However, no special plan for the students chapter-wise has been finalised. Rajasthan Special Education Organization president Dipendra Singh Chauhan said neglect of disabled students will further lower enrollments. “There is a scarcity of special education teachers in Rajasthan and this pandemic has been disastrous for them. No curriculum has been designed for such students yet. I had spoken with government teachers in different districts and they said that under the ‘SMILE’ programme, no orders have been received for special students. Such a poor state of special students in Rajasthan,” said Chauhan. A senior government official claimed that they were in the process of finalising a plan to upload virtual lessons for special students which will take time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/virtual-lessons-still-a-far-cry-for-special-children/articleshow/77079294.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 21, 2020||Udaipur||Infection spreading among army and BSF jawans returning from leave||JAISALMER: Armed forces are concerned as Covid-19 infection is increasing among those personnel of the Indian Army and Border Security Force (BSF) who are returning from leave and joining duty. Armed forces and BSF are taking all preventive measures, such as keeping the jawans in quarantine, but cases are increasing.  Five jawans in an army battalion at Ramdevra in Jaisalmer district were tested corona positive. They had recently returned from leave. On the other hand, the district administration too has taken many strict steps. The Jaisalmer Municipal Council team on Monday took action against those found without masks in the public and not following social distancing. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi on Monday directed the officers to ask people adhere to the guidelines. Jaisalmer council’s commissioner Fateh Singh Meena said that his team inspected the main markets of Jaisalmer on Monday and took action against those not following guidelines. The team collected a penalty of Rs 8,100. He said that the team will continue the drive. He appealed to the people to strictly follow all the prescribed measures. Collector Modi directed the health department to pay special attention to contact history of people who had tested positive, identify super spreaders, conduct door-to-door survey and medical screening in Jaisalmer and Pokhran.Modi also directed municipal commissioner to control crowds in parks, markets and public places along with spraying sodium hypochlorite at offices, stadiums, parks and public places. He said that UIT secretary Anurag Bhargav has been given the responsibility to review and monitor necessary activities and guidance related to the disease. On the other hand, corona cases in Barmer are continuously increasing. On Sunday, for the first time 71 cases were reported after which the district collector ordered to take strict action against people not wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Cases are increasing in Balotara and Barmer cities. Out of total 928 cases, 615 cases are from Barmer and Balotara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/infection-spreading-among-army-bsf-jawans-returning-from-leave/articleshow/77079466.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Infection spreading among army and BSF jawans returning from leave||JAISALMER: Armed forces are concerned as Covid-19 infection is increasing among those personnel of the Indian Army and Border Security Force (BSF) who are returning from leave and joining duty. Armed forces and BSF are taking all preventive measures, such as keeping the jawans in quarantine, but cases are increasing.  Five jawans in an army battalion at Ramdevra in Jaisalmer district were tested corona positive. They had recently returned from leave. On the other hand, the district administration too has taken many strict steps. The Jaisalmer Municipal Council team on Monday took action against those found without masks in the public and not following social distancing. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi on Monday directed the officers to ask people adhere to the guidelines. Jaisalmer council’s commissioner Fateh Singh Meena said that his team inspected the main markets of Jaisalmer on Monday and took action against those not following guidelines. The team collected a penalty of Rs 8,100. He said that the team will continue the drive. He appealed to the people to strictly follow all the prescribed measures. Collector Modi directed the health department to pay special attention to contact history of people who had tested positive, identify super spreaders, conduct door-to-door survey and medical screening in Jaisalmer and Pokhran.Modi also directed municipal commissioner to control crowds in parks, markets and public places along with spraying sodium hypochlorite at offices, stadiums, parks and public places. He said that UIT secretary Anurag Bhargav has been given the responsibility to review and monitor necessary activities and guidance related to the disease. On the other hand, corona cases in Barmer are continuously increasing. On Sunday, for the first time 71 cases were reported after which the district collector ordered to take strict action against people not wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Cases are increasing in Balotara and Barmer cities. Out of total 928 cases, 615 cases are from Barmer and Balotara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/infection-spreading-among-army-bsf-jawans-returning-from-leave/articleshow/77074811.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Dehradun||Don’t allow liquor & meat shops to open during lockdown: Locals||Dehradun: With Covid-19-positive cases increasing rapidly in the state, especially in Dehradun, several residents have demanded stricter regulations during the next weekend lockdowns in the city. The locals have urged the officials to remove liquor and meat shops from the list of essential services and not let them open during lockdown. Instead, they demand that efforts should be made to ensure that daily need shops and chemist stores should be allowed to function smoothly. JP Bahuguna, a resident of Satya Vihar and president of locality’s Resident Welfare Association, told TOI, “The restrictions during the weekend lockdown are just not enough to curb the spread of Covid-19. While only a few stores selling daily necessity goods could open during the lockdown on Saturday and Sunday, the liquor shop and meat shops were functional till late evening. These shops must be removed from the list of necessary goods.” Another resident Mahesh Bhandari, who also represents 70 RWAs of the city under Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, said, “The rapid spread of coronavirus has made the situation alarming. The RWAs have jointly decided to hand over some suggestions to the administration for the effective implementation of the lockdown. There should be complete lockdown during weekends. The timings for office and markets to function should also be reduced. Unless these steps are taken, the crowd would not reduce on the roads.” Sadhna Sharma, a resident of Keval Vihar, said, “The current number of Covid-19 positive patients is reminding us that another round of strict lockdown is required. If not complete, then a strict curb on the movement of the people for another 15 days is required to control the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-allow-liquor-meat-shops-to-open-during-lockdown-locals/articleshow/77073062.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Goa||Digambar Kamat meets Goa governor, suggests steps to tackle Covid-19 outbreak||PANAJI: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat met governor Satya Pal Malik on Monday and submitted recommendations and suggestions on effective handling and management of the Covid-19 pandemic in Goa. “Contradictory statements by the government is creating panic and anxiety about the spread of the Coronavirus,” Kamat said, even as he questioned if the Pramod Sawant-led government has an action plan to manage the pandemic. Goa has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases with active cases standing at 1,417 patients. Kamat expressed concern over the lack of beds at Covid-19 care centres and the delay in testing results. Pointing out that patients admitted at covid care centres often test negative in the confirmatory tests, Kamat said, “There are chances of them getting infected during their stay at the Covid care centre. The government should not send any patients to the Covid care centres till their test results are available.” Among the suggestions made by Kamat are completion and making operational the South Goa district hospital using funds from the PM Cares fund. The use of the hospital will reduce the pressure on the government to accommodate Covid patients, Kamat said. The opposition leader also said that instead of asking all private hospitals to keep aside 20% of their ICU beds for Covid cases, the state should designate one Covid hospital for each district along with one Covid care centre in each taluka. Kamat also urged Malik to convince the government about the need for community testing across Goa to help identify asymptomatic patients. “The government must immediately withdraw its order asking private hospitals to reserve 20% ICU beds in their ICU’s for Covid patients. Most of the private hospitals are comparatively small with hardly three to four beds in the ICU’s,” he said. Kamat also raised concern over teachers being called to schools. He urged the government to make optimum use of the intranet facility for online classes. He has also asked the governor to ensure that the government releases its action plan and white paper on Covid-19 and on the state’s financial health. Speaking about several projects being taken up in environmentally sensitive zones such as the doubling of railway track, widening of roads in wildlife sanctuaries and laying of power transmission lines through Mollem national park and Mahavir wildlife sanctuary, Kamat said that the state must re-evaluate the proposed projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-meets-guv-suggests-steps-to-tackle-outbreak/articleshow/77075294.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Infection spreading among army and BSF jawans returning from leave||JAISALMER: Armed forces are concerned as Covid-19 infection is increasing among those personnel of the Indian Army and Border Security Force (BSF) who are returning from leave and joining duty. Armed forces and BSF are taking all preventive measures, such as keeping the jawans in quarantine, but cases are increasing.  Five jawans in an army battalion at Ramdevra in Jaisalmer district were tested corona positive. They had recently returned from leave. On the other hand, the district administration too has taken many strict steps. The Jaisalmer Municipal Council team on Monday took action against those found without masks in the public and not following social distancing. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi on Monday directed the officers to ask people adhere to the guidelines. Jaisalmer council’s commissioner Fateh Singh Meena said that his team inspected the main markets of Jaisalmer on Monday and took action against those not following guidelines. The team collected a penalty of Rs 8,100. He said that the team will continue the drive. He appealed to the people to strictly follow all the prescribed measures. Collector Modi directed the health department to pay special attention to contact history of people who had tested positive, identify super spreaders, conduct door-to-door survey and medical screening in Jaisalmer and Pokhran.Modi also directed municipal commissioner to control crowds in parks, markets and public places along with spraying sodium hypochlorite at offices, stadiums, parks and public places. He said that UIT secretary Anurag Bhargav has been given the responsibility to review and monitor necessary activities and guidance related to the disease. On the other hand, corona cases in Barmer are continuously increasing. On Sunday, for the first time 71 cases were reported after which the district collector ordered to take strict action against people not wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Cases are increasing in Balotara and Barmer cities. Out of total 928 cases, 615 cases are from Barmer and Balotara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/infection-spreading-among-army-bsf-jawans-returning-from-leave/articleshow/77079465.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ajmer||Infection spreading among army and BSF jawans returning from leave||JAISALMER: Armed forces are concerned as Covid-19 infection is increasing among those personnel of the Indian Army and Border Security Force (BSF) who are returning from leave and joining duty. Armed forces and BSF are taking all preventive measures, such as keeping the jawans in quarantine, but cases are increasing.  Five jawans in an army battalion at Ramdevra in Jaisalmer district were tested corona positive. They had recently returned from leave. On the other hand, the district administration too has taken many strict steps. The Jaisalmer Municipal Council team on Monday took action against those found without masks in the public and not following social distancing. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi on Monday directed the officers to ask people adhere to the guidelines. Jaisalmer council’s commissioner Fateh Singh Meena said that his team inspected the main markets of Jaisalmer on Monday and took action against those not following guidelines. The team collected a penalty of Rs 8,100. He said that the team will continue the drive. He appealed to the people to strictly follow all the prescribed measures. Collector Modi directed the health department to pay special attention to contact history of people who had tested positive, identify super spreaders, conduct door-to-door survey and medical screening in Jaisalmer and Pokhran.Modi also directed municipal commissioner to control crowds in parks, markets and public places along with spraying sodium hypochlorite at offices, stadiums, parks and public places. He said that UIT secretary Anurag Bhargav has been given the responsibility to review and monitor necessary activities and guidance related to the disease. On the other hand, corona cases in Barmer are continuously increasing. On Sunday, for the first time 71 cases were reported after which the district collector ordered to take strict action against people not wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Cases are increasing in Balotara and Barmer cities. Out of total 928 cases, 615 cases are from Barmer and Balotara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/infection-spreading-among-army-bsf-jawans-returning-from-leave/articleshow/77079468.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Dial 100 jammed with complaints of domestic violence after liquor shops’ reopening||HYDERABAD: After being harassed by her alcoholic husband for four consecutive days, Mancherial district resident Swathi (name changed) finally dialled 100 and reached out to the cops, when her husband threatened to kill her in a drunken state. She told the cops later that her husband had been doing well during the lockdown, when there was no access to alcohol. The torture started after wine shops re-opened. Police authorities and activists say Swathi’s case isn’t a one-off. “During the lockdown, the ‘dial 100’ calls related to domestic violence were about 100 per day from across the state. The calls rose to 500 to 600 a day when liquor shops re-opened in the state in May,” said Mamatha Raghuveer, founder of Tharuni NGO, who works closely with the Telangana police’s Women Safety Wing. Among those who bore the brunt of it was Kanika (name changed) from Kamareddy district who reached out to cops for help, when her husband started hurling abuses at her and their three kids. She alleged that her husband stole her gold ornaments to buy liquor and consumed alcohol for five consecutive days soon after the liquor shops re-opened. Speaking to TOI, Swati Lakra Additional DGP of Women Safety Wing said the three commissionerates in Hyderabad and Warangal district received the highest number of distress calls from domestic violence victims. “We urge victims to reach out to cops and dial 100, as the patrolling vehicles will be sent for their rescue. In some of the districts, we have a separate patrolling vehicle that will reach the spot to help such victims,” added Lakra. The police even roped in 20 psychologists to support the victims of domestic violence and provide free-of-cost video or phone counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dial-100-jammed-with-plaints-of-domestic-violence-after-liquor-shops-reopening/articleshow/77074807.cms||Aditi Mallick
July 21, 2020||Bareilly||Let Muslims offer prayer in mosques: Shafiqur Rehman Barq||BAREILLY: A fifth-term Lok Sabha MP from UP, Shafiqur Rehman Barq, 90, on Monday demanded that Muslims be allowed to offer community prayers in mosques on Eid al-Adha, which he claimed will eliminate Covid-19. Barq, who submitted a memorandum to Sambhal district magistrate Avinash Krishan, said that offering individual prayers at homes is not enough to fight Covid-19. “Only limited people are allowed to offer prayers in mosques. This won’t be sufficient. Authorities must allow all Muslims to offer namaz in order to get rid of Covid-19 pandemic and save the world.” The Samajwadi Party MP from Sambhal said, “On the occasion of Eid al-Adha (Bakra-Eid), special prayers are offered along with the regular ones. When Muslims pray together and seek for forgiveness from Allah, especially on this day, it never goes in vain. Thus, I request authorities to grant permission to offer community namaz on the day and let people pray together to make the world free from this pandemic. We will ensure that all precautionary measures are taken and Covid-19 protocols are adhered to.” The festival is likely to be celebrated on July 31 or August 1. A number of Samajwadi party leaders, including SP district president Firoze Khan, submitted the memorandum to the DM. They also urged the DM to grant permission for opening of animal markets ahead of the festival. DM Krishan, meanwhile, said the state governments’ guidelines prohibit assembly of more than five persons in mosques and all other religious places. “As of now, no direction has been issued from the UP government in this connection and action will be taken accordingly if we receive any orders for Eid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/let-muslims-offer-prayer-in-mosques-on-bakra-eid-to-get-rid-of-covid-19-says-sp-mp/articleshow/77071978.cms||Maria Khan
July 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister back to work after recovering from Covid||NEW DELHI: State health minister Satyendar Jain returned to work on Monday, one month after being infected with the novel coronavirus and recovering. Jain had been admitted to a government hospital and later shifted to a private hospital, where he was administered plasma therapy. The minister reached the state secretariat on Monday and held a meeting with officials to review the measures being taken to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in the capital. In his absence, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was handling the portfolios of health and home affairs, which were allocated to Jain. Jain, who was in the ICU for a few days, said he would soon donate plasma. He advised people infected with the virus to be calm and avoid panic. Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal offered his best wishes to the health minister. “Our health minister Satyendar Jain has recovered. He will join work from today. He was always on the field visiting hospitals and meeting health workers and patients. He contracted corona. After one month, he joins back today. Welcome back Satyendar and best wishes! (sic)” Kejriwal tweeted. Jain had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17, a day after he was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital with breathing difficulties and fever. His first Covid test had been negative, but was tested positive after undergoing another test the next day. The minister was later shifted to a private hospital as plasma therapy was not available at the government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/health-minister-back-to-work-after-recovering-from-covid/articleshow/77074803.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 18 held on riverfront for breaching Covid-19 norms||AHMEDABAD: A complex issue confronts authorities in this festival season even as Covid numbers are surging. Police on Monday morning had to detain 18 people on the Sabarmati riverfront, as Covid caution — both social distancing and masks — were thrown to the wind. Families from all over the city had gathered on the riverfront’s Naranghat to offer prayers on Monday, the start of the 10-day observances for Goddess Dashama’s blessings. The holy Shravan month begins from Tuesday. “Many people had fasted ahead of Shravan and had come to the riverfront to perform rituals for Goddess Dashama,” a senior police official said. “Others were performing the ‘pind daan’ of the cremated remains of their loved ones. Many had not worn masks and had violated the social-distancing norm.” Every Monday of the Shravan month is likely to bring crowds to the Shiva temples in the city. Yet a policy for festivals is yet to be properly communicated to people. “Rakshabandhan and Janmashtami will need the state intervention and a special plan to prevent the transmission of the infection,” said a senior AMC official. This year, however, police were able to convince people to avoid observing the ‘Chamunda Divaso’ at the Chamunda crematorium. That is the day when ancestors are remembered; this year, it fell on Monday. The event normally draws thousands of people from across the city. As for the riverfront events, the Riverfront East Police detained the 18 persons after they ignored a series of health warnings from police patrols. Police sources said that all the 18 have been detained under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for disobeying a public servant’s order. The Disaster Management Act has also been invoked. “The government notification clearly states that programmes involving more than 50 people are not allowed during the pandemic,” a police source said. Inspector Neeraj Patel of the Riverfront East police station told reporters that during the immersion of Dashama idols, people will have to follow the Covid guidelines and not gather on the riverfront. Risks at Gatherings The higher the number of people one meets and longer the duration of interactions, the greater the risk becomes of contracting the infection The higher the level of community transmission in an area where the gathering is being held, the higher the risk of Covid spreading during the gathering. The size of an event or gathering should be determined based on micro-containment strategies already in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/18-held-on-riverfront-for-breaching-covid-norms/articleshow/77074810.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Several schools shut after 14 teachers test positive for Covid-19||JAIPUR: Around 14 teachers working in Sojat city’s government schools were found Covid-19 positive on Monday. The schools have been closed for seven days after the reports were confirmed. In random testing done by the district authorities, government teachers were found positive. This has created panic among government teaching fraternity who are now demanding work from home. Manju Sharma (name changed), one of those who tested positive while talking to TOI explained that this happened as they were unnecessarily called to the school. “Schools are shut and we have completed our result-related work. We go to school without any reason and have no work as students are not coming. Government is calling us unnecessarily and look at the result. The government must stop calling teachers without any work,” said Sharma. In the test reports, seven teachers from Sojat city government school, two from Biladiya Gate government school and five from Naheda Bera government school were found positive. The teachers who tested negative will again be tested. A senior government official said that teachers will now be needed for admission process where they must reach out to the people. “All the government offices are open, and teachers are called to schools with adequate precautions. There is no harm in it as with the new admissions it will become necessary for teachers to reach out to people,” said the education officer. Commenting on the situation, spokesperson of Rajasthan Shikshak Evam Panchayati Raj Karamchari Sangh, Narayan Singh Sisodia said, “This is a grave issue which government must take seriously. Orders have been issued from the Ministry of Human Resource and Development to allow teachers to work from home, but the state government hasn’t implemented it yet. When there are no students, what are we supposed to do.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/several-schools-shut-after-14-teachers-test-ve-after-sampling/articleshow/77074796.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Draft police manual sent to CMO||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Police’s 45-year-old manual moved a step closer to a revamp on Monday when the draft of the new version was submitted to the chief minister’s office. The updated police manual contains more than 1,000 pages and spans three volumes. Top police officials said that after approval, it will be sent to the home department for implementation. “The revised police manual consists of several amendments and describes new norms of functioning of the police department,” a government source said. “It has been drafted by a committee of six IPS officers selected by DGP Shivanand Jha, who is to retire on July 31 if he does not get an extension.” Jha was to retire on April 30, but the appointments committee of the Union cabinet headed by the Prime Minister approved his extension for three months. “The Gujarat government has sent the names of four candidates for the selection of the new DGP to the Union home ministry,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/draft-police-manual-sent-to-cmo/articleshow/77074781.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Online marketplace for jackfruit soon||KOCHI: Despite being declared as state fruit last year, jackfruit had a difficult relationship with consumers because of the amount of labour needed for its processing. Kerala produces 30 crore to 60 crore jackfruits every year but much of this is wasted, according to an estimate shared by the agriculture minister on the floor of the House. To make jackfruit consumption less cumbersome, Jack Fruit Promotion Consortium (JFPC), a conglomerate of 42 jackfruit entrepreneurs, has approached the startups registered under the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) for innovative solutions, including an online marketplace. “Whenever we talk of jackfruit, an attached phrase is ‘ayye’. We want to change that to ‘aaha’,” said Shaji G R, marketing partner of JFPC and director of Chakkamukku, a branded mart form to market products of consortium members — people who make products on their frying pans to factories that have invested crores on processing equipment. “We want to create two verticals with separate buyer and seller components — Farmer to Trader and Farmer to Consumer — that would take away middlemen and bring better value to farmers,” Shaji said. JFPC wants to provide jackfruit in both Ready to Cook (RTC) and Ready To Eat (RTE) formats for consumers who are staying away from the product because they don’t have the time or energy to spend on it. Since jackfruits do not have a shelf life and need to be processed within 24 hours of harvest, JFPC is looking to create a skilled workforce who can pluck and process the fruit. “This has a potential to generate a large number of jobs. People who have returned from the Gulf and Kudumbasree workers can all be roped in,” said Shaji, who wants startups to help in creating a central database where people can register. JFPC is also looking at new technologies for preserving and making value-added products without chemicals and preservatives. The lockdown and its consequences made the humble spiky fruit endearing for people, Shaji said. “Transportation of jackfruits to outside the state did not happen but the lockdown was an advantage for agencies like them because their domestic consumption increased many fold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/online-marketplace-for-jackfruit-soon/articleshow/77073078.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||History-sheeter attacked, 2 held||Hyderabad: A rowdy-sheeter from Kalapathar in Old City was attacked by unknown persons when he was near by his residence on late Sunday night. According to police, Shanoor Ghazi (28) was standing near his house when a few persons attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon on his head. Two suspects were taken into custody by task force sleuths, with whom the victim had differences. A case was registered under section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC. “We have registered an attempt to murder case and investigation is underway,” said a police official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/history-sheeter-attacked-2-held/articleshow/77074819.cms||---
July 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu kings Renati Cholas ruled from Kadapa, not Karnataka, says ASI||HYDERABAD: In a landmark discovery, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) experts claim they have found the exact location of Renati Cholas’ capital and debunked decades-old theory that the capital was in Karnataka. They claim the capital of Renati Cholas, who had ruled Renadu region in Rayalaseema and were the first to use Telugu in administration and inscriptions instead of Sanskrit, may be in modern-day Kamalapuram region in Kadapa district in Andhra Pradesh. ASI’s epigraphy branch at Mysore recently deciphered two inscriptions of Renati Cholas belonging to the seventh century. The first inscription speaks of their capital Erikal in Kamalapuram region in Kadapa, while the other speaks about battle of Renati Cholas and Banas. The inscriptions on a rock were found in Lankamallla forest in Kadapa district in Andhra Pradesh. ASI, director, epigraphy, K Muniratnam Reddy and his team found inscriptions engraved on boulders near a Siva temple in Nityapujakona near Vanthatipalli in Lankamalla forest on the banks of Penna in Siddhavatam mandalam of Kadapa district. “It is written in Telugu (script of seventh century AD) and records the construction of a temple to god Ishtakamalesvara on Chiriyatapala hill by Narasinga, a commander of Erikal. Also, it mentions his epithets. It is interesting to note that the reference to Erikal is found for the first time in Kalamalla inscription (found in Kalamalla village of Kadapa district) of Erikal Mutturaja Dhananjaya of Renati Chola dynasty, which is the earliest Telugu inscription (sixth century AD) so far discovered,” Muniratnam Reddy told TOI. Earlier, some scholars had identified Erikal with Nidugal in Tumkur district in neighbouring Karnataka. The ASI team found remains of 13 temples within a radius of 10 km in Lankamalla forest area, hinting at the historical importance of the region. A land revenue record (dated 14th January, 1893, issued by the then acting secretary WS Meyer, showed that devotees had worshipped at these temples and arrangements were made to lay a path for them to approach the temples. It also gave a list of temples at 13 places. “Another inscription of Erikal Mutturaju was also found from Erragudipadu, Kamalapuram mandal, situated about 10 kilometres from Nityapujakona. It is clearly mentioned in kaifiyats ( a local document) of Erragudipadu in (Colonel Collin) Mackenzie manuscripts that there is a reference to construction of the brick temple at Erragudipadu by Erikal Mutturaja Dhanajaya. Based on these inscriptions, there is a possibility of identifying Erikal somewhere in Kamalapuram region. It is possible that the place Erikal or Erigal may have changed later after a few years as Eragal/Erigalva/Eragudi/Erragudipadu,” the ASI officer said. Another inscription engraved on another rock near the Siva temple states: “Villisvara of Muḍidhi, Taṇḍiyā, a lady officer of Julakuṇḍi, Padmanathajiya, a military officer of Vichlasa and officials fought with Baṇas. It is interesting to note that the inscription gives the earliest reference of the battle between Renaṭi Cholas and Baṇas in the dominion of Renaṭi Cholas (which comprised of a major portion of modern-day Kadapa and parts of Anantapur and Chittoor districts of Andhra Pradesh).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-kings-renati-cholas-ruled-from-kadapa-not-ktaka-says-asi/articleshow/77075521.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
