July 22, 2020||World||US accuses Chinese hackers in targeting of Covid-19 research||WASHINGTON: Hackers working with the Chinese government targeted firms developing vaccines for the coronavirus and stole hundreds of millions of dollars worth of intellectual property and trade secrets from companies across the world, the Justice Department said Tuesday as it announced criminal charges. The indictment does not accuse the two defendants of actually obtaining the coronavirus research, but it does underscore the extent to which scientific innovation has been a top target for foreign governments and criminal hackers looking to know what American companies are developing during the pandemic. In this case, the hackers researched vulnerabilities in the computer networks of biotech firms and diagnostic companies from Maryland to California that were developing vaccines, testing kits and antiviral drugs. The charges are the latest in a series of aggressive Trump administration actions targeting China. It comes as President Donald Trump, his reelection prospects damaged by the coronavirus outbreak, has blamed China for the pandemic. The indictment includes charges of trade secret theft and wire fraud conspiracy against the hackers, former classmates at an electrical engineering college who prosecutors say had worked together for more than a decade. The hackers, identified as Li Xiayou and Dong Jiazhi, stole information not only for their personal profit but also that they knew would be of interest and value to the Chinese government, federal prosecutors say. In some instances, according to the indictment, they provided an officer for a Chinese intelligence service with whom they worked email accounts and passwords belonging to clergymen, dissidents and pro-democracy activists who could then be targeted. The officer, in turn, provided the hackers with malicious software for use in compromising victim computers. The two defendants are not in custody, and federal officials conceded Tuesday that they were not likely to step foot in an American courtroom. But the indictment carries important symbolic and deterrence value for the Justice Department, which decided that publicly calling out the behavior was more worthwhile than waiting for the unlikely scenario in which the defendants would travel to the U.S. and risk arrest. The hacking began more than 10 years ago, with targets including pharmaceutical, solar and medical device companies but also political dissidents, activists and clergy in the United States, China and Hong Kong, federal authorities said. The charges were brought as Trump administration officials, including national security adviser Robert O'Brien and Attorney General William Barr, have delivered public warnings about what they say are Chinese government efforts to use hacking and other tools to steal trade secrets for Beijing's financial benefit. The charges are believed to be the first accusing foreign hackers of targeting scientific innovation related to the coronavirus, though U.S. and Western intelligence agencies have warned for months about those efforts. Last week, for instance, authorities in the U.S., Canada and the United Kingdom accused a hacking group with links to Russian intelligence of trying to target research on the disease, which has killed more than 140,000 people in the United States and more than 600,000 worldwide, according to figures compiled by Johns Hopkins University. ``China has now taken its place, alongside Russia, Iran and North Korea, in that shameful club of nations that provide a safe haven for cyber criminals in exchange for those criminals being `on call' to work for the benefit of the state, here to feed the Chinese Communist party's insatiable hunger for American and other non-Chinese companies' hard-earned intellectual property, including Covid-19 research,'' said Assistant Attorney John Demers, the Justice Department's top national security official. There was no immediate indication from the indictment that the hackers had successfully obtained any Covid-19 research, despite efforts to snoop on the companies. But prosecutors say the defendants in January conducted reconnaissance on the computer network of a Massachusetts biotech firm known to be researching a potential vaccine and searched for vulnerabilities on the network of a Maryland firm less than a week after it said it was conducting similar scientific work. ``There are literally hundreds of millions of dollars worth of trade secrets, intellectual property and other valuable information that has been stolen,`` said William Hyslop, the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Washington state. The case was filed earlier this month in federal court in Washington state and was unsealed on Tuesday. An email sent by The Associated Press to the Chinese Embassy in Washington, D.C., seeking comment on the hacking charges got no immediately response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-accuses-chinese-hackers-in-targeting-of-covid-19-research/articleshow/77095609.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||‘Ikhar Express’ Munaf swings match against virus for village||It was, perhaps, easier for him to scalp 11 batsmen in eight matches and help India win the World Cup after 28 years in 2011. And, dream of doing a Shoaib Akhtar by bowling at 160 kmph, having already clocked 144 kmph that earned him the sobriquet of ‘Ikhar Express.’ But when former India pacer Munaf Patel went back to his village Ikhar in Gujarat’s Bharuch district in April this year to find Covid striking, it was certainly not an easy task to convince villagers to practice social distancing. This tiny village with 8,000 people had not woken up to the enormity of the threat, till it struck Ikhar in the second week of April when five persons tested positive for Covid-19. Read more from this seriesIkhar was the only village in the whole taluka to report positive cases and was declared a containment zone. But it wasn’t easy to convince the villagers about the importance of maintaining social distancing and putting on masks. It was then that local lad Munaf stepped in. The 38-year-old former pacer took it upon himself to educate his village and ensure that the virus did not spread further. Not a single positive case was reported in Ikhar since those initial five cases. “When the lockdown was announced, Ikhar did not have much idea about the virus. It was when five persons, who had arrived from Tamil Nadu to Ikhar, tested positive in April, that there was a sudden scare,” said Munaf. Munaf being a role model in Ikhar, local health authorities roped him in. “It was an alien concept for villagers used to maintaining regular social contact. They felt they were being targeted. I had to explain to them the perils of the virus,” said Munaf. He also began educating people to make them wear face masks. “One of the challenging moments was when farmers in my village wanted to harvest their crop in April. They were not allowed to go out under the lockdown as there was risk of infection if they gathered in large groups,” said Munaf. “It was only after Munaf convinced the local police and health officials that farmers will maintain social distancing that they were allowed to harvest crops,” said Ikhar sarpanch Haroon Haindi. “During the lockdown, Munaf visited the panchayat office daily and spent hours discussing and planning ways to prevent the virus spread. Villagers followed his instructions and it proved to be a blessing for us,” he added. “Initially, many locals were reluctant to even get tested when they got fever or cough as they were scared of getting quarantined. But after Munaf’s interactions, they came forward for tests,” said Munir Patel who works for the health centre in Ikhar. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ikhar-express-munaf-swings-match-against-virus-for-village/articleshow/77090107.cms||Tushar Tere
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Rain water in cotton fields damages crop in Punjab's Malwa region||BATHINDA: Continuous rain over the last three days has started damaging the cotton crop in many areas of Punjab's Malwa region. Damage has been reported to paddy and basmati as well, especially where the crop was recently transplanted. However, it is much less as compared to cotton, which can't sustain in stagnating rainwater. With water stagnating in cotton fields for more than two days, crops have started wilting in some areas of Bathinda and Mansa. Fear of uprooting of basmati transplanted recently was also not ruled out due to continuous rain. Rains have also caused loss to vegetable growers. In Bathinda, 104mm rain has been recorded at Jodhpur observatory of the regional centre of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), in the last 24 hours till 8.30am on Tuesday. In last three days, 143mm rain has been recorded. "Though cotton plants have grown to nearly three feet in height, they still have not reached flowering stage. With water stagnating in fields, crops have started wilting. If rains continue for more time and water is not drained, it could cause loss to crop," said PAU regional station senior scientist Gurjinder Singh Romana.Farmer Kulwant Singh from Nandgarh village in Bathinda said there was a lot of stagnant water and cotton growers would suffer big losses if there would be more rain. "Rains have also caused losses to vegetable growers of Bhainibagha village in Mansa as pumpkin, ladyfinger and tori (ridged gourd) crops have been damaged," said farmer Gora Singh, who is into vegetable growing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rain-water-in-cotton-fields-damages-crop/articleshow/77096067.cms||Neel Kamal
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||NDA cadet boarded out due to injury, kin question policy||CHANDIGARH: Almost four years ago, when Rohit Kumar Choubey, a young topper in academics and student of a prestigious engineering college in Chandigarh, opted to join National Defence Academy (NDA), he had never imagined that an injury during the training would not only shatter his dreams of donning the olive green but also demolish his family's ambition of seeing him as a high ranking officer. Rohit was medically boarded out from NDA in November 2019, declared unfit for military service after he suffered a shoulder injury. What pains the Choubey family most is the step-motherly treatment and irrational policy of the Centre to rehabilitate such young boys after they are declared unfit to continue military service due to injuries during training.  Rohit's mother, Saroj Choubey has written a letter to the Prime Minister and the Union defence minister, seeking their intervention on the issue. Around 8-10 cadets are medically boarded out of NDA every year due to injuries suffered during training. However, boarding out of academy means not only the end of a bright career but no status of ex-servicemen — a dream for which these "academically strong" young boys at the age of 17 leave behind a comfortable lifestyle. "At a very young age, they qualify one of the toughest competitive examinations conducted by UPSC and personality tests by the armed forces to induct them on class-1 post. However, if they meet with an unfortunate incident during training, they are left to fend for themselves at such a crucial period of their life by giving ex gratia — money paid when there was no obligation or liability to pay it," says Saroj. Her main grouse is that when her son had to leave the academy because of injuries, he was not only deprived of the status of ex-serviceman, decent pension or re-settlement but only offered ex gratia and preference in giving group-C or D jobs of the Centre. "Were the people who framed this policy in the right mind? I doubt it. A young boy, who topped his classes, cleared a UPSC exam, the multi-dimensional SSB interview and was found fit to lead our gallant armed forces being offered a class C and D job! Where is the logic in that? Sir please try and comprehend the feelings of a mother when her son is offered a grade D job just because he gave his best in training and unfortunately got injured," she has written in a hard-hitting letter sent to the PMO and defence minister. "When I gave my son, he was perfect. He will always be perfect to me, but the world sees him as a cripple. I have never asked our good country anything in return but I am obliged to ask at least these questions for the voices unheard. Maybe these boys are too proud to beg for something, but you know a mother can do anything for her son," the letter adds further. A topper in academics, Rohit had joined NDA in June 2016. He was injured during final year of training in April 2019, was hospitalised and finally boarded out of NDA with 40% disability and unfit for military service. The family had to struggle a lot to get permission to complete his BSc (computer science) degree from JNU along with other NDA cadets. While other cadets were sent to military academies to complete their pre-commissioning training, Rohit was sent home with an ex gratia and disability amount. He is at present preparing for some competitive examination. According to Rohit's father Sanjay Kumar Choubey, the cadets like his son should have been adjusted in other class-I posts of non-combat nature. "They are the best talent and well-trained human resources and should not be wasted by paying lump sum ex gratia amount or disability amount," he said. The family is planning to pursue the matter to change the arbitrary policy against arbitrariness with NDA boarded out cadets. As per the official figures, around 2.3% of the total around 6,000 cadets who passed out from NDA in 10 years till 2019, had to leave the academy due to academic, outdoor training, discipline standards or injuries/medical conditions. A majority of the cadets boarded out of the academy is due to medical reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nda-cadet-boarded-out-due-to-injury-kin-question-policy/articleshow/77096069.cms||Ajay Sura
July 22, 2020||India||Covid-19: No community spread yet, clarifies Centre||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Tuesday reiterated that there are “clusters of cases and pockets of localised transmission” of Covid-19, amid reports of officials in some states saying that community transmission has taken place. “WHO does not define community transmission. It gives its member-states room to define the stage of transmission,” Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty (OSD) in the health ministry, said. He said community transmission is usually “defined as a stage when it is impossible to trace the chain of transmission, impossible to tell who gave the infection to whom”. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news He pointed to results of Delhi’s sero-survey to make his point and said, “When just 20% of the population is affected, one cannot say there is community transmission.” He said there is a technical argument involved and what matters is how effectively containment strategies are implemented. “However, there are some clusters of Covid-19 cases and pockets of localised transmission. But we still stand by what we earlier said about community transmission,” he added. The statement comes days after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said community transmission is happening in two places in Thiruvananthapuram and a senior West Bengal official also said the same with regard to a locality. Watch Covid-19: No community spread yet, says health ministry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-no-community-spread-yet-clarifies-centre/articleshow/77096048.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Business||Bombardier, GMR among 16 to show interest in private trains||NEW DELHI: A total of 16 private players including Bombardier, GMR, Bharat Forge, BHEL, IRCTC, Medha, CAF and Gateway Rail participated in the first pre-bid meeting on private train operation even as heavyweights such as Tata Group and Adani Groups didn’t take part in the deliberations held on Tuesday. However, non-participation in the pre-bid meeting doesn’t bar any entity to participate in the bidding process. Pre-bid meetings in infrastructure projects are aimed at discussing issues and addressing concerns of potential bidders. The second pre-bid meeting will be held on August 8. Sources said some of the participants raised the issue of railways offering pre-determined routes and scheduled departure times as well. They added the private players suggested these should be made flexible for the successful bidders considering that they will take the risk of ridership and will have to share the revenue with the national transporter. Read AlsoPrivate trains to share gross revenue with railways, including earnings from preferred seats, baggage, adsRailways had recently invited private entities to operate passenger trains on its network. As per a Railways document, bidders based on their financial capacity will be required to offer share in the gross revenue at the request for proposal stage for undertaking the project. Passengers of privateTOI has learnt that the participants also sought answers to why railways was asking them to introduce trains that can run at 160 kmph when rail tracks are not equipped for this. The bid document floated by the railways specifies the scheduled departure time from each originating station of the 109 routes which will be offered to private players. The total travel time has also been mentioned in the document. Recently, railway board chairman, V K Yadav had told TOI that allowing private players to run trains is part of a comprehensive plan. It includes upgrading 11,295 km comprising seven high density corridors to allow passenger trains to run at 160 kmph by March 2025. These stretches are Delhi-Howrah, Howrah-Mumbai, Mumbai-Delhi, Delhi-Guwahati, Delhi-Chennai, Chennai-Howrah and Chennai-Mumbai. The Indian Railways plans to roll out these trains in phases starting April 2023. Moreover, there is a plan to overhaul the timings which will specify the dedicated hours for running only express trains and separate hours would be kept for freight and slow moving trains on each corridor. There will also be dedicated window, say for 3-4 hours, to carry out maintenance works. Watch 16 firms show interest in running private trains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bombardier-gmr-among-16-to-show-interest-in-private-trains/articleshow/77096151.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 22, 2020||India||Bombardier, GMR among 16 to show interest in private trains||NEW DELHI: A total of 16 private players including Bombardier, GMR, Bharat Forge, BHEL, IRCTC, Medha, CAF and Gateway Rail participated in the first pre-bid meeting on private train operation even as heavyweights such as Tata Group and Adani Groups didn’t take part in the deliberations held on Tuesday. However, non-participation in the pre-bid meeting doesn’t bar any entity to participate in the bidding process. Pre-bid meetings in infrastructure projects are aimed at discussing issues and addressing concerns of potential bidders. The second pre-bid meeting will be held on August 8. Sources said some of the participants raised the issue of railways offering pre-determined routes and scheduled departure times as well. They added the private players suggested these should be made flexible for the successful bidders considering that they will take the risk of ridership and will have to share the revenue with the national transporter. Read AlsoPrivate trains to share gross revenue with railways, including earnings from preferred seats, baggage, adsRailways had recently invited private entities to operate passenger trains on its network. As per a Railways document, bidders based on their financial capacity will be required to offer share in the gross revenue at the request for proposal stage for undertaking the project. Passengers of privateTOI has learnt that the participants also sought answers to why railways was asking them to introduce trains that can run at 160 kmph when rail tracks are not equipped for this. The bid document floated by the railways specifies the scheduled departure time from each originating station of the 109 routes which will be offered to private players. The total travel time has also been mentioned in the document. Recently, railway board chairman, V K Yadav had told TOI that allowing private players to run trains is part of a comprehensive plan. It includes upgrading 11,295 km comprising seven high density corridors to allow passenger trains to run at 160 kmph by March 2025. These stretches are Delhi-Howrah, Howrah-Mumbai, Mumbai-Delhi, Delhi-Guwahati, Delhi-Chennai, Chennai-Howrah and Chennai-Mumbai. The Indian Railways plans to roll out these trains in phases starting April 2023. Moreover, there is a plan to overhaul the timings which will specify the dedicated hours for running only express trains and separate hours would be kept for freight and slow moving trains on each corridor. There will also be dedicated window, say for 3-4 hours, to carry out maintenance works. Watch 16 firms show interest in running private trains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bombardier-gmr-among-16-to-show-interest-in-private-trains/articleshow/77096127.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 22, 2020||India||Amid Covid, monsoon fury in 8 states leaves 470 dead||NEW DELHI: In the middle of coronavirus pandemic, the monsoon has unleashed its fury in eight states causing more than 470 deaths due to floods and landslides, with the highest toll being recorded in West Bengal, Assam and Gujarat. This is the second disaster striking India since March this year resulting in deployment of at least 70 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for rescue and relief. In the current monsoon season, West Bengal has reported the highest flood related deaths at 142, excluding five missing, followed by Assam (111) and Gujarat (81). The other worst affected states include Maharashtra with 46 deaths and Madhya Pradesh 44, according to an assessment by the Union home ministry. Kerala, which had seen maximum flood related casualties last year along with Maharashtra, has reported 23 deaths with 13 of its districts inundated. At least 800 relief camps have been opened in these states for providing shelter to the evacuated populations. In view of the outbreak of Covid pandemic, it is becoming increasingly challenging to maintain social distancing at relief camps. In Assam alone more than 1.45 lakh inmates have found shelter in over 564 relief camps opened by the state government. West Bengal is currently running 118 flood relief camps, 78 are being run by UP which has so far reported two deaths. Bihar has not reported any flood-related deaths but it has evacuated at least 12,000 people and set up 13 relief camps. Last year’s monsoon too had left behind a trail of destruction with 1,685 deaths and hundreds missing reported by 14 states till September 30. There has been, however, no official statistics made available on the extent of economic damages caused by the recurring floods. The 2019 monsoon was unusual with India recording the highest rainfall in 25 years. Over 22 lakh people were evacuated and 8,700 relief camps set up to provide temporary shelter to the displaced population. The UN office for disaster risk reduction (UNDRR) estimates that more than 26 million people globally are pushed into poverty every year as a result of climate change events. The Centre and states must prioritise disaster risk reduction as disasters are making India’s development highly risky and skewed with rising inequality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-covid-monsoon-fury-in-8-states-leaves-470-dead/articleshow/77096239.cms||Pradeep Thakur
July 22, 2020||India||Valved N-95 masks don’t cut Covid spread: Centre||NEW DELHI: The director general of health services in a letter to states has made it clear that the use of “valved respirator N-95 mask” is detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of coronavirus, as it does not prevent the virus from escaping out of the mask. Health ministry’s officer on special duty Rajesh Bhushan reiterated on Tuesday that “if an asymptomatic person is wearing a valved N-95 mask, then the propensity of that person infecting others exists”. “This is an evolving situation and if we’re introduced to new facts that may require us to change the current advisory, then we’ll do so,” he added. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news On Monday, DGHS Dr Rajiv Garg said in a letter to the national health mission and to all principal secretaries (health) in states that “it has been observed that there is an inappropriate use of the N-95 mask (particularly with valved respirator) by the public other than designated health workers”. He asked the state authorities to instruct all concerned to follow guidelines on use of face and mouth coverings and prevent inappropriate use of N-95 masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/valved-n-95-masks-dont-cut-covid-spread-centre/articleshow/77096369.cms||---
July 22, 2020||World||India-US naval drill shows ability to project power with allies, says US defence secretary||NEW DELHI: US defence secretary Mark Esper said America was “closely monitoring” the India-China stand-off and the disengagement process on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). In his virtual address to the International Institute of Strategic Studies, a global think-tank, Esper also said the USS Nimitz-Indian Navy exercises “shows US ability to project power in the Indian Ocean, and to sustain it with our allies and partners”. The Indian Navy’s maritime drill with the US carrier strike group has been interpreted as signalling America’s intention of standing by India in its bid to resist China’s aggression on the LAC. Describing the India relationship as “one of the all-important defence relationships of the 21st century”, Esper said India and the US would hold their ‘2+2’ dialogue between foreign and defence ministers later this year. Indian government sources said there was a plan for Esper to visit India around October. This year, it’s the turn of US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and Esper to make the trip to India, but between Covid-19 and the US polls, dates have not been fixed yet, sources here said. Days after the US aligned its position on sovereignty in the South China Sea with the 2016 arbitral award by UNCLOS, Esper outlined the US’s Indo-Pacific strategy and said, “Three pillars of the US Indo-Pacific strategy are based on preparedness, strengthening partnerships and promoting a more networked region.” He added that the US was “encouraging Indo-Pacific nations to expand their own intra-regional security ties and networks of like-minded partners”, highlighting the India-Australia logistics sharing pact signed in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/india-us-naval-drill-shows-ability-to-project-power-with-allies-says-us-defence-secretary/articleshow/77096428.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 22, 2020||India||India-US naval drill shows ability to project power with allies, says US defence secretary||NEW DELHI: US defence secretary Mark Esper said America was “closely monitoring” the India-China stand-off and the disengagement process on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). In his virtual address to the International Institute of Strategic Studies, a global think-tank, Esper also said the USS Nimitz-Indian Navy exercises “shows US ability to project power in the Indian Ocean, and to sustain it with our allies and partners”. The Indian Navy’s maritime drill with the US carrier strike group has been interpreted as signalling America’s intention of standing by India in its bid to resist China’s aggression on the LAC. Describing the India relationship as “one of the all-important defence relationships of the 21st century”, Esper said India and the US would hold their ‘2+2’ dialogue between foreign and defence ministers later this year. Indian government sources said there was a plan for Esper to visit India around October. This year, it’s the turn of US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and Esper to make the trip to India, but between Covid-19 and the US polls, dates have not been fixed yet, sources here said. Days after the US aligned its position on sovereignty in the South China Sea with the 2016 arbitral award by UNCLOS, Esper outlined the US’s Indo-Pacific strategy and said, “Three pillars of the US Indo-Pacific strategy are based on preparedness, strengthening partnerships and promoting a more networked region.” He added that the US was “encouraging Indo-Pacific nations to expand their own intra-regional security ties and networks of like-minded partners”, highlighting the India-Australia logistics sharing pact signed in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-us-naval-drill-shows-ability-to-project-power-with-allies-says-us-defence-secretary/articleshow/77096408.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 22, 2020||India||HC breather for Pilot camp till Friday, but Congress readies counter-strike||JAIPUR/NEW DELHI: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot called a cabinet meeting at his residence on Tuesday to review the state’s Covid-19 and financial situation in the state but sources said the cabinet discussed the present political crisis too and gave nod for calling a special session of the state Assembly to pre-empt the Opposition’s alleged moves to topple the government. This came even as the Rajasthan high court completed hearing on the joint petition by Sachin Pilot’s camp, challenging the speaker’s disqualification notices but reserved its decision till July 24. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty “requested” the speaker not to act on the notices till its order on Friday. Soon, the speaker’s office issued a statement that action on notices to the 19 MLAs has been suspended considering “judicial propriety and dignity”. Sources said the CM too would wait until the high court’s judgment on Friday before requesting governor Kalraj Mishra to call the special session of the Assembly. But Congress may challenge the high court’s “request” to the Speaker not to take action on disqualification notices, calling it a violation of the presiding officer’s powers. Well-placed sources said after discussions with legal eagles, the party has come to the conclusion that the court’s view would be an encroachment on the “supreme and autonomous” powers of the Speaker. According to a source, the party may file a petition as early as Wednesday to urge the high court to review its stance. The deadline for reply expired on Tuesday. The decision to approach the court may also have been prompted by concerns that the time till Friday will help the dissidents mobilise support while the ruling camp is keen on quick action. One of the options the Gehlot government was considering was to bring a bill during the special Assembly session and issuing whip to its MLAs. The government needs to seek Assembly approval for the Rajasthan epidemic diseases ordinance 2020 that it notified in May. A whip would make it mandatory for the rebels to attend the proceedings or face disqualification. “The government would prefer to see the dissident MLAs disqualified before going for a trust vote because it rests on a thin majority at present,” said a Congress strategist. Earlier in the day, Gehlot addressed a Congress Legislature Party meeting and said the party’s government in Rajasthan would complete its full term despite all challenges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-breather-for-pilot-camp-till-friday-but-congress-readies-counter-strike/articleshow/77096475.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||Covid-19: After facing flak, UP now ahead of Maharashtra, Delhi in conducting tests||NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh has moved ahead of Maharashtra and Delhi — states with high caseloads — in conducting more tests for the novel coronavirus in the last two weeks. The top seven states that conducted the highest tests in the last two weeks are Tamil Nadu, UP, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Delhi, in that order. Uttar Pradesh, which faced flak for low testing, has been increasing testing capacity every week. With a low positivity rate of 4% and total confirmed cases of 47,000 so far, UP has conducted 4 lakh tests in the last two weeks (July 2-15), behind TN’s 5 lakh tests. Tamil Nadu, which has been conducting the highest number of tests by any state, is at second spot when it comes to total cases (1.66 lakh), after Maharashtra’s 3 lakh. Delhi with 1.22 lakh cases, Karnataka (59,000) and Gujarat (47,476) are other states with more cases than UP. However, in terms of total tests per million population, Delhi has an average of 41,000 tests, followed by Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu with around 25,000 tests each, Rajasthan 15,600 and Karnataka 15,000. Maharashtra and UP have the lowest tests per million at 12,500 and 6,300, respectively, among the top seven states though UP also has low incidence. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Maharashtra, with a high positivity rate of 23% and highest number of confirmed cases, conducted 3.9 lakh tests in the last two weeks. Delhi, which managed to bring down its positivity rate from 30% to 15% by ramping up testing earlier, has brought down the number of its fortnightly tests from 2.48 lakh (till July 2) to 1.6 lakh (between July 2-15). The top seven states in terms of testing also have high positivity rates ranging from 7% to 23%, except Rajasthan where it is 3%, lower than UP’s 4%. A high positivity rate is indicative that a state is testing fewer people and possibly only the sickest. The pandemic is reaching a worrisome stage with India’s overall positivity rate reaching 10% between July 2-15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-after-facing-flak-up-now-ahead-of-maharashtra-delhi-in-conducting-tests/articleshow/77096631.cms||Pradeep Thakur
July 22, 2020||India||Uttarakhand HC upholds law on state control of shrines||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand High Court on Tuesday dismissed two writ petitions, including one by BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy, which challenged the constitutional validity of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act 2019 that brought 51 temples in the state, including the Char Dham shrines, under control of a state government-appointed board. The bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe held that the Act does not violate the right to equality, religious freedom or right of religious denominations to manage their own affairs while citing examples of other temples such as Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Temple (J&K) and Shri Jagannath Temple (Odisha) that were administered by boards. The court said the Act does not interfere with the religious activities of the priests. The petitioners had challenged the Act passed by the Trivendra Rawat-led BJP government arguing that the Constitution guarantees devotees and priests the right to manage their own affairs. Swamy’s petition held that the Act violates Article 14 (right to equality), Article 25 (right to freedom of religion), Article 26 (right of religious denominations to manage their own affairs) as well as Article 31-A (right to hold and dispose property). The court, however, said, “The object of classifying these temples, and in bringing them within the ambit of the 2019 Act for its rejuvenation and its effective management by the Devasthanam Management Board, is undoubtedly reasonable. It cannot, therefore, be said to suffer from manifest arbitrariness violating Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The contention that the Act violates Article 14, therefore, necessitates rejection.” The bench added that the contention that the Act goes against Article 26 (the right of religious denomination to manage their own affairs) does not hold since Hindus believing in Sanatan Dharma are not a religious denomination/section/sect. The court has dealt extensively with the meaning of Hinduism in its judgment, saying that Hinduism was far more than a mere form of theism resting on Brahminism. The bench also dismissed another plea filed by the Panch Mandir Samiti Gangotri Dham — a body that managed Gangotri and largely had members from the Semwal Brahim community— which claimed exclusive rights over the shrine as it was constructed by the Semwal community. The Supreme Court had on July 13 handed the control of the Sree Padmanabha Swamy temple (Kerala) to its erstwhile trustees, the descendants of the Travancore-Cochin royal family. The apex court had reversed a 2011 verdict by the Kerala high court in the case. Spokesperson of the Chardham Teerth Purohit Hakhakookdhari Mahapanchyat, Brijesh Sati, said the association would approach the Supreme Court in the matter. “I am awaiting the full judgment to be uploaded. Broadly some Sections appear to have been struck down, but the act as such minus these sections remains. Hence I have to approach the SC as in my earlier victories after losing in the HC, like Sabhanayagar Nataraj, 2G Spectrum cases (sic),” Swamy tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-hc-upholds-law-on-state-control-of-shrines/articleshow/77096832.cms||Prashant Jha
July 22, 2020||India||SC initiates suo motu contempt proceedings against Prashant Bhushan||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has initiated suo motu criminal contempt proceedings against activist advocate Prashant Bhushan for accusing past four CJIs playing a role in the SC caused destruction of democracy during an undeclared emergency during the last six years. The SC has also taken adverse note of Bhushan's tweets accusing the present CJI of closing the SC during lockdown and denying common men their fundamental right to access to justice. His critical tweet was made on photographs showing CJI sitting on a parked heavy bike at Nagpur last month. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari are scheduled to take up the suo motu criminal contempt petition against Bhushan on Wednesday. On June 27, Bhushan at 8.25 am had tweeted: "When historians in future look back at the last 6 years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the Supreme Court in this destruction, & more particularly the role of the last 4 CJIs." His June 29 tweet at 11.37 am had posted the CJI's photograph on a Harley Davidson bike that could be seen stationary with its parking stand on. He had tweeted: "CJI rides a 50 Lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP leader at Raj Bhavan Nagpur, without a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC in Lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access Justice!" What the court appears to have taken strong objection to is the statement that CJI has kept the SC in lockdown mode when in reality the SC was carrying out its work of hearing cases, both fresh and pending matters, regularly through video conferencing. The court also found it rather denigrating to be accused by a lawyer that common men's right to access to justice has been denied, when the SC during the lockdown period has heard numerous PILs filed by non-lawyers on issues relating to lockdown as well as other issues. Interestingly, the same bench is also scheduled to hear on Wednesday a contempt proceeding drawn by SC in 2010 against Bhushan for his interview to Tehelka magazine alleging at that point of time that half of the 16 former CJIs were corrupt. He had also made certain uncharitable comments against then CJI S H Kapadia. The contempt proceedings were initiated on an application moved by senior advocate Harish Salve on the ground that speaking against CJIs without evidence was denigrating the dignity of the judiciary in the eyes of the public. During the hearing of the contempt proceedings, Bhushan's then counsel Ram Jethmalani had on march 25, 2010 clarified before a bench of Justices Altamas Kabir, Cyriac Joseph and H L Dattu that Bhushan had highest regard for Justice Kapadia and he meant no disrespect to Justice Kapadia by his statements published in media with regard to Sterlite Case. On July 14, 2010, the three-judge bench had ruled that the contempt proceedings drawn against Bhushan were maintainable. But, for all these years, the proceedings had remained static for one reason or the other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-initiates-suo-motu-contempt-proceedings-against-prashant-bhushan/articleshow/77096844.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 22, 2020||Raipur||Chhattisgarh: Maoists bid a farewell to arms, join hands for collective farming||RAIPUR: Reluctant to join police and go back to a life of bullets and blood, a dozen-odd surrendered Maoists have got together and started a self-help group to take up farming in their native village, known as a rebel hotbed in Dantewada. At the time of their surrender earlier this month, they had asked for a tractor from the authorities. They were left speechless when the administration gave them a brand new one on Hareli festival on Monday. They piled on the tractor and took it our for a spin, cheered on by police officers. #Chhattisgarh: Surrendered #Maoists hop on a tractor given to them by the Dantewada admin. They were left speechles… https://t.co/DibBz5xmhv— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1595391549000Surrendered Maoists often face the wrath of their former comrades – one of them was murdered in Sukma five days ago. Most of them join police and take part in anti-insurgency ops that they once faced. But a group of 13 Maoists, who surrendered last week, came with a plan. They banded together in their native village, Badegurda, to form a self-help group and named it ‘Jai Laiyyor Jai Kammai’ – which in local dialect means ‘the youth will now take up farming’. Its president is Prakash Kartam, who carried a bounty of Rs 5 lakh. This is the first time in life that he is at peace, said the former Maoist. “My decision has brought respect and dignity to my family. I am happy that I can now earn my livelihood. I was active with Maoists for eight years and all I knew was pain and violence. I was later convinced by the government’s rehabilitation scheme ‘Lon Varratu’ (come back home) in June,” he said. The rebels, who once took up the gun, are now ploughing fields and sowing paddy. Asked what they will do if threatened by Maoists, Prakash said, “This time, we will not be influenced by any pressure from Maoists. We are united and we also have the support of villagers. It’s our homeland.” Nearly 60 Maoists have surrendered in Dantewada under the ‘Lon Varratu’ scheme. Another group of surrendered rebels in Kwagonda village has started an animal husbandry business, rearing poultry and goats, with the help of the district administration, collector Deepak Soni said. “Under the ‘come home’ campaign, we are rehabilitating surrendered Maoists according to their skill and area of interest. A group of 18 surrendered Maoists in Bhansi panchayat is now constructing a government school building, which the rebels had demolished five years ago,” he told TOI. Dantewada SP Abhishek Pallava said Maoists have cadres who cook, their own medical teams, plus entertainers and artists who propagate their ideology among locals. “Such people can be given gainful employment when they surrender. Those who cook can get into the food business. Those who were in the Maoist medical team are recommended to work as ANM or ASHA workers with the local health department, and artists are referred to the art and culture department for rehabilitation,” said Pallava. Watch Chhattisgarh: Maoists join hands for collective farming after surrender||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/maoists-bid-a-farewell-to-arms-join-hands-for-collective-farming/articleshow/77096854.cms||Cherrupreet Kaur
July 22, 2020||India||Covid-19: Centre working out way to hand out vaccines equitably||NEW DELHI: Even as researchers across the world are racing to develop a vaccine against coronavirus, the government has already started working on a mechanism for equitable distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine once it is available. Niti Aayog member VK Paul said both accelerated regulatory facilitation and financial aid will be actively considered, if required, to ensure a vaccine is available to people at the earliest to fight the pandemic. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “The government will leave no stone unturned to ensure that the people of India and the international community has access to an Indian vaccine as early as possible,” said Paul who also heads the Covid-19 National Task Force on vaccine development, testing and other research-related activities. India — a major supplier of pharmaceutical products including vaccines across the globe — may have an edge on Covid-19 vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-centre-working-out-way-to-hand-out-vaccines-equitably/articleshow/77096864.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 22, 2020||India||Our drug priced lower, Glenmark says in defence||MUMBAI: Mumbai-based Glenmark defended the pricing to the drug regulator of its Covid-19 drug, FabiFlu (Favipiravir) on Tuesday, saying it’s lower as compared to other countries, and as against therapies approved under ‘emergency use’. In a response to DCGI seeking clarification on the pricing and claims on Covid-19 drug, the company said both — clinical trials and restricted use approval, were preceded by multiple dialogues, deliberations and consideration before the Subject Expert Committee, constituted by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. The price of Favipiravir (200 mg) tablet is Rs 600 in Russia, Rs 378 in Japan, Rs 350 in Bangladesh and Rs 215 in China. (*Currency rates in respective countries equivalent to Indian rupee). Recently, Glenmark lowered the price of FabiFlu to Rs 75 from Rs 103 per tablet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/our-drug-priced-lower-glenmark-says-in-defence/articleshow/77096872.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||Testing delay of 2 days ups Covid-19 spread by 50%: Study||KOCHI: If more tests with quick results are key to containing the Covid-19 spread, Kerala has a tough time ahead. The state collects on average 15,000-16,000 samples daily but it takes two to three days for the test results. A study published in The Lancet, while asserting that minimising testing delay had the largest impact on reducing onward transmissions, said a delay of two days or more resulted in 50% more transmission. “There are two problems. It becomes essential to keep all those whose samples are sent for tests in isolation till the results come, and that’s a strain on resources, especially when the cases are increasing. Also, all further steps — contact tracing and their quarantining — are taken only after the test reports come positive,” an infectious diseases expert, Dr Anup Warrier, said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The results of at least 5,500 samples are pending on a daily basis in the state. The reports are received after 48 hours in most districts, with some of them reporting delays of three to four days. The situation in Kozhikode has improved of late. “We have got eight new automated RNA extraction machines, which will be distributed to major government testing labs. This will ensure that the results are delivered within 48 hours. The test results of samples collected through sentinel surveillance are kept pending and this needs to change,” a health department official said. The state has 53 laboratories — 27 government and 26 private — conducting Covid tests, but the facilities might not be enough if cases spread further. “The number of samples being collected has increased but not the testing capacity. The situation will change only if we have more hospitals, both public and private, having antigen testing facilities. The majority of private hospitals can’t do antigen testing as the government still insists on NABL or NABH accreditation for the facility,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, Indian Medical Association (IMA). Health officials said about 60% tests were still being done using RT-PCR, GeneXpert or TrueNAT though the antigen test is cheaper and results are available within 30 minutes. A majority of those tested using antigen kits are returnees at airports while most of the sentinel surveillance tests are done through pooled RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/testing-delay-of-2-days-ups-covid-19-spread-by-50-study/articleshow/77096879.cms||Preetu Nair
July 22, 2020||Pune||Covid positive skips isolation, leaves for UAE, booked||PUNE: Pimpri Chinchwad municipal body (PCMC) health officials lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police on Monday night against a 30-year-old asymptomatic woman who flew to Sharjah on July 17 despite being advised home quarantine after she tested positive for Covid-19 on July 11. The woman has been booked under various sections of IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act. The woman stays in Dubai with her husband and was stuck in Pune for the past three months due to the lockdown. Police told TOI that she took a flight to Sharjah from Mumbai airport. The police are now investigating how she reached Mumbai, whether she secured an e-pass for travel, and how she took a flight to Sharjah despite carrying a ‘home quarantine’ stamp from the PCMC authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-positive-skips-isolation-leaves-for-uae-booked/articleshow/77096890.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||Covid-19 puts shelter homes under SC lens||NEW DELHI: After children in shelter homes in many states got infected with coronavirus, the Supreme Court on Tuesday decided to review the functioning of such homes before passing orders on the best practices to be adopted in taking care of inmates. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said it would analyse the best practices followed by different states and pass a comprehensive order to bring uniformity in administration and management of shelter homes. Observing that the Centre has to provide funds to state governments to run shelter homes, the Supreme Court bench also directed Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, who was appearing for the Centre, to file a report giving details of funds being granted by it to the states. The Supreme Court asked advocate Gaurav Agrawal, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, to compile the best practices of various states and also give suggestions on how to improve them further. The court posted the case for hearing to August 13 for passing order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-puts-shelter-homes-under-sc-lens/articleshow/77096901.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||MLC 3rd legislator to die of Covid-19||NEW DELHI: BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh became the third legislator in the country and the first in Bihar to die of Covid-19, reports Faryal Rumi. Singh passed away on Tuesday at AIIMS-Patna, where he was admitted after testing positive for Covid-19 on July 13. Prior to Singh’s death, DMK MLA J Anbazhagan had died of Covid in Chennai on June 10 and TMC MLA Tamonash Ghosh had succumbed to the virus in Kolkata on June 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mlc-3rd-legislator-to-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/77096940.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||UN offers help on Assam floods; Amit Shah calls Conrad||NEW DELHI: The flood situation continued to remain grim in parts of the country on Tuesday. While two more people died in Assam, Meghalaya reported five deaths. . Home minister Amit Shah called Meghalaya CM Conrad K Sangma and assured him of all possible relief from the Centre, Meanwhile, nearly four lakh people have been affected in Bihar. As Assam’s flood situation remains critical, the United Nations has come forward to ‘support’ the Centre in tackling the deluge which has killed 88 people and 116 animals in Kaziranga National Park. Over 24 lakh people remain affected. “The UN stands ready to support the government of India if required,” spokesperson for the secretary-general Stephane Dujarric said at the United Nations on Monday. In Meghalaya, five people, including a woman and four kids, have died and nearly 2 lakh people have been affected so far. CM Conrad K Sangma said that the government has released an ex-gratia amount of Rs 4 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. Meanwhile in Bihar, the Patna Meteorological Centre said rainfall is likely to continue over the northern part of the state over the next 48 hours but will reduce in intensity after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/un-offers-help-on-assam-floods-amit-shah-calls-conrad/articleshow/77096976.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||Telangana: HC remarks have affected morale of health workers||HYDERABAD: In an unprecedented move, the Telangana government on Tuesday issued an official statement saying that officers were demoralised because of the caustic remarks of the high court over the manner in which the novel coronavirus crisis was being handled in the state. The statement, issued by the Telangana chief minister’s office (CMO) said that some officers, who attended the Covid-19 review meeting with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday, said that the remarks were demoralising officials, doctors and health workers who were risking their lives during the pandemic. “The court is summoning senior officials, supervising the Covid 19 measures including chief secretary, health secretary, hospital superintendents, to attend hearings,” the statement read. “This is forcing them to spend their precious time attending the hearings leaving their works at the critical time. The comments by the HC pain us despite the fact that the state government is doing everything to contain the spread of the virus.” The CM directed the officials to submit a factual report to the HC on the measures being taken by the government in the form of an affidavit. While hearing a number of PILs on Covid-19 situation in the state over the past couple of months, the HC expressed concern over low testing in the state and not enough information being provided in the daily bulletins. The judges have also been upset over availability of beds in hospitals. The court on Monday summoned the chief secretary, public health director and Greater Hyderabad municipal commissioner for a hearing on July 28. Earlier, a PIL had asked for Covid-19 tests on all those who die during the pandemic and the HC had given orders to do so, but the Supreme Court dismissed the order. The statement also said that some media houses were publishing articles based on the court’s comments as if the state government was doing nothing which was demoralising doctors, health workers and officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/telangana-hc-remarks-have-affected-morale-of-health-workers/articleshow/77096984.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 22, 2020||India||AP guv to seek legal view on bills on three capitals||NEW DELHI: The AP government may have to wait a little longer for its ambitious three capitals plan to materialise, reports Gopi Dara. Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan has decided to seek legal opinion on the bills seeking trifurcation of the state administration and abolition of the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA). The state government had on July 18 sent the AP Capital Region Authority Act 2014 Repeal Bill 2020 and the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill 2020 to Raj Bhavan for approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ap-guv-to-seek-legal-view-on-bills-on-three-capitals/articleshow/77097006.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||China insists on package solution for dispute with Bhutan||NEW DELHI: Seeking to justify its claim over the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary in eastern Bhutan, China Tuesday said it "advocates a package solution" to resolve its border dispute with Bhutan. The renewed talk about a package solution has left many wondering if China is offering a new deal to Bhutan, after taking a maximalist position with its new claim in eastern Bhutan, and also using it to apply pressure on India. "China's position remains consistent and clear. The boundary between China and Bhutan has not been delimited and there are disputes in the middle, eastern and western sections,” said a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, adding that this was why China calls for a package solution to resolve the dispute". China's claim in eastern Bhutan though is new as it has never in the past claimed sovereignty over Sakteng area, despite having 24 rounds of talks on the disputed boundary since 1984, which is located close to the border with Arunachal Pradesh. As strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney says, this is perhaps for the first time since World War II that one state has laid claim to another nation’s territory that can be accessed only through a third nation. According to Chellaney, the remarks by the spokesperson suggest Beijing is willing to make a new package offer to Bhutan as it has already occupied almost the whole of Doklam plateau in Bhutan. "China has occupied the Bhutan-claimed Doklam plateau, other than the 2017 standoff site located in one corner. And now with its territorial claim to a sizable chunk of tiny Bhutan’s eastern territory, China may be seeking to replace its old package offer with a new one," he says. Under the old package offer by China, it was believed that Bhutan would give up its claim on Doklam in exchange for Beijing ceding territory in the central section. This though has been resisted by Bhutan apparently at India's behest. China for the first time recently claimed Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary at the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Council. Later, Bhutan's embassy here issued a demarche to the Chinese mission saying that Sakteng was an integral part of Bhutan. “The boundary between China and Bhutan has not been demarcated. There are disputes in the central, eastern and western sections of the boundary,” the Chinese spokesperson further said in the briefing. Bhutan remains India's only neighbour which hasn't joined China's BRI project. The 2 countries have in the recent past though seen a few high-level contacts with Beijing keen to establish formal diplomatic relations with Bhutan. Bhutan though, again under India's influence, is said to be resisting efforts by China to open an embassy in Thimphu. Watch China insists on package solution for dispute with Bhutan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-insists-on-package-solution-for-dispute-with-bhutan/articleshow/77097004.cms||Sachin Parashar
July 22, 2020||Patna||Six arrested for jewellery loot in Patna||PATNA: Police on Tuesday arrested six criminals from PC Colony under Kankarbagh police station area in city for allegedly looting jewellery wroth around Rs15 lakh from a showroom near Munnachak under Patrakar Nagar police station on July 6. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said Abhishek Kumar, John Wright alias Vikash Kumar, Jimmy Kumar, Amitesh Kumar, Rahul Kumar and Amresh Kumar alias Guletan were arrested from a rented accommodation and looted jewellery worth around Rs5 lakh, Rs2000, one countrymade semi-automatic pistol, 14 live cartridges, two bank passbooks and a bag used in the crime were recovered. The SSP said the gang had actually planned to loot a bank in Kankarbagh. “The gang was also involved in loot from non-banking and other financial institutions in Vaishali and several other business establishment,” he said. He said Abhishek is accused in 11 criminal cases, including eight lodged with Jandaha police station in Vaishali. Amresh is accused in five cases, including three in Jandaha while Jimmy has five cases lodged against him with different police stations in Patna. Vikash also is accused in six criminal cases, including three with Rajapakar police station in Vaishali. The SSP said they had also planned to loot a financial institution at Darbhanga. “The gang was involved in firing on Hajipur court premises and loot from grocery shop in Bahadurpur in Patna,” Sharma said, adding the gang had rented a flat in PC Colony 20 days before the loot at Munnachak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-arrested-for-jewellery-loot/articleshow/77094359.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Business||Corona hits Bajaj Fin, Sanjiv to replace Rahul as chairman||PUNE: Shares of Sanjiv Bajaj’s twin companies fell nearly 4% after Q1FY21 results on Tuesday as a drop in lending activity hurt Bajaj Finance’s revenues, while fear of the Covid impact took a toll on parent company Bajaj Finserv’s scrip despite a 44% profit jump. Bajaj Finance also said that Sanjiv would be taking over from his father Rahul Bajaj as chairman from August 1, 2020. Consumer durables financier Bajaj Finance posted a 19% fall in Q1 net profit at Rs 962 crore as the bulk of durable stores, from where it finances white goods — like televisions, air-conditioners and mobile phones — stayed closed for much of the three-month period. The company said that it was “considerably impacted” due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdowns. Bajaj Finserv, the holding company that represents the financial and insurance business of the Pune-based Bajaj Group, posted a 44% increase in its Q1 net profit at Rs 1,215 crore, mainly helped by a pre-tax gain in its traded securities. However, despite the pandemic effect and the fear around it, the life and general insurance arms of Bajaj Group wrote a reduced premium of Rs 1,700 crore (7.4% lower) and at Rs 2,289 crore (19% lower), respectively Bajaj Finance’s loans under moratorium decreased to 15.7% of its total assets under management from 27% as of April-end 2020. The company made an enhanced provision of Rs 1,450 crore in addition to the Rs 900 crore it made in Q4FY20. With this, the company has made a total provision of 10.8% of the consolidated moratorium book of Rs 21,705 crore for Covid-19. The company also converted Rs 8,600 crore of its term loans advanced to regular-repaying customers into flexi-loans. The consumer financier deferred lending activity to July 2020 because of the moratorium made available to borrowers on account of the Covid-19 lockdown. Over 60% of its total lending was yet to start as of June-end. The company said that the new loans acquired during the quarter fell by 76% to 17.5 lakh, while assets under management grew by 7% to Rs 1,38,055 crore. It said that it had a liquidity surplus of Rs 17,700 crore as of June-end, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/corona-hits-bajaj-fin-sanjiv-to-replace-rahul-as-chairman/articleshow/77095461.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Business||Horlicks, health, hygiene boost HUL’s Q1 net by 7%||MUMBAI: Hindustan Unilever (HUL) has reported a 7% growth in standalone net profit at Rs 1,881 crore in the first quarter ended June 30 of the current financial year, on a 4% rise in sales at Rs 10,406 crore. Sequentially, volume growth continued to remain in the negative territory (-7%) for the second quarter in a row. The GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (GSKCH) merger, effective April 1 this year, has come to HUL’s aid. The foods & refreshments portfolio, which now houses the newly acquired Horlicks brand, reported a sales jump of 52% in the June quarter, even while home care and beauty & personal care declined by 2% and 12%, respectively. Due to the merger, the financial numbers are not strictly comparable. Excluding the impact of the GSKCH merger, domestic consumer growth is at a negative 7%, impacted by Covid-19-related disruptions. A 31% cut in advertising and promotional spends during the quarter helped HUL cushion the impact of such disruptions on its financials. The company said the negative impact of adverse mix and higher Covid-19-related costs were deftly managed by dialling up savings and unlocking synergies of GSK merger, enabling to sustain ebitda margins of 25%. Brands which fall in the health, hygiene and nutrition realm did better than those in discretionary categories. Over 80% of HUL’s health, hygiene and nutrition portfolio has grown 6% during the quarter. However, discretionary segments, such as beauty and personal care, got impacted by the reduced demands and de-grew by 45%. The out-of-home business, which consists of ice-creams, vending and water filter, fell by a steeper 69%. HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta said, “Consumer sentiment will dramatically improve once the vaccine is found. Going forward, the demand for hygiene and healthcare products would continue to grow with a change in consumer behaviour. There has been a decline in discretionary products, but we have seen demand for skincare products moving up with better availability. When people start stepping out, it would be a good pointer to the true shape of the economy and consumer confidence. A lot of this will depend on when the curve starts going southwards.” HUL CFO Srinivas Phatak said the market context continues to be challenging with increased cases of Covid and the intermittent lockdowns. “During the quarter, while economic activity picked up, there’s uncertainty due to lower consumer confidence and consumers being circumspect with their spends,” said Phatak. Rural, which constitutes 40% for HUL’s sales in value, is said to be more resilient than urban in growth terms. Mehta said according to early indicators, rural growth rate is no longer less than urban. Meanwhile, three of HUL’s factories which together employ around 5,000 people, including the one in Haridwar, have been shut down temporarily due to a few Covid cases among workers. Mehta said the cases form a small percentage of the total strength at these factories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/horlicks-health-hygiene-boost-huls-q1-net-by-7/articleshow/77095545.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||Mask with valve not meant for doctors: Experts||PATNA: Union health ministry has asked people to avoid N95 mask, especially those with a valved respirator, as it is meant for health workers only. Director General of Health Services (DGHS) Rajiv Garg wrote a letter to the state governments on Monday, saying: “It is to bring to your knowledge that the use of valved respirator N95 mask is detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of coronavirus.” Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan also tweeted on Tuesday, encouraging the use of ‘homemade triple-layer mask for face and mouth’, instead of N95 mask, for residents while stepping out of their residences. Health experts in the city said the N95 mask was never meant for general public. Senior vice-president of Indian Medical Association (Patna branch) Ajay Kumar said: “Ever since the pandemic began, it was advised to people to use a mask made of any normal cloth piece to cover mouth and nose. N95 masks were always meant for health workers. If residents have to wear better quality masks, they can simply use three-layered masks, which are extremely beneficial.” Talking about the risk in using N95 mask, Dr Pratyush Kumar of PMCH said, “N95 masks are meant for someone who have problems in breathing or for those who are required to wear it for long hours. Residents wearing them while going out won’t save themselves from getting infected. Besides, if a corona positive patient wears it, chances are that the virus will get transferred to the air,” he said. He added that the effectiveness of masks fades away after a few washes. “The valves get clogged after a certain period of time. People these days reuse them for months, which make them more prone to the virus,” Dr Kumar said. Chemists and pharmacists attributed the price of N95 mask as the main reason why people buy it. “One N95 mask costs around Rs250, which is much more than a normal cloth mask available in the market. Buying expensive things is a trend. I tell people that any normal cloth mask can save them from getting infected, but they mostly buy N95 masks,” said Krishna Sharma, manager of a chemist shop in Boring Road. Residents said they were just trying to safeguard themselves from the virus. “N95 masks have always been recommended as a lifesaver, be it during dengue or Covid-19. This is the reason why I bought these masks for my entire family. However, we will now use normal cloth mask as suggested by the government,” said Anup Gaurav of Kadamkuan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mask-with-valve-not-meant-for-doctors-experts/articleshow/77093978.cms||Archi Rani
July 22, 2020||Business||In ‘neo gig’ age, cos need to reset performance evaluation||By Vishalli DongrieEven before Covid-19, advancement in terms of improving the performance management system (PMS) and measuring productivity was well under way. Organisations, all around the world were rethinking and incorporating progressive changes in the PMS, but the pace of progress was slow and incremental. The current crisis has, however, pushed organisations to think afresh, and quickly. As organisations are grappling with issues like cash crunch, erosion of demand, disruption in supply chain, leaders are forced to look through a cost-conscious lens and go back to the drawing board to redefine their workforce model to come up with solutions to do more with less. Neo gig to be new normal As organisations are changing the way they are operating, new families of roles have emerged, and it is critical now, more than ever, to understand which family would be the ‘best fit’. A typical organisation today will have roles that are working on site, working full or part time from home, a network of outsourced or managed services vendors, gig roles and the neo gig with 2-3 years of exclusive contract that will no longer be permanent and subsequently move out of solid employment cost. Organisations are defining the road map of structuring the workforce landscape across these new job families and embracing liquid ways of working to meet fluctuating demands of workplace, while managing employee cost. With the changes in the ways of working, evolution of new families of roles and the new operating model, organisations and managers will need to reassess the way performance and productivity is measured and evaluated. Challenges for PMS 2.0 With the new families of roles and ways of working, there could be some eminent challenges with the traditional PMS that would need to be addressed swiftly. * Measurement of productivity would be impacted by limited oversight, monitoring and tracking for the virtual roles. The long-term and exclusive contract manpower role, that is, neo gig, would also need a nuanced productivity assessment to measure and manage the workload of the contract workforce. * Linkage of one’s own work with the organisational goals, or the big picture, will be unclear due to virtual roles and other new ways of working. * With limited oversight, objective key responsibility areas (KRAs) are even more critical as the assessment must be linked with the true performance. * Organisations would face difficulties in measuring efforts, especially for the new gig and virtual roles. * With limited interactions, casual chats and unplanned meetings, the neo gig and virtual roles would face a challenge in receiving feedback and ongoing feedback, unless it is carefully structured in the process. Other challenges that would have to be addressed are how to mitigate risks of social isolation, restricted observations resulting in limited data points on behavioural development, inadequate performance & development conversations and striking a balance between objective and behavioural assessments. If not addressed, the issues of the new ways of working may lead to dissatisfaction and disengagement. Some key elements of PMS 2.0 * A critical aspect of PMS 2.0 is how organisations will measure and leverage productivity data to staff employees, plan activity, act as input for developmental conversations and to improve processes. Organisations are identifying different ways of tracking productivity through digital tools to capture on-screen time, application usage, location tracking, mouse movement, project timelines, etc. The digital measurement technique should be carefully identified on the basis of the nature of the role to ensure accuracy productivity measurement. * The KRAs should be objective, outcome-based and system-driven to minimise subjectivity and build fairness into the process. * Effort-based KRAs would be critical for ongoing developmental conversations. * While the outcome-based and effort-based KRAs are critical, ongoing milestone-based goals would help in keeping track of the achievement effectively. * Contextualising goals and moving towards more outcome-based KPIs. * Using peer stakeholder group to have developmental conversations and assessment will be essential for new family of roles. * Companies can use a real-time dashboard for tracking individual and organisation outcomes continuously. * Continuous check-ins for increasing frequency & quality of performance conversations with managers. * Using cohort-based normalisation for virtual workforce and job families. * Pulse checks by using chatbots to gauge moods and carry out surveys & assessments. * Redefine & align rewards and variable pay with performance. Given the changes in operating model and shift in priorities of organisations to optimise cost, there is a strong business case to re-think the performance and productivity systems to meet business targets in a sustained manner in the current situation and beyond. (The writer is partner and head — people & change, KPMG in India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-neo-gig-age-cos-need-to-reset-performance-evaluation/articleshow/77095480.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||People allege negligence in Covid patients’ treatment||PATNA: The government hospitals and the state health department are on the receiving end of the people after several posts went viral on social media during the last few days alleging negligence in either the treatment of Covid-19 patients or the delay in disposing of the body. Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday posted a video of an unattended body at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), a dedicated Covid hospital in Patna. A similar video was posted by Tejashwi on Monday as well. Tejashwi attacked health minister Mangal Pandey, saying the latter was busy in copying and pasting other’s content on social media, but did not bother to visit any health facility. “CM is invisible and out of scene. In the all-party meeting with CM, I had asked him to set up Covid-19 dedicated hospitals at least at commissionary level but no avail (sic),” he tweeted on Tuesday. Earlier, several pictures had gone viral showing dead bodies lying unattended on the PMCH premises. PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary defended the situation and said there were only six cabinets in the mortuary of forensic medicine department to keep dead bodies. “Sometimes, we are forced to keep the dead bodies outside,” he said. “We have asked the health department to increase the number of cabinets to 30 as the number of deaths is expected to increase once the PMCH is converted into a dedicated Covid hospital. We also need other equipment and beds to treat more patients,” Dr Choudhary said. NMCH principal Dr Hiralal Mahto said the hospital would hire two more body handlers for immediate disposal of the dead bodies. “We already have two body handlers and a mortuary for four bodies, which is not sufficient. The hospital has also given proposal to the department for setting up a new mortuary to accommodate minimum six more bodies,” he said. Family members of some of the Covid-19 patients admitted at NMCH alleged that they hardly see any doctor or nurse in the isolation ward and the patients are left to treat themselves. Manisha Dey, whose elder brother was admitted at NMCH on Friday after testing positive for the virus, said, “No doctor has attended to him so far. He was kept alone in ward number 27, like a prisoner. If his condition deteriorates, who will be responsible,” she asked. Gunjan Kumar of Patel Nagar said his father was admitted at NMCH and died on July 18 after falling in the washroom. “His body was left unattended the whole day. When we contacted the hospital staff, they gave me the contact numbers of doctors and asked to call them. When I called a doctor, he said it was not his duty hours. He died because no one attended to him. The doctors came late on Saturday night and declared him dead due to cardiac arrest. People are dying at the hospital without treatment,” Kumar complained. A patient from Khajekalan admitted at NMCH said his family brought oxygen cylinder for him as the hospital had none. “We hardly see any doctor. Only nurses comes once in a while. It’s like we are treating ourselves,” he said. Many people complained of not getting beds at the hospitals. Kunal Kumar of Bibiganj in Danapur said he lost his father-in-law on July 19 after the PMCH denied him treatment. “He had fever for four days before his death. When he complained of breathlessness on Sunday, we took him to NMCH where the medical staff told us to first get him tested for Covid-19 at PMCH,” he said. “The doctors at PMCH said there was no ventilator available. They did not even take his samples. Now, we are making rounds for the testing of other family members,” he added. RaGa hits out at Nitish govt: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday criticized the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar on the issue of reports of unattended dead bodies. “The Covid-19 pandemic situation in Bihar is critical and out of control of Bihar government. Unattended dead body lying in hospital ward unravels “good governance” in Bihar,” Rahul tweeted on Tuesday. Rahul’s tweet was related to a video that has gone viral on social media showing a dead body lying on a bed at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH). RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has also shared the video. Reacting to Rahul’s tweet, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted, saying the former should be concerned about the “political Pichchlaggu” status of Congress’s Bihar unit. “After a Mahadalit, now an extremely backward functionary has quit Bihar Congress. Rahul Gandhi should explain why not a single person from EBC community was given ticket by Congress in the last elections,” SuMo tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-allege-negligence-in-covid-patients-treatment/articleshow/77093180.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||Home, not hospital, better for palliative care in Covid times: AIIMS-P study||PATNA: A team of doctors of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) has come out with a three-category suggestive plan for palliative care of elderly and terminally ill patients amid coronavirus pandemic. The new palliative care plan, christened ‘Pain and palliative care at home in Covid-19 pandemic’, authored by Poonam Kumari, Amarjeet Kumar, Chandani Sinha and Ajeet Kumar, all from anaesthesia, pain and palliative care department of AIIMS-P, was published in the Indian Journal of Palliative Care on June 30. Dr Chandani told this newspaper rapid spread of Covid-19 has crowded most hospitals. “In such a situation, the first suggestion is advance care planning so that terminally ill patients remain protected against the virus infection,” she said. Co-researcher Dr Amarjeet Kumar said the second category of palliative care is pain management, in which patients are advised to adopt e-healthcare and keep in regular touch with doctors via phone, e-mail, videoconferencing and social media platforms. “Today things have changed so much that both doctors and patients should maintain physical distance from each other to break the chain of coronavirus”, he said. About 50% elderly and terminally ill patients had mild to severe pains and in case of cancer patients, it often became unbearable. However, it is better to take the pills of painkillers advised by doctors at home than to rush to hospitals and get exposed to Covid-19, Dr Amarjeet said. Dr Poonam Kumari, another co-researcher, said the third suggestion was home care support. “With advancement of technology, telemedicine and availability of trained nursing staff with necessary equipment, home care is the most favoured option for care of elderly people with paralysis, certain types of cancer and age related problems,” she said, adding palliative care aims to improve the quality of life of terminally ill patients and their families and even a counsellor was available 24x7 at AIIMS-P to facilitate it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-not-hospital-better-for-palliative-care-in-covid-times-aiims-p-study/articleshow/77094593.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Business||KVB appoints Ramesh Babu Boddu as new MD & CEO||Chennai: Board of Karur Vysya Bank, on Monday, has co-opted Ramesh Babu Boddu as an additional director and appointed him as the bank’s new MD & CEO for a period of three years from the date of taking charge. Boddu succeeds PR Seshadri who had resigned citing personal reasons on March 31, 2020. Boddu who had served as deputy managing director in the State Bank of India, had retired last April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kvb-appoints-ramesh-babu-boddu-as-new-md-ceo/articleshow/77095365.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 22, 2020||Business||Morgan Stanley values retail biz of RIL at $29 billion||BENGALURU: Wall Street powerhouse Morgan Stanley has pegged the net asset value of Reliance Retail at about $29 billion with increasing revenue contribution from the e-commerce venture JioMart over the next three years. E-commerce is expected to account for 15% of core retail sales estimates by 2023, pegged at $19 billion, based on which the valuation has been calculated. The core retail sales here exclude connecting revenues (mobile recharges) and petro-retail, where it has sold a stake to British Petroleum. The development comes as Reliance Retail looks to bring in strategic and financial investors after the record $20-billion fund-raise by Mukesh Ambani for his telecom business. The recent capital infusion of $1.2 billion by Walmart in Flipkart shows there is room for multiple expansion if JioMart’s execution of growth plans improve and investor scepticism reduces, the report noted. JioMart, according to a person aware of the matter, is also ramping up its kirana on-boarding in non-metro cities as part of the acceleration of the new commerce initiative. “They have started it in several cities and towns like Solapur, Kurnool, Madurai and Jalandhar. There is a separate platform that’s gone live for kiranas to register to join JioMart, so they can express interest and Jio can follow it up,” this person said. JioMart, which is clocking about 2.5 lakh orders daily in 200 cities, has also enabled business-to-business orders for kiranas as now they can order through Reliance Wholesale. An email to a JioMart spokesperson did not elicit any response. Last week, during the 43rd annual general meeting, RIL chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani said the expansion of JioMart is being accelerated and that they will foray into fashion, healthcare, electronics and pharmaceuticals as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/morgan-stanley-values-retail-biz-of-ril-at-29bn/articleshow/77095587.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 22, 2020||Erode||Kids with learning difficulties find it hard to cope with online classes, drop out of school||CHENNAI: Several parents of children with learning difficulties are pulling their kids out of school as they are facing problems coping with the online learning system in times of lockdown and pandemic. A recent survey conducted by Swabhiman, a community-based organisation working for the differently abled, found that around 43% parents of children with learning difficulties were planning to pull their children out of schools because of this reason. The study was held across Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Nagaland, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Chennai. “My son is unable to cope with the online learning system, hence I have decided to pull him out of school,” said S Sadhika, parent of a ten-year-old who has learning difficulty. Sadhika said ever since the classes moved online, her son who is used to one-on-one guidance, is unable to concentrate on studies. “He is struggling to grasp lessons. Since the situation is going to remain the same for a while, it is better I send him back to school in the next academic year,” she said. Chennai has around 15 mainstream private schools which admit children with learning difficulties. Teachers of these schools said that since the last two weeks, at least three parents have pulled their children with learning difficulties out of school, or have requested for transfer certificate. “My son is used to a certain learning setup and needs extra attention from his teacher, which is not possible on a digital platform,” said Priyamvada (name changed), another parent of a special child. Priyamvada said that though she has requested the school principal to give her son a transfer certificate, she’s still in two minds. “There are already very few mainstream schools in the city that accept special children, I’m worried if I take him out now he won’t get re-admission. But the way the classes are going on now, it’s better my son stays at home and relaxes,” she said. Letishia Harris, principal of Gateway International School, said that they have been holding special classes for these children individually. “We still have a parent who is in two minds on whether to pull their child out of school or not. But we are flexible and are also doing our best to teach,” she said. K Ramalakshmi, head of inclusive education at HLC International School, said parents’ involvement and guidance were crucial. “Since most of the parents are busy with their professional life, they find it hard to help their child learn. We insist that they sit with them even during class, only then can the child focus better. This requires a combined effort,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/kids-with-learning-difficulties-find-it-hard-to-cope-with-online-classes-drop-out-of-school/articleshow/77100470.cms||Aditi R
July 22, 2020||Puducherry||Kids with learning difficulties find it hard to cope with online classes, drop out of school||CHENNAI: Several parents of children with learning difficulties are pulling their kids out of school as they are facing problems coping with the online learning system in times of lockdown and pandemic. A recent survey conducted by Swabhiman, a community-based organisation working for the differently abled, found that around 43% parents of children with learning difficulties were planning to pull their children out of schools because of this reason. The study was held across Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Nagaland, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Chennai. “My son is unable to cope with the online learning system, hence I have decided to pull him out of school,” said S Sadhika, parent of a ten-year-old who has learning difficulty. Sadhika said ever since the classes moved online, her son who is used to one-on-one guidance, is unable to concentrate on studies. “He is struggling to grasp lessons. Since the situation is going to remain the same for a while, it is better I send him back to school in the next academic year,” she said. Chennai has around 15 mainstream private schools which admit children with learning difficulties. Teachers of these schools said that since the last two weeks, at least three parents have pulled their children with learning difficulties out of school, or have requested for transfer certificate. “My son is used to a certain learning setup and needs extra attention from his teacher, which is not possible on a digital platform,” said Priyamvada (name changed), another parent of a special child. Priyamvada said that though she has requested the school principal to give her son a transfer certificate, she’s still in two minds. “There are already very few mainstream schools in the city that accept special children, I’m worried if I take him out now he won’t get re-admission. But the way the classes are going on now, it’s better my son stays at home and relaxes,” she said. Letishia Harris, principal of Gateway International School, said that they have been holding special classes for these children individually. “We still have a parent who is in two minds on whether to pull their child out of school or not. But we are flexible and are also doing our best to teach,” she said. K Ramalakshmi, head of inclusive education at HLC International School, said parents’ involvement and guidance were crucial. “Since most of the parents are busy with their professional life, they find it hard to help their child learn. We insist that they sit with them even during class, only then can the child focus better. This requires a combined effort,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/kids-with-learning-difficulties-find-it-hard-to-cope-with-online-classes-drop-out-of-school/articleshow/77100469.cms||Aditi R
July 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Kids with learning difficulties find it hard to cope with online classes, drop out of school||CHENNAI: Several parents of children with learning difficulties are pulling their kids out of school as they are facing problems coping with the online learning system in times of lockdown and pandemic. A recent survey conducted by Swabhiman, a community-based organisation working for the differently abled, found that around 43% parents of children with learning difficulties were planning to pull their children out of schools because of this reason. The study was held across Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Nagaland, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Chennai. “My son is unable to cope with the online learning system, hence I have decided to pull him out of school,” said S Sadhika, parent of a ten-year-old who has learning difficulty. Sadhika said ever since the classes moved online, her son who is used to one-on-one guidance, is unable to concentrate on studies. “He is struggling to grasp lessons. Since the situation is going to remain the same for a while, it is better I send him back to school in the next academic year,” she said. Chennai has around 15 mainstream private schools which admit children with learning difficulties. Teachers of these schools said that since the last two weeks, at least three parents have pulled their children with learning difficulties out of school, or have requested for transfer certificate. “My son is used to a certain learning setup and needs extra attention from his teacher, which is not possible on a digital platform,” said Priyamvada (name changed), another parent of a special child. Priyamvada said that though she has requested the school principal to give her son a transfer certificate, she’s still in two minds. “There are already very few mainstream schools in the city that accept special children, I’m worried if I take him out now he won’t get re-admission. But the way the classes are going on now, it’s better my son stays at home and relaxes,” she said. Letishia Harris, principal of Gateway International School, said that they have been holding special classes for these children individually. “We still have a parent who is in two minds on whether to pull their child out of school or not. But we are flexible and are also doing our best to teach,” she said. K Ramalakshmi, head of inclusive education at HLC International School, said parents’ involvement and guidance were crucial. “Since most of the parents are busy with their professional life, they find it hard to help their child learn. We insist that they sit with them even during class, only then can the child focus better. This requires a combined effort,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kids-with-learning-difficulties-find-it-hard-to-cope-with-online-classes-drop-out-of-school/articleshow/77100468.cms||Aditi R
July 22, 2020||Salem||Kids with learning difficulties find it hard to cope with online classes, drop out of school||CHENNAI: Several parents of children with learning difficulties are pulling their kids out of school as they are facing problems coping with the online learning system in times of lockdown and pandemic. A recent survey conducted by Swabhiman, a community-based organisation working for the differently abled, found that around 43% parents of children with learning difficulties were planning to pull their children out of schools because of this reason. The study was held across Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Nagaland, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Chennai. “My son is unable to cope with the online learning system, hence I have decided to pull him out of school,” said S Sadhika, parent of a ten-year-old who has learning difficulty. Sadhika said ever since the classes moved online, her son who is used to one-on-one guidance, is unable to concentrate on studies. “He is struggling to grasp lessons. Since the situation is going to remain the same for a while, it is better I send him back to school in the next academic year,” she said. Chennai has around 15 mainstream private schools which admit children with learning difficulties. Teachers of these schools said that since the last two weeks, at least three parents have pulled their children with learning difficulties out of school, or have requested for transfer certificate. “My son is used to a certain learning setup and needs extra attention from his teacher, which is not possible on a digital platform,” said Priyamvada (name changed), another parent of a special child. Priyamvada said that though she has requested the school principal to give her son a transfer certificate, she’s still in two minds. “There are already very few mainstream schools in the city that accept special children, I’m worried if I take him out now he won’t get re-admission. But the way the classes are going on now, it’s better my son stays at home and relaxes,” she said. Letishia Harris, principal of Gateway International School, said that they have been holding special classes for these children individually. “We still have a parent who is in two minds on whether to pull their child out of school or not. But we are flexible and are also doing our best to teach,” she said. K Ramalakshmi, head of inclusive education at HLC International School, said parents’ involvement and guidance were crucial. “Since most of the parents are busy with their professional life, they find it hard to help their child learn. We insist that they sit with them even during class, only then can the child focus better. This requires a combined effort,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/kids-with-learning-difficulties-find-it-hard-to-cope-with-online-classes-drop-out-of-school/articleshow/77100473.cms||Aditi R
July 22, 2020||Business||India's hiring sentiment picks up for April-September||BENGALURU: The country’s recruiting sentiment has improved a little after the lockdown with an increased hiring intent for the first half of this fiscal, according to a report by staffing firm TeamLease, which covered over 800 firms across 21 sectors. Hiring intent, which is the percentage of employers that is likely to recruit employees during this period, has now jumped to 18% for the period up to September 2020, compared to 11% during the lockdown (March 25-June 7). The data also showed that India is faring much better on the intent to hire compared to major geographies like Americas (8%), Europe (9%) and the Middle East (11%). This is still much lower than pre-Covid levels but the relative growth is being seen as a sign of gradual recovery. For example, the same metric was at 96% during October 2019 to March 2020. During previous reviews, intent to hire was defined as the percentage of employers that are going to continue to hire at least the same number of staff as they did during the half-year period of previous financial years. According to the current estimates, without any major disruption like localised lockdown in major metros, this is expected to increase for the rest of the financial year ending March 31 2021, TeamLease co-founder and EVP Rituparna Chakraborty told TOI. While signs of optimism are visible across industries, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, education services, e-commerce and tech startups, agriculture and agro-chemicals, IT along with FMCG players are the top sectors with hiring bullishness. These sectors plan to hire across the ranks — from senior positions to entry-level and gig-economy jobs like delivery executives, for which demand remains higher than supply, especially in cities like Bengaluru. For example, e-tail major Amazon India has plans to hire 70,000 gradually for delivery, supply chain and customer support services. IT major TCS said last week it plans to hire 40,000 freshers in India and in May, HCL Technologies announced plans to hire 15,000. Then, education startups like Unacademy, which is backed by Facebook, is planning to hire a total of 450 people this year, its co-founder and CEO Gaurav Munjal said. In terms of cities, Bengaluru (21%) and Delhi (19%) remain the top two cities with increased hiring intent to be followed by Hyderabad (15%), Chandigarh (14%) and Mumbai (12%). The hiring intent during the lockdown in these cities was at 13%, 12%, 9%, 9% and 8%, respectively. “These are green shoots at this point. What’s interesting is sectors that are doing well, like e-commerce, healthcare, FMCG essentials, in spite of Covid-19, the most optimistic firms there are being cautiously positive on hiring intent,” said Chakraborty. “The next half of the year, we anticipate, there will be more traction in the latter part of the year. There will be a gradual increase in sentiments (to hire),” Chakraborty added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-hiring-sentiment-picks-up-for-april-sept/articleshow/77095604.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 22, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank fires six executives in loan breach case||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank is understood to have terminated the services of half a dozen executives following irregularities in the auto loans business. The bank had earlier admitted that following an internal investigation into allegations of irregularities in this segment, it had taken disciplinary action against staff. There have been reports in mainstream and social media on the bank bundling purchase of global position system (GPS) devices along with auto loans. The ministry of road transport and highways had made it mandatory to install vehicle location-tracking in all public vehicles, while it is optional for private cars. Last week, Bloomberg carried a report linking exit of the bank’s former auto loan head Ashok Khanna with the probe into allegations of improper lending practices and conflicts of interests in its vehicle-financing operation. Speaking at the bank’s annual general meeting on Saturday, the bank’s MD & CEO Aditya Puri said, “Internal inquiries carried out in the matter based on whistle-blower complaints received have brought out no conflict of interest issue. The inquiry did bring out other aspects related to personal misconduct, aggravated by a set of employees in the auto loan business for which appropriate disciplinary actions have been taken.” He added that Khanna, being head of the business segment, had also participated in the inquiry process. “There is absolutely no correlation or unnecessary correlation between the state of our portfolio or any losses or anything of the sort. Khanna was to retire after a one-year extension and he retired in March,” said Puri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bk-fires-6-execs-in-loan-breach-case/articleshow/77095500.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||Patna district administration bans movement of people in containment zones||PATNA: The district administration has banned people’s movement in the containment zones. The decision has been taken following the directives of the three-member central team, which visited some of the containment zones in Patna and Gaya on Sunday and Monday to assess the Covid-19 situation and the government’s preparedness to tackle the pandemic spread in the state. “The officials concerned have been directed to make containment zones in areas where positive cases have been found. They must ensure sanitisation and house-to-house survey in these areas,” Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said on Tuesday. He said large buffer zones were being created by clubbing small containment zones. “We are ensuring that each person follows precautionary measures,” he said. Despite statewide lockdown, people could be seen violating precautionary measures even in the containment zones. Many were seen roaming around without wearing masks. Altogether 10,652 people were penalized and fined 10,94,420 in Patna division till Monday for not following the lockdown and norms prescribed to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Several shops and some of the shopping complexes have been sealed for not maintaining social distancing norms. Deepak Kumar (name changed) of Gola Road, which has been sealed by the authorities due to the spurt in Covid-19 cases, said people cross the barricade and go out. “Several residents don’t even bother to wear masks. There are some people who try their best to follow precautionary measures, but the violators risk their lives too,” he said. North Mandiri resident Shristy Sonal said people were not following restrictions. “Even when the area was sealed a few weeks back, the residents moved around unnecessarily. They used to cross the barricades and go to markets,” she said. Lohanipur, which is considered one of the most crowded areas, is still not following the lockdown. East Lohanipur resident Shashank Verma said the residents in his area never followed social distancing norms. “The scenario during the evening hours is nothing less than that of a fair. All shops open and people move around in groups. It is a threat to people whose immunity is not good and have comorbidities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/district-admn-bans-movement-of-people-in-containment-zones/articleshow/77093377.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||Several Champaran villages affected by floods||BETTIAH/MOTIHARI/BAGAHA: While incessant rain since Sunday has claimed 114 lives and four dozen people are reported missing in the wake of landslides in the upper reaches of Nepal, the turbulent waters of the Narayani, Gandak in India, now threaten lives and property in the catchment areas of Bihar’s West Champaran and neigbouring Kushinagar district of UP. Already, several villages in the two districts were inundated by Tuesday even as 4.40 lakh cusecs flowed in through the Valmikinagar barrage on Tuesday. No loss of life was, however, reported on the Indian side of the Narayani-Gandak basin. Kushinagar DM Bhupendra Chaudhary and SP Vinod K Mishra reached Valmikinagar on Tuesday and met WRD superintending engineer Indrajeet Singh to take stock of the situation. Khadda circle officer Shiv Swarup said Basahi, Marchawa, Basantpur and Shivpur villages in Kushinagar were flooded. Heavy rain and landslides disrupted the Pokhara-Kathmandu highway. The Mauwakhola bridge between Dhading and Muglin caved in. Senior environmental journalist Chandra Kishore said the Narayanghat bridge has come under stress with the Narayani topping the 12-metre mark, way above the 9 metre danger level. “With several smaller mountain rivers merging with the Narayani, the flow is gushing southward towards the terai and the Gandak basin in Champaran,” Kishore said, adding the seasonal southern flow of these Himalayan rivers is natural. “It is sad that the Indian media still harps that Nepal releases water,” he said. Kishor also called out a Nepali narrative that embankments in India devastate the Nepal terai plains. “The three barrages at Tanakpur over the Sarada in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh, Valmikinagar over the Gandak in Champaran and the Bardohi-Birpur barrage on the Kosi were all built as part of India-Nepal treaties to mutually harness and utilize the water,” he said, adding India controls the barrages. In West Champaran, the Valmikinagar aerodrome and Thari, Lakshmipur-Rampurwa, Jhandahwa and Chakdahwa on the left bank of the Gandak have been submerged. Three SSB border outposts have also been inundated. Revenue inspector Jai Prakash said villagers of Chakdahwa were shifted to the Bheriari school. The turbulent Masan river was also eroding both its banks along its course. People of Sisahi in Madhubani and Balua-Thori in Piprasi blocks in the Gandak basin were dependent on boats for moving to safer places. West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar reached Bagaha and reviewed the preparations. “All our embankments on the Gandak are safe and have been reinforced,” he said while directing the officials to immediately shift people to higher ground, if needed. “The NDRF is also on alert,” he said. Heavy rain on both sides of the India-Nepal border around Lalbakeya in East Champaran has posed a threat to the catchment areas. With the stalemate on the strengthening of the embankment continuing for several weeks, the spectre of floods is haunting. “Planners on both sides urgently need to amicably resolve such water issues so that civilians are protected,” said Rajiv Jha, the chair at the India-Nepal Open Border Interaction Forum. The embankments on the Bagmati and Bakeya rivers in Nepal, that were breached last year, are again under threat. The catchment areas of Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Sheohar and East Champaran are also reported to be on alert. The Nepal weather office reported 169.2mm rainfall in the Lalbakeya basin on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/several-champaran-villages-affected-by-floods/articleshow/77093022.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 22, 2020||Business||Sensex nears 38k, first time in over 4 months||Mumbai: The sensex, boosted by strong foreign buying, rallied for the fifth consecutive session on Tuesday to close with a gain of 511 points at almost 38,000, for the first time in over four months. In the last five sessions, the index has gained nearly 1,900 points to close at 37,930 on Tuesday led by a surge in the stock prices of Reliance Industries, software exporters and financial companies. Positive news about two coronavirus vaccine candidates showing strong results in initial human trials lifted investor sentiment, market players said. An agreement between top European leaders about another economic rescue package for the EU region also added to the upbeat sentiment, they said. On Tuesday, foreign funds were net buyers at Rs 2,266 crore, while domestic institutions were net sellers at Rs 727 crore. According to HDFC Securities head — retail research Deepak Jasani, Asian markets were mostly higher on rising hopes for an effective vaccine to fight the pandemic. “European stocks climbed to a four-month high and German equities erased losses for the year after leaders agreed on a landmark recovery plan worth 750 billion euros”, he said. Market players added that PSU stocks were attracting buying interest on the back of the government’s push towards divestment of its stake in several of these companies. On Tuesday, BSE’s PSU index rallied 3% with Power Grid Corp, BPCL and SBI among the top contributors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-nears-38k-first-time-in-over-4-months/articleshow/77095643.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||India Post makes special arrangements to deliver rakhis||PATNA: With Raksha Bandhan round the corner, the postal department has initiated a special drive to deliver the rakhis in the country and even abroad amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Post offices in Bihar circle have started selling colourful rakhi envelopes in different sizes and shapes for the Rakhsha Bandhan, which falls on August 3 this year. Prices of water-proof and tamper-proof rakhi envelopes varies from Rs7 to Rs10, which are being sold at 466 post offices of all the 38 districts and sub-divisions across the state. The postal department has advised people to post the rakhi envelopes by July 25 for timely delivery amid the rising Covid cases in Bihar and other states as well. Postmaster General (east region) Anil Kumar said, “Over 25,000 rakhi mails have been received by the post offices in 18 districts till last Friday. The number of envelopes are increasing each day. During Raksha Bandhan, post offices receive more mails in comparison to any other day. Hence, we make elaborate arrangements to deliver the rakhi envelopes, ” he said. Talking about the arrangements for speedy delivery of rakhis, the postmaster general said separate sorting boxes have been placed at all post offices in the state. “If a person has to sent a letter, they need to drop it in a box written local. For delivery of rakhis in Bihar, there is a separate box. We have separate boxes for cities like Dehi, NCR, Dhanbad, Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Gurgaon, Bengaluru, Pune and Mumbai among others. This process will help to dispatch the rakhis at their respective destinations without delay,” he said. He added, “We have hired extra people for sorting and all the post offices have been directed to deliver the locals packets same day. After July 25, rakhis will be delivered till August 3.” Between August 1and August 3, the post offices will make deliveries of letters thrice everyday. Besides, the postal department has also arranged a special truck ‘road transport network’ as railway mail services and flights are not running.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/india-post-makes-special-arrangements-to-deliver-rakhis/articleshow/77094527.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 22, 2020||Patna||Are online classes suited for special children? Jury is out||PATNA: As schools remain closed and classes continue online, differently-abled children, who need special care and help of professional therapists, are bearing the brunt as the jury is out on whether online classes are ideally suited for their special requirements. “Such children cannot be taught online. Instead of conducting online classes for them, we are training the parents, who then teach their kids,” said Dr Prakash Mishra, director of Arunim, a school for specially-abled children in Pataliputra Colony. “More than educational knowledge, the specially-abled children need therapy and day-to-day practices, which cannot be done virtually. As of now, we have around 25 students and we are ensuring the training of their guardians,” Mishra added. The situation in other districts is worse as authorities of special schools are yet to plan a training pattern for their students. ‘Aakanksha Institute for Mentally Handicapped’ director Dr Vimal Bhadani said neither the state nor the central government has issued specific guidelines regarding specially-abled children. “We have altogether 26 visually as well as mentally handicapped children. All of them need our support in these trying times of coronavirus. Hence, the institute’s administration along with the teachers are making a specific plan for them as we have no idea for how long will the pandemic continue,” Bhadani said. However, there are a few schools which are providing online education to special children. According to Dr Manisha Krishna, director of Utkarsh Autism Centre in Bahadurpur, teaching special children is no different than teaching those who do not have any disorders. “These specially-abled children only need innovation in teaching techniques for understanding topics like proper hearing. Hence, we ensure that they are being taught via online platforms at least for an hour and a half every day,” she said. She added that online teaching is doing wonders for parents who are now able to understand their children in a better way. “We give them the topic a day in advance and they prepare for it. For instance, if we have to give counting lessons, parents are informed one day in advance, after which they arrange objects that would help them in understanding,” Krishna said. Asked about the problems being faced during online teaching, Krishna said both students and teachers face several issues. “These children with developmental issues rely on us more than they do on their family. Hence, we cannot stop training them. Besides, these children adhere to a routine, which might get ruined if not followed properly,” she said. Parents of specially-abled children say online classes are helping them maintain a routine. Jyoti Jha, who has hired a caretaker for her 18-year-old autistic grandson, said he gets ready everyday sharp at 9am and prepares himself for the class. “Digital classes have helped him increase his concentration power. Most of the time he is excited about it,” the Jagdeo Path resident said. Managing everything has, however, become a little hectic for PC Colony resident Arpana Rani as she has to get her 10-year-old specially-abled son ready for digital class every morning. “As of now, he is attending two classes- a 90 minute speech class and an hour-long psychotherapy class. I stay with him the entire time and help him during the online class,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/are-online-classes-suited-for-special-children-jury-is-out/articleshow/77094846.cms||Archi Rani
July 22, 2020||Business||Home remedies for Covid fire up spice market||Chennai: In their quest to find immunity boosters against Covid, more Indians are gulping concoction of spices firing up the prices of turmeric, pepper and ginger, which has seen an increase of 10%-20% over the past 100 days. Increasing health consciousness makes many search for natural remedies which are readily available and assumed safe for use. Pepper is retailing at Rs 580 a kg, up 17% since April, Cardamom prices are up 17% too at Rs 1,700. It is still way lower than last year’s producer prices of Rs 2,500. Amit Agrawal, CEO and co-founder, AgriBazaar, said that retail demand for spices has increased by 20%-25%. Demand for spices like Cumin, Coriander, Turmeric and Pepper are most sought after spices. However, demand at the wholesale market has slowed due to closed down of restaurants and cancellation of weddings. “We have recorded the highest volume of export of turmeric to Bangladesh this year, from the Khammam district in Telangana,” Agrawal said. While retail demand is pushing up prices, the benefits of these are not going to the grower. Sample pepper: the current prices are Rs 319 a kg for the grower in the Nilgiris while it retails at Rs 580 in Chennai. “The demand is quite strong, but the planter does not get all the benefits of this demand. Besides, the fear of imports from Sri Lanka is keeping prices subdued at the producing markets,” a senior official at planters body — UPASI said. Exports too appear strong for these spices. Not just domestic sales, even exports of some of these are showing a smart increase. “As per initial estimates, export of turmeric finger increased 41% and turmeric powder 19% in volume during April –May 2020 compared to that of the previous year,” said D Sathyan, secretary, Spices Board. The demand for ginger, black pepper is also increasing, he said. The export of Indian spices is on an increasing trend and crossed the milestone of $3 billion during 2019-20. The major markets for our spices are USA, China, EU, Middle East, Southeast Asian countries. Exports from India went up by 23% to $359 million in June, from $292 million in June last year. In Rupee terms spices exporters raked in even better realisations which rose (up 34%) to Rs 2,721 crore in June, 2020, from Rs 2,030 crore last June, as per the government data. UPASI officials and planters in Cumbum region in Tamil Nadu said that the lockdown since end March has severely hampered movement. “There are restrictions on movement of people and spices. Prices at retail may be increasing, but at the keto markets in Cumbum, it is still half of last year’s price,” a planter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/home-remedies-for-covid-fire-up-spice-market/articleshow/77095345.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
July 22, 2020||Patna||108 stranded in Middle East reach Gaya||GAYA: As Salam Air, the Muscat (Oman)-based airlines carrying 180 Bihar natives stranded in the Middle East on account of lockdown touched down the Gaya international airport on Tuesday, it became the 100th flight to ferry natives of Bihar and Jharkhand, ever since the operations began on May 18. Stranded Bihar- Jharkhand natives started arriving in special flights under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ began on May 18, when a group of 41 persons, including 13 from Jharkhand came back from UK, by a special flight operated by Air India. Gaya is the disembarkation point for Bihar-Jharkhand natives stranded abroad. Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar said on Tuesday that apart from Salam Air, IndiGo airlines operated two flights from Dubai and Dammam (Saudi Arabia). “Nearly 16,000 persons have so far arrived since the special flight operations began,” Kumar said. The airport director added that Air India and IndiGo have operated special flights under the Vande Bharat Mission, other repatriation and chartered flights have been operated by airlines like Fly Dubai, Jazeera Airways, Kuwait Airlines, Etehad, Qatar Airways, Spice jet, Air Arabia, Salam Air, Thai Air Asia, Thai Smile, Myanmar National Airways, Myanmar Airways International. Of the 101 flights till date, AI has operated 12 special flights. As per official estimates, more than 10,000 people are still to be evacuated from other countries. On arrival, those affording paid quarantine are taken to Bodh Gaya-based hotels as per their choice, while others are taken to the government-funded quarantine centre on the campus of Magadh University headquarters. According to Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, “Nearly 70% of the returnees prefer government-managed quarantine centre. More than Rs 2000 are spent on each returnee opting for official quarantine centres. They remain under institutional quarantine for the first seven days after their arrival and another seven days under home quarantine.” Most of those who opt for official quarantine centre are said to be unskilled workers who suffered job loss on account of Covid-19 pandemic. According to hospitality sector specialist Arun Ojha, “The evacuation process is slow as wide-body planes cannot land at the Gaya airport on account of comparatively shorter runway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/108-stranded-in-middle-east-reach-gaya/articleshow/77093943.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||Governor, CM mourn Lalji Tandon’s demise||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan and chief minister Nitish Kumar mourned the death of Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon (85) who passed away on Tuesday at the ageof 85. Tandon was also the governor of Bihar from August 23, 2018 to July 28, 2019 before he was appointed governor of Madhya Pradesh. A daylong state mourning was also observed in Bihar on Tuesday. In separate condolence messages, the governor and CM described Tandon as a popular leader, able administrator and eminent educationist and recalled his valuable contributions to the development of higher education in Bihar. The CM described Tandon’s demise as a personal loss and announced a state mourning for a day in honour of the departed soul. A condolence meeting was also held at Raj Bhavan in which the governor garlanded a portrait of Tandon. Former CM Rabri Devi and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejaswi Prasad Yadav have also expressed their deep shock over Tandon’s demise. Academics in Bihar fondly recalled the steps initiated by Tandon for revamping the state’s higher education in his short duration of less than a year. As chancellor of universities, he was instrumental in introducing university management information system (UMIS), online admission, biometric attendance and digital payment of salaries to the teachers and non-teaching staff in all the universities of the state. He ensured preparation of a blueprint of higher education in Bihar by inviting top educationists of the country at a two-day workshop organised at Raj Bhavan. He also directed the universities to ensure timely accreditation of colleges and universities by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. For the first time, with a view to ensuring qualitative improvement in higher education and fostering a competitive spirit on the campus, Tandon mooted a scheme of presenting the chancellor’s awards to the best performing university, vice-chancellor, college, teacher and student in the state every year and also constituted a committee of academics for the purpose, they recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/governor-cm-mourn-lalji-tandons-demise/articleshow/77094412.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||Chased by cops, mask-less youth dies in Banka||PATNA: A 20-year-old youth of Banka district had to die for not wearing a face mask and his 18-year-old friend is struggling for life at a government hospital. The motorcycle of the duo hit a tree as they tried to escape while policemen were chasing them for violating Covid-19 lockdown norms by not wearing mask. The incident took place at Katoria in the district when the victims, Santosh Yadav and Manjesh Yadav, had gone to a market on Monday. After they were asked by cops to stop, the duo fled and met an accident. The police allegedly chased the duo for nearly two kilometres. The duo suffered grievous injuries. Both were rushed to the Katoria referral hospital, where Santosh succumbed to his injuries. Manjesh’s relatives said both his hands and legs fractured due to “police highhandedness”. DIG (Bhagalpur range) Sujeet Kumar said the victims were neither wearing face masks nor helmet. Banka deputy SP Madan Kumar Anand visited the spot and inquired about the incident on Monday. Banka SP Arvind Kumar Gupta, however, couldn’t be reached for his comments. Locals, on the other hand, said senior police officers swung into action when Belhar MLA Ramdeo Yadav took up the matter with higher officials. Senior police officers have assured the family of action against the erring cops and adequate compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chased-by-cops-mask-less-youth-dies-in-banka/articleshow/77094239.cms||Ramashankar
July 22, 2020||Patna||17 more Patna high court staff test positive for Covid-19||PATNA: At least 17 more employees of Patna high court have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 48 hours. With this, the total count of employees and security personnel of high court contracting the virus has gone up to 68. The 17 fresh cases were detected after a Covid test camp was set up on the high court premises on Saturday. “Five were tested positive on Monday and 12 on Tuesday,” said a high court official. The camp, set up by the district administration, will continue to function for some more days as several high court staff are yet to undergo test. The chain of infection inside high court was first found on July 10 when a DSP-rank officer was tested Covid-19 positive. Two Covid-19 care centres have been set up for high court officers and staff who were tested positive – one at guesthouse for judges at Chhajju Bagh and another at Bihar Judicial Academy at Gai Ghat in Patna City. If needed, judges would also be treated at these centres. Medical teams have been deployed at the two centres to treat Covid-infected high court staff. Meanwhile, the high court has once again asked all subordinate courts across the state to continue functioning via virtual mode. “There should be no physical presence of anyone on court premises till the situation normalises,” it said. The subordinate courts will hear bail and remand matters in criminal cases only. Patna district and sessions judge Rudra Prakash Mishra has also asked courts to function as per high court’s direction till July 27. The high court will also take up only urgent cases till the first week of August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/17-more-patna-hc-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77094467.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 22, 2020||Patna||Patna: Social stigma concern for Covid-19 patients, kin||PATNA: Even after living in containment zones for 14 days, local people and family members of Covid patients have to struggle with the social stigma associated with the virus. As people in Patna are living in fear due to spike in Covid-19 cases, they are also scared of contracting the virus from people who have recovered from it. A resident of Chowk, Patna City, who tested positive in mid-June, said he felt bad thinking that his family members and neighbours have to face discrimination because of him. “Two people were tested positive in my family in June, but we all recovered in 10 days. Our area was sealed for 12-13 days. However, people still treat us in a manner that suggests we are carrying something dreadful,” he said. Suraj Kumar, a resident of Ashok Nagar, Kankarbagh, said, “A person died due to Covid in my neighbourhood around 24 days ago. We confined ourselves in our homes for two weeks. Though our locality is no more sealed, people still avoid visiting the area. Even fruit and vegetable sellers do not come to the locality.” “It seems we have been shunted from the society. Whenever I go to buy grocery, people stare at me and start whispering,” said a resident of Sandalpur, who has recovered from Covid-19. Many localities have been branded as ‘coronawali gali’. Kundan Singh, a resident of Phulwarisharif, said, “Whenever delivery boys and servicemen look for our homes, people tell them to ‘coronawali gali’ nearby.” Vivek Chouhan, a resident of Ashok Rajpath, said, “As my computer broke down, I called the repairman. However, he was reluctant to come to my home as people told him that a person died of Covid-19 in the locality. I somehow convinced the repairman that the locality is now Covid-free.” Chouhan said the district administration should launch an awareness campaign, telling people not to stigmatise Covic patients and their family members. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the administration has already started the awareness campaign. “We will intensify the campaign. Anyone facing harassment at the hands of locals can bring the matter to the notice of the administration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/social-stigma-concern-for-covid-patients-kin/articleshow/77093444.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 22, 2020||Pune||Katraj Dairy refutes claims about employees||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Sahakari Dudh Utpadak Sangh Ltd has refuted claims about Covid-19 positive employees at the dairy after messages stating so went viral over social media. Vice-chairperson of the cooperative Vaishali Gopalghare has issued a statement refuting the claims. “The message about positive employees at Katraj Dairy is not completely true. Some employees had tested positive a fortnight ago but 90% of them have recovered and returned home,” Gopalghare explained. She further stated that all precautions are being undertaken at the dairy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/katraj-dairy-refutes-claims-about-employees/articleshow/77095968.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid warrior’s family alleges discrimination by locals||MANGALURU: The family of a Covid warrior, who tested positive for Covid-19, alleged that they were facing discrimination from local residents. In an email sent to deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, the complainant stated that people in his locality refused to provide essentials following a threat from a few people in his locality. “I have been residing at Shirthadi, Moodbidri, with my wife and two children. My wife is a staff nurse at Wenlock Hospital and she tested positive for Covid-19 recently. Later, my son also tested positive and we are in home quarantine. Asha workers and doctors have been visiting us to enquire about our health. However, our home has not been sanitised. Meanwhile, a few people in our locality have been threatening those who are supplying food and other essential items to us. As a result, none of them are now supplying essential items, including milk to us. This has been a mental torture for us,” the complainant wrote to the DC. He added that even public servants and leaders too have been discriminating against them. “This kind of discrimination has forced my wife, who is a front-line Covid warrior, to think of resigning from her job. Hence, the district administration should take necessary action against those who are behind this,” he requested. He said that his wife has been working in Wenlock Hospital for the past three years. “She worked by wearing a PPE kit as a front-line Covid warrior at Wenlock Hospital for the past four months. Moodbidri tahsildar Anitha Lakshmi called me and assured that they will visit soon,” he added. When contacted, DHO (in-charge) Rathnakar said that he will do the needful immediately in this regard. “We will visit her house and seek information. We will not allow Covid warriors to suffer any kind of discrimination,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-warriors-family-alleges-discrimination-by-locals/articleshow/77093918.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Business||Tata Communications gets Saudi net licence||MUMBAI: Tata Communications said on Tuesday that it has secured a telecom licence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) to provide Internet and related telecom services to enterprises in a defined capacity. This will enable the company to “make the shift from offering services as a foreign carrier in the Middle East to a local licensed service provider”. Tata Comm carries around 30% of the world’s internet routes on its network. The company, in which the government of India holds over 26%, reported a loss of Rs 85 crore in fiscal 2020. It plans to pare its loss, lower its debt and cap its capex spend as part of its efforts to improve performance. In fiscal 2020, it sold its entire stake (26%) in STT Tai Seng, which operates three data centres in Singapore, to majority partner ST Telemedia Global Data Centres (STT GDC) for Rs 72 crore, resulting in a loss of Rs 7 crore. The company, however, continues to hold 26% in the India data centres. The remaining 74% is held by STT GDC. In fiscal 2020, Tata Comm made a provision of Rs 342 crore towards licence fee on its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) for the financial years 2006-7 till 2017-18 following the October 24, 2019 ruling by the Supreme Court. The company had said that it received a demand for Rs 6,633 crore from the telecommunications department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-comm-gets-saudi-net-licence/articleshow/77095402.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Business||Renewed sowing pushes up tractor registrations in TN||Chennai: As the state is heading for a bumper kharif crop lead by paddy, sales of tractors is also powering ahead with new tractor registrations across RTOs in the state powering ahead by 67% year-on-year during June when the national sales growth was just 11%. The data released by Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA), shows that TN saw the registration of 2,641 tractors in the month of June, up from 1,578 units in the year ago month. The state’s area under cultivation for the current kharif crop of paddy is 2.1 lakh hectares, up 48% Y-o-Y as of July 13 showing farmers have taken on to early paddy sowing. “We have definitely more area as on date and perhaps we are heading for a bumper crop. Our main crop is Rabi, so sowing in October and November will be crucial,” said the state’s agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi. Overall sowing of food grains, including pulses and millets has winessed a growth of 27% Y-o-Y growth at 3.1 lakh hectares as of July 13. Overall agricultural crops, including cotton, sugarcane and oilseeds is witnessing a strong growth of nearly 35% In Tamil Nadu, the uptick however is restricted only to tractors. In other vehicle categories, sales decreased sharply in the state. The FADA data shows that two wheeler sales were down 22%, car and SUV sales down nearly 43%, three wheelers down 88% and truck and bus sales down 80% for June in Tamil Nadu. While tractors have shown positive registrations in many of the big agri states, some have shown a drop too. Tractor retail sales were up 163% in Assam, 123% in Bihar, 22% in Rajasthan, 26% in Karnataka and Odisha and 5% in Maharashtra. But it is down 2.4% in UP, 17% in Haryana, 54% in Kerala and 26% in West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/renewed-sowing-pushes-up-tractor-registrations-in-tn/articleshow/77095380.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 22, 2020||Vadodara||After notice, Kiri Industries shuts unit||Vadodara: After being served closure notice by Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), Kiri Industries Limited (KIL) has temporarily closed one of its facility in Vadodara district. KIL is one of the largest manufacturers of dyes, intermediates and chemicals. Regional officer of GPCB, Vadodara R B Trivedi confirmed that the firm was issued a closure notice last month for allegedly pumping out chemical waste water in Dudhwada village in Vadodara’s Padra taluka without following prescribed norms. GPCB had also slapped a penalty (environment damage compensation) to the tune of Rs 50 lakh on the firm. “The closure notice was issued based on directives from our headquarters,” said Trivedi. On Tuesday, the company intimated this to the exchanges as well. “We would like to inform that as per directives issued by GPCB, the company has closed one of its units, dyes intermediate facility, situated at village: Dudhwada, Vadodara temporarily for expected time of around 20 to 30 days to improve and strengthen environment compliances and safety norms.” It said that all other manufacturing facilities including dyes facilities at Ahmedabad and basic chemicals facility at Dudhwada in Vadodara are however operational. Sources said that a team of GPCB had conducted an inspection of the company’s unit in mid-June during which it was revealed that the company had allegedly violated environment norms by discharging waste water into a village water body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-notice-kiri-industries-shuts-unit/articleshow/77093856.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||Patient ‘attacked’ for seeking food||PATNA: Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj and SP Vikas Kumar visited the sadar hospital on Tuesday after a Covid-19 patient was allegedly attacked by cook and other staff of the mess for demanding food. The patient was allegedly pelted with stones after he entered the kitchen of the mess and demanded food as he was feeling hungry. The victim suffered minor injuries on his head and rushed to the hospital for treatment. Senior officials of the district swung into action after a video of the incident went viral on social media. The DM ordered deputation of a special officer with immediate effect to monitor the situation at the hospital. A senior officer posted in the DM’s office said entry of outsiders in the hospital was completely banned after Tuesday’s incident. “No outsider except doctors, paramedical staff and patients will be allowed to stay in the hospital,” he said. The DM also inspected the isolation ward for Covid patients during his 45-minute stay at the hospital. Katihar civil surgeon Dr D K Pandey, sub-divisional officer Niraj Kumar and sub-divisional police officer Amarkant Jha were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patient-attacked-for-seeking-food/articleshow/77093468.cms||Ramashankar
July 22, 2020||Patna||Jewellery, valuables worth Rs 56 lakh stolen from 3 flats in Patna||PATNA: A day after theft of ornaments worth Rs 1 crore and US dollars from the residence of a merchant navy captain at Jayprakash Nagar here, thieves decamped with gold jewellery, a wrist watch worth Rs 3.6 lakh and other valuables worth more than Rs 56 lakh from three locked flats in Mahavir Enclave at Magistrate Colony under the Rajeev Nagar police station area in the city in the wee hours of Tuesday. Thieves targeted flat numbers 102 (owned by Kiran Singh, an assistant commandant in Central Reserve Police Force in Bhopal), 401 (owned by Uday Shankar Prajapati, a BJP functionary) and 108 (owned by RJD functionary Dharmendra Yadav). The thieves also tried to commit burglary in three more locked flats in neighbouring Aprajita Apartment, but could find nothing as these flats were vacated by tenants. Singh, who is currently in Lucknow, told TOI over phone that the stolen valuables included ancestral jewellery of her family and the ones purchased by her. “The thieves broke open two iron almirahs and decamped with jewellery worth Rs 50 lakh from my flat,” she said. The CRPF officer said it was society secretary B K Singh who informed her about the theft at 4am on Tuesday. “My son-in-law Sunil Singh, who lives in Patna, has filed a written complaint at the local police station,” she said. The BJP functionary, who identified himself as member of the party’s state level backward caste cell member, said thieves decamped with a branded watch worth Rs 3.6 lakh, jewellery worth Rs 1.5 lakh, a newly purchased laptop worth Rs 52,000, branded shoes worth Rs 8000 and Rs 20,000 in cash. SHO of Rajeev Nagar police station Nishant Kumar said two suspects were visible in CCTV camera footages. “Altogether six flats were targeted. We are trying to ascertain the identity of the thieves and arrest them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jewellery-valuables-worth-rs-56-lakh-stolen-from-3-flats/articleshow/77093123.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Business||Axis Bank net down 19% on new account norms||MUMBAI: Axis Bank reported a net profit of Rs 1,112 crore for Q1FY21, a drop of 19% from Rs 1,370 crore in Q1FY20 as it moved to more conservative accounting. The bank said that if a like-to-like comparison were to be made by adjusting the net profit for accounting policy changes and net interest income reserves created, the bottom line would have been higher by 19%. Announcing the results, the bank’s MD & CEO Amitabh Chaudhry said that the loan book under moratorium shrunk from 28% as of end-May 20 to 9.7% at the end of the quarter. The bank’s deposits during the period grew 16% year-on-year to Rs 6.3 lakh crore, while advances rose 13% to Rs 5.6 lakh crore. Chaudhry also announced rationalisation of international operations. It will consolidate global services for corporate banking, trade finance, treasury and risk management in branches at Dubai, Singapore and GIFT City and shut down operations in the UK, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Colombo. After the results were out, the Axis Bank global depository receipt rallied 12% at 2040 hrs IST. Chaudhry said that the bank had moved to much more conservative accounting policies. “During the current quarter, we have done the following to continue to move the needle: Changed accounting policies related to fee recognition; increased provisioning on standard investments, red-flagged accounts, Covid-related provisions and adopted a conservative stance on interest recognition for NII,” said Chaudhry. The bank has set aside provisions amounting to over 1.5% of its loan book. “Our capital position is strong and the bank is well capitalised with a capital adequacy ratio of 17.47%. However, we continually evaluate various capital-raising initiatives. We have an enabling resolution from our board, pending approval from our shareholders, that will allow us to raise funds over the next year,” said Chaudhry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-net-down-19-on-new-a/c-norms/articleshow/77095524.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Kids with learning difficulties find it hard to cope with online classes, drop out of school||CHENNAI: Several parents of children with learning difficulties are pulling their kids out of school as they are facing problems coping with the online learning system in times of lockdown and pandemic. A recent survey conducted by Swabhiman, a community-based organisation working for the differently abled, found that around 43% parents of children with learning difficulties were planning to pull their children out of schools because of this reason. The study was held across Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Nagaland, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Chennai. “My son is unable to cope with the online learning system, hence I have decided to pull him out of school,” said S Sadhika, parent of a ten-year-old who has learning difficulty. Sadhika said ever since the classes moved online, her son who is used to one-on-one guidance, is unable to concentrate on studies. “He is struggling to grasp lessons. Since the situation is going to remain the same for a while, it is better I send him back to school in the next academic year,” she said. Chennai has around 15 mainstream private schools which admit children with learning difficulties. Teachers of these schools said that since the last two weeks, at least three parents have pulled their children with learning difficulties out of school, or have requested for transfer certificate. “My son is used to a certain learning setup and needs extra attention from his teacher, which is not possible on a digital platform,” said Priyamvada (name changed), another parent of a special child. Priyamvada said that though she has requested the school principal to give her son a transfer certificate, she’s still in two minds. “There are already very few mainstream schools in the city that accept special children, I’m worried if I take him out now he won’t get re-admission. But the way the classes are going on now, it’s better my son stays at home and relaxes,” she said. Letishia Harris, principal of Gateway International School, said that they have been holding special classes for these children individually. “We still have a parent who is in two minds on whether to pull their child out of school or not. But we are flexible and are also doing our best to teach,” she said. K Ramalakshmi, head of inclusive education at HLC International School, said parents’ involvement and guidance were crucial. “Since most of the parents are busy with their professional life, they find it hard to help their child learn. We insist that they sit with them even during class, only then can the child focus better. This requires a combined effort,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kids-with-learning-difficulties-find-it-hard-to-cope-with-online-classes-drop-out-of-school/articleshow/77100472.cms||Aditi R
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Kids with learning difficulties find it hard to cope with online classes, drop out of school||CHENNAI: Several parents of children with learning difficulties are pulling their kids out of school as they are facing problems coping with the online learning system in times of lockdown and pandemic. A recent survey conducted by Swabhiman, a community-based organisation working for the differently abled, found that around 43% parents of children with learning difficulties were planning to pull their children out of schools because of this reason. The study was held across Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Nagaland, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Chennai. “My son is unable to cope with the online learning system, hence I have decided to pull him out of school,” said S Sadhika, parent of a ten-year-old who has learning difficulty. Sadhika said ever since the classes moved online, her son who is used to one-on-one guidance, is unable to concentrate on studies. “He is struggling to grasp lessons. Since the situation is going to remain the same for a while, it is better I send him back to school in the next academic year,” she said. Chennai has around 15 mainstream private schools which admit children with learning difficulties. Teachers of these schools said that since the last two weeks, at least three parents have pulled their children with learning difficulties out of school, or have requested for transfer certificate. “My son is used to a certain learning setup and needs extra attention from his teacher, which is not possible on a digital platform,” said Priyamvada (name changed), another parent of a special child. Priyamvada said that though she has requested the school principal to give her son a transfer certificate, she’s still in two minds. “There are already very few mainstream schools in the city that accept special children, I’m worried if I take him out now he won’t get re-admission. But the way the classes are going on now, it’s better my son stays at home and relaxes,” she said. Letishia Harris, principal of Gateway International School, said that they have been holding special classes for these children individually. “We still have a parent who is in two minds on whether to pull their child out of school or not. But we are flexible and are also doing our best to teach,” she said. K Ramalakshmi, head of inclusive education at HLC International School, said parents’ involvement and guidance were crucial. “Since most of the parents are busy with their professional life, they find it hard to help their child learn. We insist that they sit with them even during class, only then can the child focus better. This requires a combined effort,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kids-with-learning-difficulties-find-it-hard-to-cope-with-online-classes-drop-out-of-school/articleshow/77100471.cms||Aditi R
July 22, 2020||Chennai||Kids with learning difficulties find it hard to cope with online classes, drop out of school||CHENNAI: Several parents of children with learning difficulties are pulling their kids out of school as they are facing problems coping with the online learning system in times of lockdown and pandemic. A recent survey conducted by Swabhiman, a community-based organisation working for the differently abled, found that around 43% parents of children with learning difficulties were planning to pull their children out of schools because of this reason. The study was held across Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Nagaland, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Chennai. “My son is unable to cope with the online learning system, hence I have decided to pull him out of school,” said S Sadhika, parent of a ten-year-old who has learning difficulty. Sadhika said ever since the classes moved online, her son who is used to one-on-one guidance, is unable to concentrate on studies. “He is struggling to grasp lessons. Since the situation is going to remain the same for a while, it is better I send him back to school in the next academic year,” she said. Chennai has around 15 mainstream private schools which admit children with learning difficulties. Teachers of these schools said that since the last two weeks, at least three parents have pulled their children with learning difficulties out of school, or have requested for transfer certificate. “My son is used to a certain learning setup and needs extra attention from his teacher, which is not possible on a digital platform,” said Priyamvada (name changed), another parent of a special child. Priyamvada said that though she has requested the school principal to give her son a transfer certificate, she’s still in two minds. “There are already very few mainstream schools in the city that accept special children, I’m worried if I take him out now he won’t get re-admission. But the way the classes are going on now, it’s better my son stays at home and relaxes,” she said. Letishia Harris, principal of Gateway International School, said that they have been holding special classes for these children individually. “We still have a parent who is in two minds on whether to pull their child out of school or not. But we are flexible and are also doing our best to teach,” she said. K Ramalakshmi, head of inclusive education at HLC International School, said parents’ involvement and guidance were crucial. “Since most of the parents are busy with their professional life, they find it hard to help their child learn. We insist that they sit with them even during class, only then can the child focus better. This requires a combined effort,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kids-with-learning-difficulties-find-it-hard-to-cope-with-online-classes-drop-out-of-school/articleshow/77095487.cms||Aditi R
July 22, 2020||Business||29% of Indian companies say biz as usual: Survey||MUMBAI: Despite the Covid-19 impact, 29% of Indian businesses are operating as normal. This is the second-highest level seen across all markets, just behind mainland China. According to a report by HSBC, 54% of the surveyed Indian businesses felt that they were as well prepared as they possibly could be — again the second-highest among all countries surveyed and higher than the average 45% across all markets. The report attributes the resilience among businesses to the fact that nearly three quarters (73%) of them either have a management that is sufficiently agile or overall strong, and able to manage with a number of adjustments. This is also the second-highest level across all markets surveyed and more than the overall average of 65%. However, 2% of those surveyed in India feel that their long-term survival is threatened. “While Covid has undeniably altered the economic landscape, Indian businesses have shown resilience in the face of adversity. Businesses will have to make varying degrees of adjustments to adapt to this altered landscape, which will be the new normal for the foreseeable future. The ability to absorb such external shock will be a critical component for businesses to focus on during the course of their short as well long-term growth plans,” said HSBC India head (commercial banking) Rajat Verma. India has had one of the most stringent lockdowns globally, which has resulted in sharp downward forecasts for the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). According to rating agency ICRA, the GDP is expected to shrink 9.5% during the current fiscal. Stress tests conducted by regulators show that such a sharp dip in growth would lead in a large number of businesses being unable to repay loans. Yet, despite the significant impact of Covid, many Indian businesses have found positive workarounds, shown high preparedness, made contingency plans for the future and continue to operate as normal, according to HSBC’s Navigator report ‘Building Back Better’. According to the report, 46% of Indian businesses covered under the survey felt ‘very strongly’ impacted by the Covid pandemic. This was the highest level across all markets surveyed. Maintaining and enhancing the security and stability of supply chains is critical for the surveyed Indian businesses. The most important aspect for around 42% of Indian businesses is to review their suppliers’ ability to weather future uncertainty. This is the joint highest (along with Indonesia) across all markets surveyed and significantly higher than the overall average at 30%. Over the next one-two years, 78% of them intend to increase measures to ensure the security of their supply chains, while 63% intend to increase transparency in the same. However, 40% of those surveyed in India intend to restrict their supply chain. These are the highest proportions of businesses across all surveyed markets. Moreover, favourable changes to customer demand (60%) and better access to financing facilities (62%) are some of the other aspects that have been positively impacted by the current environment, feel those covered by this survey in India. Both these parameters rank the highest across all countries covered in the survey and significantly higher than the overall average (43% each). However, aspects related to the availability of labour have the lowest positive balance for Indian businesses with only 53% seeing it being positively impacted, while 25% see a negative outcome from the current environment. The HSBC report surveyed more than 2,600 companies across 14 global markets in the world, including 200 firms from India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/29-of-indian-cos-say-biz-as-usual-survey/articleshow/77095666.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Raipur||Chhattisgarh: Covid movement slows as 115 test positive, 170 recover||RAIPUR: In a silver lining, more patients were discharged than those tested positive. On Tuesday, 170 became Covid-free and were discharged from hospital against 115 new cases. Of these 170 recoveries, 82 patients were discharged from Raipur. While one covid death has been reported on Tuesday increasing the death tally to 29. The state’s total Covid count jumped to 5,731 with 1588 active cases. Of these 115 cases, 50 are from Raipur, 23 from Kondagaon, eight from Bilapsur, five each from Gaurela Pendra Marwahi, Koriya and Narayanpur, four from Kanker, three each from Dantewada and Janjgir-Champa, two each from Bijapur, Balrampur and Durg and one each from Bastar, Sarguja and Sukma. However, in capital city 127 containment zones have been earmarked as these areas carry 620 active cases. Notably, with 1,314 covid cases, Raipur accounted for the highest number of people testing positive in Chhattisgarh. In a similar development, health department appealed to the patients to return home only after being discharged from the hospital as few absconding cases of covid patients had been reported from the state. “We have issued direction that the patients should not leave the hospital on their own as few days ago a woman from Raipur, hospitalised for treatment of Covid-19, had absconded from hospital, who later succumbed to the virus, had passed infection onto her relatives as well.,” said state health official. The health department has asked those asymptomatic coronavirus patients to remain in isolation centres until their report comes negative. Patients with symptoms of infection will be hospitalized and treated. The department has also strictly instructed people to stay away from areas with containment zones. Currently, city’s Birgaon, Urla, Hirapur, Kabirnagar, Tatibandh, Kukurbeda, Sweeper Colony in Mangal Bazar, Gudiyari, Changora Bhatha, Bhatagaon, Math Purana, Mathpara, Shankar Nagar, New Shanti Nagar, Dal Seoni, Saddu are contained. Contact tracing, active surveillance and santitisation is being done in containment zones. Traffic in these areas is completely restricted. Health department is trying to take samples of all people here. The Health Department has appealed to the people of these areas to be more vigilant and strictly follow all the guidelines related to prevention of infection of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/virus-movement-slows-as-115-test-ve-170-recover/articleshow/77092231.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Raipur||Chhattisgarh: Radio classes to teach Bastar students as smartphones remain out of reach||RAIPUR: Good morning students ... greet the loudspeakers in Bastar these days. As smartphones remain out of reach for many, the state education department is teaching children via community radio. Explaining the concept of community radio programme, the official said as most of the children in Bastar district come from underprivileged families, smartphones are unaffordable for them. Thus, depriving them of e-classes. To ensure, education remains accessible to all, the district has decided to impart lessons via radio. The programme was started as a pilot project under ‘Padhai Tunhar Dwaar’ in Bhatpal. And has become an effective for children's education in Bastar. After its success, the programme has now been expanded in all gram panchayats of the development block Lohandiguda too. Besides, studies are being conducted through community radio in gram panchayat Alva in Darbha block, Raikot and Chhapar Bhanpuri in Tokapal block and Chhote Kawali and Jamawada in Jagdalpur block. A district administration spokesperson said that the lessons are being given in local languages like Halbi, apart from Hindi and English. The loud speakers have been installed at designated areas, and students take notes, similar to regular classrooms, except the radio voice has replaced the blackboards. Under the guidance of district collector Rajat Bansal and with the dedication of officials and teachers of education department, Rajiv Gandhi education mission, the children in this tribal dominated region are not deprived of education even in absence of smart phones and Internet facilities. This is proving beneficial for those who are being deprived of the benefits of 'Padhai Tunhar Duar' schemelaunched by the state government to provide education at home, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/radio-classes-to-teach-bastar-students-as-smartphones-remain-out-of-reach/articleshow/77092232.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Delays of 48 hours to four days in results nullify increased testing, suggests study||Kochi: If more tests with quick results are key to containing the Covid-19 spread, Kerala has a tough time ahead. The state collects on average 15,000-16,000 samples daily but it takes two to three days for the test results. A study published in The Lancet, while asserting that minimising testing delay had the largest impact on reducing onward transmissions, said a delay of two days or more resulted in 50% transmission. “There are two problems. It becomes essential to keep all those whose samples are sent for tests in isolation till the results come, and that’s a strain on resources, especially when the cases are increasing. Also, all further steps — contact tracing and their quarantining — are taken only after the test reports come positive,” an expert, Dr Anup Warrier, said. The situation in Kozhikode — where the medical college recently acquired an automated RNA extraction machine — has improved of late. "We have got eight new automated RNA extraction machines, which will be distributed to major government testing labs. This will ensure that the results are delivered within 48 hours. The test results of samples collected through sentinel surveillance are kept pending and this needs to change," a health department official said. The state has 53 laboratories — 27 government and 26 private — conducting Covid tests, but the facilities might not be enough if cases spread further. “The number of samples being collected has increased but not the testing capacity. The situation will change only if we have more hospitals, both public and private, having antigen testing facilities. The majority of private hospitals can’t do antigen testing as the government still insists on NABL or NABH accreditation for the facility,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, Indian Medical Association (IMA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/delays-of-48-hours-to-4-days-in-results-nullify-increased-testing-study/articleshow/77098960.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Delays of 48 hours to four days in results nullify increased testing, suggests study||Kochi: If more tests with quick results are key to containing the Covid-19 spread, Kerala has a tough time ahead. The state collects on average 15,000-16,000 samples daily but it takes two to three days for the test results. A study published in The Lancet, while asserting that minimising testing delay had the largest impact on reducing onward transmissions, said a delay of two days or more resulted in 50% transmission. “There are two problems. It becomes essential to keep all those whose samples are sent for tests in isolation till the results come, and that’s a strain on resources, especially when the cases are increasing. Also, all further steps — contact tracing and their quarantining — are taken only after the test reports come positive,” an expert, Dr Anup Warrier, said. The situation in Kozhikode — where the medical college recently acquired an automated RNA extraction machine — has improved of late. "We have got eight new automated RNA extraction machines, which will be distributed to major government testing labs. This will ensure that the results are delivered within 48 hours. The test results of samples collected through sentinel surveillance are kept pending and this needs to change," a health department official said. The state has 53 laboratories — 27 government and 26 private — conducting Covid tests, but the facilities might not be enough if cases spread further. “The number of samples being collected has increased but not the testing capacity. The situation will change only if we have more hospitals, both public and private, having antigen testing facilities. The majority of private hospitals can’t do antigen testing as the government still insists on NABL or NABH accreditation for the facility,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, Indian Medical Association (IMA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/delays-of-48-hours-to-4-days-in-results-nullify-increased-testing-study/articleshow/77093900.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC experiments with crematorium on wheels||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is experimenting with a mobile crematorium to handle the increase in Covid-19 bodies. Currently placed at the crematorium in Erragadda, the mobile device can actually be transported anywhere and is a plug-in model. A GHMC official, on condition of anonymity, said, “We completed the first phase of trials on Monday. There are some modifications required, which will be completed in a week. After that, we will consider commissioning it.” The price of the device is estimated to be around Rs 7.5 lakh. Speaking to TOI, the founder of the firm which procured the device, said: “The device has Japanese burners that reach 1,200 degree fahrenheit (650 degree celsius) and can burn a body in under 1.5 hours. One body can be burned every two hours.” The founder said that during the trial it was found that there was some smoke being generated. “This is because bodies are being placed with PPEs. To avoid polluting the surroundings, we will be adding wet scrubbers and cooling systems,” she said. There are 90 such machines being used in Tamil Nadu and 40 in Kerala, she added. The machine needs one phase of power and an LPG cylinder and can be transported and plugged in anywhere. GHMC sources said the device is the need of the hour. “It would also allow more bodies to be burnt in case the need arises,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-experiments-with-crematorium-on-wheels/articleshow/77095995.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Jaganmohan's tri-capital plan hits governor hurdle, bills sent to legal experts||VIJAYAWADA: The AP government may have to wait a little longer for its ambitious three capitals plan to materialise. Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan has decided to seek legal opinion on the bills seeking trifurcation of the state administration and abolition of the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA). The state government had on July 18 sent the AP Capital Region Authority Act 2014 Repeal Bill 2020 and the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill 2020 to Raj Bhavan for approval. Opposition parties have written to the Governor urging him not to give his assent. They allege that the bills betrayed the promises made to farmers of Amaravati. The governor’s move gains significance as the matter is sub-judice, pending before the AP high court. Farmers, who had given their land under land pooling for construction of the capital, have approached the court. They argue that they had participated in land pooling only because the capital city was promised in their area. Also, the bills were referred to select committees by Legislative Council. The previous TDP government had pooled together about 30,000 acres of land. However, when YSRCP came to power in 2019, the government decided to have three separate capitals with Visakhapatnam as the administrative capital. The governor’s assent is important as the high court would take up the issue only after the bills become legislation. On the other hand, if the governor gives his consent to the bills, it would be easy for the government to make its next move. Sources said that the national leadership of the BJP is in favour of the capital relocating to Visakhapatnam, where BJP has some foothold compared to Amaravati or other parts of the state. The presence of a steel plant and a Naval base at Visakhapatnam have brought a large number of migrants to the city, which is politically seen as an advantage to the BJP. Added to this, the South Coastal Railway (SCoR) zone is located here and the AP Express train to the national capital starts from here, which were all given at the behest of the BJP leadership. However, AP BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana and his team are opposed to the capital city being in Visakhapatnam. The bills were earlier referred to the Legislative Council by the Assembly in January this year. But it became controversial with the opposition TDP rejecting them and Council chairman M A Shariff announcing that he would be referring the bills to select committees. He also constituted two select committees for the purpose. The ruling YSR Congress claimed that the chairman’s decision was not recorded and the procedure too was not followed. The Assembly secretariat called it procedural lapse and declined to proceed further. Then the state government decided to abolish the Council and passed a resolution in the state assembly seeking abolition of the upper House. The resolution is now pending with the Centre. The ruling party waited for the mandatory three months and had referred them to the Council after duly passing in the Assembly for the second time in June. This time, the TDP did not allow the chair to admit the bills on the ground that they were earlier referred to the select committee and the issue too was challenged in the high court. After the two Houses were adjourned without the Legislative Council taking a decision, the bills were sent to the governor for his consent after the mandatory period of one month. Assembly secretary P Balakrishnamacharyulu sent the bills to the Governor on June 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagan-tri-capital-plan-hits-guv-hurdle-bills-sent-to-legal-experts/articleshow/77096465.cms||Gopi Dara
July 22, 2020||Pune||Criminal held for burglaries in Pune||PUNE: The Chandannagar police cracked three burglary cases and a vehicle theft with the arrest of a 30-year-old criminal from Nigdi on Monday. Police said the suspect, Arbaz Talafdar (30), admitted his involvement in the three incidents and also named two accomplices. “He also stole a car from Kothrud,” senior inspector Shankar Khatke said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-held-for-burglaries/articleshow/77095975.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Pune||Critical patients from PCB area to get Army hospital’s attention||PUNE: The Indian Army’s Southern Command has agreed to treat critical Covid-19 patients residing in the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) area at its Army Institute of Cardio-Thoracic Sciences (AICTS). The institute has been designated as a Covid-19 hospital for Pune and Khadki garrisons. The AICTS has so far treated only serving and retired armed forces personnel and their family members. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “Based on my requisition, the army authorities have agreed to reserve ICU beds for cantonment patients. This is a very positive sign for us. In fact, General Officer Commanding Major General Navneet Kumar of the Dakshin Maharashtra and Goa Sub Area, which is the local military authority, has played a crucial role in this development.” He added, “We will request the army authorities to treat critical Covid-19 patients from Khadki and Dehu Road cantonments at the facility as their hospitals don’t have ICU beds at present.” PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “We have already sent one critical patient to AICTS on Monday. The army authorities have told us that at least 10 ICU beds have been reserved for our patients at the AICTS.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/critical-patients-from-pcb-area-to-get-army-hospitals-attention/articleshow/77095971.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Pune||Elderly man dies of injuries||PUNE: A 74-year-old man on Saturday succumbed to the head injuries he had suffeerd in a motorcycle accident on June 16. Barnabas Anthony had lost control of his motorcycle when he applied sudden brakes to avoid a herd of buffaloes in Khadki. Anthony, a resident of Aundh, was not wearing a helmet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-dies-of-injuries/articleshow/77095972.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: PSUs, pvt firms fill infra void amid Covid spike||RANCHI/BOKARO: Public sector units (PSU) and corporate houses operating in Jharkhand have joined the fight against Covid-19 with their infrastructure, manpower and resources. From provisioning Covid-19 isolation beds at their hospitals, deploying doctors and healthcare professionals on Covid duty to donating money, PPE kits and ventilators and feeding the needy through community kitchens, they are doing it all. Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), the Coal India Limited (CIL) subsidiary headquartered in Ranchi, has donated Rs 21 crore to the state contingency fund. The PSU installed 110 beds for treating Covid-19 patients in its central hospitals in Ranchi’s Gandhinagar and Ramgarh’s Nayasarai. By Monday, 211 persons were discharged from these two hospitals after being cured. “As many as 20,000 people were fed through the community kitchens in Ramgarh and 450 quintal dry ration was distributed during the lockdown. More than 15,000 ready-to-eat food packets were distributed to migrants arriving in Shramik Special trains and sanitisation drives were held in various panchayats in Bermo (Bokaro),” the PSU’s public relations department said. Tata Steel has by far been the biggest contributor in terms of health infrastructure in the fight against Covid-19. In a statement, the steel major said it has created 740 isolation beds, including 77 critical care beds, for patients at Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur. “The facility has been augmented to add 90 more beds in the GT-3 hostel,” it said. Besides Jamshedpur, Tata Steel opened 25 isolation beds each at its mines in Noamundi and West Bokaro and a 10 bed center in Jamadoba in Dhanbad. TMH also got the ICMR’s approval to test Covid samples through RT-PCR machines. “As on July 20, 12,000 samples were tested here,” it added. The major also handed out 15 lakh masks, 1 lakh PPE kits and 10 lakh gloves to various state governments. Dhanbad-based Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) and Bokaro Steel Plant, a subsidiary of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), also provisioned Covid-19 isolation beds at their hospitals. BSL’s Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) earmarked 90 out of its 900 beds for positive patients. BGH is Bokaro’s biggest tertiary Covid care centre at the moment. Besides healthcare infrastructure, BSL management donated Rs 1 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund and Rs 18 lakh to the district disaster relief fund. The Adani Group, which is commissioning a 1,600MW thermal power plant in Godda, donated Rs 5 crore to the CM relief fund and has run community kitchens in the hamlets around its plant site. Last week, the Azim Premji Foundation donated 12,700 PPE kits, 20,300 N-95 masks, five TrueNat machines and two RNA extractor machines to the state government for its perusal. Accepting the foundation’s donation, CM Hemant Soren said the support of PSUs and corporates will go a long way in the state’s fight against Covid-19. “It is because of your help that we will win this fight. All the equipment and resources being provided to us is being utilized fully and is benefitting all sections of the society,” Soren was quoted as saying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/psus-pvt-firms-fill-infra-void-amid-covid-spike/articleshow/77104434.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: PSUs, pvt firms fill infra void amid Covid spike||RANCHI/BOKARO: Public sector units (PSU) and corporate houses operating in Jharkhand have joined the fight against Covid-19 with their infrastructure, manpower and resources. From provisioning Covid-19 isolation beds at their hospitals, deploying doctors and healthcare professionals on Covid duty to donating money, PPE kits and ventilators and feeding the needy through community kitchens, they are doing it all. Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), the Coal India Limited (CIL) subsidiary headquartered in Ranchi, has donated Rs 21 crore to the state contingency fund. The PSU installed 110 beds for treating Covid-19 patients in its central hospitals in Ranchi’s Gandhinagar and Ramgarh’s Nayasarai. By Monday, 211 persons were discharged from these two hospitals after being cured. “As many as 20,000 people were fed through the community kitchens in Ramgarh and 450 quintal dry ration was distributed during the lockdown. More than 15,000 ready-to-eat food packets were distributed to migrants arriving in Shramik Special trains and sanitisation drives were held in various panchayats in Bermo (Bokaro),” the PSU’s public relations department said. Tata Steel has by far been the biggest contributor in terms of health infrastructure in the fight against Covid-19. In a statement, the steel major said it has created 740 isolation beds, including 77 critical care beds, for patients at Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur. “The facility has been augmented to add 90 more beds in the GT-3 hostel,” it said. Besides Jamshedpur, Tata Steel opened 25 isolation beds each at its mines in Noamundi and West Bokaro and a 10 bed center in Jamadoba in Dhanbad. TMH also got the ICMR’s approval to test Covid samples through RT-PCR machines. “As on July 20, 12,000 samples were tested here,” it added. The major also handed out 15 lakh masks, 1 lakh PPE kits and 10 lakh gloves to various state governments. Dhanbad-based Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) and Bokaro Steel Plant, a subsidiary of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), also provisioned Covid-19 isolation beds at their hospitals. BSL’s Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) earmarked 90 out of its 900 beds for positive patients. BGH is Bokaro’s biggest tertiary Covid care centre at the moment. Besides healthcare infrastructure, BSL management donated Rs 1 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund and Rs 18 lakh to the district disaster relief fund. The Adani Group, which is commissioning a 1,600MW thermal power plant in Godda, donated Rs 5 crore to the CM relief fund and has run community kitchens in the hamlets around its plant site. Last week, the Azim Premji Foundation donated 12,700 PPE kits, 20,300 N-95 masks, five TrueNat machines and two RNA extractor machines to the state government for its perusal. Accepting the foundation’s donation, CM Hemant Soren said the support of PSUs and corporates will go a long way in the state’s fight against Covid-19. “It is because of your help that we will win this fight. All the equipment and resources being provided to us is being utilized fully and is benefitting all sections of the society,” Soren was quoted as saying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/psus-pvt-firms-fill-infra-void-amid-covid-spike/articleshow/77093937.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||‘Smart street’ at MP Nagar to be ready in a month||BHOPAL: Work undertaken by the Bhopal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (BSCDCL) in MP Nagar would be completed within a month, according to BSCSDL officials. The ‘tactical urbanisation’ project has been delayed by almost three years. BSCDCL CEO, Aditya Singh, on Monday inspected the site in MP Nagar near the Board Office intersection. “MP Nagar Smart Street will be completed in a month,” said Singh. He reviewed the work status during the site visit and gave necessary instructions to the officers. The tactical urbanism project includes development of transportation Infrastructure and smart street on principles along the stretch of Board Office to Jyoti Talkies square. It also includes making place for construction, development and maintenance of smart street, interchange bus terminal at Board Office, plaza and parking. Underground electrification for the area has been completed. ‘Tactical urbanism’ is to have better walkable streets with lively, safe and usable urban areas, Singh added. Green areas, clear pedestrian pathways and smart parking utilizing the most out of the space at a prime location has been envisaged. The project features urban interventions that aim to make a small part of a city more lively. The overall tactics used is to improve the urban environment and are replicable across the city with customization and site specific requirement, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/smart-street-at-mp-nagar-to-be-ready-in-a-month/articleshow/77097214.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||Elephantine problem for this village in Chhatarpur that lives off jumbos||BHOPAL: It’s desperation of jumbo proportions for an entire village in Chhattarpur district, where most people roam around the country with elephants, collecting alms as livelihood. Thirty of the giants are stranded in MP, Rajasthan, UP and Bihar, caretaker and animal suffering alike in Covid crunch. After the lockdown, the Jogi community has been able to bring back only five elephants. The others, along with their owners and caretakers, are stuck in other states in pitiable conditions. The Jogi community of around 5,000 lives in Aktoha village, about 65km from the Chhattarpur town and 400km from Bhopal. Dressed like sadhus, with vermillion tika on their forehead, they go with their elephants to big cities, including Mumbai, to seek alms. About 1,000 villagers roam in the northern parts of the country with the elephants. Only half of those who had set out in the beginning of this year have been able to get back, said people of Aktoha. As the elephant is revered across the country, many people would feed them and give some money to the Jogi accompanying it. But with the Coronavirus pandemic, the Jogis suddenly find themselves unwelcome in big cities, and unable to get alms as people stay indoors. During the lockdown and unlocking, lakhs of migrant workers across the country streamed back home. But weighed down by their jumbo friends, most the Jogis could not. They, and those that made it back home, are going through hard times, struggling to feed themselves and the elephants. “There is a jungle nearby and we feed our elephants peepal and banyan leaves and grass,” said Sarman Giri, a senior member of Jogis. Another community member, Rambahadur Giri said one of the elephants and its owner and caretakers walked the 600km from Ujjain to Chhatarpur in the scorching heat of April. Others hired two trucks to bring back two elephants from Udaipur, he added. Bhagwandas, an elephant owner, said as many as 30 jumbos are stuck in different parts of India. No government help has reached them, he said, adding that 10 caretakers with an elephant in one city are somehow managing to sustain themselves and have even sent some money home. Asked if it is legal to own elephants, a forest official said, “You need to have a valid ownership certificate in India, issued by the forest department, to own one. Besides, every captive elephant has a chip fitted on its body which ascertains its identity.” The Jogis said they have “every legal document” required to own an elephant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/elephantine-problem-for-this-village-in-chhatarpur-that-lives-off-jumbos/articleshow/77097218.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||Digvijaya Singh takes dig at BJP, asks RSS chief to take note of ‘corruption’||BHOPAL: Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday appealed to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to take a “confidential report” from his organisation functionaries on the conduct of ministers in the BJP government and alleged that corruption is prevailing in the state.  “Hearty welcome to RSS sarsanghchalak Dr Mohan Bhagwat to Bhopal city. Please take confidential report from your volunteers on the conduct and corruption of the BJP chief minister and ministers. Also, seek information on the involvement of Shivraj ji (Singh Chouhan)’s family in illegal sand mining activities,” Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya said in a tweet. In another tweet directed to Bhagwat, Digvijaya said, “You must inquire about the purchase of MLAs. Please clarify what the RSS thinks about this kind of a democratic system, the conduct of MLAs and appointment of ministers who are not legislators.”  BJP national vice-president Prabhat Jha said, “I am a swayamsevak of the RSS and also affiliated to BJP. I can say that Digvijaya Singh, despite so many years of experience in politics, still knows nothing about the RSS.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diggy-takes-dig-at-bjp-asks-rss-chief-to-take-note-of-corruption/articleshow/77097219.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Doctors’ retirement age increased to 65 years||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Tuesday increased the retirement age of doctors from 62 years to 65 years. “Doctors have very crucial role during the pandemic. Keeping this in mind, chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced to increase their retirement age during a review of the Covid-19 situation,” a government statement said. Around 8000 doctors of Odisha Health and Medical Services cadre, who work in district headquarters hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres will get additional three years of service. Retirement age of allopathic insurance medical officers working under labour department has also been revised to 65 years. The retirement age of medical teachers is already 65 years in the state. The Odisha Medical Services Association (OMSA), a body of government doctors, said the government should ensure certain stipulations for the extra years in service. Extending the retirement age would mean the seniors would continue to remain in administrative posts such as directors of health, public health and medical education, besides several posts of joint directors. The government should ensure that doctors above 62 years are not be posted in administrative positions. They should only be engaged in patient care,” said OMSA president Narayan Rout. Rout said doctors who may not be willing to serve after 62 years should have the option of voluntary retirements with full post-retirement benefits. The government sanctioned Rs 15 crore each for Khurda and Cuttack districts from Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for the pandemic fight. More than one lakh people have returned back from outside the state to Khurda and Cuttack. In spite of the large influx of migrants, the situation is under control with recovery rate of 70% in Khurda and 71% in Cuttack, which is much above the national average of 63%, a government statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/doctors-retirement-age-increased-to-65-years/articleshow/77093954.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||AP: Stepbrother sells sister to brothel for Rs 27,000||VIJAYAWADA: A 13-year-old girl was allegedly sold by her stepbrother to a gang running a prostitution ring at Singarayakonda of Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh. The incident came to light on Tuesday after the girl was rescued by the police in an undercover operation. The incident happened on July 18 and the cops came into the picture after the girl dialled 100 and sought help. The call was traced and the girl was rescued, Kandukur police inspector Vijay Kumar said. Cops said that girl, who was living at her stepbrother’s place due to constant fights between her parents, was the child through her father’s second marriage. Cops said that there were problems over the second marriage as well as property disputes. Her stepbrother along with his wife took the girl from Kavali in Nellore district to Singarayakonda where they sold her to a prostitution racket for Rs 27,000. The girl, however, quickly alerted the cops by dialling 100. The police reached the spot, rescued her and arrested the house owner. “The girl is in shock after the incident. We have collected a statement from her and registered a case under relevant Sections of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, at Kandukur police station. Cops have transferred the case to Disha police in Ongole town for further investigation. They are yet to nab the girl’s stepbrother and his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-yr-old-sold-to-brothel-by-stepbrother-dials-100-saved/articleshow/77096480.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 22, 2020||Hubballi||84 fresh cases, five more deaths in Dharwad dist||Dharwad: The district recorded five Covid-19 fatalities in last 24 hours from Monday evening. During the same period 84 fresh positive cases have been reported. The number of positive cases stands at 2,327 on Tuesday evening. The number of deaths has gone up to 73, while the number of active cases are 1,544. Among the 84 persons who tested positive in the last 24 hours, 24 are from Dharwad city and the rest are from Hubballi. A 91-year-old woman, a resident of Banashankari Nagar in Dharwad, is among those who died on Tuesday. A 70-year-old man from Anchatageri Oni, a 70-year-old man from Kongawad Goudar Oni and a 66-year-old man from Vinuta Colony in Gadag Road of Hubballi died on Tuesday. A 50-year-old man and a resident of Hubballi was brought dead to a hospital on Tuesday and his sample tested positive. Eight test +ve in Tata MarcopoloEight employees working in Tata Marcopolo Company near Belur in Dharwad have tested positive, said DC Nitesh Patil. A team of officials from the industries department visited the plant on Tuesday after receiving complaints that no safety measures were being ensured in the company premises. patil said the team inspected the premises and is satisfied that safety measures are in place. Those who have tested positive have been admitted to hospital, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/84-fresh-cases-five-more-deaths-in-dharwad-dist/articleshow/77093953.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held in Ahmedabad with 32kg of ganja||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths on Monday held two men with 32kg of ganja worth Rs 10 lakh in their autorickshaw, from near Rangolinagar next to the Vatva overbridge. The accused were identified as the rickshaw driver, Shabbir Hussain Ansari, 39, a resident of Vora na Roza in Gomtipur and Aftab Ansari, 32, also a resident of Gomtipur. A crime branch release states that police inspector J N Chavda got an input that two persons were carrying a stock of ganja in their autorickshaw. Cops kept watch in the area and flagged down the autorickshaw. Five packets of ganja were concealed under the driver’s seat, three behind the passengers’ seat and seven around the engine. Police officials said that Shabbir Hussain and Aftab had gone to Surat on the night of July 19 and got the ganja from a person in the Kim area of Surat city. Police booked the two under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-with-32kg-of-ganja/articleshow/77095527.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Pune||Boy ends life after scolding in Pune||PUNE: A 10-year-old boy was found dead on Tuesday afternoon, hours after his father reprimanded him for wasting food. He was found hanging from a bar on the ceiling in the bathroom of his house at More Vasti in Chikhali. “Probe revealed the boy hanged himself after being scolded by his father for not finishing his food on Monday night,” a Chikhali police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/boy-ends-life-after-scolding/articleshow/77095979.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cremation of Covid victims irks residents||HYDERABAD: Cremation of Covid-19 victims at Masthangatti on the Puranapul-Bahadurpura road has forced locals to confine themselves to their homes or relocate to safer places in the city. The residents claimed the bodies of Covid victims were being cremated on the sly at the place, while stray dogs gorged on human remains, posing health risk to people living in the surrounding areas. “The bodies of Covid victims are being cremated regularly at Masthangatti without following any norms. Smoke from the burning bodies fills our homes, forcing us to shut doors and stay indoors,” Narsing Rao, one of the residents, told TOI. The residents of Pardiwada, SP Nagar, Jaibhavai Nagar and Murlinagar expressed similar concerns, saying they were facing health issues and inconvenience due to the last rites being carried out at the open place. “Residents can’t leave home during the cremation of Covid victims. So far, many have relocated due to the problem, but kin of some are unwilling to accommodate them,” Narsing Rao added. The residents alleged that the matter was taken up with local leaders and officials, but all their pleas fell on deaf ears. They said neither health department nor GHMC officials visit their area to assure them. “The government has failed to curb spread of the deadly virus in the Old City areas like Puranapul. We demand the government pay proper attention to the area by carrying out sanitisation regularly to stop spread of diseases,” Syed Mohsin, another resident, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cremation-of-covid-victims-irks-residents/articleshow/77095999.cms||Omar bin Taher
July 22, 2020||Agra||Woman, her paramour held for husband’s murder in Firozabad||Agra: Nearly a week after a man was found dead under suspicious circumstances, police have arrested the victim’s wife and his cousin along with two others and charged them for murder. On the night of July 16, Satyasheel alias Pramod Yadav of Jewda village in Makhanpur was found dead on service lane of National Higway-2. The autopsy report of the victim revealed that he was given Alprax drug to make him unconscious. Later he was strangulated and his body was crushed twice by a four-wheeler, the report revealed. An FIR was lodged by Pramod’s uncle Lalta Prasad against the victim’s wife Priyanka and his cousin Mohan Singh. Sachindra Patel, superintendent of police Firozabad said, “After the FIR, the two accused were interrogated and they confessed. It was Priyanka’s idea to eliminate Satyasheel as she was in illicit relationship with Mohan Singh. Later, Mohan along with his aides Jaiveer and Neeraj Mishra first offered sedative laced drink to victim at a restaurant. And later, strangulated him to death. To ensure that victim is killed, the accused drove their SUV twice over the victim’s body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-her-paramour-held-for-husbands-murder-in-firozabad/articleshow/77093991.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government relaxes eligibility for scheme on wedding of widows’ daughters||NEW DELHI: In a move that is expected to benefit at least 4,000 poor widows in the capital, Delhi government has revised the income criterion for providing financial assistance of Rs 30,000 for the wedding of daughters of widows. Delhi government has revised the income criterion under a scheme for providing financial assistance for the marriage of orphan girls and daughters ofpoor widows, making those earning upto Rs 1 lakh eligiblefor the benefit. Earlier, the cap was Rs 60,000. “Earlier, the maximum annual income criteria for different financial assistance schemes for senior citizens, widows, differently-abled etc. was raised from Rs 60,000 to Rs 1 lakh, but didn’t happen in the case of financial assistance for wedding of daughters of widows,” said Delhi’s women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam, adding that he ensured that this anomaly was rectified. “Ï asked my department to make a cabinet note and this was approved in the last cabinet meeting,” he said. “Around 3,000 widows were benefitting from this scheme earlier and now the number will go up to 4,000 a year. While filling the form, applicants have to give an undertaking about their yearly income,” he said. Beneficiaries have to apply under the ‘Financial Assistance for the Marriage of Daughters of Poor Widows and Orphans’ scheme to receive the amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-relaxes-eligibility-for-scheme-on-wedding-of-widows-daughters/articleshow/77096002.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC forms committees to keep eye on slums||Bhubaneswar: With the city’s slums reporting one or two Covid cases on a daily basis, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has formed slum committees to keep a check on people’s movement there. “Slum committees are empowered not only to generate awareness but to alert surveillance team about clandestine entry of people from hotspot districts. We are providing them with technical guidance,” said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury. A total of 330 people from slums are in institutional quarantine. The BMC hopes that by forming slum committees, the Covid curve will be flattened during the 14-day lockdown. As many as 21 slums out of 436 have reported 190 Covid cases. The first locality to report a case was Salia Sahi. So far, only five slums have come under containment. On Tuesday, the city reported 21 cases, its lowest in the past one week. Of them, 15 have been reported from quarantine (home and institutional). Six are local cases. The new areas that have reported quarantine Covid cases are Saradhapali basti near Amri, Kolathia and Unit-VI. New areas to report local cases are Chandaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-forms-committees-to-keep-eye-on-slums/articleshow/77093972.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents step up fee protest as school stands its ground||HYDERABAD: After receiving no response from the school management, parents of St Andrews School on Tuesday staged a protest in front of the school in Bowenpally demanding the school to collect only tuition fees. This is the second time in the last 10 days that parents have protested at the school alleging that management is violating government orders by clubbing all fees into the tuition fee. “On July 14, when parents approached the school with their concerns, the management asked us to come back on July 21. However, when parents visited the school today in their individual capacity, the management did not even bother to inform us whether they will be complying with the government orders,” said a parent, whose child is in class 3. Parents said that with no one from the management showing up, they started protesting peacefully in front of the school. They said that the management has left them with no option other than approaching education department officials. “We have already submitted a complaint along with 82 signatures of parents against the management on Tuesday. We will now be approaching the DEO,” a parent said. The school authorities have refrained to comment on the issue ever since the protest began last week. Bowenpally police confirmed receiving a complaint from parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-step-up-fee-protest-as-school-stands-its-ground/articleshow/77096001.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Erode||4,965 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu, 1,130 in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 cases for Tamil Nadu remained more or less unchanged for the third day on Tuesday with 4,965 fresh cases, 75 deaths and 50,055 people tested. The state’s death toll is now 2,626 and total case tally 1,80,643. With 4,894 people discharged there are 51,344 active cases. The state has also approved Government Hospital, Tindivanam, for Covid testing taking the total number of testing facilities to 113. Chennai continues to be a hotspot with cases hovering at 1,130, but the rest of the state accounts for 77% of the cases. Chennai’s three neighbours recorded 884 cases -- Tiruvallur 366, Kancheepuram 262 and Chengalpet 256. Among the northern districts, Ranipet had 173, Tiruvannamalai 163 and Vellore 160 cases. Southern districts recorded 1,408 fresh cases, taking the total active cases in the 10 districts to 14,906. Of them, Virudhunagar reported the most cases, 360, followed by Tuticorin with 269. After Madurai, which was the epicentre of the infection in the south, for the second day recorded numbers below 200 at 158. The district, however, has the highest number of cases among the southern districts with 8,517, of which 3,280 are active. The eight districts in the central region reported 426 fresh cases taking the tally to 7,603. Trichy recorded the highest at 127 cases followed by Tiruvarur at 73 and Thanjavur at 71. Coimbatore had 176 fresh cases, making it the fifth consecutive day the district reported more than 100 cases. The western districts now has 3,505 active cases, that is people still under treatment, of whom 1,314 are in Coimbatore. Chennai accounted for 21 deaths on Tuesday taking its toll to 1,475. The fatalities included a 61-year-old man who was brought dead to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Monday and was later tested positive for the infection. Madurai recorded seven deaths, Thiruvallur and Trichy six each and Chengalpet five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/4965-new-covid-cases-across-tn-1130-in-chennai/articleshow/77100761.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chennai||4,965 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu, 1,130 in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 cases for Tamil Nadu remained more or less unchanged for the third day on Tuesday with 4,965 fresh cases, 75 deaths and 50,055 people tested. The state’s death toll is now 2,626 and total case tally 1,80,643. With 4,894 people discharged there are 51,344 active cases. The state has also approved Government Hospital, Tindivanam, for Covid testing taking the total number of testing facilities to 113. Chennai continues to be a hotspot with cases hovering at 1,130, but the rest of the state accounts for 77% of the cases. Chennai’s three neighbours recorded 884 cases -- Tiruvallur 366, Kancheepuram 262 and Chengalpet 256. Among the northern districts, Ranipet had 173, Tiruvannamalai 163 and Vellore 160 cases. Southern districts recorded 1,408 fresh cases, taking the total active cases in the 10 districts to 14,906. Of them, Virudhunagar reported the most cases, 360, followed by Tuticorin with 269. After Madurai, which was the epicentre of the infection in the south, for the second day recorded numbers below 200 at 158. The district, however, has the highest number of cases among the southern districts with 8,517, of which 3,280 are active. The eight districts in the central region reported 426 fresh cases taking the tally to 7,603. Trichy recorded the highest at 127 cases followed by Tiruvarur at 73 and Thanjavur at 71. Coimbatore had 176 fresh cases, making it the fifth consecutive day the district reported more than 100 cases. The western districts now has 3,505 active cases, that is people still under treatment, of whom 1,314 are in Coimbatore. Chennai accounted for 21 deaths on Tuesday taking its toll to 1,475. The fatalities included a 61-year-old man who was brought dead to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Monday and was later tested positive for the infection. Madurai recorded seven deaths, Thiruvallur and Trichy six each and Chengalpet five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/4965-new-covid-cases-across-tn-1130-in-chennai/articleshow/77097284.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Trichy||4,965 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu, 1,130 in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 cases for Tamil Nadu remained more or less unchanged for the third day on Tuesday with 4,965 fresh cases, 75 deaths and 50,055 people tested. The state’s death toll is now 2,626 and total case tally 1,80,643. With 4,894 people discharged there are 51,344 active cases. The state has also approved Government Hospital, Tindivanam, for Covid testing taking the total number of testing facilities to 113. Chennai continues to be a hotspot with cases hovering at 1,130, but the rest of the state accounts for 77% of the cases. Chennai’s three neighbours recorded 884 cases -- Tiruvallur 366, Kancheepuram 262 and Chengalpet 256. Among the northern districts, Ranipet had 173, Tiruvannamalai 163 and Vellore 160 cases. Southern districts recorded 1,408 fresh cases, taking the total active cases in the 10 districts to 14,906. Of them, Virudhunagar reported the most cases, 360, followed by Tuticorin with 269. After Madurai, which was the epicentre of the infection in the south, for the second day recorded numbers below 200 at 158. The district, however, has the highest number of cases among the southern districts with 8,517, of which 3,280 are active. The eight districts in the central region reported 426 fresh cases taking the tally to 7,603. Trichy recorded the highest at 127 cases followed by Tiruvarur at 73 and Thanjavur at 71. Coimbatore had 176 fresh cases, making it the fifth consecutive day the district reported more than 100 cases. The western districts now has 3,505 active cases, that is people still under treatment, of whom 1,314 are in Coimbatore. Chennai accounted for 21 deaths on Tuesday taking its toll to 1,475. The fatalities included a 61-year-old man who was brought dead to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Monday and was later tested positive for the infection. Madurai recorded seven deaths, Thiruvallur and Trichy six each and Chengalpet five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4965-new-covid-cases-across-tn-1130-in-chennai/articleshow/77100762.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||4,965 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu, 1,130 in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 cases for Tamil Nadu remained more or less unchanged for the third day on Tuesday with 4,965 fresh cases, 75 deaths and 50,055 people tested. The state’s death toll is now 2,626 and total case tally 1,80,643. With 4,894 people discharged there are 51,344 active cases. The state has also approved Government Hospital, Tindivanam, for Covid testing taking the total number of testing facilities to 113. Chennai continues to be a hotspot with cases hovering at 1,130, but the rest of the state accounts for 77% of the cases. Chennai’s three neighbours recorded 884 cases -- Tiruvallur 366, Kancheepuram 262 and Chengalpet 256. Among the northern districts, Ranipet had 173, Tiruvannamalai 163 and Vellore 160 cases. Southern districts recorded 1,408 fresh cases, taking the total active cases in the 10 districts to 14,906. Of them, Virudhunagar reported the most cases, 360, followed by Tuticorin with 269. After Madurai, which was the epicentre of the infection in the south, for the second day recorded numbers below 200 at 158. The district, however, has the highest number of cases among the southern districts with 8,517, of which 3,280 are active. The eight districts in the central region reported 426 fresh cases taking the tally to 7,603. Trichy recorded the highest at 127 cases followed by Tiruvarur at 73 and Thanjavur at 71. Coimbatore had 176 fresh cases, making it the fifth consecutive day the district reported more than 100 cases. The western districts now has 3,505 active cases, that is people still under treatment, of whom 1,314 are in Coimbatore. Chennai accounted for 21 deaths on Tuesday taking its toll to 1,475. The fatalities included a 61-year-old man who was brought dead to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Monday and was later tested positive for the infection. Madurai recorded seven deaths, Thiruvallur and Trichy six each and Chengalpet five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4965-new-covid-cases-across-tn-1130-in-chennai/articleshow/77100760.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Salem||4,965 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu, 1,130 in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 cases for Tamil Nadu remained more or less unchanged for the third day on Tuesday with 4,965 fresh cases, 75 deaths and 50,055 people tested. The state’s death toll is now 2,626 and total case tally 1,80,643. With 4,894 people discharged there are 51,344 active cases. The state has also approved Government Hospital, Tindivanam, for Covid testing taking the total number of testing facilities to 113. Chennai continues to be a hotspot with cases hovering at 1,130, but the rest of the state accounts for 77% of the cases. Chennai’s three neighbours recorded 884 cases -- Tiruvallur 366, Kancheepuram 262 and Chengalpet 256. Among the northern districts, Ranipet had 173, Tiruvannamalai 163 and Vellore 160 cases. Southern districts recorded 1,408 fresh cases, taking the total active cases in the 10 districts to 14,906. Of them, Virudhunagar reported the most cases, 360, followed by Tuticorin with 269. After Madurai, which was the epicentre of the infection in the south, for the second day recorded numbers below 200 at 158. The district, however, has the highest number of cases among the southern districts with 8,517, of which 3,280 are active. The eight districts in the central region reported 426 fresh cases taking the tally to 7,603. Trichy recorded the highest at 127 cases followed by Tiruvarur at 73 and Thanjavur at 71. Coimbatore had 176 fresh cases, making it the fifth consecutive day the district reported more than 100 cases. The western districts now has 3,505 active cases, that is people still under treatment, of whom 1,314 are in Coimbatore. Chennai accounted for 21 deaths on Tuesday taking its toll to 1,475. The fatalities included a 61-year-old man who was brought dead to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Monday and was later tested positive for the infection. Madurai recorded seven deaths, Thiruvallur and Trichy six each and Chengalpet five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/4965-new-covid-cases-across-tn-1130-in-chennai/articleshow/77100764.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Coimbatore||4,965 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu, 1,130 in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 cases for Tamil Nadu remained more or less unchanged for the third day on Tuesday with 4,965 fresh cases, 75 deaths and 50,055 people tested. The state’s death toll is now 2,626 and total case tally 1,80,643. With 4,894 people discharged there are 51,344 active cases. The state has also approved Government Hospital, Tindivanam, for Covid testing taking the total number of testing facilities to 113. Chennai continues to be a hotspot with cases hovering at 1,130, but the rest of the state accounts for 77% of the cases. Chennai’s three neighbours recorded 884 cases -- Tiruvallur 366, Kancheepuram 262 and Chengalpet 256. Among the northern districts, Ranipet had 173, Tiruvannamalai 163 and Vellore 160 cases. Southern districts recorded 1,408 fresh cases, taking the total active cases in the 10 districts to 14,906. Of them, Virudhunagar reported the most cases, 360, followed by Tuticorin with 269. After Madurai, which was the epicentre of the infection in the south, for the second day recorded numbers below 200 at 158. The district, however, has the highest number of cases among the southern districts with 8,517, of which 3,280 are active. The eight districts in the central region reported 426 fresh cases taking the tally to 7,603. Trichy recorded the highest at 127 cases followed by Tiruvarur at 73 and Thanjavur at 71. Coimbatore had 176 fresh cases, making it the fifth consecutive day the district reported more than 100 cases. The western districts now has 3,505 active cases, that is people still under treatment, of whom 1,314 are in Coimbatore. Chennai accounted for 21 deaths on Tuesday taking its toll to 1,475. The fatalities included a 61-year-old man who was brought dead to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Monday and was later tested positive for the infection. Madurai recorded seven deaths, Thiruvallur and Trichy six each and Chengalpet five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4965-new-covid-cases-across-tn-1130-in-chennai/articleshow/77100759.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC seeks status report on delay in Covid results||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the special monitoring officer for Madurai and dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) to file a status report to the queries raised by it on Monday after taking suo motu cognizance of the news articles published in the Times of India with regard to the delay in announcing the results of Covid-19 tests. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam, which was hearing the suo motu plea on Tuesday, also raised an additional query as to whether private hospitals are insisting on Covid-19 tests before admitting patients in emergency cases and sought a response in this regard. The Madurai bench had initiated suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) based on the news reports titled ‘Communication delay between labs, health dept., adds to woes’ and ‘Delayed results may be giving virus time to spread faster, fear officials’ published in TOI Madurai edition on July 19 and July 20 respectively. The court had wanted the respondents to answer several queries including whether the district administration and health officials are fully geared up to do periodical tests and reasons for delay in announcing the results of tests taken in respect of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. The case was adjourned to August 4 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-status-report-on-delay-in-covid-results/articleshow/77100547.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC seeks status report on delay in Covid results||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the special monitoring officer for Madurai and dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) to file a status report to the queries raised by it on Monday after taking suo motu cognizance of the news articles published in the Times of India with regard to the delay in announcing the results of Covid-19 tests. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam, which was hearing the suo motu plea on Tuesday, also raised an additional query as to whether private hospitals are insisting on Covid-19 tests before admitting patients in emergency cases and sought a response in this regard. The Madurai bench had initiated suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) based on the news reports titled ‘Communication delay between labs, health dept., adds to woes’ and ‘Delayed results may be giving virus time to spread faster, fear officials’ published in TOI Madurai edition on July 19 and July 20 respectively. The court had wanted the respondents to answer several queries including whether the district administration and health officials are fully geared up to do periodical tests and reasons for delay in announcing the results of tests taken in respect of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. The case was adjourned to August 4 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-seeks-status-report-on-delay-in-covid-results/articleshow/77097292.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Agra||35 years after ‘encounter’ of Bharatpur royal, 11 cops convicted by UP court||AGRA: On a pleasant February day in 1985, the royal scion of Bharatpur, Raja Man Singh, had in a fit of rage smashed the then Rajasthan chief minister’s helicopter with his vehicle to avenge what he saw as a political betrayal. A day later, he was shot dead by policemen under mysterious circumstances. After a long drawn out legal battle, in which the case changed hands between courts and countless judges over three decades, 11 policemen were convicted of his murder by the Mathura district and sessions court on Tuesday. District and sessions judge Sadhna Rani held the policemen — including then DSP Kan Singh Bhati and SHO Veerendra Singh — guilty under sections 302 (murder) and 148 (rioting) of the IPC. Three others — Hari Kishan, Kan Singh Sirvi and Govind Ram — booked under Section 218 of the IPC (public servant framing incorrect record or writing with intent to save a person from punishment) were acquitted. The sentence will be announced on Wednesday. “Justice has prevailed,” Deepa Singh, Raja Man Singh’s daughter and a minister in Rajasthan’s earlier BJP government, said as she left the court with her family. The case goes back to an incendiary campaign for the Deeg assembly seat in Rajasthan in 1985. Like most erstwhile royals who translated their feudal power into political capital, Singh, a seven-time MLA, had never lost an election since India became free. That year he was seeking re-election from Deeg as an independent candidate. He had won the seat thrice before. And the 64-year-old, who had a considerable hold over the Jat community, was not going to let anyone disrupt the winning streak. He asked Congress to back off and the party agreed, saying that chief minister Shiv Charan Mathur would not campaign against him. So when Mathur flew into Deeg in a helicopter to address an election rally on February 20, Singh flew into a rage. He rammed his remodelled weapons carrier into the Congress podium set up on a school campus and the three-seater Turbo Bell chopper that had brought Mathur. Nothing happened that day. But the next, charged with attempt to murder he was shot dead along with his two associates — Thakur Hari Singh and Thakur Sumer Singh. Police said they were killed in an “encounter” when they tried to arrest him. News reports from the time said locals had another story to share, that he was killed on a crowded street of Deeg in broad daylight — with bullets to his arm and back. Singh was well-loved and the political fallout of his murder was for Congress to bear — Mathur abdicated, the four Jat-majority constituencies in and around Bharatpur that Congress had carefully nurtured were lost and election to the Deeg seat was countermanded. In the byelection to Deeg, Singh’s daughter Deepa contested and won with 97% of the votes. This time, Congress did not field a candidate from Deeg, though it did win the assembly election. The police officer who had ordered the firing, meanwhile, was suspended and a judicial inquiry ordered. The legal tangle went on for over three decades. The first charge sheet was filed by the CBI in the Jaipur court in 1985. In 1990, the case was transferred from Rajasthan to Mathura in UP following a Supreme Court order after an appeal by Singh’s family. The CBI filed another charge sheet that year. Between then and May 2005, some 200-odd witnesses were produced by the prosecution and defence witnesses were questioned in 2008. Final arguments were heard in 2010, written arguments filed in 2011. While the case dragged on, three of the 18 cops the CBI had named in its charge sheet died. A driver, Mahendra Singh, was discharged. And trial against 14 was eventually brought to conclusion on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/35-yrs-after-encounter-of-bharatpur-royal-11-cops-convicted-by-up-court/articleshow/77094032.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Patient fails to get ambulance, hitches scooter ride to AIIMS||Bhubaneswar: A 42-year-old resident of Patrapada who tested positive for Covid apparently could not get an ambulance to take him to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Monday. He had to be taken to the hospital on his friend’s scooter. “He was in a terrible condition and could not stand for long. I called the ambulance service but got no response. I then decided to take him to the hospital on my scooter,” Bimalendu Pradhan, the friend, said. Pradhan said neither he nor his family has been tested for the virus in spite of their exposure to the patient. “I tried calling the 104 helpline but they diverted my call,” he alleged. Pratima Muduli, the wife of the patient, said she was in home quarantine with her son, daughter and aunt. “I have not yet been contacted yet by anyone on what I should be doing now. Though none of us has developed any symptom, we are living in fear,” she said. She said her husband visited several places for work, including Cuttack, in the recent past. “He complained of fever and severe body ache last Wednesday. When his condition did not improve, he decided to go for Covid test. He tested positive on Monday,” she added. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Choudhary said he was aware of the case. “The patient is being treated at AIIMS and we have begun contact tracing. The family and close contacts will be tested for the virus in five days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/patient-fails-to-get-ambulance-hitches-scooter-ride-to-aiims/articleshow/77094025.cms||Sandip Mishra
July 22, 2020||Hubballi||Anganwadi worker dies; denial of ventilator alleged||Kalaburagi: Two women, including an anganwadi worker, died of suspected Covid-19 infection here on Tuesday. The non-availability of ventilator at GIMS and ESIC hospitals is blamed for the death of the worker. The 50-year-old worker from an anganawadi at Honnakiranagi village in Kalaburagi taluk died of Severe Acute Respiratory Influenza (SARI) on Tuesday morning It is said that the woman was suffering from fever, cough and cold for the past week, but she did not go for medical tests, including for Covid-19. But when she faced difficulty in breathing, her son got her admitted at GIMS around Monday midnight. With ventilator not being available there, he shifted his mother to ESIC Hospital, which allegedly refused admission. When the family members were taking her to a hospital Hyderabad, she died on the way. Venting ire against the district administration and the health department, community leader Maruthi Manpade said: “This is nothing but negligence on the part of doctors. When the lives of Corona Warriors (anganwadi workers) are under threat, how can the government save others’ lives?” An ASHA worker, who was creating awareness among people at her village, had also died of Covid-19 recently. Speaking to TOI, district health officer Dr A M Jabbar said that the woman had died at her house only — she did not go for hospital admission. Dr Jabbar also said that the son of the deceased, himself a doctor, treated his mother at their house itself. “He took her to hospital only when she needed a ventilator,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/anganwadi-worker-dies-denial-of-ventilator-alleged/articleshow/77094008.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Agra||4 kin of suspected Covid patient who died heldfor assaulting doctors at AMU medical college||Agra: Four attendants of a 55-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient, who was admitted at AMU’s medical college with a complaint of respiratory distress on Monday, allegedly assaulted doctors who informed them of non-availability of a ventilator at the trauma ICU. Later, the patient, Haseena Bano, died at the hospital. The attendants — all relatives of the deceased — were booked and arrested. According to Resident Doctors’ Association president Hamza Malik, the patient was admitted at 1:30pm with a history of breathlessness and dry cough for the past two-three days. After a few hours, the patient’s oxygen level suddenly started dipping, but as a ventilator was not available at the trauma ward at that time, the relatives were informed about it and advised to shift the patient to another hospital, said Malik. “As we explained this to the attendants — and also the patient’s grave prognosis — they started abusing us and got physically violent. They also gave us life threats and attempted to tear the PPE of one of the women doctors. One of the attendants even tried to hurl an oxygen cylinder at us with the intention to kill us, but we, somehow, managed to save ourselves,” stated the doctors in their complaint to the casualty medical officer (CMO) on duty. Civil Lines circle officer Anil Samaniya told TOI that four people were arrested and booked under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty as such public servant), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) based on a complaint filed by doctors. However, two accused were released on bail on the humanitarian ground to perform the last rites of the deceased, while the others would be presented in a court, added the CO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-kin-of-suspected-covid-patient-who-died-heldfor-assaulting-doctors-at-amu-medical-college/articleshow/77094027.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Mason, wife found dead||Hyderabad: A mason and his wife were found dead at their BS Maktha house on Tuesday morning under suspicious circumstances. While police said the mason might have died by suicide by jumping off the five-storey building, they were not certain about the cause of his wife’s death. The deceased were identified as Nageswara Rao (36) and his wife Roja (29). The deceased were natives of Srikakulam, AP. At around 5 am, a neighbour saw Rao lying dead in front of the building. “The neighbour rushed to the nearby house of Rao’s father-in-law A Simhachalam and informed him,” Panjagutta inspector M Niranjan Reddy said. Simhachalam went to his daughter’s flat and found Roja lying on the floor unconscious. “Their two children were asleep. There were no external injuries on Roja’s body and there were no suicide notes,” the inspector said. In his complaint, Simhachalam mentioned that Roja and Rao had some personal problems. A case was registered under Sec-174 of CrPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mason-wife-found-dead/articleshow/77096003.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Well-trained sanitation workers keep city running||Bhubaneswar: The coronavirus pandemic has not dampened the spirit of sanitation workers here who have been working relentlessly since March 15 to keep the city clean. The city’s 3,000-odd sanitary workers — sweepers, garbage lifters, sanitary supervisors and drivers of garbage transporting vehicles — sanitise the corona-affected pockets, besides their regular work of cleaning streets and collecting municipal solid waste. Remarkably, not a single case of Covid has been reported among sanitation workers as of now. Since March, around 350 workers were tested in a random check and all were negative. Ten workers were placed in quarantine for suspected exposure to positive persons. Eighty percent of the workers are engaged by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) through private agencies. Since the workers are more vulnerable to Covid, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) had engaged doctors and NGOs to train them on safety. The training module included tips on social distancing, personal hygiene, hand hygiene and how to wear personal protective equipment. Biranchi Nayak, a sanitary supervisor of a private company engaged by the BMC, said the training helped them understand how the virus spreads. “Sanitary workers work in groups. If they are not careful, the virus will spread among them very fast. With Covid cases rising in the city, more caution is required,” he said. Armed with safety gear such as gloves and masks, not once have the workers refused to attend duty or venture inside a virus-hit locality. “We report to work in the morning and start moving to areas allotted to us for cleaning. By 10, we wind up. The next job is that of the garbage lifters, who use trolleys to collect trash. This is then carted off to the transporting vehicle, which takes it to the dump yard,” said Baidhar Naik, a sanitation worker. Sharing his experiences with TOI, Naik said, “There is fear among the public. We are very careful while handling garbage or lifting it in the trolley. The waste may have virus in it since many people also throw out disposable masks. We take all precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/well-trained-sanitation-workers-keep-city-running/articleshow/77094038.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Mysuru||Nirani sorry over erroneous WhatsApp post||Mandya: Former BJP minister Murugesh Nirani has apologised to the public after a derogatory message, in which the existence and the relevance of Hindu goddesses are questioned, was shared on a WhatsApp group through his mobile number. According to sources, the derogatory message was said to be shared in a group of prominent BJP functionaries. Soon after the offensive message was shared, some party functionaries, including ministers, left the group. Sensing trouble over the developments, Nirani tendered an apology in public. In a press release, Nirani admitted that the said offensive message was indeed shared, and this happened inadvertently by one of his personnel staff. “It is not true that I had intentionally shared that message in the WhatsApp group... One of my staff had inadvertently shared this message through a mobile number, and that number belongs to my sugar company. Sharing that controversial message was not intentional, but is an accident,” Nirani said in the release. Claiming that he had already taken punitive action against his staff member, Nirani explained that he respects all religions and has belief in goddesses of all religions. “If that message has hurt anyone’s religious sentiments, I will ask forgiveness from them. Being a staunch believer of gods, I don’t drink or eat without offering puja. I have tendered an apology for the wrong committed by my employee,” he said, adding that he will ensure that such incidents won’t recur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nirani-sorry-over-erroneous-whatsapp-post/articleshow/77090908.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry doctors protest against Kiran Bedi||PUDUCHERRY: Members of the Puducherry Government Medical Officers’ Association boycotted work for two hours and staged protests in front of hospitals on Tuesday to condemn lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi for “demeaning” a medical officer. On July 18, Bedi pulled up deputy director (public health) Dr G Ragunath for certain procedural lapses. The association said Bedi forced the deputy director to write an apology and threatened to initiate departmental action against him. “This has deeply wounded our fraternity. We request you to kindly look into the matter and settle the issue,” said the association representatives in a memorandum to Puducherry CM, health minister and director (health). Bedi on Tuesday evening said she found ‘essential unanswered questions’ and ‘lack of preparedness’ on the part of a certain person (deputy director-public health), who was responsible for field coordination’ during her visit to the health control room on July 18. “I guided him and the concerned person assured me he will hereafter do all that is required. I have the highest regard for our warriors in white coats. I request them to focus on Covid prevention work and not get distracted, as it’s a question of people’s lives,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/puducherry-docs-protest-against-bedi/articleshow/77097298.cms||Bosco Dominique
July 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Youth treks for five hours before hanging himself||COIMBATORE: The body of a 24-year-old BE graduate from Pallipatti in Dharmapuri district was found hanging from a tree at the seventh hill of Vellingiri in Coimbatore district on Monday evening. Preliminary inquiries revealed P Mahadevan went missing on June 26. He sent a message to his family members stating that he would end his life to meet God. He left a suicide note too.  “He entered the reserve forest at Boluvampatti forest range and trekked for at least five hours to reach the seventh hill of Vellingiri to end his life,” said a police officer.  Mahadevan was staying with his elder brother, P Sivaperumal, who was working in a hotel in Karamadai, Coimbatore district. Mahadevan, who wanted to become a cop had appeared for the Tamil Nadu Uniform Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) exams for the post of grade -II police constable. However, he was not able to clear the written examination.  On June 26 afternoon, Mahadevan told his elder brother Sivaperumal that he would go to Coimbatore city and return soon. But when he did not return his elder brother sent out a search party but was unable to locate his younger brother. He then lodged a missing complaint with the Karamadai police who registered a man missing case on July 7. Police sources claimed that the youth was in depression as he was unemployed. Mahadevan managed to enter the reserve forest at Boluvampatti forest range last month and trekked for at least five hours to reach the seventh hills. “Sivaperumal said he received a message from his brother stating that he would meet Lord Shiva. His phone was switched off after that. Our field staff also did not see Mahadevan at anywhere,” said Boluvampatti forest range officer Arockiyasamy. On Monday, the forest ranger office sent a team to the hills and they found a bag, a TNSURB hall ticket, and a suicide note in front of the Lord Shiva temple at the Vellingiri hills. His corpse was hanging on a tree in the same location. Due to heavy rain on Monday, the forest department field staff were not able to bring the dead body to the plain. On Tuesday, a team along with cops trekked the seven hills and brought back the dead body to the plain around 4pm. The decomposed body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-treks-for-five-hours-before-hanging-himself/articleshow/77097328.cms||A Subburaj
July 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Three weeks after launch, govt portal has 6,000 private jobs on offer||CHENNAI: At a time when layoffs and retrenchment have become common in the private sector, a job portal launched by the government has thrown open employment opportunities across TN. The website, launched three weeks ago for posting openings in private enterprises, has notified about 6,000 jobs in various sectors. While a chunk of these jobs have emerged from MSMEs, a few big companies, including Ashok Leyland, have listed openings. Nearly 440 employers have registered on the portal and 25,000 job seekers have enrolled for placements in regular, part-time, trainee and apprentice positions. Jobs are spread over automotive, agriculture, food processing, electronics, hardware and IT, and salaries range from Rs 4,000 to Rs 50,000. A majority of these jobs are at Hosur and Coimbatore, followed by Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Official sources with the department of employment and training said offer letters were issued to 125 job seekers following online interviews. “We have notified about 6,000 jobs in the private sector through the website. But interviews need to be conducted for a majority of jobs in person. This is an issue due to restrictions in movement,” an official said. Chairman of CII,TN state council, Hari K Thiagarajan said agriculture, pharmaceutical and IT sectors continued to recruit. “Several companies in other sectors are attempting to retain only the productive workforce,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-weeks-after-launch-govt-portal-has-6k-pvt-jobs-on-offer/articleshow/77100054.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Three weeks after launch, govt portal has 6,000 private jobs on offer||CHENNAI: At a time when layoffs and retrenchment have become common in the private sector, a job portal launched by the government has thrown open employment opportunities across TN. The website, launched three weeks ago for posting openings in private enterprises, has notified about 6,000 jobs in various sectors. While a chunk of these jobs have emerged from MSMEs, a few big companies, including Ashok Leyland, have listed openings. Nearly 440 employers have registered on the portal and 25,000 job seekers have enrolled for placements in regular, part-time, trainee and apprentice positions. Jobs are spread over automotive, agriculture, food processing, electronics, hardware and IT, and salaries range from Rs 4,000 to Rs 50,000. A majority of these jobs are at Hosur and Coimbatore, followed by Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Official sources with the department of employment and training said offer letters were issued to 125 job seekers following online interviews. “We have notified about 6,000 jobs in the private sector through the website. But interviews need to be conducted for a majority of jobs in person. This is an issue due to restrictions in movement,” an official said. Chairman of CII,TN state council, Hari K Thiagarajan said agriculture, pharmaceutical and IT sectors continued to recruit. “Several companies in other sectors are attempting to retain only the productive workforce,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-weeks-after-launch-govt-portal-has-6k-pvt-jobs-on-offer/articleshow/77100055.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Three weeks after launch, govt portal has 6,000 private jobs on offer||CHENNAI: At a time when layoffs and retrenchment have become common in the private sector, a job portal launched by the government has thrown open employment opportunities across TN. The website, launched three weeks ago for posting openings in private enterprises, has notified about 6,000 jobs in various sectors. While a chunk of these jobs have emerged from MSMEs, a few big companies, including Ashok Leyland, have listed openings. Nearly 440 employers have registered on the portal and 25,000 job seekers have enrolled for placements in regular, part-time, trainee and apprentice positions. Jobs are spread over automotive, agriculture, food processing, electronics, hardware and IT, and salaries range from Rs 4,000 to Rs 50,000. A majority of these jobs are at Hosur and Coimbatore, followed by Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Official sources with the department of employment and training said offer letters were issued to 125 job seekers following online interviews. “We have notified about 6,000 jobs in the private sector through the website. But interviews need to be conducted for a majority of jobs in person. This is an issue due to restrictions in movement,” an official said. Chairman of CII,TN state council, Hari K Thiagarajan said agriculture, pharmaceutical and IT sectors continued to recruit. “Several companies in other sectors are attempting to retain only the productive workforce,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-weeks-after-launch-govt-portal-has-6k-pvt-jobs-on-offer/articleshow/77100057.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 22, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Three weeks after launch, govt portal has 6,000 private jobs on offer||CHENNAI: At a time when layoffs and retrenchment have become common in the private sector, a job portal launched by the government has thrown open employment opportunities across TN. The website, launched three weeks ago for posting openings in private enterprises, has notified about 6,000 jobs in various sectors. While a chunk of these jobs have emerged from MSMEs, a few big companies, including Ashok Leyland, have listed openings. Nearly 440 employers have registered on the portal and 25,000 job seekers have enrolled for placements in regular, part-time, trainee and apprentice positions. Jobs are spread over automotive, agriculture, food processing, electronics, hardware and IT, and salaries range from Rs 4,000 to Rs 50,000. A majority of these jobs are at Hosur and Coimbatore, followed by Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Official sources with the department of employment and training said offer letters were issued to 125 job seekers following online interviews. “We have notified about 6,000 jobs in the private sector through the website. But interviews need to be conducted for a majority of jobs in person. This is an issue due to restrictions in movement,” an official said. Chairman of CII,TN state council, Hari K Thiagarajan said agriculture, pharmaceutical and IT sectors continued to recruit. “Several companies in other sectors are attempting to retain only the productive workforce,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/3-weeks-after-launch-govt-portal-has-6k-pvt-jobs-on-offer/articleshow/77100059.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Three weeks after launch, govt portal has 6,000 private jobs on offer||CHENNAI: At a time when layoffs and retrenchment have become common in the private sector, a job portal launched by the government has thrown open employment opportunities across TN. The website, launched three weeks ago for posting openings in private enterprises, has notified about 6,000 jobs in various sectors. While a chunk of these jobs have emerged from MSMEs, a few big companies, including Ashok Leyland, have listed openings. Nearly 440 employers have registered on the portal and 25,000 job seekers have enrolled for placements in regular, part-time, trainee and apprentice positions. Jobs are spread over automotive, agriculture, food processing, electronics, hardware and IT, and salaries range from Rs 4,000 to Rs 50,000. A majority of these jobs are at Hosur and Coimbatore, followed by Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Official sources with the department of employment and training said offer letters were issued to 125 job seekers following online interviews. “We have notified about 6,000 jobs in the private sector through the website. But interviews need to be conducted for a majority of jobs in person. This is an issue due to restrictions in movement,” an official said. Chairman of CII,TN state council, Hari K Thiagarajan said agriculture, pharmaceutical and IT sectors continued to recruit. “Several companies in other sectors are attempting to retain only the productive workforce,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-weeks-after-launch-govt-portal-has-6k-pvt-jobs-on-offer/articleshow/77097335.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 22, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Three weeks after launch, govt portal has 6,000 private jobs on offer||CHENNAI: At a time when layoffs and retrenchment have become common in the private sector, a job portal launched by the government has thrown open employment opportunities across TN. The website, launched three weeks ago for posting openings in private enterprises, has notified about 6,000 jobs in various sectors. While a chunk of these jobs have emerged from MSMEs, a few big companies, including Ashok Leyland, have listed openings. Nearly 440 employers have registered on the portal and 25,000 job seekers have enrolled for placements in regular, part-time, trainee and apprentice positions. Jobs are spread over automotive, agriculture, food processing, electronics, hardware and IT, and salaries range from Rs 4,000 to Rs 50,000. A majority of these jobs are at Hosur and Coimbatore, followed by Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Official sources with the department of employment and training said offer letters were issued to 125 job seekers following online interviews. “We have notified about 6,000 jobs in the private sector through the website. But interviews need to be conducted for a majority of jobs in person. This is an issue due to restrictions in movement,” an official said. Chairman of CII,TN state council, Hari K Thiagarajan said agriculture, pharmaceutical and IT sectors continued to recruit. “Several companies in other sectors are attempting to retain only the productive workforce,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/3-weeks-after-launch-govt-portal-has-6k-pvt-jobs-on-offer/articleshow/77100056.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 22, 2020||Agra||Rainfall exposes poor civic preparedness in UP cities||Agra/Bareilly/Meerut: Moderate rainfall accompanied by thunder occurred at most places in Uttar Pradesh, including Agra, Bareilly and Meerut, on Tuesday, severely affecting normal life in these cities due to waterlogging. In Agra, 20 minutes of moderate rainfall scattered across the city on Tuesday afternoon caused waterlogging in different parts. It also exposed the hollow claims of Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) of deep cleaning of all nullahs ahead of the monsoon. In many parts, drains choked with garbage overflowed, causing inconvenience to both commuters and residents. Among the worst-affected localities were Arjun Nagar, Idgah, Pratapura, Madhu Nagar, Shahganj, Bodla, Trans-Yamuna, Mantola and Rambagh road. There are 32 major and 400 small drains in Agra that discharge into river Yamuna. Many of these drains are interconnected, and a blockage in one part affects large parts of the city. Agra's ward 96 councilor Pratap Singh Gurjar said, “The major drain in Sikandra locality has not been cleaned properly. Only a part of the drain was cleaned before the monsoon. Civic body officials have not taken action even after a formal complaint was lodged." Rainwater-filled potholes made driving two-wheelers dangerous on city roads. Besides, several street lights were found to be out of order in all the 100 municipal wards of Agra city.A similar situation prevailed in Bareilly city, which experienced round 45 minutes of rainfall on Tuesday. Several parts, including City Station, Choupla road, Quila flyover service road and Kudeshiya Phatak were waterlogged for hours. Low-lying areas such as Subhash Nagar, Madinath and parts of Izzatnagar were also inundated.According to the meteorological department (IMD), Bareilly received 28 mm of rainfall on Tuesday.Amit Khanna, a Bareilly-based businessman said, “Such is the situation when it rains merely for an hour. I wonder what will happen if it rains heavily here for several hours.”Meerut city recorded 45.9 mm of rainfall on Tuesday. The city has been experiencing heavy to moderate rainfall for the past few days.Tuesday's rainfall was sporadic but it was enough to cause waterlogging in many parts, including Ghanta Ghar, Khair Nagar, Lisari Gate and Baghpat road. They were worst-hit due to waterlogging last year as well.The Met office has forecast rain and thundershower at most places in eastern UP and at some places in western parts of the state in the days to come. With inputs from Deepak Lavania (Agra), Maria Khan (Bareilly) and Ishita Bhatia (Meerut)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rainfall-exposes-poor-civic-preparedness-in-up-cities/articleshow/77094047.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vadodara||Man held for selling spurious sanitizers||Vadodara: A 51-year-old man living on New Sama Road was detained on Monday night for manufacturing and selling ‘sanitizer’ without license. The accused Anil Mittal was nabbed red-handed when he was bottling the liquid that he was selling as sanitizer, at a rented godown on New Sama Road. Police said that they had received information about Mittal manufacturing sanitizer without any license and selling it in different quantities. A sample of the liquid has been sent to laboratory to determine if it is sanitizer or some other chemical. “When we raided the godown he was filling a liquid in bottles from a bucket. It smelled like sanitizer and since the bottles too were labelled as hand sanitizers, we asked the accused if he had any license for it,” said a police official. He did not have any license for manufacturing and selling, Mittal told cops. Cops seized 157 carboys of 5 litre capacity, 604 one litre bottles of sanitizer, 392 500 ml bottles and 768 50 ml bottles. There was a barrel with 400 litres of liquid chemical. “We have seized everything, and the total value of seizure is over Rs 7 lakh. There were pipes, sticking tapes and other things used for bottling,” the police official said. All bottles and carboys had labels which mentioned that the product is manufactured and marketed by Keya Beauty Care based in Mansa taluka of Gandhinagar. “We have sent him to SSG Hospital for coronavirus test, once his report turns out to be negative, we will question him about the source of the chemical and who else is involved in this scam,” said inspector P D Parmar of Sama police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-selling-spurious-sanitizers/articleshow/77094023.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Agra||UP: Congress workers demand waiver of power bills, lathicharged, arrested||AGRA: Police on Tuesday afternoon lathicharged Congress workers for locking the office of a private power distribution company during a protest demanding waiver of electricity bills. Eight Congress workers, including district president Manoj Dixit, were arrested and sent to jail. Congress workers alleged that policemen misbehaved with the district president. Some of the workers sustained injuries in lathicharge. Workers of Youth Congress on Monday gathered at the Speed Colour Lab junction on MG road to march in protest towards a private discom in Raghunath Nagar. Leaders of Congress and National Students Union of India (NSUI) also joined the protest. Raising slogans against the state government, the protesters reached the office of the discom and locked the main gate from outside and sat on protest. A police team, led by superintendent of police (city) Botre Rohan Pramod, had been following the protesters. An argument erupted when the SP (city) asked the protesters to leave the main gate of the office. To disperse the protesters, police resorted to lathicharge. Eight Youth Congress, Congress and NSUI leaders were arrested and brought to Hariparwat police station. After medical examination, they were sent to jail following court orders. The protesters sent to jail include Congress district president Manoj Dixit, state secretary of Youth Congress Mathura Prasad, NSUI district president Bilal Ahmed, All India Congress Committee member Anuj Sharma, municipal councilor Manish Dhakad, Chandramohan Parasar, Vishnu Sharma and Yashpal Chahar The SP (city) said, “Locking of the discom’s main gate could have affected power supply in the city. Even after a warning, the protesters continued to violate the social distancing protocol. They misbehaved and physically attacked the policemen on duty. An FIR was registered against eight protesters. They were sent to jail later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cong-workers-demand-waiver-of-power-bills-lathicharged-arrested/articleshow/77094034.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 22, 2020||Mysuru||22 staff test +ve at toll plaza in Kadakola||Mysuru: As many as 22 staff involved in toll collection and other services at the toll plaza in Kadakola on Mysuru- Nanjanagud Road have tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources, the toll plaza has over 70 employees. “The toll staff developed Covid-19 symptoms in July second week. They were isolated immediately. Among the staff, 22 tested positive for the virus. They were kept at Covid Care Center set up at KSOU, Mandakalli. Those who did not test positive have been placed under home isolation,” said authorities. “The biggest challenge was providing shelter for the plaza staff as locals started objecting their entry to the villages. Later, the toll plaza management provided them temporary shelters by erecting tents,” explained authorities. Meanwhile, National Highways Authority of India confirmed that none of the staff attached other toll plazas between Mysuru and Gundlupet were infected. 104 cases in dists Chikkamagaluru/ Chamarajanagar: Chikkamagaluru and Chamarajanagar witnessed the highest number of cases on a single day on Tueday. While 68 tested positive for Covid-19 in Chikkamagaluru, Chamarajanagar district recorded 36 new cases. The higest number of cases was from Kadur (18) in Chikkamagaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/22-staff-test-ve-at-toll-plaza-in-kadakola/articleshow/77094054.cms||Shrinivasa M
July 22, 2020||Kanpur||230 test +ve for Covid-19, eight die||Kanpur: For the second consecutive day, over 200 Corona positive cases were recorded by the district health department on Tuesday. A total of 230 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were recorded on Tuesday, first day of the four-day lockdown announced by the district magistrate. The corona tally reached to 2,931 of which 1,388 are active cases. Tuesday’s figures were the highest number of cases recorded in a day in the district so far. In past five days, including Tuesday, a whopping 844 positive cases have been recorded. Eight more Corona positive patients died on Tuesday increasing the toll to 143. The six deceased were also suffering from other ailment. They belonged to Meerpur Cantt, Pheelkhana, Ghatampur, Naubasta, Arya Nagar, Rail Bazar. Meanwhile, 46 patients were discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/230-test-ve-for-covid-19-eight-die/articleshow/77096005.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ferrying the dead for a price to grave||HYDERABAD: Even in death, Covid-19 patients aren’t spared an exorbitant bill. At least so it seems from ‘cremation packages’ being offered by private ambulance operators, ferrying the deceased on their final journey, in the city. Their rate cards have three or four slabs between Rs 25,000 and Rs 40,000. “It depends on which crematorium you want to go for the final rites. The ambulance operators quoted Rs 30,000 for Erragadda, Rs 40,000 for Vanasthalipuram and another rate for Uppal. When we were struggling to get a slot at any of these places, they even told us that we could pay Rs 40,000 and leave...they’d handle everything,” Vijay Rathi, a city-based businessman who recently lost his father to the virus, told TOI. Rathi’s 63-year-old father, who had died at a corporate hospital last week, was finally cremated at Puranapul. “It is unfortunate that even death has become a source of making extra money for some people. They know families will not haggle on the charges, when it comes to a sensitive issue like cremation...but this must stop,” Rathi added, ruing how getting a place to cremate has become a huge challenge. When he visited Erragadda, he said there were at least seven or eight bodies waiting in line. Earlier in June, another family from Banjara Hills had faced a similar issue when their kin died at a private hospital in Secunderabad. “We were told upfront that it was Rs 25,000 package for cremation at Erragadda. There was no room for negotiation. Now, I am told the prices have gone up,” a family member said. When posed as a customer and called a private ambulance operator in Secunderabad, the operator quoted the same package – Rs 25,000. “We will arrange wood, three boys to do the work, PPEs and a body bag for the deceased,” the operator said. When asked for a discount, he added: “It’s a risky job. It will not be possible to do it for anything cheaper than that.” Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials, overseeing cremation of Covid-19 patients, said they were aware of such ‘deals’ and there was little they could do about it. “Private operators have tie-up with corporate hospitals. We only take care of patients at government hospitals and those cremations are done free of cost,” GHMC health officer Dr Ravinder Goud told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ferrying-the-dead-for-a-price-to-grave/articleshow/77096487.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat touches 50,000-case mark in 124 days||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat was among the late starters when it came to first Covid-19 cases in the country. The state’s first two official cases were recorded on March 19. In 124 subsequent days, the state recorded 50,465 cumulative cases, becoming seventh Indian state to cross the mark. However, among the seven states, Gujarat is fifth in terms of fastest addition – Maharashtra recorded 50K cases in 76 days, Tamil Nadu in 102 days and Delhi in 109 days. Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh recorded their 50,000 cases on July 20. With 298 new positive cases in 24 hours, Surat’s total case tally reached 10,276, second only to Ahmedabad’s 24,767. Ahmedabad added 199 cases, followed by 75 from Vadodara and 58 from Rajkot. The deaths of 34 Covid-19 positive patients in 24 hours was the highest single-day toll in past 40 days. The figure included 21 deaths from Surat district — 14 from the city and seven from rest of the district. Ahmedabad recorded six deaths, followed by two from Vadodara and one each from Bhavnagar, Gir-Somnath, Jamnagar, Kutch and Patan. With the update, Gujarat now has 23.5% active cases at 11,861 out of total cases whereas share of discharged and deceased patients is at 72% and 4.4% respectively. A total of 744 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 36,403. The discharges include 204 from Ahmedabad, 173 from Surat, 61 from Vadodara and 58 from Gandhinagar. Gujarat carried out 13,693 tests in 24 hours to find new cases, taking the total to 5.62 lakh. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat has 4.16 lakh persons under quarantine, including 4.13 lakh under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-touches-50k-case-mark-in-124-days/articleshow/77096103.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Private bus operators seek tax waiver; TN govt says not likely||CHENNAI: Citing non-operation of vehicles since lockdown, bus and taxi owners have urged the Tamil Nadu government to defer tax payments and waive taxes for six months. Tamil Nadu has around 1.5 lakh private passenger services providing employment to about 18 lakh workers. For the past four months, majority have received either partial or no salary. Operators, who are struggling to pay employees, are now receiving messages from the government to pay Motor Vehicle (MV) taxes. An private bus operator pays 1.2 lakh to 3 lakh in MV tax for every three months. “MV taxes account for 7% to 17% of our revenue. Other taxes (including state tax and CESS on diesel) and toll fee account for almost 55% of our revenue. Eventually, we are blamed for collecting excess fare from passengers,” said Mohammed Afzal, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association. Operators have to spend 1 lakh to 3 lakh a bus to replace tyres, batteries and pay pending insurance premiums and taxes, he added. The government has to look into this immediately and waive taxes for at least for six months, or there will be huge trouble when resuming operations once lockdown ends, operators said. A senior official from the transport department said the state would lose revenue of more than 1,500 crore if the waiver was approved. Given that TN’s finances are in bad shape, it was very unlikely that such a call will be taken, the official added. He, however, agreed that steps would be taken to meet their demands about allowing operators to pay remittance of all service fees, penalties and charges online, preventing unnecessary visits to the Regional Transport Offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-bus-operators-seek-tax-waiver-tn-says-not-likely/articleshow/77097401.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 22, 2020||Erode||Private bus operators seek tax waiver; TN govt says not likely||CHENNAI: Citing non-operation of vehicles since lockdown, bus and taxi owners have urged the Tamil Nadu government to defer tax payments and waive taxes for six months. Tamil Nadu has around 1.5 lakh private passenger services providing employment to about 18 lakh workers. For the past four months, majority have received either partial or no salary. Operators, who are struggling to pay employees, are now receiving messages from the government to pay Motor Vehicle (MV) taxes. An private bus operator pays 1.2 lakh to 3 lakh in MV tax for every three months. “MV taxes account for 7% to 17% of our revenue. Other taxes (including state tax and CESS on diesel) and toll fee account for almost 55% of our revenue. Eventually, we are blamed for collecting excess fare from passengers,” said Mohammed Afzal, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association. Operators have to spend 1 lakh to 3 lakh a bus to replace tyres, batteries and pay pending insurance premiums and taxes, he added. The government has to look into this immediately and waive taxes for at least for six months, or there will be huge trouble when resuming operations once lockdown ends, operators said. A senior official from the transport department said the state would lose revenue of more than 1,500 crore if the waiver was approved. Given that TN’s finances are in bad shape, it was very unlikely that such a call will be taken, the official added. He, however, agreed that steps would be taken to meet their demands about allowing operators to pay remittance of all service fees, penalties and charges online, preventing unnecessary visits to the Regional Transport Offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/pvt-bus-operators-seek-tax-waiver-tn-says-not-likely/articleshow/77103342.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Private bus operators seek tax waiver; TN govt says not likely||CHENNAI: Citing non-operation of vehicles since lockdown, bus and taxi owners have urged the Tamil Nadu government to defer tax payments and waive taxes for six months. Tamil Nadu has around 1.5 lakh private passenger services providing employment to about 18 lakh workers. For the past four months, majority have received either partial or no salary. Operators, who are struggling to pay employees, are now receiving messages from the government to pay Motor Vehicle (MV) taxes. An private bus operator pays 1.2 lakh to 3 lakh in MV tax for every three months. “MV taxes account for 7% to 17% of our revenue. Other taxes (including state tax and CESS on diesel) and toll fee account for almost 55% of our revenue. Eventually, we are blamed for collecting excess fare from passengers,” said Mohammed Afzal, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association. Operators have to spend 1 lakh to 3 lakh a bus to replace tyres, batteries and pay pending insurance premiums and taxes, he added. The government has to look into this immediately and waive taxes for at least for six months, or there will be huge trouble when resuming operations once lockdown ends, operators said. A senior official from the transport department said the state would lose revenue of more than 1,500 crore if the waiver was approved. Given that TN’s finances are in bad shape, it was very unlikely that such a call will be taken, the official added. He, however, agreed that steps would be taken to meet their demands about allowing operators to pay remittance of all service fees, penalties and charges online, preventing unnecessary visits to the Regional Transport Offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-bus-operators-seek-tax-waiver-tn-says-not-likely/articleshow/77103341.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Private bus operators seek tax waiver; TN govt says not likely||CHENNAI: Citing non-operation of vehicles since lockdown, bus and taxi owners have urged the Tamil Nadu government to defer tax payments and waive taxes for six months. Tamil Nadu has around 1.5 lakh private passenger services providing employment to about 18 lakh workers. For the past four months, majority have received either partial or no salary. Operators, who are struggling to pay employees, are now receiving messages from the government to pay Motor Vehicle (MV) taxes. An private bus operator pays 1.2 lakh to 3 lakh in MV tax for every three months. “MV taxes account for 7% to 17% of our revenue. Other taxes (including state tax and CESS on diesel) and toll fee account for almost 55% of our revenue. Eventually, we are blamed for collecting excess fare from passengers,” said Mohammed Afzal, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association. Operators have to spend 1 lakh to 3 lakh a bus to replace tyres, batteries and pay pending insurance premiums and taxes, he added. The government has to look into this immediately and waive taxes for at least for six months, or there will be huge trouble when resuming operations once lockdown ends, operators said. A senior official from the transport department said the state would lose revenue of more than 1,500 crore if the waiver was approved. Given that TN’s finances are in bad shape, it was very unlikely that such a call will be taken, the official added. He, however, agreed that steps would be taken to meet their demands about allowing operators to pay remittance of all service fees, penalties and charges online, preventing unnecessary visits to the Regional Transport Offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-bus-operators-seek-tax-waiver-tn-says-not-likely/articleshow/77103344.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 22, 2020||Salem||Private bus operators seek tax waiver; TN govt says not likely||CHENNAI: Citing non-operation of vehicles since lockdown, bus and taxi owners have urged the Tamil Nadu government to defer tax payments and waive taxes for six months. Tamil Nadu has around 1.5 lakh private passenger services providing employment to about 18 lakh workers. For the past four months, majority have received either partial or no salary. Operators, who are struggling to pay employees, are now receiving messages from the government to pay Motor Vehicle (MV) taxes. An private bus operator pays 1.2 lakh to 3 lakh in MV tax for every three months. “MV taxes account for 7% to 17% of our revenue. Other taxes (including state tax and CESS on diesel) and toll fee account for almost 55% of our revenue. Eventually, we are blamed for collecting excess fare from passengers,” said Mohammed Afzal, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association. Operators have to spend 1 lakh to 3 lakh a bus to replace tyres, batteries and pay pending insurance premiums and taxes, he added. The government has to look into this immediately and waive taxes for at least for six months, or there will be huge trouble when resuming operations once lockdown ends, operators said. A senior official from the transport department said the state would lose revenue of more than 1,500 crore if the waiver was approved. Given that TN’s finances are in bad shape, it was very unlikely that such a call will be taken, the official added. He, however, agreed that steps would be taken to meet their demands about allowing operators to pay remittance of all service fees, penalties and charges online, preventing unnecessary visits to the Regional Transport Offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/pvt-bus-operators-seek-tax-waiver-tn-says-not-likely/articleshow/77103345.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Private bus operators seek tax waiver; TN govt says not likely||CHENNAI: Citing non-operation of vehicles since lockdown, bus and taxi owners have urged the Tamil Nadu government to defer tax payments and waive taxes for six months. Tamil Nadu has around 1.5 lakh private passenger services providing employment to about 18 lakh workers. For the past four months, majority have received either partial or no salary. Operators, who are struggling to pay employees, are now receiving messages from the government to pay Motor Vehicle (MV) taxes. An private bus operator pays 1.2 lakh to 3 lakh in MV tax for every three months. “MV taxes account for 7% to 17% of our revenue. Other taxes (including state tax and CESS on diesel) and toll fee account for almost 55% of our revenue. Eventually, we are blamed for collecting excess fare from passengers,” said Mohammed Afzal, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association. Operators have to spend 1 lakh to 3 lakh a bus to replace tyres, batteries and pay pending insurance premiums and taxes, he added. The government has to look into this immediately and waive taxes for at least for six months, or there will be huge trouble when resuming operations once lockdown ends, operators said. A senior official from the transport department said the state would lose revenue of more than 1,500 crore if the waiver was approved. Given that TN’s finances are in bad shape, it was very unlikely that such a call will be taken, the official added. He, however, agreed that steps would be taken to meet their demands about allowing operators to pay remittance of all service fees, penalties and charges online, preventing unnecessary visits to the Regional Transport Offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-bus-operators-seek-tax-waiver-tn-says-not-likely/articleshow/77103333.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 22, 2020||Chennai||Private bus operators seek tax waiver; TN govt says not likely||CHENNAI: Citing non-operation of vehicles since lockdown, bus and taxi owners have urged the Tamil Nadu government to defer tax payments and waive taxes for six months. Tamil Nadu has around 1.5 lakh private passenger services providing employment to about 18 lakh workers. For the past four months, majority have received either partial or no salary. Operators, who are struggling to pay employees, are now receiving messages from the government to pay Motor Vehicle (MV) taxes. An private bus operator pays 1.2 lakh to 3 lakh in MV tax for every three months. “MV taxes account for 7% to 17% of our revenue. Other taxes (including state tax and CESS on diesel) and toll fee account for almost 55% of our revenue. Eventually, we are blamed for collecting excess fare from passengers,” said Mohammed Afzal, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association. Operators have to spend 1 lakh to 3 lakh a bus to replace tyres, batteries and pay pending insurance premiums and taxes, he added. The government has to look into this immediately and waive taxes for at least for six months, or there will be huge trouble when resuming operations once lockdown ends, operators said. A senior official from the transport department said the state would lose revenue of more than 1,500 crore if the waiver was approved. Given that TN’s finances are in bad shape, it was very unlikely that such a call will be taken, the official added. He, however, agreed that steps would be taken to meet their demands about allowing operators to pay remittance of all service fees, penalties and charges online, preventing unnecessary visits to the Regional Transport Offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pvt-bus-operators-seek-tax-waiver-tn-says-not-likely/articleshow/77103337.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 22, 2020||Surat||Gambling raid: PI suspended for negligence||SURAT: Director general of police (DGP) Shivanand Jha suspended A R Dhavan, in-charge police inspector of Mahidharpura police station on Monday for an alleged negligence. Dhavan is facing punitive actions after a raid by state monitoring cell on a gambling den in the limits of Mahidharpura police station on Thursday. The state monitoring cell functions under the direct supervision of DGP. Sources in the DGP office said that instead of the state monitoring cell, it was the duty of Dhavan to conduct the raid, which he did not. And hence, the charges of negligence were levelled against him. A total of 99 accused were caught from the gambling den that was operating in Tulsi Faliya locality of Mahidharpura. The gambling den was being allegedly run by Asif Ganda, who was caught in the past for similar criminal activities. The gambling activity was being run in a two-storey house. The cops were surprised on noticing so many people at one place. Police seized cash, mobile and other valuables worth Rs 10 lakh from the spot. The regular police inspector, P A Arya, was on leave since he got infected with Covid-19. He is currently under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gambling-raid-pi-suspended-for-negligence/articleshow/77074254.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Meerut||Allow Bakri-Eid namaz in mosques and goat sacrifice: Darul Uloom to UP govt||Muzaffarnagar: Renowned Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband has requested the Uttar Pradesh government to allow Bakri-Eid namaz in mosques and goat sacrifice on the festival.In a five-point petition to the state government, the seminary’s officiating vice-chancellor Maulana Abdul Khaliq Madrasi said both the features were an important part of the celebrations and have no alternative. According to Darul spokesperson Ashraf Usmani, the seminary has appealed to the state government to shift the weekend lockdown to Tuesday and Wednesday next week in order to let people celebrate Bakri-Eid expected to be celebrated on July 31 or August 1.The petition also said that the sale of sacrificial goats should be allowed since shops in malls have also been allowed to open.Notably, the state government had not given permission to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr and Kanwar Yatra recently in view of the pandemic lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/allow-bakri-eid-namaz-in-mosques-and-goat-sacrifice-darul-uloom-to-up-govt/articleshow/77094057.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 22, 2020||Rajkot||‘Stress build-up at Kutch fault may trigger earthquake’||RAJKOT: The Kutch Mainland Fault (KMF), the major east-west trending fault, which has been dormant for the last 1,000-odd years, has been accumulating stress within and could trigger an earthquake, suggests a study by scientists of Kutch University and Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR). The fault line extends for over 150 km from Lakhpat to Bhachau. The study published last month in Arabian Journal of Geosciences also gives evidence that there were four major earthquakes on KMF between 5600 and 1000 BP (before present), a time scale used by geologists to define events that happened before the origin of radiocarbon dating technology in the 1950s. The quake, if it happens, can wreak devastation in Kutch, especially Gandhidham and Anjar, and have a severe impact in parts of Ahmedabad and Saurashtra too. “The movement of Indian plate is perpetual. The accumulating forces are invariably released from the fragile crust of Kutch. It holds four major active faults which frequently liberate energy in the form of earthquakes. For scientists, it’s a challenge to predict when the quake would occur,” said professor M G Thakkar, head of earth and environment science at Kutch university. Thakkar is one of the principal investigators in the study along with scientists Raj Sunil Kundregula and Gaurav Chauhan of Kutch University. The paper is part of an ongoing study for the last 10 years assigned by the Ministry of Earth Science to various geologists. The scientists have identified vulnerable zones and active zones in Himalayan region and Kutch. “The study indicates that the central KMF zone is dormant for the last 1,000 years and accumulating stress in the system that may trigger an earthquake,” Thakkar told TOI. The devastating January 26, 2001 earthquake had released the stress but had occurred from the South Wagad fault system. Moreover, the recent earthquakes experienced in Rajkot on July 16 and Ahmedabad on June 15 have nothing to do with this faultline. According to Thakkar, numerous earthquakes have dismantled the geography of the Kutch region and made it the weakest geological segment in western India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stress-build-up-at-kutch-fault-may-trigger-quake/articleshow/77094113.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling linked to ‘financing terror’?||KOCHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) in its remand note submitted to the special court here on Tuesday claimed that the four accused in the case were part of a larger conspiracy that aimed at financing terrorism in India. The NIA was seeking extension of custody of second accused Swapna Suresh and fourth accused Sandeep Nair. According to the NIA's remand note, Swapna and Sandeep have conspired together to create monetary instability and destabilise the Indian economy by smuggling large quantity of gold from UAE. NIA also submitted before the court that K T Ramees was the kingpin of the operation. The special extended NIA custody of Swapna and Sandeep till July 24. “Swapna Prabha Suresh (A-2), Sandeep Nair (A-4) and other accused had conspired together and separately at various places in Kerala to damage the monetary stability of India by destabilizing the economy by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad and it is suspected that they had used these proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means. Their deliberate acts of using the diplomatic baggage of UAE as a cover to transact illegal business may have serious repercussions in the diplomatic relations with the government of UAE and it is prejudicial to the monetary and economic security of India as well,” the remand report said. NIA also stated that further involvement of other people in this crime as well as the end users and beneficiaries need to be ascertained. “During the custodial interrogation the role played by other associates came into light including one Ramees KT, who is one of the kingpins in the case. Sandeep Nair stated that Ramees KT insisted on smuggling gold in large quantity and in maximum numbers during the lockdown period as the financial position of the country is weak etc. A-4 also stated that KT Ramees commands and always moved with a group of persons and have contacts abroad,” said the report. Watch Kerala: NIA hints gold smuggling linked to ‘financing terror’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gold-smuggling-linked-to-financing-terror/articleshow/77097433.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Another audio clip hints gangster Vikas Dubey knew of police raid||KANPUR:Yet another audio clip of slain gangster Vikas Dubey has gone viral on social media, wherein he could be heard threatening and abusing police while chatting with a police constable of Chaubeypur police station. The gangster, in the 1.16 minutes long audio recorded 54 minutes prior to Bikru ambush, could be heard constantly hurling expletives at police and saying, “I will do something very big that will be remembered forever, even if I have to abscond or remain in jail for the whole life.” Going by the tape, it was again proved that the information of filing of case and police raid was leaked from Chaubeypur police station, police sources said. This was perhaps for the third time, wherein it was established that the gangster was tipped off about police action in advance. Earlier, Daya Shankar Agnihotri, an accomplice of gangster Vikas, who was arrested on July 5 after a brief encounter in Kalyanpur area, had admitted that Vikas had received a call that a police team would be preparing to raid his house. Daya Shankar, who was inside Vikas’s house during the encounter, worked as a servant in his house and his wife Rekha Agnihotri worked as a maid. Similarly, Shashikant, another aide of Vikas, too, had admitted of receiving a tip-off about police raid from some policemen. Also to recall, all 68 personnel of the Chaubepur police station were transferred to the district police lines on July 7 amid doubts over their professional integrity. The step to attach the entire staff, including sub-inspectors, head constables and constables of the police station to police lines was taken as their integrity was allegedly doubtful, a police spokesperson had stated. Earlier, Vinay Tiwari, SHO of Chaubeypur Police Station and beat in-charge KK Sharma, were suspended for fleeing from the spot during a raid to arrest the gangster in Bikru village in Chaubeypur. Meanwhile, in other video, the gangster is seen being haled by his aides on return from jail. They could be seen seeking blessings and touching the feet of the gangster, who was in white ‘qurta-pyjama’, and raising slogans like, ‘Jail ka tala toot gaya, sher hamara choot gaya’. Police sources informed TOI that the video was shot in 2019 when he was released from Mati jail in Kanpur Dehat district. It was also stated that when Vikas had reached his Bikru home from jail, his aides resorted to heavy celebratory firing. To recall, earlier in 47 seconds long old video, the gangster, armed with rifle, could be seen holding a ‘panchayat’ and threatening a group of people to mend their ways or be ready to face consequences. In yet another viral video, wherein he was seen giving an interview to some local electronic channel in 2006, he gave credit to a senior leader, who also fought the legislative elections from Chaubeypur area, for introducing him into politics. Watch Kanpur: Another audio clip hints gangster Vikas Dubey knew of police raid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/another-audio-clip-hints-vikas-knew-of-police-raid/articleshow/77096010.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Elderly patient survives 10ml of spurious injection||AHMEDABAD: Police investigating the spurious Tocilizumab injection racket on Tuesday said that the daughter of a patient had bought the injection from the racketeers, and in desperation to save the elderly woman’s life a 10ml dose of the fake injection was administered to her. After administering the drug, that doctors began to suspect that the injection was not original. The patient, Lata Baldua, was admitted to a hospital in Bodakdev said inspector Y B Jadeja of Vastrapur police. Her daughter, Priyanka Baldua, made desperate attempts to save her mother’s life and procured the Tocilizumab injection from one of the accused, Ashish Shah. This happened last week. According to the police complaint, Dr Devang Shah, a physician, prescribed Tocilizumab for Lata Baldua and her daughter was asked to get the drug. Priyanka contacted relatives and friends, who ultimately approached Ashish Shah to get the dose. Shah told them that he would provide three boxes for Rs 1.35 lakh for which he would not provide a bill. Ashish’ brother Akshay delivered the drug to the hospital. When other doctors saw the injection they thought it was suspicious as it did not have any description. Besides, Tocilizumab is not available in 250ml, the size of the dose provided. The doctor informed FDCA officials who inquired into it and found it was a duplicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/elderly-patient-survives-10ml-of-spurious-injection/articleshow/77096017.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||BJP MLA accuses Wadettiwar of cheating, forgery in land deal||Nagpur: Chimur MLA Kirtikumar Bhangadia has moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court against state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, accusing him of illegally selling land allotted to his society for an engineering college. The land was purchased by Mohan Gaikwad, who is now running an international school there. The petitioner demanded directives to the police and state government to register FIR against the minister for cheating and forgery.A division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Shreeram Modak on Tuesday issued notices returnable in six weeks to the respondents, including state home department, commissioner of police and superintendent (rural), Butibori police station in-charge and inspector.The Chimur BJP MLA through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar contended that the state revenue and forest department allotted 25 acres at mouza Dongargaon to Semana Vidya Vanvikas Prashikshan Mandal for setting up an engineering college on January 15, 2008.The trust, run by Bramhapuri MLA Wadettiwar, started VM Institute of Engineering and Technology (VMIT) in 2009-10. Trouble started after 2013, when Nagpur University blacklisted the college and stopped admissions for operating without a single full-time teacher and infrastructure. Subsequently, on November 1, 2014, Wadettiwar sold the land to Gaikwad, chairman of Gaikwad-Patil Group of Institutions, which runs a couple of engineering colleges in the city.The petitioner contended that the entire sale took place through forgery and unethical practices to cheat and defraud the trust. The minister allegedly controlled the unlawful sale for Rs22 crore, and the transactions took place keeping other trustees in the dark. Even their signatures were forged in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between two parties, Bhangadia claimed.A trustee, Jayant Gangreddiwar, had lodged a complaint with then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on May 26, 2017, alleging forgery in the land deal and misuse of property, and praying for a thorough inquiry.Later, the petitioner raised the issue with Fadnavis and former revenue minister Chandrakant Patil through a letter on March 26, 2018. He also issued legal notice to CP, SP (rural) and Butibori police officials for lodging FIR against Wadettiwar, but nothing progressed, forcing him to approach the judiciary.The petitioner pointed out that Wadettiwar, former leader of opposition, had also breached conditions laid down by the collector while sanctioning the building construction on the allotted land on March 26, 2008. The sanction stipulated that construction shouldn’t be more than 1/5th of the plot area and limited to ground plus one floor. However, the VMIT building was built with ground plus three floors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-mla-accuses-wadettiwar-of-cheating-forgery-in-land-deal/articleshow/77096014.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 positive woman dies, 28 contract the virus||Times News Network Ludhiana: A Covid-19 positive woman died in Ludhiana on Tuesday, when 34 positive cases were reported, of which 28 were from the district and others from Rajasthan, Fazilka, Moga and Jalandhar. The positive cases from Ludhiana include an MC employee and three healthcare workers. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said a 53-year-old woman from Kartar Nagar of Model Gram died at DMCH and was suffering from diabetes, blood pressure and respiratory problems, too. This took the number of deaths in the district to 49, while 34 from outside have died here. The health department said on the day, except two reports, 32 positive ones were received from private hospitals and laboratories, of which three were from Jalandhar, one each from Moga, Fazilka and Rajasthan. The department officials said the cases from Ludhiana include a youth from Panchsheel Colony of Noorwala Road and a 36-year-old male MC employee from Gobind Nagar of Daba. The cases reported at private hospitals and laboratories include two men from BRS Nagar, a man and a woman from Kartar Nagar of Model Gram and one case each from Dashmesh Nagar, Maha Singh Nagar of Daba, Raghunath Enclave of Rajguru Nagar, Guru Nanak Nagar of Chandigarh Road, Aman Nagar of Jalandhar Bypass, Rajbeer Park of Jassiya Road, Old City near central post office, Model Town Extension, Sohi Street, Moti Nagar, two women health workers from Focal Point and Sector 32 of Chandigarh Road, one case each from Guru Harrai Nagar, Shivaji Nagar, Police Lines, Jassowal of Samrala, a male health worker from Mohan Nagar of Shivpuri, a woman from Himmat Singh Nagar of Dugri, an 80-year-old woman from Maharaja Ranjit Singh Park, and one case each from Gurdev Nagar, Guru Arjun Dev Nagar and Dhandari Kalan. Officials said till now 1,946 patients have tested positive in the district and 324 patients were from outside. They said on Tuesday 405 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and 78 rapid response teams screened 405 persons of which 287 were isolated at home. Hotels for home isolation To rope in city hotels to accommodate symptomatic and mildly symptomatic corona patients who have been recommended home isolation, the district administration on Tuesday formed a team comprising additional chief administration of GLADA Bhupinder Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police Sachin Gupta and SMO Dr Hatinder Kaur. These nodal officers will coordinate with the willing hotels to ensure that all protocols for isolation are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-positive-woman-dies-28-contract-the-virus/articleshow/77094115.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||High cost burns a hole in activists’ pockets in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The high cost of cremating Covid-19 victims in the city has left activists fuming as they often end up paying it out of their pockets as families are poor, away or in isolation. Speaking about the crematorium in Erragadda, Sai Teja, vice-president of Forum Against Corruption, said: “On Sunday, we helped cremate someone whose family was in self-isolation. We were charged Rs 25,000. The next day we cremated two people from the same family and it costs us Rs 50,000. The crematorium staff is minting money at the expense of many poor people.” Teja added that cost for wood, fuel and personnel should not exceed Rs 10,000. In fact, a board at the crematorium states that if wood and fuel is arranged then the cost would be only Rs 500. “It is understandable if they charge more when they also arrange for an ambulance, but they do not waive the amount even if one has used their own means to transport the body,” he said. Many others pointed out how there was no receipt either. Ramanjeet Singh, who has helped several friends cremate loved ones, said. “There was no bill book and there are many bodies coming in every day. This is a huge scam happening under the nose of the government. I have raised repeated complaints on twitter and to GHMC authorities, but there has been no response.” When contacted, GHMC assistant medical officer health Ravinder Goud said that the civic body was keeping an eye on body disposal from government hospitals. “Private hospitals must ensure that they have a mortuary equipped to deal with Covid-19 cases and personnel are trained in transporting bodies. At the crematoriums, private managements must look at the situation with empathy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-cost-burns-a-hole-in-activists-pockets/articleshow/77096496.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mr Amdavad is accused number 3 in fake drug case||AHMEDABAD: Accused number-3 in Vastrapur police FIR is considered to be the one who is instrumental in conspiring plan to sell duplicate injections. Last year, he had won prestigious Mr Amdavad title in Mr Ahmedabad Junior and Masters Bodybuilding Championship. Vastrapur police officials said that Harsh Thakor was a sportsperson who had also played in under-14 cricket at the state level. To sustain his muscular body and maintain physical ability, he used to buy protein powder and also steroid dose from Neelesh Laliwala who ran a protein and supplements shop in the Paldi area. But they were not just transacting for steroids and protein, they also made plans to gain financial benefit by providing injection in the trying times of corona pandemic. For this, they consulted Sohel Tai, who used to provide steroids drugs, to Laliwala. Finally, they decided to provide duplicate injections for Covid-19 patients. A police officer said Thakor had delivered the injection which was supposed to be given to Lata Baldua for Rs 80,000 which was sold by Shah brothers at Rs 1.35 lakh. Thakor chose to implement the deal at SVP hospital in the Ellisbridge area. Thakor’s father is a peon at SVP Hospital, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mr-amdavad-is-accused-no-3-in-fake-drug-case/articleshow/77096026.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Probe power connection, building plan approval gap’||tnnLudhiana: The state vigilance department has asked the additional chief secretary of local bodies department to look into the gap between the new power supply connections and building plan approvals. City-based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had sought an inquiry by the vigilance department in June, saying there was a big difference between the two and the civic body officials were adopting a lackadaisical attitude, which was causing loss to the exchequer.Recently, the municipal corporation officials had taken data from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to check the difference and nail defaulters who do not pay property tax, water supply and sewerage dues or get building plans approved. The data showed that in the past three years, the number of electricity consumers increased by up to 1 lakh. However, 5,000-plus building plans were approved in the corresponding period. The MC had started a survey in February, but was hamstrung by the pandemic.In the complaint letter, the RTI activist had said that from April 1, 2019, to May 31, 2020, the number of building plans approved and challans issued for the violation were very less, but a number of electricity connections were issued by the power department. New connections are issued against new constructions and so are building plans. With hardly any coordination between the departments, the public exchequer is taking a hit. The RTI activist had claimed that if new constructions were allowed after their building plans were approved and the violators challaned, then it would have added a large sum to the public exchequer kitty.“Data on new connections should be collected from all offices of the power department and compared with the new building plans and challans issued. Action should be taken against the guilty officials after an inquiry,” he had added.What officers sayMC assistant town planner Mohan Singh said, “There is no such provision in the MC Act that we have to work in coordination with the power department. Only the state government can put it in the Act or ask PSPCL to take NOC from the civic body before giving new electricity connection.”Ludhiana central zone chief engineer Varinder Pal Singh said they do not ask for documents for giving domestic connections and keep it simple for consumers. While for commercial category connections, NOCs from all departments were sought, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/probe-power-connection-building-plan-approval-gap/articleshow/77094106.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Meerut||UP saw an average of 5 encounters daily in last 3 yrs, 123 accused shot dead, thousands injured||MEERUT: In the days following Vikas Dubey's death in encounter, there has been a spate of gun battles with criminals involving the UP policemen that have seen one dead and several injured. According to data accessed from the UP Police department, the state has been witnessing an average five encounters every day for the last about three years. Between March 2017 and mid-July 2020, policemen of the state were involved in 6,326 encounters, the data reveals. In these exchanges of bullets, at least 123 accused were shot dead and another 2,337 sustained bullet injuries. Most of those among the dead were undertrial against whom cases were still pending in courts and they were out on bail. While in these encounters, 13 policemen, including eight in Kanpur, were killed in the line of duty. And as many as 957 policemen sustained injuries to varying degrees-- in most cases bullets grazed past one of their arms. When contacted, UP’s additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said, “Encounter is not a state policy and is always an exception. We are not trigger happy. But we have to retaliate when criminals open fire on us.” Before assuming the charge of UP’s ADG (law and order), Prashant Kumar was at the helm of affairs of Meerut zone. During his tenure, the region saw one third of the total encounters in this state, and nearly half of the encounter killings. “We have been acting according to the Supreme Court guidelines, including the time-bound investigation and notifying the national human rights commission. All magisterial probes in encounter deaths have cleared us,” the ADG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-saw-an-average-of-5-encounters-daily-in-last-3-yrs-123-accused-shot-dead-thousands-injured/articleshow/77094107.cms||Piyush Rai
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia orders action against DU||NEW DELHI: Deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia has ordered the directorate of higher education to begin legal proceedings against Delhi University for not following procedures in the constitution of governing body (GB) in six colleges. “GB, which is the statutory body responsible for taking all administrative and financial decisions, has not been reconstituted in colleges funded by Delhi government,” Sisodia said.  Sisodia raised objections on non-formation of GB in six colleges — Lakshmibai and Kalindi, which are partially funded, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Aditi Mahavidyalaya, Maharishi Valmiki College of Education and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, which are fully-funded. “The colleges have been functioning with truncated governing bodies since March 2019. I have been informed that despite repeated reminders to send names of six nominees to the colleges concerned, DU has not sent the complete list,” said Sisodia in the letter, a copy of which is with TOI. The letter added that a few of these colleges had even initiated the process of election of the chairperson in the absence of a complete panel. “This seems to indicate a conspiracy to cover up corruption in these colleges. Since DU has not responded to the repeated correspondence of Delhi government, the directorate of higher education should move legal proceedings against it,” it said. Balaram Pani, dean of colleges, however, said that due to Covid-19, executive council meetings had not taken place. This led to the delay in clearing of the names. “Of the 140 names sent by the government, 134 have been cleared. There were certain reservations on six names, so we sent them back to the government. The government reverted to continuing with those names. But before sending these names to the colleges, it has to be cleared by the executive council,” said Pani.  Meanwhile, Delhi University Teachers Association warned of a protest against the government for non-payment of salaries to 12 colleges funded by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-orders-action-against-du/articleshow/77097461.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC gives petitioners last chance to submit documents on riots||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday gave a last opportunity to the parties seeking its intervention in the riot-related cases to finish supply of documents.  A division bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, while allowing an adjournment in the matter, expressed displeasure with the parties saying they must file and supply affidavits on or before the end of this week. “This matter should start someday,” the bench remarked, posting the plea for July 27. Delhi Police had already filed its common affidavit on the petitions, where it said, “Speeches of politicians, including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Anurag Thakur, Kapil Mishra, Pravesh Verma, Waris Pathan, and others, are being examined. Necessary action will be taken in due course of time if it is found that their speeches had any nexus with the riots.” It has also said that petitions raising questions on the investigation were nothing but a blatant and a brazen misuse of the PIL and accused the organisations petitioning the court of not coming with clean hands. “They have selectively chosen certain speeches and incidents to further their hidden agenda,” police submitted. On Tuesday, one of the petitioner organisations, Jamiat Ulama, told the court that it would also like to place on record the findings of Delhi Minorities Commission on the riots, which ravaged the northeast part of the city earlier this year. However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the authorities would like to file a reply if the plea was allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-gives-petitioners-last-chance-to-submit-documents-on-riots/articleshow/77097471.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Youths worked as mob, lost individuality, says court||NEW DELHI: It is prima facie a “well-hatched conspiracy” and to take revenge on Muslims, some youths failed to perceive the “bottomless stupidity” of a propaganda and, as “saviours of their community”, created a WhatsApp group to work as a mob during the violence in northeast Delhi in February, said a court while taking cognisance of a chargesheet in a murder case.  Eleven people have been chargesheeted for allegedly murdering Aamir Khan, whose body was found in a nearby drain in the Gokulpuri area. The alleged murder took place on February 26 and came to the knowledge of police the next day when a body was found in the Bhagirathi Vihar nullah near Pulia.  “The group members... lost their individuality and started working with a mob mind,” observed chief metropolitan magistrate Purushottam Pathak. The court also highlighted that the “sacred” slogans raised by the accused had “deadened their minds and paralysed their creative nature”.  The court pointed out there were allegations of promoting enmity between groups on religious grounds. “In a case where a group of people conspired, later assembled to take revenge and where the victims have been targeted on the basis of their religious identity, the relevant provisions of law attracting relevant offences should have been mentioned in the chargesheet,” it said, adding that no sanction had been taken from the state or central government in this regard.  Khan’s last location was found to be near the nullah. The police said 27 riot-related PCR calls were made from the area. The probe also revealed three men, Mohit Sharma, Shivam Bhardwaj and Dimple Rai, were allegedly trying to snoop on the conversations of the investigating team. The mobile phones of Sharma and Bhardwaj revealed they were members of a WhatsApp group, Kattar Hindu Ekta, which was created on February 25 for allegedly taking revenge on Muslims, police said.  The court underlined these men had acted in a planned manner to commit rioting, murder, dacoity and other offences, besides being instrumental for the gathering of an unlawful assembly. “The mob turned into rioters and in process of rioting, they looted the mobile phone and caused death of Aamir by inflicting multiple injuries in a brutal manner,” the judge noted. To erase all evidence, “all of them, in furtherance of their common intention, threw his body in the drain,” he added.  “There cannot be any doubt that the accused, who killed Aamir Khan, were certainly up to their neck in the conspiracy and were thus very active members of the unlawful assembly,” the court added.  Lokesh Kumar Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary, Prince, Rishabh Chaudhary, Jatin Sharma, Vivek Panchal and Himanshu Thakur have prima facie committed crimes under various IPC sections, including murder, joining unlawful assembly with deadly weapon, rioting and criminal conspiracy. Pawan Kumar and Lalit Kumar were prima facie found to have committed the offence of dishonestly receiving property stolen during dacoity, while Pawan also faces the charge of disappearance of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youths-worked-as-mob-lost-individuality-court/articleshow/77097473.cms||Aamir Khan
July 22, 2020||Meerut||Operation Clean: Two criminals arrested after encounter, 3 cops injured||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In the ongoing ‘Operation Clean’ drive, two criminals with a bounty of Rs 10,000 and 25,000 were arrested in 24 hours during a brief encounter in Muzaffarnagar on Monday and Tuesday. A police officer and two constables also got injured during cross-firing. Police seized bikes, country-made weapons and several live cartridges from their possession. According to sources, in the first encounter in Budhana area on Monday, Sukram Paal, who is the sharpshooter of hardened criminal Susheel Mooch— who is currently locked up in jail—was arrested after a gun battle. Paal sustained bullet injuries on his both legs. During the battle, police officer Rakesh Sharma and a constable were also injured. Senior superintendent of police, Abhishek Yadav said, “Paal has 36 criminal cases registered against him in various districts of Meerut, Baghpat and Muzaffarnagar.” In another encounter on Tuesday in Charthawal area, Zeeshan, who has a dozen criminal cases like murder and loot and carries Rs 10,000 reward, was arrested after the encounter. A constable also sustained injury. Police sources said the culprit fired at the police team during a vehicle checking drive. It should be noted that Muzaffarnagar police launched 'Operation Clean' drive, in which more than two dozen criminals who have no criminal record but working with criminals have been slapped with history sheets across the district. Moreover, associates of the three notorious criminals—Susheel Mooch, Sanjeev Maheshwari, and Meenu Tyagi wife of Vikki Tyagi, who was murdered at a local court in Muzaffarnagar several years back—are also on the police radar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/operation-clean-two-criminals-arrested-after-encounter-3-cops-injured/articleshow/77094138.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 22, 2020||Goa||Goa’s death toll up by 3, Vishwajit Rane says 11 ready to donate plasma||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid death toll rose to 26 on Tuesday after three persons succumbed to the infection. A 65-year-old woman from Gogol, Margao, who had comorbidities, died at the ESI-Covid hospital, while another woman from Birla-Zuarinagar, also 65, died while being shifted to the Covid hospital from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. The third Covid death was reported from the North Goa district hospital in Mapusa. A person was brought dead to the hospital late on Monday night, and when he was tested for Covid-19, it returned a positive result, said medical superintendent Dr Mohan Pednekar. The deceased was a resident of Khorlim, Mapusa. A block of his building was sealed on the orders of the deputy collector. Mapusa health officials said that swab samples of his family and other close contacts would be collected on Wednesday. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that 11 ex-Covid patients have volunteered to donate their plasma. The state is preparing to introduce convalescent plasma therapy to treat seriously ill Covid patients and contain the fatality rate. Meanwhile, the state’s Covid-19 tally shot up to 1,552 with 174 new cases detected. Also, 88 patients were declared cured. In South Goa, a surge was reported in Vasco and Cortalim, with a total of 61 people testing positive. Balli, Quepem, Ponda and Navelim also reported a rise in cases. In North Goa, Mapusa and Colvale witnessed spurts in cases, with 9 and 21 new infections respectively. A health official said that the new infections in Colvale are close contacts and family members of persons who tested positive over the past week. “We conducted a drive after a few cases were reported last week,” he said. “We are in the process of transferring new patients to Covid care centres.” In Mapusa, nine cases were detected at Karaswada and Cunchelim. Most of those who tested positive in Karaswada live in a closely-packed area, a health official said. Other areas that reported cases are Sankhali, Panaji, Casarvarnem, Corlim and Siolim. A man from Calangute tested positive late on Monday night, following which he was admitted to the Covid care centre in Calangute. Candolim PHC medical officer Dr Roshan Nazareth said that he arrived in Goa on July 13, and had been tested as per the standing operating procedure (SOP). “He is a driver and brought two businessmen to Calangute,” Nazareth said, adding that the two businessmen have tested negative. Meanwhile, all swab samples collected from a ward in Candolim on Friday tested negative, Nazareth said. The collection drive was carried out on three days — Friday, Saturday and Sunday — after a senior citizen from the area who was being treated for asthma at GMC was found to have contracted the virus. Test reports of samples collected on Saturday and Sunday are awaited. Meanwhile, a bakery located near the residence of the patient, which supplies bread in the area, has been shut down for ten days as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-death-toll-up-by-3-rane-says-11-ready-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77096023.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Agra||174 test positive for Covid-19 in four west UP dists, four die||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: At least 174 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in four districts of western Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, while four succumbed to the deadly virus. As many as 63 fresh Covid-19 cases took the Bareilly district tally to 997, with 502 being the active cases, while two more people — including A 30-year-old man who was suffering from kidney-related ailments — succumbed to Covid-19, taking the toll in the district to 33. Pilibhit, meanwhile, reported 56 positive cases — including six employees at the collectorate testing positive — between Sunday night and Monday evening, taking the district tally to 280, while the number of active cases also rose to 110. The collectorate campus was sealed for 24 hours following the DM's orders on Monday. At least 36 people, including an international traveller and a police constable, among others, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut, taking the district tally to 1,810. Meanwhile, two deaths took the toll to 85, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer. With as many as 19 new positive cases, the Agra district tally reached 1,536, with 172 being the active cases. The 19 new cases include two patients suffering from coronary artery disease, three each suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and severe acute respiratory infection and a kidney patient. According to the health department, 16 Covid-19 patents cured and discharged on Monday. Out of the 1,536 cases, 82.68% have been declared cured and discharged. Meanwhile, health department officials will start collecting samples of random people under the ongoing door-to-door survey for Covid-19 tests, following an order issued by divisional commissioner Anil Kumar on Tuesday after he inspected the Covid-19 command and control room located at the office of the chief medical officer. The health department was also directed to increase the pace of contact tracing and conduct sampling in a time-bound manner. The DC said, “The state government has emphasised on maximum testing for identifying Covid-19 positive cases for providing them treatment following the standard protocol. The health department has been directed to conduct random sampling during the ongoing door-to-door health check-up campaign. There is a need to increase the pace of contact tracing of the people who tested positive for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/174-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-four-west-up-dists-four-die/articleshow/77094145.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ludhiana||PSEB Class XII: Ludhiana records 89.99 pass percentage, govt schools outdo pvt||Ludhiana: A wave of happiness followed declaration of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) Class XII results at 11am on Wednesday. As many as 32,384 students appeared in the exam, of whom 29,142 cleared it. However, the pass percentage of 89.99% is marginally lower than last year's score of 90.83%. The overall pass percentage of all students, including government and private schools as well as open candidates in the state is 90.98%. Ludhiana occupies the 20th position in terms of pass percentage whereas Roop Nagar occupies the first position with a pass percentage of 96.63%. Government schools outscored private schools for the second consecutive year with pass percentage of 94.32 % as against 91.84% of affiliated schools and 87.04% of associated schools. Government schools also performed better than government-aided private schools. Pass percentage in rural areas is better at 93.39% as compared to urban areas at 91.96%. Besides, girls have done better than boys. Earlier, the board cancelled pending Class 12 exams. Evaluation of the cancelled papers was done on the basis of exams conducted previously as well as the pre-board results. Following the trend started by CBSE, PSEB decided to evaluate students’ performance based on the best three criteria. The average of three highest marks of a student in the exams previously conducted will be calculated and the score will be awarded on the basis of this. Students checked the results on the website, pseb.ac.in. Results of classes X, VIII, and V were announced in May on the basis of Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE). Janak Raj Mehrok, controller of examination, PSEB said, “This year, the Board will not release the merit list as a few remaining papers in the exam were cancelled due to the pandemic. The Board will not announce the toppers this year because no merit list will be released.” In commerce, Rohan from BCM Senior Secondary School, Focal Point and Davinder Singh from Teja Singh Sutantar Memorial Senior Secondary School scored 449 marks out of 450 to bag the first position in the district with 99.77%.In science stream, Ankur Pandey from Teja Singh Sutantar Memorial Senior Secondary School and Rohit from RS Model Senior Secondary School secured 447 marks out of 450 and bagged first position in district with 99.33%.In humanities, Balwinder Kaur from Government Senior Secondary School, Rajewal secured 449 marks out of 450 and bagged the first position in the district with 99.77% followed by Akashdeep Singh from Government Senior Secondary Schools (Boys) Swaddi Kalan and Gagan Kumar from RS Model School Senior Secondary School securing 447. Mother-son duo clear Class XII examMehak Jain | TNN At 46, Rajni Sathi cleared the Class XII Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) exam after 31 years with her 18-year-old son. The part-time ward attendant at the civil hospital underwent a cataract operation on February 3 and appeared for her first examination on March 3. An elated Rajni said, “The credit of my success goes to my husband Raj Kumar Sathi for being a motivational force. He has been coaching me for many years to complete my studies. In 2018, I cleared Class X with my son Deepak Sathi and this year, I cleared Class XII with 55.7 % marks. My son Deepak got 72.4 %.”Besides her husband, Rajni’s mother-in-law Sumittra Devi has been a pillar of support. Like Rajni, who filled a huge gap in her studies, her husband Rajkumar Sathi also completed his education after 17 years. He cleared Class X in 1987 and resumed further studies in 2004. He is a graduate now. Rajkumar Sathi said ,“I couldn’t complete my studies due to poverty. I realised that to keep pace with changing times, one has to change his outlook first.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pseb-class-xii-ludhiana-records-89-99-pass-percentage-govt-schools-outdo-pvt/articleshow/77094158.cms||Mehak Jain
July 22, 2020||Goa||Process for human trials starts in Goa, 30 samples collected||PANAJI: Redkar Hospital in North Goa has collected samples of 30 volunteers for human trials of India’s first potential Covid-19 vaccine. The hospital, which is among the 12 listed for the trials, expects to have within three days a total of 130 healthy volunteers in the age group 15 to 55. Thursday was day two for registration for the trial. “Human trials of #Covaxin, an indigenously developed vaccine for #COVID19 has begun at Redkar Hospital in Goa. This is a testimony of India's immense potential in healthcare innovation. My best wishes to the entire team working on #Covaxin. #IndiaFightsCOVID19,” chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted. The samples will be sent to three laboratories — National Institute of Virology (NIV), Dr Dangs Lab, New Delhi, and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad — for testing and only after the results are received eligible volunteers will be called for trials, said Dr Dhananjay Lad, director at CROM Clinical and Medical Tourism Pvt Ltd, which has been selected for conducting trials at Redkar Hospital. “We haven’t had a problem in getting volunteers, but we want educated people who understand the whole concept of vaccine trial,” he said. “After the vaccine is injected, which will be within a week of receiving laboratory reports of the samples, volunteers will be monitored for two hours and will be asked to go home after that,” Lad said. Volunteers will be called 14 days after the vaccine is injected to test the level of antibodies in their system, he said. Bhavesh Zambaulikar, 41, who is the president of the Bharatiya Janata Party yuva morcha, is one of the few first volunteers. He said he had been pursuing the development of the vaccine and a few months ago had also written to Bharat Biotech offering to be a volunteer. “There was no response but later I learnt that the trial could take place in Nashik. I was willing to go there as well. But last month, I learnt that Redkar Hospital was one of the hospitals selected for conducting human trials for the vaccine. I immediately contacted the hospital,” he said. Zambaulikar signed the documents on Tuesday giving his nod in writing and also convinced some of his friends to participate in the trial. “They want educated people for the trial. It takes about an hour or more to explain how the trial will unfold, starting with an explanation of what a virus is. A doctor on job will have to spend more time explaining if the volunteer is uneducated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-vaccine-trial-30-volunteers-register/articleshow/77096030.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 22, 2020||Mysuru||4 fatalities in Hassan, 96 test +ve||Hassan: The district reported 96 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the total count to 1,049. Four people also succumbed to the disease. The district stands second in the state in terms of Covid fatality rate per thousand. Among 4 fatalities reported in the district, three of the victims are from Hassan taluk and one is from Channarayapatna. A 29-year-old man from Hassan, who was suffering from diabetes, was diagnosed with sudden acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI). He had a travel history to Mangaluru. His report was out on Tuesday, where he tested positive for the novel coronavirus, after he breathed his last. A 62-year-old man from Hassan was declared brought dead on Monday night, who was suffering from heart issues, diabetes, hypertension and ILI. His swab sample tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. A 50-year-old man from Hassan, who tested positive for the novel coronavirus on July 13 and was admitted in the district Covid hospital, was discharged on Monday. He was brought back to the hospital on the same night with complaints of difficulty in breathing, but was declared brought dead. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/4-fatalities-in-hassan-96-test-ve/articleshow/77094121.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Another shock: DGFT says no firm is eligible for PPE export||Ludhiana: Giving a major jolt to PPE suit manufacturers from Ludhiana, the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) on Monday claimed that all the applications received by the department were ineligible and none fulfilled the criteria specified for allocation of export quota for July. DGFT has also changed the eligibility criteria, as a result the businessmen who had applied for the August quota will now have to re-file applications. The development has caused huge resentment among the businessmen, who say this will further hit the export prospects and they will have to suffer further losses.Coming down heavily on the government, Harish Dua, executive council member of Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), says, “It is unimaginable that not even a single businessman was found eligible to export PPE suits from India. It has been almost a month since the announcement was made by DGFT on June 29 to allow export of PPE suits under quota system. Such tough criteria were announced that it was already clear that majority will not be able to fulfil it. But it is shocking that not a single exporter was found eligible. This clearly indicates that there is something wrong with the system being adopted by DGFT. Under the new system, BIS certificate has been made mandatory and not even a single unit of Ludhiana that is into PPE manufacturing has it at this moment. All these factors indicate that the government is not interested in allowing PPE manufacturers to export and wants them to keep lakhs of unsold suits with themselves and bear the losses.”Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, says, “This is a setback to the PPE manufacturers who were pinning hopes on export after being unable to sell huge stocks. DGFT must allow export without restrictions. By delaying exports, the government is giving a chance to countries like China to benefit by dumping their products in other markets without competition from India, which is offering suits at relatively lower rates.”Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club who got late in applying for the July quota and filed for August after meeting all conditions, says, “Now as the procedure has been changed, we will have to re-file our application. However, I don’t think we will be eligible under the new procedure that makes submission of BIS certificate a must. Getting the certificate is very difficult and time consuming. If someone does not have it, he must submit a certificate from any accredited body of the importing country, which too is almost impossible. So it is clear that we are ineligible and must give up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/another-shock-dgft-says-no-firm-is-eligible-for-ppe-export/articleshow/77094124.cms||Mohit Behl
July 22, 2020||World||PM Oli manages to hold on to office for now||NEW DELHi: Nepal PM K P Oli has managed to hold on to power for now, surviving a scare from his own party members who had been demanding his resignation. The ruling party’s standing committee meeting on Tuesday ended without discussing any political issue and will now meet only on July 28. While at one point of time 30 of the 45 members of the standing committee were calling for Oli’s resignation, his rival Prachanda’s efforts to prevent a split in the party seem to have allowed Oli a reprieve. While India has been following the political situation closely, it has not allowed recent differences with Nepal to come in the way of bilateral ties. Despite the political instability in Kathmandu, and also strife in relations over Nepal’s new map, India and Nepal have continued to cooperate on other issues, including the Covid threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/pm-oli-manages-to-hold-on-to-office-for-now/articleshow/77097023.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Reopening schools in August doubtful, says education director||PANAJI: Director of education Santosh Amonkar said on Tuesday that given the daily rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, it is unlikely that schools will reopen in August. “We are almost in the last week of July,” said Amonkar, soon after taking charge of the post. “Given the current situation, I do not think (it is possible to reopen schools in August). It is doubtful.” Schools are currently teaching students online, but institutes and students are facing various problems, mainly concerning poor internet connectivity. “Earlier, it was believed that if not June or July, schools would be able to reopen by August,” Amonkar said. “I was also serving as principal of D.Ed college before taking charge as director. We had decided to start classes after August 15 and had even taken approval accordingly.” “It all depends on the situation, and if it worsens, then the reopening will delay.” The directorate of education (DoE) had earlier sought inputs from stakeholders, including school heads, teachers and parents, on how they think the state government can go about reopening schools. Amonkar said that he forwarded the file to the state government on Tuesday, soon after taking charge as director, with regards to the written suggestions received from schools. TOI had earlier reported that most parents had told the DoE not to reopen schools till the Covid-19 situation in Goa is brought under control. School parent teacher associations (PTAs) also stated the same during an interaction with education officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reopening-schools-in-aug-doubtful-says-edu-director/articleshow/77096043.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Agra||Three drown in Ganga while taking holy dip||Agra: Three youth drowned in Ganga river at Panchal Ghat of Farrukhabad district. Hailing from neighbouring district Shahjhanpur, the victim drove to ghat for holy dip on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Pradeep Yadav (18), Vishal Yadav (28) and Pramender Yadav (18). Their fourth friend Umesh Singh who came for dip survived after a local boatman Pintu dragged him out of the river. City magistrate Ashok Arya said, “The four hailed from Bilsiadaulatpur village and had come for a holy dip, but three got dragged into the strong current of the river and drowned. Their bodies were recovered and sent for autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-drown-in-ganga-while-taking-holy-dip/articleshow/77094204.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas visited house brandishing a pistol, reveals Manu||Kanpur: Manu, wife of gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide Shashikant, on Monday made startling revelations during second round of questioning by the police. Manu told investigators that gangster Vikas, brandishing a pistol, had visited her house at 12 on July 2 night. “Manu stated thereafter, he (Vikas) left the place along with her husband Shashikant. Thereafter, her father-in-law Prem Prakash had come to her and instructed her not to open the doors of the house unless he asked. He also suggested her to huddle self and children in one room, as shootout is going to take place,” said an official adding that , “Manu further told the IOs that after the shootout, neither her husband nor her father-in-law returned home.”  Thereafter, Manu heard loud shrieks from her courtyard, said police. “She stated that she heard two men saying “we will give him painful death and came across two back-to-back gunshot sound,” an investigator told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-visited-house-brandishing-a-pistol-reveals-manu/articleshow/77096036.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||Goa’s PIs send legal notice to govt over hiring to DySP posts||PANAJI: Goa police inspectors have sent a legal notice to the state government to fill the post of deputy superintendent of police (DySP) through 100% promotion. In the notice, the police officers warned that they would approach the high court if the government failed to accept their demand. The state government is yet to decide on Goa police’s 2019 proposal to conduct 60% recruitment to the post of DySP through promotion, even as over 50% of the DySP posts remain vacant. There are 40 sanctioned DySP posts of which 21 are direct recruitment posts. Of the 19 promotion posts, 13 are filled, while for 3 posts the file has been sent to the government and for the remaining 3 posts suitable candidates are yet to be found. “This legal notice calls upon you to examine and consider the various representation made by them on the subject of the amendment of 2011 to Rules 5 of Goa Police Service Rules, 1997, and consequently to amend the method of recruitment in the rank of DySP by implementing the Gore committee recommendation that is 100 per cent by way of promotion, which may be expedited,” police officers said. Goa police officers said that direct recruitment would leave no scope for promotion for police sub-inspectors and police inspectors. In July 2019, Goa police has send a new proposal to change the recruitment rules for filling DySP posts that stated that 40% of the vacancies for the post of DySP should be filled through direct recruitment and the remaining 60% by promotion from among officers who hold any of the posts on regular basis for a minimum period of five years under the government. “In order to provide more promotional avenues for the existing police inspectors, it is proposed for amendment of existing service Rules-5 (method of recruitment) as amended in the year 2011 of the Goa police service rules, 1997,” superintendent of police (SP) headquarters had said in proposal to government. On October 16, 2017, the Manohar Parrikar-government had approved the direct recruitment of 15 DySPs into the force. In 1997, the Pratapsingh Rane government had directly recruited six DySPs, some of whom were subsequently inducted into the Indian Police Service. In 2012, the government had initiated a similar exercise when Manohar Parrikar became chief minister, but it couldn’t be completed after senior police officers protested. ** Post Quest 1997 | Pratapsingh Rane govt directly recruited six DySPs, some of whom were subsequently inducted into the Indian Police Service 2012 | CM Manohar Parrikar initiated a similar exercise, but it couldn’t be completed after senior police officers protested 2017 | The Manohar Parrikar-government had approved the direct recruitment of 15 DySPs 2019 | Goa police proposed 60% hiring through promotion and 40% through direct recruitment 2020 | State’s PIs issued a legal notice to govt to carry out 100% hiring through promotion||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-pis-send-legal-notice-to-govt-over-hiring-to-dysp-posts/articleshow/77096038.cms||Murari Shetye
July 22, 2020||Meerut||UP draws list of 25 top jailed criminals, launches crackdown on network||MEERUT: On the evening of December 26, 2018, a prominent trader of Lucknow opened his eyes in Deoria jail. He wasn’t there for any crime. When Mohit Jaiswal’s handcuffs and blindfold were taken out, he found himself facing dreaded Ateeq Ahmad, who assaulted him over a deal. Once out of jail, Jaiswal rushed to the Supreme Court. The court transferred Ahmad to high-security Sabarmati central jail in Gujarat in June last year. For long, prisons in Uttar Pradesh have doubled up as “safe houses” for criminals like Ahmad and others of his ilk, a senior police officer said. They ran their empire from there, and most in eastern UP became “tender mafia”, wielding their influence, they bagged lucrative government contracts. But, if UP’s police brass is to be believed, they are now up to dismantle such networks and a list 25 such incarcerated criminals has been drawn up. It all comes against the backdrop of gangster Vikas Dubey brazenly shooting dead eight policemen during an encounter in Kanpur. After that the apex court also pulled up the state for allowing a person like Dubey to operate unimpeded. In their crackdown, police are following the “Kairana model”, where a criminal’s sources of funds are blocked and noose is tightened around his associates. UP’s additional director general of police (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar, told TOI, “We are replicating the ‘Kairana model’ in the rest of UP now. It is just not neutralizing the members of these jailed gangsters, but also to break the funding of these gangs. Even while in jail these gangsters have enough influence to secure meaty government contracts and run extortion rackets. We have full government backing to come down heavily on these gangs to make the entire state crime free. So be it their weapons, or properties or support system, everything is under our lens.” According to sources, UP’s Special Task Force (STF) has been given the list of 25 jailed gangsters and told to initiate action against their gangs. Various associates of these gangsters, who are running the criminal empire on their behalf, are also being targeted. Meanwhile, on Monday evening, policemen raided the houses of two jailed criminals who made it to the list. The raiding teams found a cache of country-made firearms and live cartridges from the houses of Yogesh Bhadaura and Uddham Singh in Meerut villages. They are lodged in Siddharthnagar and Azamgarh jails respectively. It comes days after a criminal owing allegiance to Bhadaura was shot dead in an encounter with police. While referring to the “Kairana model”, ADG Kumar was referring to the strategy he had adopted while dealing with a notorious west UP criminal Mukim Kala. Kumar was ADG (law and order) Meerut then and the criminal was active in Kairana and nearby areas. Kala’s entire gang was put behind the bars, and his properties were confiscated. Kairana, a small town in west UP, had also become a political hotbed after the then BJP MP Hukum Singh had brought out a list of 250 local families who had allegedly left the town owing to deteriorating law and order, in 2016. Later, BJP had included Kairana exodus as a poll issue promising crackdown on criminals, just before UP polls in 2017. After winning the state elections, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave a free hand to UP police which went into the encounter spree as Meerut zone topped the charts. Kairana was the ‘obvious focus’ and a systematic crackdown was launched on the gang of jailed gangster Kala. Apart from police encounters, fund flow of the gang was also choked resulting in the “complete liquidation” of the gang. ADG Kumar has been credited with wiping out the gang. As part of the move, jailed gangster Ahmad’s brother Ashraf Ahmad has also been arrested. And gun licences of 18 aides of eastern UP strongman Mukhtar Ansari were also put under scrutiny and many have already been cancelled. Their properties and ‘benami’ transactions are under lens. On Friday, Gajender Singh, an associate of jailed gangster Abu Salem was also arrested. The list of jailed gangsters includes Sundar Bhati of Gautam Budh Nagar currently lodged in Hamirpur jail, Brajesh Kumar Singh, currently in Varanasi jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-draws-list-of-25-top-jailed-criminals-launches-crackdown-on-network/articleshow/77094168.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Soon, plasma banks in all medical colleges||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister KK Shailaja said a decision has been taken to set up plasma banks in all government medical college hospitals to help critical patients with Covid convalescent plasma therapy. “The state experimented with plasma therapy on patients and the success rate is 90%. Hence it has been decided to setup plasma banks in all MCHs so that the therapy can be done in all these hospitals,” she said. The first plasma bank was set up at Manjeri MCH. Already, 28 people who have recovered, have donated their plasma to this bank and 200 others have expressed their desire to donate plasma. Till date, four patients were subjected to plasma therapy and it became successful in three cases. Two such cases were done at Manjeri MCH and one each at Thrissur and Alappuzha MCHs. The minister said plasma banks are being set up based on ICMR guidelines. Respective medical boards, set up in each district, are finalizing the need for plasma therapy on Covid patients. Plasma required for the therapy is sourced from recovered patients. Thy should have tested negative twice to determine that they are have totally recovered. Such person can donate plasma from 14 days to four months after the last negative result. At present, health department has decided to provide plasma therapy to patients who fall under category-II: Those with severe respiratory problems, low-level of oxygen, pneumonia and are in critical condition. All transfusion medicine departments of MCHs have been asked to take necessary steps to set up plasma bank immediately. The decision comes following the increase in patient load and more cases of people with severe complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/soon-plasma-banks-in-all-medical-colleges/articleshow/77094179.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Youth cooks up kidnap story to kill self, saved||NEW DELHI: An engineering student, who was suffering from depression, faked his own abduction so that he could travel to Jodhpur and allegedly kill himself. However, the cops tracked him down before he could take any extreme step. Earlier, his parents had lodged a kidnapping complaint at a police station in Rohini. They told the cops that he had left home to head to an ATM and disappeared after that. They had also received a “Rs 5 lakh ransom call” from an unknown number.  DCP (Rohini) PK Mishra said that when they started tracking the number, it was found to be located somewhere near Sarai Rohilla Railway Station. A team was subsequently sent to look for him. The GRP and the railway staffers were asked about the youth and it was found that he had boarded Sampark Kranti Express. CCTV footage showed him boarding an unreserved compartment. The cops alerted the GRP personnel in Jaipur who found the youth. He was detained and brought back to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youth-cooks-up-kidnap-story-to-kill-self-saved/articleshow/77097521.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Ownership rights: Rush for DDA’s scheme since May||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has received nearly 12,000 applications for ownership rights from residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the capital under the Prime Minister-Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikaar Yojana (PM-UDAY) since March 22, when lockdown was first imposed in the city.  The number is nearly three times that of the number of applications received by the authorities from residents of these colonies since the scheme’s launch in December last year till March 20.  The Union cabinet had, in October 2019, approved the proposal to grant ownership rights to residents of the 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the city. The boundaries of these unauthorised colonies were then uploaded on its website by DDA for the purpose of delineation. The DDA portal was launched on December 16, 2019, facilitating the applicants to apply for ownership rights online. The authority also created 25 help desks to facilitate application for ownership rights by residents of unauthorised colonies. The work of carrying out GIS mapping of properties, for which applications are received on the portal, has been outsourced by DDA.  From December 16, 2019 to March 20, 2020, DDA received total 4,573 completed applications from residents of these colonies for getting ownership rights. The number went down to just 512 from March 21, 2020 to May 8, 2020 but since May 9 and up to July 17, DDA has received 11,410 applications.  On the other hand, the number of registrations have seen a major fall since lockdown. While there were more than 2.5 lakh registrations on the DDA portal from the launch till March 20, there have been only 23,374 registrations between March 21 and July 17.  While total 546 conveyance deeds and authorisation slips were executed and issued till March 20, none were issued from then till May 8. The number of these ownership documents executed or issued since then is 251, taking the total number of documents issued since launch of scheme to 938. The total number of applications due to duplication or being out of boundary is 826 till date.  By the first half of May, GIS mapping of 70,000 properties was completed and during the lockdown, DDA’s four processing centres at Dwarka, Pitampura, Hauz Khas and Laxmi Nagar were operational. Officials at these centres were actively working even during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ownership-rights-rush-for-ddas-scheme-since-may/articleshow/77097529.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Five charged with attempted culpable homicide, two held||AHMEDABAD: Three days after the Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) Gujarat unearthed a racket involving the sale of a spurious drug as Tocilizumab, which is used to calm an overreaction of the immune system in Covid-19 patients, Vastrapur police late on Monday night charged five persons with culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy, for selling the fake injections. According to the FIR, the accused persons hatched a conspiracy to make a quick buck by repackaging a steroid called Nandrolone Decanoate as Tocilizumab, under a fake brand name, the FIR stated. "If injected, the medicine could cause death," the officer said quoting the FIR. The complaint was lodged by FDCA drug inspector Tapan Chudasama. The accused persons in this case were identified as Ashish Shah and his brother Akshay Shah, residents of Sabarmati; Harsh Thakor, a resident of Chandkheda; Nilesh Laliwala, a resident of Paldi and the kingpin, Sohel Tai, a resident of Rander in Surat. Tai is the owner of Genic Pharma, an apparently bogus firm based in Surat, from where the spurious tocilizumab (Actemra) injections were being supplied to Ahmedabad. Of them, Thakor and Laliwala were detained and sent for Covid-19 tests, said Inspector Y B Jadeja of Vastrapur police station. All of them were booked under Sections 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 276 (sale of drug as a different drug or prescription), and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, Jadeja said. Sections 18(c) (selling drug without valid licence) and 27 (manufacture and sale of spurious or adulterated drug) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act have also been invoked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-charged-with-attempted-culpable-homicide-two-held/articleshow/77096047.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vadodara||39 cases recorded in a day in Dahod||Vadodara: Dahod town and district was left stunned with 39 new Covid-19 cases surfacing on Tuesday. The cases include 34 from the town itself. Dahod has witnessed a steady trickle of cases since over a week now, but few had expected the spike that was seen on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, the total number of cases in the district increased to 294. Of these, 164 patients are still under treatment. The disease has claimed 20 lives in the district so far. The new cases were detected from 193 samples that were tested since Monday. This implied a positivity rate of over 20 per cent in the district. Traders have already restricted business hours to prevent the spread of the disease. The district administration has also joined hands with the effort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/39-cases-recorded-in-a-day-in-dahod/articleshow/77094052.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Rajkot||No entry in Gujarat's Somnath temple sans pass||RAJKOT: Hundreds of devotees made a beeline to offer prayers at the famous Somnath temple on the first day of Shravan on Tuesday. However, the swelling number of people since early morning led to some anxious moments with police having to intervene for crowd management. The Somnath Temple Trust on Tuesday decided to issue entry passes to devotees outside the premises, beginning July 25. Videos which went viral showed that the policemen had a tough time in controlling the situation after one of the persons in the queue picked up a fight with the cops. Cops then whisked him away. Rahul Tripathi, district superintendent of police (DSP), Gir-Somnath said, “There was a queue of devotees in the hold-up area before the police frisking spot. It's a small place and when the devotees came to know that the temple was opening, they rushed to this spot. One person broke the line and thereafter misbehaved with police.” Tripathi claimed there were around 200 devotees in the queue. According to the tradition, devotees from surrounding villages come on foot to the temple during Shravan early in the morning. Somanth Temple Trustee secretary, PK Lahiri told TOI: “We held a meeting of trustees, district collector and police and decided to increase the temple timing. The temple will remain open from 5:30am to 9:15pm beginning July 25. At present, the timings are from 6am to 6:30pm.” Lahiri said they will start issuing passes to the devotees from Saturday to avoid rush. The devotees coming from other districts should get passes through our online system, he said. As on July 21, there are 197 Covid-19 positive cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-entry-in-somnath-temple-sans-pass/articleshow/77094243.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Port City trials counter system at wine store to manage crowding||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam excise department has come up with a system to prevent crowding at liquor shops. They have set up counters, similar to ticketing counters in multiplexes, to segregate the crowd. As per the instructions of RK Meena, city police commissioner, and with the permission of Andhra Pradesh State Beverage Corporation Limited, the excise department conducted a trial run at Hanumanthawaka Retail Outlet by setting up four counters. Excise superintendent B Srinivasulu said “It bore excellent result on day one. We plan to introduce the same system in other liquor shops in a phased manner.” Like at theatres, separate counters were set up to sell liquor on price and product basis — one for beers and full liquor bottles, one for liquor priced above Rs 270, Rs 350 and Rs 180. And each counter is provided with an mike to make announcements to consumers. This is helping us maintain social distance,” Srinivasalu added. According to the official sources, the city generates nearly Rs 3 crore in revenue daily from the sale of liquor even during the pandemic. The city has nearly 77 liquor outlets, of them only 31 opened for business following the state government’s instructions in May. The consumers were asked to follow Covid-19 protocols, such as using an umbrella to facilitate social distancing and wearing face masks. But managing the crowd at all the outlets became a major challenge and given the rising number of cases in the city the issue had to be addressed as quickly as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/port-city-trials-counter-system-at-wine-store-to-manage-crowding/articleshow/77094226.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 22, 2020||Kanpur||Rs 20K reward announced on Vikas’s absconding brother||Kanpur: Police have announced a reward of Rs 20,000 for any information that could lead to the arrest of Deep Prakash Dubey, the brother of slain gangster Vikas Dubey. Deep Prakash, according to police sources, was aware of his brother’s activities and is an accomplice in his unlawful deeds and has been absconding since July 2 & 3 Bikru ambush in which eight policemen were shot dead by Vikas and his gang. Deep Prakash, according to police sources, was aware of his brother’s activities and acted like his aide in his unlawful activities. “He lives with his family in Krishna Nagar in Lucknow and has been absconding since the day of the shootout,” said IG (Range) Mohit Agarwal. “We are tracking him with the help of electronic surveillance. He is constantly changing his locations. We are questioning people close to him about his whereabouts. Once caught, Deep Prakash can provide vital information related to shootout, besides links of other people with slain gangster Vikas Dubey,” Agarwal added. To recall, the police had suspended firearm license of Deep Prakash along with his five other family members, including gangster Vikas Dubey, latter’s wife Richa, Deep’s wife Anjali Dubey, besides father Ram Kumar and their servant Daya Shankar Agnihotri. The police had stated that they received inputs during investigation about six members of the gangster, including issuance of firearm licenses from Kanpur and Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rs-20k-reward-announced-on-vikass-absconding-brother/articleshow/77096053.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Monsoon wading: Not as bad as Sunday, but usual suspects submerged yet again in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The waterlogging experienced after the spell of rain on Tuesday was not as bad as Sunday when a downpour brought the city to a standstill. However, vulnerable points like Sarai Kale Khan, South Avenue, Rajpur Road, parts of Vasant Kunj, among other places, continued to witness a mess. Water was also found stagnated in front of Delhi Secretariat. The monsoon report from North Delhi Municipal Corporation showed complaints of waterlogging from Jahangirpuri, Rohini Sector 23, Burari, Shastri Nagar and Azad Market from City-Sadar Paharganj zone. A similar situation was reported from Naraina Vihar, West Patel Nagar, Shalimar Bagh and Paschim Vihar. While 13 locations in the north witnessed waterlogging, falling of trees was reported from 10 places. Portions of buildings fell at four locations, including Swatantra Nagar in Narela, DDA flats Jahangirpuri, Dharampura Village and Kamla Nagar. Though South Delhi Municipal Corporation reported no cases of waterlogging, many residents expressed their grievances on social media. Bijay K Palai from Okhla said waterlogging at the sewage treatment plant road had become a permanent headache for residents of Jasola and nearby areas. Falling of trees was reported from Panchsheel Enclave, Gautam Nagar and Giri Nagar in Kalkaji. East Delhi reported flooding in Bihari Colony, Laxmi Nagar and Khajoori Road, trees falling at four places and portions of two buildings collapsing. EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said the situation was much better than Sunday and waterlogging was minimal due to “proactive response” of their teams. A PWD official said the spell of rain lasted longer than Sunday, yet waterlogging was not as bad. He added that alarms had been set up at vulnerable spots, like Tilak Bridge and Minto Road, and suction pumps would be put into action when rain started. “We have been holding joint meetings with other civic agencies to ensure that water does not accumulate at vulnerable spots. Operators have been asked to switch on the pumps as soon as rain begins. Staff have been deployed round the clock to divert the traffic in case of waterlogging. We are also looking at other options to avoid a repeat of what occurred on Sunday,” the PWD official said. The residents of Anna Nagar, where shanties had collapsed due to the rain earlier, shifted to other locations after another house partially collapsed on Tuesday. Mohammad Junaid, who had become homeless on Sunday, said they had requested the area SDM to shift them to a school building till they could find accommodation. “The SDM promised us that a clearer picture would emerge by Wednesday. Currently, we are living in tents,” he added. Delhi has 11 big and small agencies manning the drainage infrastructure running over 3,738 kilometres. Jurisdictional issues between agencies end in lack of a unified plan or mechanism to deal with waterlogging. Every year, the capital witnesses large-scale flooding, while the civic agencies trade blames with each other. Even on Tuesday, officials of PWD and DJB held a meeting to find a permanent solution to the Minto Bridge waterlogging. Experts have repeatedly pointed out that Delhi’s drainage administration system needs a total overhaul. Many low-lying areas require a design change in the drainage system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monsoon-wading-not-as-bad-as-sunday-but-usual-suspects-submerged-yet-again/articleshow/77096076.cms||Paras Singh
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Antigen test to replace RT-PCR while discharging patients||Kochi: The state government has issued an order replacing RT-PCR test with antigen test while discharging Covid-19 patients. The new strategy will help avoid delay in discharging patients with Covid-treatment centres and offload the burden on such centres. The decision to use antigen test was taken based on an analysis of epidemiology of patients in the state, as per the order. “It is essential that the technical strategies and guidelines are refined based on the new knowledge for control and prevention of disease as well as for efficient management of resources,” the order states. Moreover, the order was issued after considering the revised guidelines by WHO and Government of India. “It is a good decision that will help offload the burden on Covid-treatment facilities. As per ICMR recommendation, asymptomatic patients can be discharged after 10 days even without testing. In Kerala, we are testing patients as an additional precaution,” said Dr K P Aravindan, health expert. “At the same time, collectors of some of the districts are instructing those who have completed 14 days of quarantine to continue the same for another fortnight. This will force the public to hide the details regarding their symptoms, travel history etc. Similarly, Thrissur district collector is leant to have plans to use asymptomatic health workers for setting up covid first line treatment centres. Government should intervene to stop such decisions of the district administrations,” Aravindan said. In the past 10 days, the number of patients being discharged daily comes to roughly one third of the fresh admission. This has resulted in facilities in many of the Covid- treatment centres reaching saturation point. It will require around two or three days for getting the results of RT-PCR tests, thanks to the huge number of tests being done every day coupled with time required for completing the testing process. If RT- PCR is replaced with antigen test, the results can be available on the same day itself. Moreover, antigen test is cheaper than RT PCR. The discharging of asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms, if there are no symptoms for the past ten days and if they test negative on the tenth day will continue. Those with moderate and severe illness will be discharged if they test negative after 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/antigen-test-to-replace-rt-pcr-while-discharging-patients/articleshow/77095621.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Paan shops pay Rs 14 lakh in fines||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) collected fines totalling Rs 14 lakh on Tuesday from paan shops that had been sealed for not enforcing social distancing or over spitting by customers. The AMC had on July 13 had increased the penalty for not wearing masks to Rs 500 and decided that those paan shops where social distancing was not maintained or where customers were spitting in public would be fined Rs 10,000. The AMC on Monday decided to open the seals after collecting the fines. Harshad Solanki of the AMC said the most fines was collected from paan shops in the West Zone, comprising Navrangpura, Naranpura, Paldi, Vasna and Vadaj, and the North Zone (Naroda, Meghaninagar, Thakkarnagar and Saraspur). Paan shops in these two zones paid fines worth over Rs 7 lakh. Solanki said that ever since the fine was increased, the number of people caught without masks has gone down. On Tuesday, only 291 persons were fined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paan-shops-pay-rs-14-lakh-in-fines/articleshow/77096089.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Foresters use drones to disperse seeds in Aravalis||GURUGRAM: The forest department on Friday dispersed seeds in a 45-hectare area of the Aravalis in Mahedragarh, using drones. This is part of the department’s plan to increase the forest cover in the state. Seeds of native species such as Khairi, Ronjh, Beri and Inderjo were used for the afforestation project. Haryana has less than 4% of the country’s forest cover. The initiative was inaugurated by minister of state OP Yadav. Three areas of Mahendragarh — Nain, Madhogard and Pulwa — were included in the plan. The forest department is also planning a similar drive in Bhadkal. The total cost of the project is Rs 1.92 lakh. “As many areas of the Aravali hills are tough to be reached on foot by forest officials for plantation, this method has been adopted.  According to a forest department study, the area has been selected for this project as the depth of soil is low, which is around 5 to 6 inches, and thus with low level of rainfall it is a difficult area for plantation. The district has been receiving an average of 40 cm annual rainfall for the past 10 years, which made it suitable for this project. Haryana only sees 10-12 rainy days, and thus is a difficult terrain for plantation, officials of the forest department pointed out. A forest official said, “As Haryana is getting monsoon already, we took this opportunity to start the aerial seeding process. This technique also saves on time and thus can be done away with the effort of ploughing the land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/foresters-use-drones-to-disperse-seeds-in-aravalis/articleshow/77097614.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Long outages, waterlogged streets after Gurugram receives heavy showers||GURUGRAM: Heavy rains lashed the city in the early hours of Tuesday, providing some relief from the scorching heat but resulting in long power cuts in many areas. There was no power supply for more than 12 hours in some societies. The city had received 30mm of rain by 8.30am on Tuesday. Heavy rain was again reported around 2pm. Apart from outages, major roads in the city also witnessed waterlogging. Residents said they faced difficulties as most of them work from home. “We had no electricity since early morning on Tuesday. I was able to work from home till 2pm, when my laptop battery was over. I had to rush to a friend’s flat to be able to continue working,” said Amit Kumar, a resident of Sector 31. Suncity resident VMK Singh added, “It has been a tough day without electricity. Staying indoors for long without power supply is tough, as we can’t go outside. Also, many are under home isolation in the city.” Officials from the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) said power infrastructure is very poor in many areas, due to which power cuts are witnessed during rains. “The ownership of many areas lies with the developers concerned. They are responsible for upgrading the infrastructure. Cables got damaged because of the rain and heavy wind on Monday night. We have been repairing lines across the city since the morning and trying to restore power,” said a senior DHBVN official. Meanwhile, commuters had a tough time as prominent areas like Golf Course Road, Sector 21 and Delhi-Gurgaon expressway was waterlogged due to rain. A portion of road on the Badshapur Chowk also caved in and is being repaired.  “This is the situation every year. A little bit of rain shows the real picture. Cave-ins are common in Gurgaon, and so is waterlogging. The administration always makes plans, but nothing happens on the ground,” said Mukesh Yadav, a commuter in Sector 23. In Delhi, vulnerable points like Sarai Kale Khan, South Avenue, Rajpur Road and parts of Vasant Kunj witnessed waterlogging. Many arterial roads in central Delhi, including a portion of Minto Road between DDU Marg and Connaught Place, were shut to prevent mishaps because of waterlogging.  According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the city is likely to witness more rain in the coming days. Officials said the region is likely to witness isolated thunderstorms, lightning and gusty winds till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/long-outages-waterlogged-streets-after-city-receives-heavy-showers/articleshow/77097620.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Priyanka Gandhi’s ‘jungle raj’ jibe, AAP MP visits scribe’s kin||GHAZIABAD/NEW DELHI: Leaders from several opposition parties on Tuesday hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government over the shooting of a city-based journalist, saying it had failed to maintain law and order in the state.  Calling the attack an example of the BJP’s ‘jungle raj’, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted, “Ghaziabad falls in NCR. Going by the state of law and order here, one can get an idea of the situation in the entire state of UP. A journalist was shot at because he complained to the police against molestation of his niece. How will common man feel safe in such a jungle raj?” The Hindi newspaper journalist, Vikram Joshi, was ambushed and shot at by nine assailants on Monday night in the presence of his daughter. The police arrested nine people on Tuesday. Questioning where criminals in the state are drawing their power from, former UP chief minister and Samajwadi Party p resident Akhilesh Yadav tweeted, “The people of the state are in a position to shoot a journalist going on a bike with his daughter. The BJP government should clarify how these criminals and miscreants who break the law are allowed to flourish. #NoMoreBJP.”  Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh visited Yashoda hospital and met Joshi’s family members. Singh said at a press meet: “The media is considered the fourth pillar of democracy but is now facing attacks from criminals. Journalists in the state don't feel safe anymore.” (With inputs from Lucknow and agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/priyankas-jungle-raj-jibe-aap-mp-visits-scribes-kin/articleshow/77097624.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||India’s foreign policy carries burden of past: Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: India has had to struggle mightily to gain influence in a domain that could have come more easily earlier as its foreign policy carries “three major burdens” from its past — Partition, delayed economic reforms and prolonged exercise of the nuclear option, says external affairs minister S Jaishankar. The former diplomat makes these remarks in his new book “The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World”, which is scheduled for release on September 7. With the period from the 2008 financial crisis to the 2020 coronavirus pandemic seeing a real transformation of the world order, Jaishankar analyses the challenges India faces and spells out possible policy responses. As India rises in the world order, it should not only visualise its interests but also communicate them effectively, he writes. He terms his book an “effort to contribute to that endeavour, encouraging an honest conversation among Indians, without discouraging the world from eavesdropping”. In a statement, publisher of the book says the very nature of international relations and its rules is changing and for India, this means optimal ties with all the major powers to best advance its goals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-foreign-policy-carries-burden-of-past-jaishankar/articleshow/77097083.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Surat||‘Here the hands heal & mind is without fear’||Surat: Even the huge threat of infection cannot stop many doctors and healthcare workers from keeping the ongoing battle against coronavirus strong. Meet one of such frontline warriors, 64-year-old Dr Chandresh Jardosh, a general practitioner, whose efforts to provide succour to Covid patients does not end in the consultations in his clinic at Sagrampura, but also goes beyond to paying personal visits to elderly patients at their homes.“I have been practising for the last 35 years and can’t sit at home fearing infection. This is the time when our services are of utmost importance and I am committed to serving those in need now. I visit the elderly patients who are unable to visit my clinic,” said Dr Jardosh, who is also the president of the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Gujarat chapter.But his is not an isolated case. Not insensitive to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) guidelines on such senior doctors, nor unmindful of the risks, many other senior doctors above 60 years of age in the city are still battling the contagion their way.Equipped with precautions including masks, sanitization kits, PPE kits among the other preventive paraphernalia, these elderly doctors also provide clinical consultation to Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation.IMA guidelines state that doctors and healthcare staff above 60 years should avoid OPD services.Dr Mansukh Gatiwala (69), a general practitioner, checks nearly 40 patients, mostly coming from the nearby slums, at his clinic situated at the old Bombay market near Sahara Darwaja. In the last two months, he quarantined himself at home twice after coming in contact with Covid-19 patients but is back to work.“My clinic was open for patients, even when the plague struck the city in 1994. If you work with positivity and with utmost precautions, you can defeat all malaise, though my kin worries for my safety.,” said Gatiwala.Another doctor, Dr Jayant Shah (68), has a clinic at the posh City Light area and also visits nearly three other elderly patients at their home everyday. “My patients are my God and I can’t leave them to fight on their own. A major chunk of my patients are above 50 years and have co-morbid conditions,” said Dr Shah. Dr Bharat Joshi (69), told TOI, “I have patients who are visiting me for the last 40 years. If I close my clinic where will my patients go? More than medical advice, people need moral support to fight off the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/here-the-hands-heal-mind-is-without-fear/articleshow/77094397.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: From study sheds in cashew plantations to temples, students search for network||PANAJI: From moving residence to setting up study sheds in a cashew plantation to visiting the village temple or hitting the beach, students are forced to go to bizarre lengths in their quest for internet connectivity to access online lessons. In a state where internet — and even phone — connectivity is adept at playing hide and seek, students and teachers are left to innovate to keep their classes going. A Class XII student from Caranzol, Vithoba Gawas, has moved to his aunt’s home in Keri. Not that the internet here is seamless. “Network connectivity is patchy here too, but better than back home,” he said. “I study in Class XII, arts stream. It is a crucial year for me and I was worried about being left behind, so I shifted to my aunt’s house.” Back in Caranzol, the other children have set up a shed in a cashew plantation. “Every morning, 10 of them go there and download study material,” Vithoba says. Sometimes, when the network fails in Keri, he’s left to depend on his friends in areas with better network. Meanwhile in Sanguem, teachers at a village school leave assignment sheets at a pre-decided kiosk, since most homes don’t have network coverage. “A while ago, a teacher said that she would report to the directorate of education that we do not get network coverage in our area, but that was the last we heard about the issue,” a student said. Up north in Bardez, students of a school not far from the taluka headquarters go to a temple to access their lessons, while their colleagues in Salcete have told their teacher that the only place there’s network is the beach, so that’s their classroom for now. And it isn’t just students. With no broadband facilities in most schools, teachers too are facing a similar situation. While most now have broadband internet at home, and began teaching online during the lockdown, they were left in a quandary after the directorate of education asked teachers to report to work from June 24. “I now take two classes and then rush to school to mark myself present for duty,” said a teacher from North Goa. “At times, bad network makes it difficult to upload the powerpoint files and prerecorded videos on time. I am then forced to ask my teenage daughter to do it for me, as I have to leave for school.” Parents, meanwhile, are at their wit’s end trying to keep track of online classes. “My son is in Class V and daughter in Class III, and only my husband had a smartphone,” said Sandhya Ohal from Panaji. “Since he has to take it to work, we bought another one just for our children to access classes. But the timings of classes clash, and we can’t invest in yet another one.” Ohal also said that one parent usually has to sit idle the entire morning session, as the kids are often too young to access classes on their own. Each class, she said, is accessible only on login with a registered email id. Teachers said that while students appeared enthusiastic about online classes at first, they are now finding it difficult to keep students engaged. “We have 40-50 students in each class, and it is difficult to keep track of so many students at a time over Google Meet,” said a teacher. “Some students just join the class for the sake of attendance, and then log off. To remedy this, I started taking their attendance at the start and again at the end of the class.” A teacher from Bardez told TOI that parents from poorer sections were left weeping as they couldn’t afford to keep buying Android smartphones. “The parents were worried, asking me whether their children would be thrown out of school since they couldn’t afford to give them smartphones,” she said. “I reassured them that no such thing would happen, and offered to coach the students if they were willing to come to school or to my residence. Parents with two or three children are worst-hit, as most classes are held around the same time.” Another teacher from Vasco said that children who live in large families are finding it difficult to get the privacy and quiet needed to concentrate on classes. “Children belonging to families of migrants are hardly able to attend online classes, as they have just one phone in the house and the parents go out to work early in the morning and return in the evening,” said a teacher from Calangute. One senior citizen, seeing the plight of students in his neighbourhood, has asked the teacher of a group of children to call on his mobile number for the class. The children now attend classes at the man’s house, where his phone is connected to his Smart TV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-study-sheds-in-cashew-plantations-to-temples-students-search-for-network/articleshow/77096075.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Surat, Ahmedabad most vulnerable districts||AHMEDABAD: A study published in the London-based medical journal The Lancet, put two of Gujarat’s most prosperous districts Surat and Ahmedabad in the dock over vulnerability to Covid-19. Surat is the most vulnerable district in the state in terms of availability of health infrastructure, followed by Ahmedabad. The researchers assigned each district a relative vulnerability score, with 1.0 being the most vulnerable and 0.0 being the least. Surat scored 0.85, while Ahmedabad scored 0.64 when it came to availability of health infrastructure to tackle Covid or a similar pandemic. The overall vulnerability score of the two cities were 0.56 and 0.53, respectively. The study also drew attention to the overall vulnerability of tribal districts such as Narmada, Tapi, Dangs, followed by Kutch and Rajkot districts. “We computed a composite index of vulnerability at the district-level based on 15 indicators across main five domains, which were, socioeconomic, demographic, housing and hygiene, epidemiological, and health system,” the authors of the study Rajib Acharya and Akash Porwal of the Population Council at New Delhi stated. The authors said the susceptibility is determined by several factors including individual hygiene practices, and the ability to maintain physical distance from others. In contrast, vulnerability, the study says, means the risk of consequences of infection, including spread, morbidity and mortality, and social and economic consequences. “Our vulnerability index includes demographic indicators that might represent both susceptibility and vulnerability,” the authors said. The study looks at population groups that are epidemiologically vulnerable to Covid-19 — older people and individuals with comorbidities, and also people from diverse socioeconomic backgrounds who are vulnerable as they struggle to cope with the crisis in various ways — financially, mentally, or even physically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/surat-ahmedabad-most-vulnerable-districts/articleshow/77096094.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Potato, tomato prices spike in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Vegetables have been getting more expensive in the city, especially potatoes and tomatoes. Supply constraints and the beginning of the Hindu holy month of Shravan are causing prices to rise further. In the wholesale market, potato prices have more than doubled compared to last year, while tomato prices have risen by about 10%. However, the retail price of tomatoes is close to Rs 100 a kilo. The prices of ginger, garlic and French beans have already crossed the Rs 100 mark. Deepak Patel, secretary of the Ahmedabad Agricultural Produce Market Committee, said, “With the onset of Shravan, demand for potatoes has increased and as a result the prices are on the higher side. Moreover, supply of vegetables such as including tomato is low.” Patel said that the price of potatoes in the wholesale market will likely increase further by a couple of rupees, while that of tomatoes will decline. He added that during the lockdown people stocked up on potatoes and onions and hence demand increased while demand for green vegetables is declining. A trader at the Jetalpur APMC said that not only is vegetable supply low, retailers are forced to travel to Jetalpur and their transport costs are raising retail prices. He said this coupled with a shortage of tomatoes has sent prices zooming. Instead of 25 trucks coming to the city every day as was happening a month ago, when prices were between Rs 10 and Rs 20 a kilo, on Friday only 15 trucks arrived,” said a trader. “The state depends on Maharashtra and Bangalore for tomatoes. Supply is low and hence prices are soaring,” he said. Amrut Joshi, the secretary of APMC Deesa, the biggest market yard for trading of potatoes, said, “Prices of potatoes this year are high compared to last year and because there was crop failure in Uttar Pradesh. Also during the lockdown there was an increase in demand for the potatoes, onions and tomatoes and stock from cold storages were sold in the market. Moreover, now there is high demand from UP and Bihar too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/potato-tomato-prices-spike-in-city/articleshow/77095617.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 22, 2020||Noida||Noida: Spell out protocols for antigen testing camps, say residents||NOIDA: A day after TOI reported about how seven Covid patients were confined to a room in the basement of the Grand Omaxe housing society for several hours without food and water, a residents’ group in Noida has demanded that specific protocols be defined for the antigen testing camps being held in the societies. The Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association (NOFAA), an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, has said that such camps be held only after proper briefing to the association members about how to go about the process so that the same don’t end up in more infections. “People tend to avoid visiting the camps due to the fear of infection. We are aware that these testing camps will definitely continue for quite some time and a quick process needs to be built up for the same,” NOFAA president Rajiva Singh said. Along with a place which allows cross ventilation, ensuring that those coming for the tests don’t touch common avenues like door knobs, usage of multiple chairs rather than a single chair during the camp, sanitisation of the entire area after the camp gets over are some of the issues raised by the Association.  Residents have also suggested that while the RWAs can ensure social distancing, announcements and hospitality for the officials and participants of the camps, it was for the health department to ensure the guidelines are followed.  “Like in the case of Grand Omaxe society where the infected persons had to wait for hours, it should be ensured that they don’t need to stay confined within the premises for too long. So ambulances need to be there for carrying an infected person to the hospital,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/spell-out-protocols-for-antigen-testing-camps-residents/articleshow/77097676.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 22, 2020||Noida||Noida cop donates his plasma for Covid-19 patient||NOIDA: A 27-year-old constable, deployed at Sector 49 police station and attached with the Police Response Vehicle (PCR) 49, has donated his plasma to a 67-year-old patient admitted to Fortis hospital who had been in search for plasma for the past three days. This is the first incident of plasma donation by a police officer from the district. The constable, Amit, is one of the 50 police officers who tested positive for Covid-19 on June 14. He returned to work after nine days of treatment on June 23. In all, nine police officers had tested positive for Covid-19 from Sector 49 police station.  Talking to TOI , Amit said, “My report, along with those of the station officer (SO) of the Sector 49 police station, a head constable and two constables came positive on June 14. I was deployed at the Sector 49 PCR from which, only I tested positive.” “We received information from a hospital on Monday that a patient needed plasma. Two others were tested to check whether the antibodies had developed but they tested negative, but my antibodies had developed. So, I was chosen for the donation which was completed on Monday,” he added. A police officer said that the woman’s family thanked the police for the initiative and it has been decided that in future too, the police will help patients needing plasma donation. Watch Covid-19: Noida cop donates his plasma for corona patient||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/city-cop-donates-his-plasma-for-covid-19-patient/articleshow/77097690.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 22, 2020||Noida||Noida: 90 applicants, mostly women, chosen for industrial training||GREATER NOIDA: More women in Gautam Budh Nagar showed interest in getting industrial training and toolkits during an interview held on Tuesday for the selection of candidates under the state government’s One District One Product (ODOP) scheme. Officials revealed that 90 applicants were selected, of which a majority was women.  As many as 153 people had applied for the scheme on the government portal. The industries department called candidates for an interview on Tuesday and 103 turned up. Deputy commissioner of industries Anil Kumar said some applicants were unable to make it to the office in Surajpur due to various reasons. “They were stuck in containment zones or other districts and had no way to travel. We have asked 27 of them to send applications over e-mail. We will give them another chance next week,” added Kumar.  The four-month-long training will be provided to the candidates by the export promotion council, a government organisation to promote exports of products manufactured in the state. Upon completion of the training, each candidate would be given a toolkit worth Rs 7,000 for free. It comprises a sewing machine, steam press, scissors, inch-tape, needle and a sewing kit.  The industries department will also try to find employment opportunities for the trained manpower in the handicraft or apparel industry. Noida has been designated as the hub for readymade garments and as per official estimates, more than 2,500 units are operational in the city.  Additional chief secretary of the MSMEs and export promotion council, Navneet Sehgal, said that under the ODOP scheme, all the 75 districts have been assigned a product. A maximum of Rs 20,000 is given to provide a toolkit. In the previous financial year, nearly 350 persons had been provided training. Officials said that the target for this year has been kept the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/90-applicants-mostly-women-chosen-for-industrial-training/articleshow/77097708.cms||Shalabh
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad temples faithful to corona norms||AHMEDABAD: The holy month of Shravan began on Tuesday with a steady stream of devotees visiting Lord Shiva temples across the city. Some temples have installed special water-channelling systems for devotees to offer ‘jal’ to the Lord from a distance in this Covid era. Pipes carry the water to be showered on the Shivlings. People could be seen offering ‘jalabhishek’ in this manner conducive to social distancing at Rameshwar Mahadev Temple in Nirnaynagar, on Tuesday. Local people said that such a system has been in place for a year at Somnath Temple, but it was installed for security reasons. “The pandemic has changed everything,” said Darshan Patel, who fasts during the entire holy month of Shravan. “Thankfully, the situation is under control in Ahmedabad and I could come to Rameshwar Mahadev Temple.” At Manikarneshwar Temple in Maninagar, masks were distributed by priests as ‘prasad’ to create awareness among the masses about Covid precautions. At Ankur Mahadev Temple in Naranpura, authorities have installed a screen outside to facilitate darshan without compromising social distancing norms. Temple priests said that the number of devotees offering ‘bili’ leaves has gone down this year. The leaves of the bael tree are an important part of Lord Shiva worship during this holy month. “Earlier, four devotees used to hire us for making the bili offerings. Just one person has done so this year,” said Kunal Shastri, a priest. Priests charge between Rs 10,000 and Rs 25,000 for making bili offerings during Shravan. This is a good source of income till Diwali. This year, the sellers of bili leaves were absent from their usual Shravan points such as Ellisbridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/temples-faithful-to-corona-norms/articleshow/77096104.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Rajkot||Unable to pay off loan, factory owner ends life||Rajkot: Severe economic slowdown triggered by the Covid-induced lockdown led yet another small factory owner in the city to suicide.Jayanti Bhalani, 51, who ran a unit of making auto parts in the GIDC on Gondal Road, allegedly took his own life by jumping into a well on Monday. His body was fished out late in the night after the farm owner Nitin Raiyani spotted it floating.In the suicide note, Bhalani stated that he was extremely fed-up of the financial crisis and was unable to pay bank instalments. Aji Dam police station sources said that Bhalani had purchased a CNC machine on loan. However, due to recession, the orders had completely dried up and he had no revenue to pay the instalments.On Monday noon, Bhalani left from his house in Fulwadi Park on Kalavad Road and went to the Raiyani's farm on Bhavnagar Road. When Raiyani came in the evening, he saw a bike, a mobile and a wallet near the well. On seeing inside, he saw the body and informed the sarpanch, said investigating officer GN Vaghela. Bhalani is survived by his wife, son and daughter. Rajkot has witnessed a spate of suicides by small-time businessmen battered by the recession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unable-to-pay-off-loan-factory-owner-ends-life/articleshow/77094356.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||Comply with ban or face action: Govt to 59 apps||NEW DELHI: After banning 59 apps of Chinese origin, the government on Tuesday directed them to ensure strict compliance to its orders, and warned of serious action in case of any violation. on June 29, the government had banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including TikTok, CamScanner and UC Browser, saying they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country, according to an official source. But some of the apps were available on Google and iPhone app stores. Sources said that the IT ministry has now written to all the companies, warning that continued availability and operation of these banned apps, directly or indirectly, is not only illegal but also an offence under the Information Technology Act and other applicable Acts. This would attract penal provisions, a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/comply-with-ban-or-face-action-govt-to-59-apps/articleshow/77097093.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC strips Oza of senior advocate status||Ahmedabad: After initiating contempt of court proceedings against the president of its Bar for calling the high court ‘a gambling den’, the Gujarat high court on Tuesday stripped advocate Yatin Oza off his ‘senior advocate’ status. This is the first time since the inception of the HC that it has withdrawn the designation of a senior advocate. Oza was honoured with the designated of senior advocate in 1999. The HC took up suo motu contempt proceedings against him for his remarks against the HC registry and accusations of forum shopping. While initiating contempt proceedings, the HC referred the question to the full court whether Oza’s senior advocate designation can be withdrawn. Accordingly, the HC initiated the procedure and heard Oza on Saturday. Three days later, the HC issued a notification saying, “In exercise of powers conferred under Rule 26 of the High Court of Gujarat – Designation of Senior Advocates, Rules, 2018, the full court in its meeting dated July 18, has unanimously resolved that the decision of full court dated October 25, 1999 to designate Mr Yatin Narendrabhai Oza, advocate as senior advocate is reviewed and recalled.” When asked if he will challenge the HC decision, he said, “I have not made up my mind yet. But will decide on it after studying the order.” This is the first instance in the Gujarat HC when it has withdrawn the designation from a senior advocate. With this decision, Oza cannot use a gown with rectangular flap attached to the shoulders, which only senior advocates can don. The total number of senior advocates in the high court is now 53. --- Yatin Oza Much before he obtained the designation of senior advocate in the Gujarat high court, Yatin Oza, now 60, had established himself as a giant killer in Gujarat politics. In 1995, as a BJP candidate, Oza defeated Congress leader and then state home minister Narhari Amin, in the Sabarmati assembly seat. However, Oza left the BJP to join the Congress after completion of his term. He was pitted against then chief minister Narendra Modi from Maninagar, where he was soundly defeated by the political heavyweight. Oza returned to the BJP fold in 2012, just ahead of the assembly polls. Oza continued to vociferously defend the ruling party on television debates. His hopes of getting a ticket to contest elections did not materialize and he quit the party again. This time he joined the Aam Aadmi Party and leveled serious allegations against the BJP leadership and the government. Amid turmoil in his political career, Oza’s run-ins with the judiciary continued at the same pace. He has been the president of Gujarat High Court Advocates Association on 18 occasions and has taken up many quarrels with the bench. In 2011, Oza, as president of the HC Bar, expressed dissent at the transfer of Justice Mohinder Pal from the Punjab and Haryana high court and said the Gujarat high court was not a dumping ground. In 2016, Oza wrote to the Chief Justice of India taking up the issue of transfer of two Gujarat HC judges and alleged that both the judges enjoyed political patronage and hence their transfers were not effected. The issue was dragged to the judicial side in the high court and ultimately reached to the Supreme Court, where Oza apologized. The apex court prohibited him from speaking further on the subject, pardoned him of contempt and observed, “We expect the appellant (Oza) to constantly remind himself that the standing and dignity of the court matters to the nation and also to the collective.” When the high court took up suo motu proceedings on Oza’s comment during a press conference, it began with the SC observations and expressed pain to comment, “…nothing changed and the hope and expectation of the Apex Court belied of a new incarnation, of dignified behaviour, obedience to norms of professional ethics and sustenance of decorum of institution for sustaining nobility of profession”. However, Oza enjoys support from young advocates and claims to have always taken up issues for them. After the lockdown, he has been insisting on starting courts physically and in a bid to convey the message to the judiciary, he blamed the HC registry and invited the wrath of the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-strips-oza-of-senior-advocate-status/articleshow/77095639.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Rajkot||Rs 1 crore siphoned off from 68-year-old coop society||Rajkot: Four persons including the secretary of a 68-year-old cooperative society have been booked for allegedly siphoning off Rs 1.2 crore of government’s fertilizer subsidy.The scam was unearthed during the audit of the cooperative society in Vankia village near Dhrol in Jamnagar district last December. The accused were given time to repay the stolen money, but as they did not do so, a complaint was lodged by the society’s president Devkaran Bhalodiya.The society has four godowns to store and distribute fertilizer to farmers in Vankia and two other adjoining villages. The accused include secretary Rajnikant Mehta, the godown keepers Karsan JIvani, Karsan Dalsaniya and Naran Bhalodiya.While Mehta allegedly siphoned off Rs 82 lakh, Jivani, Dalsaniya and Bhalodiya embezzled Rs 35 lakh, Rs 13 lakh and Rs 12 lakh, respectively. They were supposed to deposit this subsidy amount in the bank account of the cooperative society, Dhrol police station sources said.After the audit was done, Mehta mysteriously quit job, which raised suspicion of other office bearers. All four have been booked under section IPC 408 and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-1-crore-siphoned-off-from-68-year-old-coop-society/articleshow/77094390.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: People pick liquor over Covid rules!||VISAKHAPATNAM: With a large number of liquor outlets located in the containment zones, remaining liquor outlets in the city have been witnessing heavy crowds. Consequently, these outlets are also places where little attention is paid to social distancing. Unlike at the beginning when the stores had just opened and buyers exercised caution, with time they havebegun to lower their guards. Speaking to TOI, one of the buyers, K Prabhas, a resident of East Point Colony said “liquor outlets in our locality (Peda Waltair) were closed after it was declared a containment zone. We used to go to Madhurawada, which is around 12 kms from our locality, to purchase liquor.” “People from containment zone are visiting non-containment zones to get liquor. If the situation continues, the infection will spread,” said S Srinivas Murthy, a resident of Sagarnagar. Medical and health department officials said considering the situation the liquor stores must be closed down again, even if for a few weeks, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/people-pick-liquor-over-covid-rules/articleshow/77094389.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 22, 2020||Rajkot||Quack in Rajkot practising since 2012 arrested||Rajkot: A 32-year-old science graduate was arrested for running a dispensary in Gulabnagar on Kothariya Road in Rajkot city on Tuesday. He had been prescribing medicine and administering injections and saline to patients at his clinic for the last eight years, said police.The special operation group (SOG) said that the accused Badri alias Ajay Suryavanshi was a native of Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh and had come to Rajkot a decade ago.“Suryavanshi is a resident of Vinayaknagar on Mavdi Road and has been running the clinic in Gulabnagar for the last eight years. He does not have any medical degree. He has a bachelor's degree in science,” said SOG police inspector R Y Rawal.He said that Suryavanshi was arrested after they received an anonymous complaint that he did not have any medical degree. Police have seized a huge number of medicines, saline bottles and other medical equipment from the clinic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/quack-in-rajkot-practising-since-2012-arrested/articleshow/77094459.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: In Chhota Udepur, seven cops booked for atrocity and thrashing army jawan||VADODARA: The confrontation between an army jawan and cops in Chhota Udepur town that happened last week has snowballed into a major row with seven policemen being booked for atrocity. The army jawan Anish Rathwa lodged a complaint against the policemen alleging that they thrashed him in the police station. The policemen were booked for assault, criminal intimidation, hurting to extract confession, and SC/ST Act late on Monday. Rathwa, a resident of Diyavant village, was detained on July 16 after the pillion rider with him had not worn a mask and was penalized. He claimed that when he insisted on a receipt, head constable Shanabhai Sheliyabhai told him that no such receipt is given for a fine of Rs 200. When Rathwa identified himself as an army man and that he knew the rules, the head constable got angry, allegedly abused Rathwa and asked him to leave. When Rathwa asked him not to hurl abuses, Sheliyabhai asked his colleagues to put Rathwa in the police vehicle and take him to the police station. Rathwa alleged that he was not told what crime he had committed, and he was made to sit on the first floor of the police station where he was assaulted. In his complaint, Rathwa alleged that Sheliyabhai hit him with a wooden stick on his thighs and his son constable Uttam slapped him. Later, the sub-inspector whom Rathwa has identified by his surname – Prajapati – allegedly called him a naxalite and asked Uttam to pull his moustaches. Uttam allegedly tried pulling Rathwa’s moustaches till he shouted in pain. Police officials have, however, refuted the allegations. “The army jawan was kept in custody as we were awaiting his Covid report. Once his report turned out to be negative, we produced him before court and he was released on bail,” said A V Katkad, deputy superintendent of police. “An inquiry is also being conducted and we will take action based on the statements and evidence collected,” said district superintendent of police, MS Bhabhor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/7-cops-booked-for-atrocity-thrashing-army-jawan/articleshow/77094135.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Snarls, diversions mark rainy Tuesday||NEW DELHI: Many arterial roads in central Delhi, including a portion of Minto Road between DDU Marg and Connaught Place, were shut by traffic police after the showers on Tuesday afternoon to prevent mishaps because of waterlogging. Minto Bridge underpass, which witnessed a death by drowning after the first downpour this monsoon, was closed for traffic for nearly half an hour to prevent vehicles from getting stuck in the stagnated water. Since Sunday, a task force comprising traffic and local policemen had been formed to keep a track of waterlogging. The traffic on this stretch was diverted on Ranjeet Singh flyover and commuters were asked to reach Connaught Place using Barakhamba Road. “We didn’t want to take the risk of another waterlogging situation. The entire stretch was barricaded and vehicles were diverted to an alternative route,” said a police officer. Around the same time, movement of vehicles was blocked after a portion of the road caved in at the Bhairon Marg-Ring Road crossing. Waterlogging was also reported near Sarai Kale Khan. Because of this, the stretch between Ashram and Sarai Kale Khan was blocked for some time. Vehicles headed towards central Delhi were diverted through DND Flyway and Vikas Marg to avoid a tailback. The stretch of the Ring Road near WHO building was flooded since Monday due to an overflowing canal. On Tuesday, police had allowed a single lane of traffic on the stretch during peak hours, but movement was stopped after the afternoon showers. Massive traffic snarls were reported on this stretch. The same situation existed on Mathura Road. The carriageway leading from Bhairon Road to Mathura Road also caved in, blocking the entire two-way traffic. As the Ring Road-bound traffic had to be diverted through ITO, the W-point, A-point and ITO crossing got choked. Construction work at Pragati Maidan, which had already narrowed the road, ended in another bottleneck. Police said the situation was expected to remain the same on Wednesday. Plans are afoot to divert the traffic coming from Akshardham towards Sarai Kale Khan to go through Barapullah elevated road. Commuters coming from Ashram towards Akshardham would be advised to take Pushta Road and Vikas Marg or Geeta Colony flyover. Snarls were also reported from Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Zakhira flyover, Peeragarhi and Prembari Pul underpass due to water stagnation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/snarls-diversions-mark-rainy-tuesday/articleshow/77096107.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||UP sugar admin issues 131 new licenses for raw sugar units to raise crushing capacity||Pilibhit: The state sugar administration has issued 131 new licenses for khandsari (raw sugar) units across the state, in order to generate additional sugarcane crushing capacity during the cane crushing season of 2020-21.This move will facilitate contract farmers with remunerative options. Because contract farmers lack revenue titles of the cultivated lands in their names, they cannot become registered members of cooperative cane societies, and are therefore not entitled to supply their produce to sugar mills.UP principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, told TOIthe issuance of new khansari licenses was an outcome of simplification and computerisation of the licensing system. “The department is now disposing online applications for new licenses within a mere 100 hours,” he said.He said the new khandsari units would generate an additional crushing capacity of 34,550 tonnes of cane per day (TCD), which had been assessed to be on a par with the capacity of eight sugar mills.The operation of these units would also be helpful in strengthening the economy and financial status of people in rural areas, as the new raw sugar units would play a crucial role in generating work and employment in their respective areas, apart from ensuring prompt procurement of sugarcane, as they would be free of the regulations of supply tickets, Bhoosreddy said.He further said that of the total 131 new licenses, 14 were issued on priority to women entrepreneurs with established crushing capacity of 4,100 TCD. Prioritising women entrepreneurs was aimed at ensuring women’s empowerment during the course of rural industrialization, as well as to make them financially self reliant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-sugar-admin-issues-131-new-licenses-for-raw-sugar-units-to-raise-crushing-capacity/articleshow/77094472.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Covid in Kolkata: Safe home transfer for asymptomatic Bangur patients||KOLKATA: MR Bangur Hospital — the biggest government Covid hospital in the state — has started referring asymptomatic patients to safe homes in direct consultation with the health department. According to the administration, the patients, who are asymptomatic and comparatively younger, are being referred to the safe homes for the last four days to free up beds at hospitals for the patients with dire needs. A 47-year-old engineer from Sakuntala Park, who had spent four days at the MR Bangur Hospital, was surprised when some health officials enquired about his health on Monday. “They updated me on the status of my health and also informed my wife. They advised me to go to a safe home, saying there was nothing to worry as I am asymptomatic and recovering well,”he said. On July 1, MR Bangur had 411 seats. By July 10, the number of seats had come down to 380. By July 16, there were 297 seats available. On Tuesday, despite several patients being already referred to the homes, the number of seats has come down to 242. “We are shifting only those patients, who do not contract fever or have any other signs of Covid-19 for three consecutive days, to safe homes. We are trying to shift them to safe homes that are closer to their homes as well,” said Sisir Naskar, the hospital superintendent. The official added that since last Saturday, around 40 patients have been shifted to the homes so far. The hospital has been given a list of five safe homes in different parts of the city, from Joka to Rajarhat, for shifting of the patients. “These patients are all asymptomatic and are seemingly out of danger. The safe homes have medical attendants and in case they need hospitalization, we will admit them back again,” said Naskar. Other Covid hospitals like Beleghata ID Hospital and Kolkata Medical College and Hospital, too are trying to follow the model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/safe-home-transfer-for-asymptomatic-bangur-patients/articleshow/77095670.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 22, 2020||Rajkot||Village sarpanch shoots kin dead over land dispute, held||Rajkot: The sarpanch of village Jetaliya in Kotda Sangani taluka of Rajkot district was arrested on Tuesday over charges of killing his relative in a land dispute. The accused Vijay Vala (50) had pumped three bullets into 55-year-old kin, Bharat Vala’s head from a close range, killing him on the spot, said police.According to Kotda Sangani police sub-inspector R D Chauhan, the two families were at loggerheads for the past six years following a dispute over 32 bighas of ancestral land.“After their ancestral land was distributed among the kin, Vijay’s family had alleged that their portion of land was less than Bharat’s who got a larger portion,” said Chauhan, based on an FIR lodged by Bharat’s 22-year-old son Jaydeep.While the dispute over land had continued since 2014, the issue had escalated to different level in the past 10 days. Chauhan said that on Tuesday, when Bharat was on way to his farm on his motorcycle, Vijay followed him in his SUV. “Vijay rammed his SUV into Bharat, following which the latter lost control and fell down. Vijay then got down from the SUV and fired three shots on Bharat’s head from point-blank rage, killing him on the spot,” Chauhan added.Vijay has been detained and has been sent for Covid-19 test before his formal arrest, as per police procedure. Police have seized Vijay’s gun and SUV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/village-sarpanch-shoots-kin-dead-over-land-dispute-held/articleshow/77094511.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Rajkot||Dedicated infra urged for cycling in cities||Rajkot: The Rajkot Cycle Cub and fitness enthusiasts have urged the state government to create dedicated cycling infrastructure for daily commuters in the urban areas of Gujarat on the lines of several countries.In a letter to chief minister Vijay Rupani, the club stated: “Cities like Berlin, Bogota, Auckland, Budapest, Mexico City are rolling out ‘emergency’ cycle lanes to boost bicycle use during the coronavirus pandemic. With some of them planning to increase the permanent cycling network. Calgary, Vancouver, Oakland, Philadelphia, Denver, Minneapolis, have opened up some streets only for bicycling and walking. In New York, San Francisco, Berlin and across the UK bicycle shops are considered an essential service and allowed to remain open. France has declared that post ending their lockdown ‘the bicycle will be the principle means of transport enabling social distancing.” The representation is a part of a campaign initiated by the ‘bicycle mayors’ of 40 cities of the country to promote cycling. Rajkot bicycle mayor Divyesh Aghera, who is also founder of the Rajkot Cycle Club said, “WHO has recommended cycling during Covid crisis because better bicycle accessibility can improve public health and quality of life.” The club also urged the government to create covered parking space in all the public premises along with cars and two-wheelers and provide appropriate space for cyclists on the road in all the cities by following the model adopted by the western countries during the pandemic .The club said that covered cycle parking spaces with locking facilities near city bus stops, various car parking facilities, commercial and residential complexes, government offices, educational institutes and other public premises should be made as a part to promote cycling. The representation also urged for a mandatory car-free day once a week or month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dedicated-infra-urged-for-cycling-in-cities/articleshow/77094537.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vijayawada||DGP, SP to file counter in habeas corpus petition||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday directed the DGP and East Godavari SP to file affidavits in the habeas corpus petition moved by the wife of advocate Pila Subhash Chandra Bose. In the petition she alleged that Yeleswaram and Prathipadu police came to their house on July 19 at 1 am and took her husband into custody. However, they did not produced him in the court and his whereabouts are not known yet. Taking note of the actions taken by police, the high court said there seems to be no rule of law in the state. The high court bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice K Suresh Reddy had directed East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi on July 20 to present advocate Subhash Chandra Bose in the court. On Tuesday, the government pleader told the high court that Subhash Chandra Bose was not in their custody and he had escaped from the house. He said efforts are being made to find him and the DGP has constituted a committee on the issue and will submit a report. Taking his version into consideration, the high court asked the DGP and East Godavari SP to file detailed affidavits in the matter. If the police found out the whereabouts of Subhash Chandra Bose they should present him before the court, the bench said. The high court asked Asmi, who appeared before the court on Tuesday following its direction, as to why the police went to the house of Subhash Chandra Bose at 1 am. “If an advocate is being treated like then what is the plight of common man. The police should not act like that even if the person is a criminal”. The high court bench further observed that the primary function of the police is to protect the rights of people but not to act according to the whims and fancies of politicians. “If the police and bureaucrats want to join politics, they are free to do so but as long as they are in the uniform, they should work like protectors of people’s rights” the high court said. The advocate for the petitioner VV Satish said that Subhash Chandra Bose was taken away by the police and requested to verify a video footage. The high court asked Asmi that when the petitioner is saying that her husband was taken away by police, how are they claiming that he is not in their custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-sp-to-file-counter-in-habeas-corpus-petition/articleshow/77094509.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||Two children among four drown in Kheri & Shahjahanpur dists||Bareilly: Six children of Midania Gadhi village who had gone to take bath in Ull river on the outskirts of Lakhimpur city were swept away by the river on Tuesday evening, while four were rescued by local divers, two brothers couldn’t be saved. After a long search operation, police managed to fish out the body of Aditya Kumar (16), while his brother Vansh Kumar (11) could not be traced.Kotwali SHO Ajay Mishra told TOI, “Normally, the water level in the river is low and suitable for taking bath even for the children. On Tuesday, the river swelled, but the children still decided to take a bath. After getting information, police rushed to the spot and deployed expert divers to rescue the children, but two of them couldn’t be saved. We have fished out one body, while another child is still missing.”Meanwhile, in Shahjahanpur, Maan Singh (28) and his friend Nanhe Singh (29), who had gone for fishing in Khannaut river in Sindhauli area on Tuesday afternoon, drowned in the river while taking a bath. When locals saw them being swept away by the river, they threw inflated tubes in a bid to rescue them, but the water current due to heavy rains in the mountains swept them away. Later, their bodies were fished out by police and sent for autopsy. Police have recorded the statements of witnesses to ensure there was no foul play.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-children-among-four-drown-in-kheri-shahjahanpur-dists/articleshow/77094524.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 22, 2020||India||Rajasthan seeks help of Haryana, Delhi cops to locate rebel MLA||JAIPUR: After the team from the Special Operations Group of Rajasthan Police went to Delhi and Manesar to look for dissident Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Rajasthan DGP Bhupendra Singh wrote to his counterpart in Haryana and the Delhi police commissioner requesting assistance in their mission. Both are yet to respond. Sharma allegedly took part in discussions on horse trading of MLAs to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. The SOG team had gone to Manesar on Friday to locate Sharma despite sending subpoenas to his residences in Jaipur and Churu. Confirming the same, the DGP said, “The day after the SOG team reached, I wrote to the officials concerned to provide them with the necessary support though we have not heard back from them yet.” Meanwhile, the SOG team will remain there for a while to locate Sharma, claimed officials. “At present, our team hasn’t been able to get in touch with the MLA and for now they will remain there till future course of action is decided”, said Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG & ATS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-seeks-help-of-haryana-delhi-cops-to-locate-rebel-mla/articleshow/77097098.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man drove 2,740km nonstop to save wife’s life||AHMEDABAD: To save his wife who had suffered 71% burns and had also contracted Covid, a Jamalpur man went on a 2,740km odyssey during the lockdown to get skin for her graft procedure. For doctors, Misbah Kharawala represented the first severe burns case in a Covid patient in India. For her husband Faisal Kharawala, the challenge was to travel to a skin bank in Belgaum, 1,370km away in Karnataka, and bring back the graft material before sepsis hit Misbah. Gujarat does not have a skin bank and Kharawala had no time. Doctors were worried because the coronavirus had cut down her chances of surviving the burn injuries. On May 9, during Ramzan, Misbah, 23, suffered burns in her kitchen while she was brewing tea for the family. Within moments, she was fighting for her life. Frantic calls were made that night as hospitals refused to admit her since she came from Jamalpur, a containment zone. Finally, a bed was arranged for Misbah at LG Hospital. Another tragedy struck the couple two days later when Misbah tested positive for Covid and had to be shifted to SVP Hospital. “I was from Jamalpur so no hospital wanted to admit me. Finally our constituency’s MLA Imran Khedawala managed to secure a bed at LG Hospital,” said Misbah on Tuesday after she was discharged from SVP Hospital. The wounds would have gone septic if she was not cured of Covid. Two doctors at SVP Hospital, Dr Vijay Bhatia of the plastic surgery department, and Dr Ami Parikh, the head of medicine, took charge of her case. Misbah recovered from Covid by May 14. The doctors soon prepared for the graft procedures. “Usually we get skin from Mumbai through a cold-chain process but the Mumbai skin bank could not help us,” Dr Bhatia said. “We then contacted an Indore hospital, but that had been converted into a Covid facility.” Prospects were looking bleak. But then hope emerged, Dr Bhatia recalled, “Dr Sunil Kehswani of the National Burns Centre informed us that skin was available with Dr Rajesh Pawar of the KLES Dr Prabhakar Kore Hospital in Belgaum.” Dr Bhatia went on to say: “Now the vital task was to get the skin as the cold-chain courier was closed due to the lockdown.” But on June 15, Kharawala and a few close friends decided to make the round trip to Belgaum by driving nonstop. They were back at SVP on June 17. Dr Bhatia said his team had been coordinating with the cops to allow a green passage for Kharawala. “The skin reached us at 7am on June 17 and within one hour Misbah underwent her first surgery with combined application of autograft and homograft,” Dr Bhatia said. On July 4, she received an autograft. Watch Ahmedabad man drives 2,740km nonstop to save wife’s life||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/he-drove-2740km-nonstop-to-save-wifes-life/articleshow/77096115.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit farmers prefer cane cultivation despite delay in payments||Pilibhit: Cultivating sugarcane continues to be first cropping choice among Pilibhit farmers despite arrears to the tune of Rs 443.52 crore owed by the four sugar mills in the district for the 2019-20 crushing season.This is evident as area under cane cultivation has increased by 3,066 hectares this year, according to the data finalised on Monday, after a departmental survey. District cane officer Jitendra Kumar Mishra said during 2019-20, farmers in the district cultivated cane crop in 98071.24 hectares and in the current cropping year, it has gone up to 1,01,137 hectares. He said the number of new farmers getting registered for supplying cane to mills is also increasing for theforthcoming crushing season. Asked why they preferred cane cultivation despite backlog in payments, farmers said the government system of procuring wheat and paddy was riddled with corruption.“Barring a few politically influential farmers, almost all other farmers are deprived of full minimum support price on one pretext or the other. Contrary to this, we get the assured full payment of sugarcane price from mills even if it is delayed,” said Kalicharan Gangwar, a farmer of Jyoraha Kalyanpur village under Barkhera block.Another farmer, Sukhdep Singh, said, “Sugarcane is a more sustainable crop than wheat or paddy, especially in adverse weather conditions. It also has the minimal effect of diseases and insects."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-farmers-prefer-cane-cultivation-despite-delay-in-payments/articleshow/77094543.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||Paid isolation hotels identified in Bareilly & Budaun for asymptomatic patients||Bareilly: A day after the state government approved home isolation for patients with mild symptoms, the health department in Bareilly and Budaun districts has tied up with hotels for isolation of asymptomatic patients.According to the government guidelines, a hotel can charge up to Rs 1,500 for single occupancy and Rs 2,000 for double occupancy.The treatment to patients at the selected hotels would be provided by government doctors and paramedical staff. Patients would have to pay a one-time sum of Rs 2,000 to the health department for treatment.Chief medical officer (CMO), Bareilly, Dr Vineet Shukla, said, “A hotel which is situated in Civil Lines has been identified as the Covid care centre for isolation of asymptomatic patients. The hotel has 40 rooms.”In Budaun, a hotel with 25 rooms situated near Indira Chowk has been declared as the Covid care centre.“Considering the condition of a patient, a CMO will permit the patient for hotel isolation. However, if the condition of a patient is deteriorated in the hotel, he or she would be immediately shifted to Covid-19 level two or three hospitals and the hotel will return the remaining fee to the patient,” Budaun district magistrate Kumar Prashant said.According to the government guidelines, after a patient is admitted at the Covid centre, the health department would have to ensure treatment round the clock.Each shift will be of eight hours with a doctor, two nursing staff and one pharmacist present in the hotel. Officials said pregnant women, small children and elderlies would not be allowed admission. The patients would be shifted in an ambulance and six oxygen cylinders would be kept at the hotel. The cleanliness would be the responsibility of the hotel management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/paid-isolation-hotels-identified-in-bareilly-budaun-for-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/77094555.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 22, 2020||Mumbai||87% drop in free ration scheme beneficiaries in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Beneficiaries of the Centre’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat free ration scheme aimed at migrants without ration cards declined by 87% between May and June in Maharashtra. Officials said it reflected the exodus of migrants from the state on the special shramik trains during this period. However, with the ration quota for June still being distributed, the number of beneficiaries is expected to rise. Under the scheme, the Centre had decided to distribute 8 lakh tonnes of grain free of cost to eight crore stranded migrants who were not covered under the National Food Security Act and did not have a ration card. Applicants were entitled to 5kg of free grain and each family to 1kg of pulses a month in May and June. Latest data show the scheme had 28.6 lakh beneficiaries in May, but only 3.7 lakh in June. While 1.2 lakh quintals of rice were distributed under the scheme in May, the figure was just 12,788 quintals in June—a drop of 89%. The distribution of chana dal was 5,187 quintals in May, and in June, it fell by 77.6% to 1,159 quintals. “The distribution of grains under the scheme is on, but there has been a drop in demand. One of the main reasons could be the reduction in the number of migrants in the city, with many having gone to their hometowns,” said food and civil supplies secretary Sanjay Khandare. He added that there were also some procedural delays owing to the time taken for the grains to travel from godowns to fair price shops. While grains for the scheme were only allocated for May and June, the distribution period has been extended till August-end. Activists have filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking a similar extension throughout the country. City activists said it is not easy to access the scheme, which results in exclusions. “It is difficult to apply without the help of a social worker because the process is tedious and time-consuming,” said Mohammad Jameel from the Ghar Bachao Ghar Banao Andolan. Janardhan Singh, who lives in Malad’s Ambujwadi slum, said he tried to get the free grains, but failed. “I migrated from Uttar Pradesh in 1991, and my family came here in 2010. We had a ration card in UP, but don’t have one here,” said Singh, who used to make imitation jewellery before the lockdown. “I applied for the scheme with my Aadhaar card, but they said it was linked to our UP ration card and I was turned down for the Atma Nirbhar Bharat ration scheme.” But officials said that the Maharashtra government had made provisions for interstate ration card portability, which would have allowed a migrant with a ration card from another state to access grains on public distribution. “Around 35 lakh ration cards have received portability in Maharashtra,” said Khandare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/87-drop-in-free-ration-scheme-beneficiaries/articleshow/77096590.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Free ration vs regret for life, Mamata Banerjee tells voters to pick||KOLKATA: Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee laid out the template for her party’s campaign to defend its West Bengal citadel in the 2021 assembly polls in her first July 21 Martyrs’ Day rally streamed live on social media, weaving together an insider-versus-outsider anti-BJP political narrative with several key administrative promises, including “free, life-long ration” if voted back to office. “The state government has arranged for free education and health. We will give you life-long free ration when we return to office next year,” the Bengal CM said, adding that employment generation would be another priority. “The situation has improved in Bengal. Unemployment is on the rise in the country but Bengal has reduced it by 40%,” she said. Banerjee’s political narrative focused on the us-versus-them message without naming PM Narendra Modi or Union home minister Amit Shah. “Gujarat will not rule Bengal. Outsiders will not rule Bengal. Bengal will be run by those who love the state. They (BJP) are ruling Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, Odisha and now they are eyeing Bengal,” she said, exhorting people to seek political “ badla ” for he BJP’s politics of “insult, deprivation and conspiracy” against Bengal. “Get set from today. Make BJP candidates lose their deposit next May,” Banerjee said in her last July 21 message ahead of next year’s polls. The Trinamool chief foc-used on Bengali sub-nationalism by detailing how the homeland of Rabindranath Tagore and other renaissance icons was being “insulted” by the Centre. “It denies funds to the state government, takes away our money and conspires to dislodge it. I do not want to belittle the PM. But tell me: is Rs 1,000 crore sufficient to tackle a disaster like Amphan? We have already made direct cash transfers of Rs 6,500 crore to the victims and will release some more money for genuine victims yet to get relief,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/free-ration-vs-regret-for-life-mamata-tells-voters-to-pick/articleshow/77097910.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||North Bihar rivers in spate, 4L hit in 8 dists||Patna: As anticipated by the authorities, water level in various north Bihar rivers, including Bagmati, Gandak and Kamla Balan, kept rising for the second consecutive day on Tuesday as the flood-affected population went up to nearly 4 lakh. Bagmati is flowing above danger level at all seven flood gauges in Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga districts. The discharge from Valmikinagar barrage on the Gandak in West Champaran reached this year’s highest level after 4.36 lakh cusecs of water was released upstream from Nepal, which flowed into Bihar through all 36 gates of the barrage on Tuesday morning. The discharge from the barrage came down to 4.16 lakh cusec by 2pm showing a falling trend. “It rained almost continuously in Kathmandu on Monday night. Accordingly, the discharge was quite high from Valmikinagar barrage till Tuesday morning but it showed a falling trend from the afternoon. Nonetheless, the floodwaters of Gandak are expected to flow towards Gopalganj on Tuesday evening. Accordingly, we have removed people from embankments and strict vigil is being maintained by flood fighting teams round the clock,” Water resources minister Sanjay Jha told TOI on Tuesday. Principal secretary (disaster management) Pratyaya Amrit told a news channel on Tuesday that personnel of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have already been deployed in the affected areas. He said special vigil was being kept on the Gandak, also known as Narayani river in Nepal. “Based on the information available from water resources department, which is also using artificial intelligence for forecasting, we are prepared to handle discharge up to 5 lakh cusecs (from Valmikanagar barrage on Gandak). District magistrates of West Champaran and Gopalganj, Saran, Muzaffarpur Vaishali, have been alerted. Announcements on loudspeakers are being made to caution people,” Pratyaya added. The number of people affected by floods in eight north Bihar districts surged from 3.04 lakh on Monday to 3.9 lakh on Tuesday as per DMD daily flood bulletin. The number of flood affected blocks also increased from 32 to 37 in the eight districts of East Champaran, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur. With regard to water level in other rivers, Kamla Balan was flowing above corresponding danger level at two flood gauges on the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Burhi Gandak, Khiroi, Mahananda and Adhwara groups of rivers were also flowing danger level at several places in north Bihar. Kosi was also flowing above the corresponding danger level at six places in Supaul, Khagaria and Saharsa districts. Meanwhile, weathermen at the Patna Meteorological Centre said rainfall is likely to continue over north Bihar over the next 48 hours but will reduce in intensity after that. “Since eastern parts of monsoon trough line is passing along foothill of Himalayas, thus moderate to heavy rainfall is expected at many places in north Bihar with very heavy rainfall at a one or two places over the next 24 hours,” said Shailender Kumar Patel, an official at the Patna meteorological centre. India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its evening bulletin stated that widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected over Bihar during the next three to four days. In Saran district, DM Subrat Kumar Sen inspected a few flood-prone villages under Panapur and Taraiya blocks on Tuesday and directed officials to shift villagers to relief camps. (Inputs from S K Singh in Sitamarhi and H K Verma in Saran)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/north-bihar-rivers-in-spate-4l-hit-in-8-dists/articleshow/77095673.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Surat||Diamond units wary of harsh action: SDA||Surat: With at least seven diamond units told to shut down and over 20 units fined for the violation of standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the civic body in the last one week, the Surat Diamond Association (SDA) and the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) have urged the authorities not to take harsh actions against the units as they are already hit by financial crunch. In the last one-and-a-half-month, about 1,600 diamond workers, merchants and traders from the diamond hub of Varachha and Katargam have been infected by coronavirus of which 12 have succumbed. In the last one week, the SMC has collected over Rs 2 lakh in fine from the diamond units violating the norms.Regional chairman of GJEPC, Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “More than coronavirus, diamond unit owners are afraid of the SMC officials visiting their factories.” President of SDA, Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “Diamond units are taking all the precautions, still the SMC are penalising the unit owners. We have requested the SMC not to take harsh action against the unit owners and allow the units to operate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-units-wary-of-harsh-action-sda/articleshow/77094585.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal health department warns against rampant use of antibiotics on Covid patients||KOLKATA: The state health department has noticed rampant use of antibiotics in the management of Covid patients, forcing it to come out with guidelines on rational use of antibiotics. Sources in the state health department said that some doctors are prescribing azithromycin and doxycycline which are normally used for bacterial infection. “Covid-19 is a viral disease, antibiotics have no role per se in it. Therefore, antibiotics should not be routinely given to patients unless co-bacterial infection is suspected. There are clear markers to invite an alarm for doctors to prescribe such antibiotics. These are not prophylactic drugs and has no preventive role,” said Santanu Kumar Tripathy, head of clinical and experimental pharmacology department at School of Tropical Medicine Kolkata. Tripathy heads the committee of experts the health department had formed to streamline the use of antibiotics in managing Covid patients. The committee comprises specialists, including chest, medicine, critical care, microbiologist, community medicine, infectious diseases specialists and doctors directly involved in treating Covid patients across public and private hospitals. “Rampant or unnecessary use of antibiotics will induce resistance and hence these have to be used in a calculated manner after proper culture. And asymptomatic patients who are in home isolation do not require antibiotics at all,” said senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee. According to the guideline drafted by the team of doctors, antibiotics should be considered only on patients who have high oxygen demands and progressive respiratory failure. “This guideline is welcome so that rampant use of antibiotics is prevented. But at the same time if a patient has high fever and we have strong suspicion for some secondary infection the patient may need antibiotics till the time we get the person’s Covid test results,” said internal medicine specialist Arindam Biswas. The guideline says that microbiological tests like urine, blood and sputum culture should be ideally done before starting a patient on antibiotics. The drugs can also be given only in cases where bacterial infection cannot be ruled out, for example radiological evidence of pneumonia while the Covid report is awaited, and to de-escalate the antibiotic therapy as early as possible once the Covid infection is confirmed. “Antibiotics should be given only to patients with secondary infection or humble antibiotic to immune-compromised patients to prevent community acquired pneumonia,” said internal medicine specialist Syamsis Bandyopadhyay. The guideline drafted by the expert committee has also specified the drug and its dosage to be used in suspected cases of hospital and community acquired pneumonia. “This is an interim guideline. The disease is new and we have to keep ourselves updated to emerging knowledge regularly. Therefore, we will also be updating the guideline as and when new aspects on antibiotic in Covid management emerge,” said Tripathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-warns-against-rampant-use-of-antibiotics-on-covid-patients/articleshow/77095674.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Bakrid on Aug 1, helpline launched||Lucknow: Eid-ul-Zuha or Bakrid will fall on August 1, confirmed members of Sunni and Shia Markazi Chand committees, on Tuesday. The announcement was made since the moon for Islamic month of Zilhijj was not sighted on Tuesday. The tenth day of the month is observed as Baqrid. But there is confusion in Muslim community as to how the festival of sacrifice will be celebrated amid the ongoing health crisis. Senior vice-president of All India Muslim Personal Law Board, Maulana Kalbe Sadiq and his son Kalbe Sibtain Noori, referred to a previously ordained fatwa of Ayatollah Ali Al-Sistani — the highest authority of Shia theology, that sacrifice is mandatory only for those performing Haj. “We are not sure if sacrificial animals will be available this year for Bakrid. Since goat mandis have still not got any permission, it is important to inform people that Ayatollah Sistani had issued a fatwa that sacrifice is not mandatory for all. If an animal is not available, the same amount of money can be given to needy persons,” said Kalbe Sibtain. Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah, Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali launched the first helpline to resolve issues of people about Haj and Baqrid. The helpline will be functional from July 23 and questions will be answered by a panel of clerics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bakrid-on-aug-1-helpline-launched/articleshow/77096116.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lalji Tandon, Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s man Friday, passes away||LUCKNOW: Madhya Pradesh governor and one of the senior most BJP leaders, Lalji Tandon — who had the reputation of being Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s man Friday in UP — passed away in Lucknow after prolonged illness on Tuesday morning. He was 85. Tandon — a former Lucknow MP and a minister -- was admitted to Medanta hospital on June 11 following a liver ailment. “Tandon’s condition continued to deteriorate and his liver and kidney stopped functioning following which he was put on a life support system. He died at 5.35 am in the morning,” said Medanta director, Dr Rakesh Kapoor. Tandon was cremated in the evening at Gulala Ghat in the old city area. Tandon's son Ashutosh Tandon, a cabinet minister in the Yogi government, appealed to people to pay homage to his father from their residence and follow social distancing norms in the wake of the Corona pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his condolence, tweeting: “Shri Lalji Tandon will be remembered for his untiring efforts to serve society. He played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. He made a mark as an effective administrator, always giving importance to public welfare. Anguished by his passing away.” Modi termed Tandon as a leader who was well-versed with Constitutional matters. “He enjoyed a long and close association with beloved Atal Ji. In this hour of grief, my condolences to the family and well-wishers of Shri Tandon. Om Shanti,” Modi said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, said that the country lost a great public figure, an able administrator and a social worker. “My deep condolences with the family,” Yogi tweeted. The CM also announced a three-day state mourning in respect of Tandon, besides declaring a holiday on Tuesday. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya cancelled his scheduled visit to Ayodhya after learning about Tandon's. Lucknow MP and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and MP CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan too flew down to Lucknow to pay tribute to Tandon at his Chowk residence. RSS link got Tandon in touch with AtalAn affable politician, whose popularity cut across party lines --like his mentor’s -- Tandon was also the Rakhi brother of BSP chief Mayawati who also expressed her grief terming him as a ‘popular’ and a ‘cultured’ leader. Having an elaborate political career, Lalji Tandon came in contact with Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) at a young age of 12 years. It was during his association with the RSS that he came in touch with former PM and five time MP from Lucknow (1991, 1996, 1998, 1999 and 2004) Vajpayee. In fact, Lalji Tandon replaced Vajpayee in 2009 Lok Sabha elections after the latter retired from active politics following health concerns. Tandon was one of the key BJP figures in Uttar Pradesh. Starting as a party corporator from the old city area of Chowk in Lucknow where he was born to Shiv Narayan Tandon and Annpurna Devi on April 12, 1935, Lalji went on to become a cabinet minister for urban development during Kalyan Singh government in 1991 for the first time. Thereafter, he held the post several times during BSP-BJP governments and BJP-led NDA government in late 90s. It was during his tenure as the urban development minister that most of Lucknow’s current development projects were planned. Earlier, he was a member of UP Legislative Council for two terms, first in 1978–84 and then in 1990–96. Subsequently, he was elected to the UP assembly for three terms, 1996–2009, and remained the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly between 2003 and 07. His name was linked to an unfortunate incident too when 21 people were killed on his birthday on April 12, 2004 when he was distributing free saris and a stampede broke out. In 2009 Lok Sabha elections, Tandon replaced Vajpayee as the BJP candidate from Lucknow and was elected by defeating his Congress rival Rita Bahuguna Joshi by a margin of over 40,000 votes. Tandon was succeeded by the present Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in 2014 general elections. Eventually on August 23,, 2018, Tandon was appointed as governor of Bihar where he remained till July 28, 2019. He was subsequently appointed as the 22nd Governor of Madhya Pradesh, replacing Anandiben Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tandon-atals-man-friday-passes-away/articleshow/77097938.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Vikas Dubey’s wife breaks silence, says cops used and killed him||LUCKNOW: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s wife, Richa, on Tuesday reposed faith in the judicial system and expressed hope she would get justice in her first public interaction since her husband was shot in an encounter 11 days ago. Speaking to reporters at her Krishnanagar residence in Lucknow, she recollected the sequence of events leading to the midnight bloodbath in which eight cops were killed. “Around 2 am, I got a call from my husband. He asked me to flee our Lucknow home immediately as several people had been killed in Bikru. I kept running till I found shelter at a friend’s place. That was the last time, I spoke to him and since then went by media reports for updates,” she told reporters. She, however, did not disclose the exact location where she hid before being picked up by police and questioned. She also said that during the pandemic-triggered lockdown, policemen would have lunch and dinner at their Bikru residence and even stayed back overnight. “Cops used him and then destroyed him. I have full faith in the Constitution and justice will prevail,” she said. Richa recalls don’s soft side: Protective dad, caring hubbyDisclosing the softer side of the gangster, she said, “He may have been a criminal, but was a caring husband and a father. He loved his two children. Every month, we received Rs 40,000 as expenses. My elder son, Shantanu, is studying medicine in Russia and my younger son, Akash, scored 90% in his class 12 exams. He’s dead, but my hopes are still alive.” Recollecting her good times with the don, she said, she first met Vikas in 1990. “Dubey was a good friend of my brother, Raju Nigam, who got our marriage solemnised,” she said. Also, he was active as gram pradhan and would solve disputes in the village. “His was the last word in Bikru,” she told reporters. “Due to his criminal profile, we decided to build a house in Lucknow in 2004, where our children would be away and aloof from the dirt. He wanted them to study and lead a better life,” said Richa, sobbing uncontrollably. She also recounted her uneasy relationship with her mother-in-law, Sarla Devi, and how Dubey would always honour his parent’s wishes. “If anybody pleaded before Sarlaji or my fatherin-law, Vikas would not act against them,” she told mediapersons. However, the media did witness her fiery side on the day the gangster was cremated at Bhairavghat on banks of Ganga. On being pestered by a reporter, she had said, “If required, I will even pick the gun.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dubeys-wife-breaks-silence-says-cops-used-killed-him/articleshow/77097949.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Epitome of Lucknow’s cultural pluralism, unity in diversity||LUCKNOW: Lalji Tandon was an embodiment of Lucknow's Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. He was respected by one and all. Though he was associated with Jansangh and later on BJP his popularity transcended political parties. He was a known figure in the city’s cultural gatherings, literary sittings and social circles. His signature 'chaat' parties at his Sondhi tola residence in a narrow lane of Chowk marked his ability to socialise. “Lalji Tandon was a father figure and guardian,” tweeted additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal, who had worked with him as director, DUDA in his urban development ministry and then as district magistrate. Caring little which party was in power in the state, Sehgal would often drive down to Tandon’s residence to spend some time with him. The historic Coffee House in posh Hazratganj in Lucknow was Lalji's favorite place where he used to meet veteran journalists, literary figures, including Bhagwati Charan Verma, Amrit Lal Nagar and Yashpal and political personalities such as Vir Bahadur Singh and even Chandra Shekhar. They all loved his company and together they discussed social, political and cultural issues. It was Lalji Tandon who as urban development minister revived the famous Coffee House in 2002. From a grassroots worker of RSS and Jansangh in early 50s, Lalji Tandon started his over 60-year political journey with the corporator's post and went ahead to become an MLA, MLC and then an MP. Tandon’s demise has left Lucknow shattered and saddened. Lucknow would now hardly find anyone who cares so much for his city. He was the voice and face of Lucknow. Vacuum caused by Lalji Tandon’s death would never be filled. In fact, Navneet Sehgal’s tweet sums up the mood of Lucknow who has lost a father figure and guardian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/epitome-of-citys-cultural-pluralism-unity-in-diversity/articleshow/77097950.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s biggest single-day toll, five patients lose Covid battle||LUCKNOW: The city on Tuesday recorded the highest number of Covid deaths in 24 hours with five patients losing the battle with the virus. The deaths took the city toll to 57. Out of these, 37 (63%) persons have died in July alone, that is, one death every 12 hours. Respiratory distress due to Covid-19 infection coupled with comorbidities was the major cause of death in four patients. All the four deceased were above 50 years. Among the five victims was a 62-year-old man from Kurmi Tola in Husainganj who was admitted to KGMU on July 19. He died in the Covid ward on Tuesday morning. He also had liver ailment and died of respiratory failure, said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. Another death in KGMU was of a 55-year-old man from Adilnagar who also had coronary artery disease, besides diabetes that led to renal issues. The patient was brought at the late stage of infection and died due to respiratory failure within 15 hours after admission on Tuesday. Two patients died at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. One was a 50-year-old woman suffering with pneumonia caused by Covid and also had kidney issues and was on ventilator. She died on Monday night due to respiratory failure. Another death at the institute was of a 70-year-old who was also had severe breathing difficulty due to coronavirus and was on ventilator, said RMLIMS spokesperson Dr Shrikesh Singh. The health officers confirmed that one more patient died in a hospital, but said that details were being collected. The first death in the city was recorded on April 16 and four persons in a day had died on July 6 and July 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-biggest-single-day-toll-5-patients-lose-covid-battle/articleshow/77096124.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||60-year-old woman dies after wall collapses on her due to heavy rainfall||Bareilly: A 60-year-old woman was buried alive under the debris of a wall that collapsed on her in Basedapur village of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday morning. The woman was rushed to a hospital where doctors proclaimed her dead upon arrival. The district has been witnessing heavy rainfall for the past three days.According to police, victim Kalawati, along with her husband, a marginal farmer, was living in the village as their two sons, both skilled labourers, work in another district. Around 5.30am on Tuesday when she was sweeping the courtyard, the wall collapsed on her. Kalawati, who was quite weak and had the age-related illness, succumbed to her injuries, said police, adding that the body was sent for autopsy.Phoolbehad police station SHO Shayam Narayan Yadav said, “The victim died a few minutes after the incident. She either had sustained internal injuries or died of shock as there was no major injury visible on her body. We have sent the body for autopsy and recorded the statement of her husband. Also, we have shared the details required for the compensation with the revenue department.”It was the second such incidents in the past 72 hours in the district. On Sunday evening, a 10-year-old boy had buried alive under the debris of the boundary wall of a school that collapsed on him in Mohammadi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/60-year-old-woman-dies-after-wall-collapses-on-her-due-to-heavy-rainfall/articleshow/77094602.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 22, 2020||Vadodara||Districts around Vadodara asked to increase treatment facilities||Vadodara: Concerned over the large number of cases from districts surrounding Vadodara, the districts has also been asked to ensure that their treatment facilities are augmented. The administrations in these districts have been asked to ensure that patients do not have to travel long distances for treatment. A video conference of the top brass of the administration of Bharuch, Anand, Kheda, Panchmahal, Dahod, Narmada, Chhota Udepur and Mahisagar districts was held on Tuesday to discuss the plans for increasing the number of beds for treatment in these districts. Officer of special duty for Covid-19 in the region, Vinod Rao, said that it had come to light that 25% of beds in Vadodara were occupied by patients from outside the district. The officials from other districts were asked to increase the number of beds with oxygen supply, ICU beds and ventilator beds. Rao said that the collectors of all these districts had agreed to the capacity by engaging private as well as government hospitals so that patients got early and timely care locally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/districts-around-vadodara-asked-to-increase-treatment-facilities/articleshow/77094201.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya awaits deluge of development from PM Narendra Modi visit||AYODHYA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate several development projects to Ayodhya, including a 251m tall statue of Lord Ram on Saryu banks after completion of ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ramjanmabhoomi. The prime minister’s bounty for the ancient temple town would also include development of Sita Lake at a cost of Rs 200 crore and 400-acre New Ayodhya blueprint with 12 overbridges, concrete roads and a modern railway station. “With a magnificent Ram temple coming up in Ayodhya soon, Prime Minister Modi along with state government will re-model the ancient pilgrimage town’s infrastructure around a smart city. From civic makeovers like laying underground power lines, constructing a modern sewage system to widening roads to constructing an international airport, Ayodhya will be catapulted to the global tourism map, while retaining its intrinsic religious character,” Ayodhya MLA Ved Prakash Gupta told TOI. Besides the micro makeover like concretization of roads, lanes and drains, at least 50 big-ticket projects are in the pipeline. These include a modern bus station with a sprawling parking space, an international airport with direct flights to Europe and the US, eye-theme park based on the life of Lord Ram and an international Ramayana Museum, said Gupta. “The prime minister’s visit will change the destiny of Ayodhya,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-awaits-deluge-of-devpt-from-modi-visit/articleshow/77097959.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Yeltsin had asked me for a painting’||HYDERABAD: For a large number of people, Surabhi Vani Devi is known as the daughter of former Prime Minister late PV Narasimha Rao who used to accompany him on his foreign and other trips. She is, however, a multi-talented personality, who has carved a niche for herself in various fields. Vani Devi is an artist whose paintings have been exhibited at several national and international events. She is also an academician. Though Devi is not teaching regularly of late, she is running two pharmacy colleges, colleges of fine arts and architecture, a junior college and a school. Vani is founder secretary of Surabhi Educational Society and Sri Venkateshwara group of colleges. She offers free education to children from BPL families at her school in Begumpet. The school offers education from KG to class 6. What motivated her towards achieving her dream were the visits by writers, poets, painters and other artists to her home. “I think all those artists inspired me. My father himself was a writer and poet. He recognized my passion for painting and brought me one of my best gifts of oil paints from a London tour,” she told TOI. One of her best memories with her father during their trips is that of Russia. “We were exchanging gifts and the then-President of Russia, Boris Yeltsin, said he was expecting a painting of mine as a gift to him. I was so elated. Later, one of my paintings was sent to Yeltsin through the foreign secretary,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yeltsin-had-asked-me-for-a-painting/articleshow/77095689.cms||Roushan Ali
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Farmer’s son scores 99.2%||Jaipur: Hard work has no substitute. This has been proved by Prakash Jatiya, an illiterate farmer’s son from Loharwa village in Barmer, who scored 99.2% in RBSE Class XII Arts examination. Belonging to one of the backward areas of the state, Jatiya faced hardship during his preparations for the examination. “We rely on farming for three months. My father works as a labourer at construction sites for rest of the year. Power cut is a major problem in my village. Sometimes, there won’t be electricity for two to four days. At night, I used to study with the help of torch. During day time, I used to sit under the neem tree in my courtyard,” said Jatiya. His elder sister also got 83% in Class XII board examination. He is the second child among five kids. He scored 100 marks in Hindi and History, 99 in Hindi literature and English and 98 in political science. His total score was 496 out of 500 marks. Jatiya explained, “I used to study around eight hours a day during school timings. Every day after school, I used to revise chapters taught in class. I focused on just RBSE books and did not take up any reference book. After my syllabus was completed by January, I solved question papers of previous years to understand the pattern. If a student is disciplined and focused, he or she can clear any examination.” Aspiring to be a civil servant, Jatiya took up Humanities in Class XI after scoring 96% in Class X. Financial problems have become part of his life and any future academic decision will depend on that. “Both my sister and I have decided to prepare for civil services. We live in a very backward area and people are not educated here. My father does not have enough money to spend on higher education. So I will prefer some nearby college. Then I will go to another city for preparing civil service examination. I am confident to excel due to my hard work,” said Jatiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-son-scores-99-2/articleshow/77096602.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Control rooms set up at NMCH and PMCH as Covid-19 tally up to 28,564||PATNA: Covid control rooms were set up at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for the redressal of public grievances as 1,109 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in state, taking the tally up to 28,564 on Tuesday. Eleven more Covid deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll up to 198. The health department on Tuesday also removed NMCH superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha for administrative reasons. Dr Binod Kumar Singh of the paediatrics department has been given additional charge of NMCH superintendent. The action came a day after the opposition parties shared videos of a dead body lying unattended at the isolation ward of NMCH. The health department bulletin said fresh coronavirus cases were reported from 31 districts with maximum 130 from Patna where officially 31 persons have died due to the virus so far. Other districts with large number of cases included Muzaffarpur (111), Gaya (98), Vaishali (75), Bhagalpur (81), Rohtas (61), Saharsa (47) and Buxar (46). The control room at PMCH and NMCH is for common people to lodge complaints related to Covid-19 and give suggestions as well. Incidentally, several videos of alleged mismanagement at NMCH have been going viral on social media over the last few days. Health minister Mangal Pandey has urged people to lodge their grievances during the treatment of their kin suffering from Covid-19. He also tweeted that people could also give suggestions related to Covid at the 24X7 control room functioning at the two hospitals in Patna. The department has deputed two nodal officers for each control room for proper redressal of grievances of common people. Meanwhile, as many as 1,206 people recovered from Covid-19 infection in Bihar in the last 24 hours. However, the number of active cases in state stood at 9,625. So far, 18,741 people have been discharged and the state’s recovery rate was 65.61%. Total 10,303 samples were tested at different testing facilities in Bihar in the last 24 hours. According to the health department bulletin, among the 11 dead, three were from Patna, two each from Bhojpur and Lakhisarai and one each from Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda and Saran. Five Covid patients died at NMCH during the treatment on Tuesday. NMCH nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said a 53-year-old man from Mahendru and another 70-year-old from Anisabad died on Tuesday. “Both had hypertension and were admitted on July 20. The Anisabad man was also suffering from tuberculosis. Among the other deceased, one each was from Motihari, Saran and Rohtas,” he said. Four more Covid deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna on Tuesday. Among the deceased, three men were from Patna and one from Bhojpur. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said a 58-year-old man from Gandhi Maidan, another man (62) from Gola Road and a 47-year-old from Jagdeopath in Patna besides a man (71) from Ara died due to coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/control-rooms-set-up-at-nmch-pmch-as-covid-tally-up-to-28564/articleshow/77095698.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Revisions gave me an edge: Meena||Nagendra Kumar Meena from Rawat Public School, Jaipur got 96.40% in the Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) examination. Originally from Dholpur, Meena completed his studies from Jaipur to get better quality of education. Explaining his preparations, Meena said there is no need to panic, just maintain consistency. “I used to study seven to eight hours a day and used to revise everything taught in the class. I completed my syllabus before pre-boards that gave me time to revise more. I solved last-year question papers that gave me an edge over other students,” said Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/revisions-gave-me-an-edge-meena/articleshow/77096604.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Dehradun||Residents concerned over proposed felling of trees on Rajpur Rd||Dehradun: A social media post alleging plans to cut about 50 trees on Rajpur Road became viral on Tuesday, leading to several residents expressing concern at the move. However, Rajiv Dhiman, the divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dehradun, told mediapersons that only half a dozen trees have been identified for felling in the area. “Last week, a tree fell in Mussoorie which caused damage to cars. Thereafter, the Dehradun district magistrate ordered us to identify such dangerous trees along Rajpur Road. We have identified six such trees. Among them, two are dry and four others pose risk to commuters. Also, around a dozen trees have been identified for looping,” added Dhiman. Himanshu Arora, secretary of environmental NGO ‘Citizens for Green Doon’ told TOI that “forest officials are claiming that the electricity department has requested to clear the branches of some trees to prevent chances of any mishap and a tree has already been felled by them near President’s Bodyguard Estate, but we will not allow them to fell trees in large numbers.” “So far, the department has kept us in the loop and we expect them to continue doing so in future as well,” he added. The issue of tree felling in Doon often becomes a cause of concern for environmentally-conscious citizens in the city, especially in view of depleting green cover in the valley. In May this year, the forest department had proposed to cut five trees at Indira Market for the Smart City project but the move was vehemently opposed by locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-concerned-over-proposed-felling-of-trees-on-rajpur-rd/articleshow/77092783.cms||Shivani Azad
July 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Punjab cap on private hospitals rates only for ‘bonafide’ residents||CHANDIGARH: To discourage patients from other states coming to Punjab for Covid-19 treatment, the state government has kept the outsiders out of the ambit of price capping fixed for treatment in private hospitals. After much delay, the Punjab government had on July 16 fixed treatment charges ranging between Rs 4,500 to Rs 18,000 per day for Covid-19 patients availing treatment at private medical colleges\hospitals\nursing homes with an aim to prevent patients from being fleeced by private centres. However, a day later, the health department issued an order stating that the approved rates would be applicable only to ‘bonafide’ residents of the state, who self-report to private institutions for management of Covid-19. Explaining the rationale behind the decision, a senior health official on request of anonymity, maintained that there has been an increase in the number of people coming from other states for getting tested and treated in Punjab, putting an additional burden on the already stressed resources. “We are duty bound to safeguard the interest of our people,” said the official. According to the health department’s record, residents of many states, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Karnataka have received treatment in Punjab and majority of these patients were from Delhi. Even health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had last month raised the issue of symptomatic people from Delhi coming to Punjab for treatment. 500 patients from other states in Punjab hospitalsAbout 500 patients from other states have so far received treatment in Punjab’s hospitals, both private and government-run. In the ongoing month, the health department detected about 20 patients from other states undergoing treatment at different hospitals in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Mohali. Ever since lifting of restrictions, there has been a continued surge in the number of positive cases in the state. Punjab has reported about 53% of its total positive cases in the last 20 days. Out of 10,510 cases, 5,568 were reported from July 1 to July 20. There has also been a substantial rise in the number of patients requiring oxygen and ventilator support. Grappling with limited resources, the state government heavily depends on private facilities to bear the additional pressure. Out of the 1,916 Covid intensive care unit (ICU) beds across the state, 1,006 are in government hospitals and medical colleges and 910 are in private facilities. The health minister said the decision was taken keeping in mind the interest of ‘our’ people. He, however, clarified that the government will not stop people from other states from coming here for treatment. “They will have to pay the rates fixed by the private hospitals,” said Sidhu. The health department vide its order on July 17 also clarified that the approved rates are applicable for isolation wards only and the patients will have to pay for special rooms as per hospital practice. For the patients with insurance cover, any rates determined between hospitals and insurance company and corporate employee will be applicable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-cap-on-pvt-hosp-rates-only-for-bonafide-residents/articleshow/77098228.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 22, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Punjab cap on private hospitals rates only for ‘bonafide’ residents||CHANDIGARH: To discourage patients from other states coming to Punjab for Covid-19 treatment, the state government has kept the outsiders out of the ambit of price capping fixed for treatment in private hospitals. After much delay, the Punjab government had on July 16 fixed treatment charges ranging between Rs 4,500 to Rs 18,000 per day for Covid-19 patients availing treatment at private medical colleges\hospitals\nursing homes with an aim to prevent patients from being fleeced by private centres. However, a day later, the health department issued an order stating that the approved rates would be applicable only to ‘bonafide’ residents of the state, who self-report to private institutions for management of Covid-19. Explaining the rationale behind the decision, a senior health official on request of anonymity, maintained that there has been an increase in the number of people coming from other states for getting tested and treated in Punjab, putting an additional burden on the already stressed resources. “We are duty bound to safeguard the interest of our people,” said the official. According to the health department’s record, residents of many states, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Karnataka have received treatment in Punjab and majority of these patients were from Delhi. Even health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had last month raised the issue of symptomatic people from Delhi coming to Punjab for treatment. 500 patients from other states in Punjab hospitalsAbout 500 patients from other states have so far received treatment in Punjab’s hospitals, both private and government-run. In the ongoing month, the health department detected about 20 patients from other states undergoing treatment at different hospitals in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Mohali. Ever since lifting of restrictions, there has been a continued surge in the number of positive cases in the state. Punjab has reported about 53% of its total positive cases in the last 20 days. Out of 10,510 cases, 5,568 were reported from July 1 to July 20. There has also been a substantial rise in the number of patients requiring oxygen and ventilator support. Grappling with limited resources, the state government heavily depends on private facilities to bear the additional pressure. Out of the 1,916 Covid intensive care unit (ICU) beds across the state, 1,006 are in government hospitals and medical colleges and 910 are in private facilities. The health minister said the decision was taken keeping in mind the interest of ‘our’ people. He, however, clarified that the government will not stop people from other states from coming here for treatment. “They will have to pay the rates fixed by the private hospitals,” said Sidhu. The health department vide its order on July 17 also clarified that the approved rates are applicable for isolation wards only and the patients will have to pay for special rooms as per hospital practice. For the patients with insurance cover, any rates determined between hospitals and insurance company and corporate employee will be applicable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-cap-on-pvt-hosp-rates-only-for-bonafide-residents/articleshow/77098229.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala education department dismisses reports on selective reopening of schools||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: General education department has rubbished reports that government was preparing for selective reopening of schools by September, after Onam. "We haven’t taken such a decision as it won’t be wise to assume about the situation in August and beyond," said director of general education Jeevan Babu. School reopening date will be decided considering ground realities in state and general guidelines from state and central governments, he added. There were reports that government might explore the possibility of reopening schools in places where the prevalence of Covid cases is comparatively low and such an approach could be implemented after August. A statement, purportedly from the education department, had claimed that general education department may whittle down school syllabus if schools remain shut beyond September. Even as officials and the office of the minister concerned termed the claims unfounded, sources said the government had indeed shared such a thought with national disaster management authority last week. "An official, who attended the NDMA meeting, when asked about possible reopening of schools in Kerala had said that it could be after August. But the officer was sharing a general assumption, not a decision’’, said a senior official in the department. However, NDMA later published a list of possible reopening dates of schools across the country and Kerala figured in the list of states that planned to open schools by the end of August. NDMA had even asked the government to seek the feedback of parents on whether they agree with the government’s plan. "State government hasn’t taken a decision on school reopening. So, there is no question of seeking parent feedback on reopening dates. As of now, the Centre has asked all states to keep schools shut in July. Considering ground realities and the advisories from Centre, we will take further decisions in due course," said general education secretary A Shajahan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/edu-dept-dismisses-reports-on-selective-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/77094621.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Surat||Surat records 225 cases in a day||Surat: Surat city reported 225 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest in the state. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, 14 patients also succumbed to the virus on Tuesday. SMC also declared 40 houses with 183 people living there in Athwa as containment zones. The houses include 18 in MayFlower Apartment and 11 each in Navkruti Apartment and Navnath Society in Athwa zone in the city. On Tuesday, 101 patients fully recovered and were discharged. Meanwhile, in Surat rural reported 73 new cases and seven patients died. “In all, 72 people have died due to Covid-19 in Surat rural till date,” said officials.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-records-225-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77094705.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Shops in a fix over unsold stocks of N-95 valve masks||KOLKATA: Pharmacies that have stockpiles of N-95 masks with valve respirators are in a quandary following a health ministry advisory to the state health department against its use during the pandemic. Sajal Ganguly, general secretary of Bengal Chemist and Druggists’ Association, said most masks had been procured in bulk with a non-refundable clause following the initial demand and their sale would continue till the state health department issued an order on the contrary. The central advisory follows caution by doctors who have warned that masks with valve respirators are meant to keep out fine pollutants in the air and aren’t effective in preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus as it does not filter the air that is exhaled. “The use of valved respirator N-95 masks are detrimental to measures adopted for preventing the spread of novel coronavirus as it does not prevent the virus from escaping out of the mask. I request you to instruct all concerned to follow the guidelines on the use of face mouth cover and prevent inappropriate use of N-95 masks,” said Dr Rajiv Garg, director general of health services. Some pharmacies, though, had stopped stocking and sale of valved masks quite some time ago after a few hospitals in Kolkata barred people wearing them from entering. “Now, N-95 masks without valve will be in demand,” said Rajendra Khandelwal of Dhanwatary. Pankaj Vora, a medicine dealer at Bagree Market, too, said most of the valved N-95 masks had been exhausted and there were no plans to place fresh orders now. The central advisory has encouraged use of homemade protective cotton cover for face and mouth when people step out. It must be washed well in boiling water for 5 minutes and dried well before being used again. Oncologist Indranil Khan said that the valved N-95 masks should have been banned a long time ago. “I have seen positive patients wearing valved N-95 masks. This is a threat to others as the virus can easily spread though the valve,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shops-in-a-fix-over-unsold-stocks-of-n-95-valve-masks/articleshow/77095713.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||212 new cases take tally above 4,500||Lucknow: As many as 212 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from across the state capital in 24 hours till Tuesday evening, taking the city’s tally since the outbreak in March to 4,503, of which 2861 (63%) are under treatment in various hospitals at present. The highest number of cases in the city was reported from Gomtinagar and Indiranagar localities, with 11 patients each from both area being found infected by the novel coronavirus. Alambagh followed with 10 cases and Aliganj nine. Of the total 4,503 cases in the city, about 3,400 (75%) have been reported in July. The spike began from July 10 and since then Lucknow has been reporting the highest number of cases in the state for 12 consecutive days. As of now, the state capital has the highest case load as well as active patients in Uttar Pradesh. Health officers said the reason behind the surge is that since past fortnight cases are being reported from almost all localities of the city, while earlier, they were confined to few clusters. A sanitation worker at SPM Civil hospital and a trader of chikan garments were among the fresh cases. 71 patients in home quarantine As per the new policy of the state government, 71 asymptomatic patients who tested positive on Tuesday were home quarantined. “After getting test reports, patients were contacted on the phone and those who said they were asymptomatic and wanted to stay at home, were allowed to do so,” said Dr K P Tripathi, in-charge of infection control unit in the city. “We will call patients daily to inquire about their health. A patient will be shifted to hospital if symptoms surface. Patients have also been given phone numbers on which they can call as soon as symptoms surface,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/212-new-cases-take-tally-above-4500/articleshow/77096142.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||Situation tense in UP’s Moradabad after several‘cow carcasses’ found dumped in fields & pond||Bareilly: Situation turned tensed in UP’s Moradabad after scores of locals and members of religious outfits encircled an area after news of several “cow carcasses and remains” found dumped in a pond and fields of a local farmer spread like a wildfire in Goth village of Moradabad district on Monday. Later, a team from Katghar police station — under whose jurisdiction the incident was reported — buried the carcasses and registered an FIR against unidentified persons under relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act. Police Forces were also deployed in the locality to maintain law and order. Katghar SHO Ganjendra Singh said, “A veterinary team was called in on the spot and samples of the carcasses were sent for examination and it was confirmed that the carcasses were of cows.” Farmers, meanwhile, accused police of inaction in similar incidents reported earlier. Locals, however, suspected the role of a few unidentified men who would often be spotted by villagers moving in the area astride motorcycles. Kunwar Pal Singh, the owner of the field where the carcasses were found to be dumped, alleged, “I find two-three cow carcasses dumped in the fields almost every day. On Monday, I spotted around 20 carcasses dumped in the fields and an adjacent pond, and then I alerted villagers and informed police. The problem has become so chronic that I seldom visit my fields. The foul smell emanating from the carcasses is unbearable.” Satyavir Singh, a villager, said, “The dumping of carcasses is a routine affair here, but local police remained impervious, even as we apprised them about the situation many times and lodged several complaints. The dumping seems to be a planned move to disturb the peace and harmony in the area. We want immediate identification and arrest of the accused.” Moradabad superintendent of police Amit Kumar Anand told TOI, “We can sense the boiling anger among the locals, and thus, have deployed police force to keep a tab on the situation. Meanwhile, the effort is on to identify and arrest the accused. As of now, an FIR has been registered, but the culprits will soon be brought to book.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/situation-tense-in-ups-moradabad-after-severalcow-carcasses-found-dumped-in-fields-pond/articleshow/77094681.cms||Maria Khan
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||To avenge teasing, woman’s kin kill goon||Kota: In order to take revenge for teasing a married woman, nine members of her family beat a goon to death on Monday at Sumer village under Khanpur police station of Jhalawar district. The police booked nine persons, including the woman, for murder under sections of IPC and arrested eight of them. The deceased man was identified as Tokiya (30). He was a notorious goon in the village and was involved in several crimes and unlawful activities, including teasing and troubling women in the village, SHO at Khanpur police station, Kamalchand Meena said. Meena said, Tokiya had teased a 22-year-old married woman of the village on Monday last week following which she lodged a case against him under Section 354 of IPC but the family members of the woman were looking for revenge. Around eight to nine members of the woman’s family on Monday attacked Tokiya with sticks, iron rods and stones while he was passing through the route in the village. He sustained critical injuries in the attack and was declared brought dead at the local hospital, he further said. Police lodged a case against Ramlakhan, Nathulal, Siyaram, Dharmraj, Banwari, Dwarka, Prem, Lekhraj and 22-year-old woman Menakashi. Eight of the accused, except Dwarka, were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/to-avenge-teasing-womans-kin-kill-goon/articleshow/77096609.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||‘Ban fish import till Covid crisis over’||MARGAO: The local fishermen (ramponkars) associations of South Goa have vociferously demanded that no fish vehicles from outside the state be allowed into the state until the Covid crisis gets over, and that until then, the local catch be allowed to be sold in the wholesale fish market of Margao. This demand was put forth by a delegation of various ramponkars’ associations at a meeting convened by the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) chairperson Wilfred D’Sa on Tuesday. “The government should first control the Covid situation and only then think of allowing outside fish into the wholesale fish market. All the fishermen associations made this stand clear to the SGPDA at the meeting,” Olencio Simoes of Goenchea Ramponkarancho Ekvott who was a part of the delegation told TOI after the meeting. Pointing out that the fishing ban period would be ending soon, Simoes suggested against making any hurry in opening the wholesale fish market. “Let’s wait until the season starts. Once the ban period is over there will be more fish in the market,” he said, stressing that maintaining social distancing was practically impossible in the fish trade. The ramponkar associations took exception to the SGPDA’s plan of allowing 20 vehicles from outside the state and 15 of locals to enter the wholesale fish market. “The only solution to prevent transmission of the outbreak is to stop any form of import of fish in Goa right now,” Simoes said,. The SGPDA’s meeting with ramponkars was a step towards putting in place a mechanism to ensure social distancing in the wholesale fish market once it is reopened. Last week, at a meeting held by the South Goa collector Ajit Roy with the wholesale fish traders association and the SGPDA, it was decided that the wholesale fish marker would remain closed for a week and that an action plan for imposing social distancing measures would be submitted to the collector soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ban-fish-import-till-covid-crisis-over/articleshow/77096166.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lax patients, family, staff spread virus in KGMU||Lucknow: The surge in Covid cases among doctors and health workers in King George’s Medical University threatens to turn into a manpower crisis, and the laxity of some patients, attendants and paramedical staff has been identified as the main reason for it. KGMU chief medical superintendent (CMS) Prof. S N Shankhwar said on Tesday, “Strict instructions have been given to the staff to follow protocols. PPE suits of those on Covid duty will also be checked for possibilities of any breach.” In last 16 days, at least 20 doctors, including those on duty in the Covid wards, and seven health workers have tested positive, leading to shortage of hands at a time when the wards of coronavirus infected patients are full. Total 48 KGMU staff members have been diagnosed with the disease since the outbreak, the highest among all city hospitals. CMS Prof. Shankhwar said, “Both Covid and non-Covid patients come to the hospital along with attendants, and though strict safety protocols are in place, and staff deployed to check social distancing and wearing of masks, some wander around carelessly, putting others at risk.” He admitted that few staff members did not take due care while performing their duties. Even some students, who had never been on duty in corona ward got infected as they did not take precautions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lax-patients-family-staff-spread-virus-in-kgmu/articleshow/77096155.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||If offered, will accept MLC post, says PV’s daughter||HYDERABAD: Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of former prime minister the late PV Narasimha Rao, may have not received any communication so far from TRS on being offered MLC seat under the governor’s quota, but the artist and academic is eager to serve people of Telangana in her own way. “The sense of serving people is in our blood and runs in the family (her brothers served as MPs, MLAs and state ministers),” the 68-year-old said, expressing her willingness to accept the MLC seat if offered by the ruling party. Vani Devi used to accompany her father on his official trips abroad and is not a novice in politics. In an interview to TOI, Vani Devi said she would have second thoughts about accepting such a proposal had it come from a particular party. “I may not accept it if it was offered to me by a political party (she was obviously referring to Congress but did not name it). There are no differences with the K Chandrasekhar Rao government and I will accept it. It is the TRS government which called and informed us about organising year-long centenary celebrations of PV Narasimha Rao,” she revealed. On Narasimha Rao being a loyal Congressman all his life, but his children and grandchildren (grandson N V Subhash is BJP spokesperson) patronising other political parties, she said: “Who wants to remain in the party (Congress). We are Brahmins and certain rituals are very important for us. I can never forgive the party which did not perform the rituals of the last rites of my father,” she said. The race for a berth in the Legislative Council has begun in the state as three MLC seats under the governor’s quota are up for grabs. The three vacancies are due to the term of former MLC Ramulu Naik getting over in March, followed by N Narsimha Reddy in June, while the term of Karne Prabhakar would end in August. TRS sources said Karne Prabhakar, a KCR loyalist, might get another term, while over a dozen candidates were in the fray for the three MLC seats under the governor’s quota. The state cabinet would forward the names of candidates to the governor, who in turn would send it to the Election Commission (EC) for approval. KCR might take a decision on MLC candidates soon. In addition to the three MLC seats under the governor’s quota, K Kavitha, former MP and KCR’s daughter, has filed her nomination from Nizamabad Local Authorities constituency MLC election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/if-offered-will-accept-mlc-post-says-pvs-daughter/articleshow/77095710.cms||Roushan Ali
July 22, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar’s 3 aides arrested in Mau, vehicles seized||Varanasi: In the continuing action against the men of jailed don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, the Mau police arrested his three aides on Monday and seized three trucks and two pick-up vans loaded with 389 quintals of fish worth Rs. 60 lakh. The police also recovered fake licence of fish godown from them. The arrested persons were booked under sections 188, 269, 419, 420, 467, 468,4 71 of IPC and also under Epidemic Act, and Food Safety & Standards Act. According to reports, acting on a tip off the Dakshin Tola police seized the vehicles while the fish was being loaded on them and arrested three persons, identified as Sunil Sonkar of Mau and Anil Kumar and Sandeep, both natives of Ghazipur district. During interrogation, they said the fish stock belonged to a trader Shyamlal Sonkar alias Lillu, a resident of Krishna Bihar Colony in Sarai Lakhansi area of Mau district. They disclosed that Shyamlal, a fish mafia, runs an illegally imported fish racket from Andhra Pradesh without any valid licence, and supplies to eastern UP districts and Bihar on high rates. He decides the rate of his own, using muscle power and earns a profit of Rs. 1.5 lakh to two lakh per truck. Besides them, two more persons Vijay Sonkar of Azamgarh district and Pramod Kumar Harijan of Mau also work for Shyamlal as cashier. Mau SP Anurag Arya said Shyamlal’s licence of fish godown was cancelled on April 15. He was running the trade on the basis of fake licence, which was recovered from the arrested persons. The fish was being sold during the lockdown period increasing the threat of infection. Shyamlal, who is absconding, is the brother of gangster and fish mafia Paras Sonkar, an aide of Mukhtar Ansari. Paras and two others were arrested on June 20 with a truck carrying 10.6 tonnes of fish worth Rs 12 lakh in Mohammadabad police station area of Mau. They were booked under section 188 and of 269 IPC and also appropriate sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, Food Safety and Standards Act and Environment Protection Act. Recently, initiating action of confiscation under section 14(1) of Gangster Act against Paras, the Mau district administration and police seized seven plots in Jamalpur and Validpur area of Rs 6.95 crore value. Besides, his 13 goods carriers, SUVs and also a two-wheeler of Rs 1.22 crore were also seized. The SP said that Paras was involved in illegal trading of fish in many districts and also parts of Bihar. He was associated with Mukhtar and the wealth earned from this trade was spent in facilitating the members of his gang. He was booked under Gangster Act on June 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtars-3-aides-arrested-in-mau-vehicles-seized/articleshow/77092793.cms||Binay Singh
July 22, 2020||Patna||5 children among six killed in Purnea LPG cylinder blast||Patna: A 26-year-old woman and five children, including her six-year-old daughter, were killed in an LPG cylinder blast at a village in Purnea district, police said on Tuesday. The woman’s 20-year-old brother-in-law received serious burn injuries and has been admitted to a private hospital in Bhagalpur where his condition is reported to be critical. The incident took place at Gwalgaon under Baisi police station around 8 pm on Monday when the injured man, Pintu Yadav, entered the kitchen and lit the gas stove to prepare tea. As gas was leaking from the connecting pipe, fire engulfed the kitchen causing severe burn injuries to him, police said. Hearing his shouts for help, Pintu’s six-year-old niece Priti Kumari rushed in and her clothes caught fire. Priti’s mother Baby Kumari saw her on fire and tried to douse it and herself caught fire followed by four other children Gagan (7), Anand (4), Rupi (6) and Priyanshu (3). While the six-year-old girl died at the spot, her mother and four other children succumbed to their injuries at Purnia sadar hospital. The station house officer of Baisi police station, Sunil Kumar Mandal, confirmed the incident and said the bodies of the deceased were handed over to the family after post mortem. Purnea DM Rahul Kumar has announced an ex gratia payment of Rs 4 lakh to the two families, who lost six members in the tragedy. He also assured the family that the injured man would be provided better treatment under the supervision of the district authorities. “The victims were rushed to the Sadar hospital by local residents for treatment but they died because of their burn injuries,” the mukhiya of Khapra panchayat, Arun Kumar Yadav, said. The mukhiya said Baby Kumari along with her daughter Priti had come to her parents’ house recently. “Her husband, Pappu Yadav, is a resident of Harerampur village in Purnia district. The family members have already been informed about the tragic incident,” he told this newspaper over phone on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-children-among-six-killed-in-purnea-lpg-cylinder-blast/articleshow/77095721.cms||Ramashankar
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Students show least interest in music, Gujarati||Ajmer: The result of Class XII humanities of RBSE shows that students are not interested in instrumental music, philosophy and Gujarati literature. Geography and political science are the most popular subjects among students after compulsory English and Hindi. A small number of students managed to pass in travel and tourism. The result shows that students scored cent percent marks in more than 18 subjects including English, political science and economics. In subjects like Punjabi, Hindi and Urdu, vocal music and even in beauty and wellness, the highest score was 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-show-least-interest-in-music-gujarati/articleshow/77096624.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Outbreak shifts epicentre to East Godavari||KAKINADA: East Godavari district has emerged as the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in the state with the number of daily infections on the rise. The most populous district of the state had managed to keep infections in check till June and was not part of the group of districts classified as red zones by the Union government in May. In July, however, cases surged and as of Tuesday, the district has 7,968 Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state. In recent weeks, the surge has led to the administration imposing a complete lockdown every Sunday, starting July 19, and permitting commercial establishments and other activities from 6 am to 11 am in the district. Several factors are being attributed to the severity of outbreak, such as non-adherence to precautions, crowds at markets, resumption of public transit systems and commercial activities and long queues in front of liquor outlets. The first Covid-19 cases in the district was detected on March 21 after a London-returned youth from Rajahmundry was diagnosed with the disease. In subsequent weeks, some cases surfaced that were traced to the New Delhi gathering. A government school teacher tested positive on April 9 in Kathipudi, transmitting the virus to another five family members and neighbours. On May 20, a 53-year-old man from Gollala Mamidada village succumbed to the virus within half-an-hour of admission to a hospital. The deceased is believed to have transmitted to the disease about 200 people in Pedapudi and neighbouring mandals. More than 100 cases were detected in Chelluru, a small farming village in Rayavaram mandal in the weeks that followed. The disease, which initially was concentrated to a few spots in the district, gradually spread. District collector Muralidhar Reddy said, “The next two weeks are going to be critical. People should not panic, but should be aware and follow Covid-19 guidelines. As per projections, the peak surge was expected around August 25. But East Godavari has been witnessing an early surge. The increased testing has led to detection of more cases. The district is now conducting about 5,000 to 6,000 Covid-19 tests against the usual 1,500 to 2,000 samples a day. The private hospitals have also started offering Covid-19 treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/centre-did-not-classify-dist-as-red-zone-in-may/articleshow/77094739.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 22, 2020||Varanasi||93 test positive for Covid-19; Pindra tehsil office closed||Varanasi: The district continued to witness spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday also, with 93 more persons testing positive for coronavirus. With this, the number of positive cases rose to 1,479 in the district. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that 40 persons, who recovered from illness, were discharged from hospital on Tuesday. So far, 625 infected persons have recovered, while 34 persons lost their lives. Presently, the district has 820 active cases of Covid-19. Meanwhile, the Pindra tehsil office has been closed for three days after a staff was tested positive for Covid-19. The office will remain closed till July 23 for complete sanitization. In Ballia, 50 new cases of Covid-19 were found on Tuesday, increasing the tally to 775. According to Ballia DM Hari Pratap Shahi, so far 492 persons have recovered, while five persons died in the district. Presently, there are 300 active cases of coronavirus in the district. Meanwhile, 20 more persons were tested positive in Sonbhadra district, increasing the tally to 335. Mirzapur district also witnessed 18 new cases of Covid-19, increasing the total to 331. Earlier, 32 persons — 22 men and 10 women — had tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandauli district on Monday, increasing the tally to 531. According to Chandauli DM Navneet Singh Chahal, among the new cases 14 are from the railway department. So far, 212 patients have recovered, while 212 patients are under treatment. As many as five persons lost their lives in the district due to coronavirus. In Jaunpur district, 63 persons were tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, increasing the tally to 958. So far 698 patients have recovered from ailment, while 14 persons lost their lives. Presently, the district has 246 active cases of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/93-test-positive-for-covid-19-pindra-tehsil-office-closed/articleshow/77092814.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE Class XII Humanities: Pass rate of 90.70% highest in last four years||Ajmer: Despite Covid-19 pandemic, the result of RBSE Class XII humanities has improved this year as 90.70% students passed. The board has already declared the results of Class XII science and commerce streams. This year’s result was the best in the last four years. Last year, the result was 88% and in 2018 the result was 88.92% whereas in 2017, 89.05% students passed. The exams started in the second week of March but were postponed on March 20 because of the lockdown and the remaining papers were conducted in the second half of June. The result was declared on Tuesday in REET office as the board headquarters was closed. Once again, girls fared better as 88.45% boys passed while 93.10% girls passed the exam. This time again, the board did not release the merit list of students.Total 5,80,725 students appeared in the exam including 2,81,247 girls and 2, 99,478 boys. Total 5,26,726 students passed and 21,681 got supplementary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-class-xii-humanities-pass-rate-of-90-70-highest-in-last-four-years/articleshow/77096619.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Three Kolkata hospitals go for plasma therapy on patients||KOLKATA: While studies on the use of convalescent plasma therapy for the treatment of Covid patients are yet to come out with any definite result on its efficacy, some hospitals in the city have already started using it on a few patients ‘off-label’. With so much hype around the therapy, hospitals are flooded with request from patients’ relatives for its use. “Plasma therapy is still in a trial stage. We have used it on one patient as an experimental model after obtaining all the necessary permission,” said Sauren Panja, critical care and internal medicine specialist at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), who is treating Covid patients. A few days ago, the therapy had been used on a doctor of the hospital, who got infected in the line of duty. The donor too was a healthcare worker of the same hospital. In West Bengal, the clinical trial of plasma therapy is on at ID Hospital, Beliaghata, in a joint project by the state government and the CSIR. The ministry of health and family welfare on June 13 had sanctioned the use of plasma therapy by hospitals ‘off-label’, which means unofficial approval to use it as an investigative therapy under certain conditions maintaining that this is not a definite therapy. Currently, about 21 hospitals across the country are conducting trials on plasma therapy under ICMR. The one at ID Hospital is, however, not under ICMR. “We have used it on about four patients so far as a part of the ICMR trial. All the donors are our hospital employees who have recovered,” said Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, medical director at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. Two male nurses of Apollo, Amit Sarkar (26) and Ratnadeep Bhowmik (27), had donated their plasma few days ago. The duo had been infected in April and had joined hospital duty following their recovery and mandatory quarantine period post hospital discharge. “We have about three patients who fall in the category of the off-label plasma therapy. But we have been able to give plasma to only one patient as we are not getting donors,” said cardiologist Alok Roy, chairman of Medica Group of Hospitals. Meanwhile, the state government that had announced the setting up of a plasma bank at Medical College Hospital in June has now started appealing to patients, who have recovered, to donate plasma. The plasma collected at MCH is currently being used for clinical trial at ID Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-city-hospitals-go-for-plasma-therapy-on-patients/articleshow/77095720.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Town halls in Mattancherry, Palluruthy to become FLCTC||Kochi: With west Kochi region in Kochi corporation, which is near to the coastal areas of Ernakulam, reporting three Covid-19 deaths and more positive cases, the local body has initiated the process of converting town halls at Palluruthy and Mattancherry into first-line Covid treatment centres (FLCTC). The first 28 divisions of Kochi corporation fall under west Kochi region, which is generally considered a backward area in Ernakulam. Sources said that the FLCTCs will be ready in a couple of days. Shyamala S Prabhu, the councillor representing Cheralai (Division 7), said around 100 beds have been set up at the dining hall of the townhall. “It is informed that more beds would be placed in the main hall. There are five toilets for women and four for men. More e-toilets would be installed, and separate facilities would be provided for doctors and security staff. Nurses will have separate cabins,” she said. The funds are being funded by the state government through the district administration. The Kochi corporation had already taken up repair works of the building. Thampi Subramaniyam, the councillor who represents Palluruthy (Division 19), said the FLCTC at Palluruthy town hall will have 70 beds and seven toilets. He said that beds have already been brought to the town hall. Partitions have been installed. Also, cabins for staff have been set and pedestal fans have already been brought to the centre. He said it is expected that there would be one doctor and two nurses, who are appointed through national rural health mission. Residents of Palluruthy and neighbourhood are dependent on Palluruthy Government Hospital for treatment. “If this hospital gets converted into an FLTC, people would not have a place to seek treatment for other illnesses. They will be left with no option but to head for bigger hospitals located in the heart of the city,” said Thampi. The government hospitals at Karuvelipady and Fort Kochi have already been converted into Covid treatment centres. Former chairman of Kochi corporation’s health standing committee T K Asharaf, who represents Mattancherry division in the corporation council, said: “Thuruthi native E K Harrisson (51) who died on June 19 due to Covid is in fact a resident of Nampyapuram near Palluruthy.” Citing the case of an infected person of Fort Kochi Veli (Division 27), who was tested Covid positive, former Kochi mayor K J Sohan said, “He is originally from Iraveli (Division 3) but then moved to Fort Kochi Veli. He worked at a construction site at Iraveli. He has been in contact with many people in the region and at least two persons at Iraveli has been moved to hospital because of this.” “Residents, at least members of nine residents’ associations, have raised objection against setting up the FLCTC at Mattancherry town hall. Mattancherry and its neighbourhood are thickly populated. If a Covid positive patient violates norms and runs out, s/he could spell a disaster. Residents are worried,” said Asharaf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/town-halls-in-mattancherry-palluruthy-to-become-flctc/articleshow/77094712.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Varanasi||Kushinagar journalist becomes member of Delhi Library Board||Gorakhpur: Dr Shailendra Mani Tripathi, a native of Kushinagar and a senior journalist, has been named a member of the Delhi Library Board, an important body of the union ministry of culture. His tenure is three years. He has been an active journalist since the past 33 years. He started off as a reporter for the Hindi daily Dainik Jagran, Gorakhpur edition, in 1987 and became the editorial head, unit head and publisher of the newspaper in the span of 14 years (1997 to 2011). He then served as the editor of Janasandesh Times from 2012 to 2013. As an admirer of culture, Dr Shailendra has also organized several cultural events and exhibitions in Gorakhpur and Lucknow. A wave of joy swept past journalists of Purvanchal when he was named a member of the Delhi Library Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kushinagar-journalist-becomes-member-of-delhi-library-board/articleshow/77092870.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||3 in SOG net with Rs 1.25 cr in Udaipur||The Special Operations Group (SOG) on Tuesday apprehended three persons in two cars in Udaipur and recovered Rs 1.25 crore from them. They were identified as Mangilal Jain (48), Dhulchand (36) and Ramesh Jain (60). “They claimed that they were taking the money to get registration of a property done though there is no reason for any person to travel with such huge amounts of cash,” said an official of SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-in-sog-net-with-rs-1-25-cr-in-udaipur/articleshow/77096625.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||BJP dist president among 60 party workers booked for defying social distancing norms||Bareilly: Moradabad police on Tuesday booked 60 BJP workers, including the party’s district president Abhinav Chaudhry, for defying social distancing guidelines by making people assemble at his residence under Pakwarha police station limits on Monday.An FIR has been registered against 10 identified people, including the party workers and 50 unidentified, under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 51-B of the Disaster Management Act. Superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “A video started making rounds on social media following which the matter came to light and a legal action was initiated against the accused persons.” When asked about the incident, Chaudhry said, “A few people and acquaintances from Guretha village had come to meet me at my residence. Asking them to go back would have been unethical.”Chaudhry, however, refused to accept that people violated physical distancing rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjp-dist-president-among-60-party-workers-booked-for-defying-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/77094770.cms||Maria Khan
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Renewed lockdown may hit online orders, fear restaurants||KOLKATA: The bi-weekly lockdown that begins on Thursday is set to deal a crippling blow for city’s restaurants, which fear that the renewed shutdown could now discourage online orders that have helped many of them survive the lean period. Footfalls have come down to a trickle at most restaurants since they reopened on June 8. With Thursday and Saturday being shut this week, the weekend orders could tumble further, they felt. The Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) has asked its member restaurants to wait and watch. Several restaurants that had reopened last month have shut down. “Sales are set to drop further since the number of affected is going up and there’s a renewed scare. Footfall has been low and it will not improve till the pandemic situation changes. We had hoped that if bars were allowed, footfall might improve but that looks remote now,” said HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar, who owns Song-Hai in central Kolkata. Even though several Park Street restaurants have been open despite poor footfall, some are now contemplating a closure. Trincas, for instance, had opened for two weeks but later discontinued their dine-in facilities. “We are focusing on delivery services but not opening for dine-in given the current situation. We are focusing on safety and good food,” said Anand Puri of Trincas. At Mocambo and Peter Cat, too, footfall has remained low. The renewed lockdown could discourage those who had been contemplating eating out, felt owner Nitin Kothari. Online orders, that had been picking up and helped many survive the crisis period could plunge yet again, said Poddar. Footfall is better at some restaurants like popular biryani chain Aminia. Its outlets at New Market, Chinar Park, Jessore Road and Hatibagan have seen a good turnout over the last one month. Others like Mainland China and Oh! Calcutta opened recently after remaining shut for over three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/renewed-lockdown-may-hit-online-orders-fear-restaurants/articleshow/77095727.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||MP govt takes over 500-bed hospital for Covid-19 cases||BHOPAL: A new 500-bed capacity hospital was taken over by the government on Tuesday to cater to the anticipated spike in Covid-19 cases here. For the first time since the coronavirus pandemic began, Bhopal has reported over 1,100 active cases. “We have a capacity of 6,000 beds to cater to Covid-19 patients in Bhopal. More is being added by the day,” Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari told TOI on Tuesday. For treatment, there are three main centres in Bhopal, which includes a private college affiliated hospital, Gandhi Medical College and AIIMS Bhopal. One more hospital under the RKDF group has been converted with a capacity of 500 beds. However, core treatment is reliant with GMC which is slated to increase its treatment capacity – beds with oxygen support to 400-beds by the end of the month. Critical care units for Covid-19 treatment is still limited. About 300 beds with ventilator support are available in the state capital. Therein, lies the requirement for more trained and qualified manpower. “For every two Covid-19 patients on ventilator, there is a requirement of one doctor and support staff on a 24x9 basis,” explained Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr AK Shrivastava. According to sources, the duty roster for medicos in Covid-19 treatment centres is also expected to be altered to adjust to the new demand. Many doctors and staff in AIIMS Bhopal, GMC and Chirayu medical college have all been infected with Covid-19. “The present context is a dynamic situation. A person or a group might not be vulnerable at the beginning of the pandemic, but could subsequently become vulnerable depending on the government response,” said a senior consultant with AIIMS Bhopal. “ Three months has been a long learning curve. We should take measures now to avoid a Mumbai or Delhi like situation in Bhopal. Anticipate now that more people living outside the city will seek medical treatment in places like Bhopal and Indore. This will add to the demand for treatment and test our health services,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-takes-over-500-bed-hospital/articleshow/77095732.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Renewed restrictions will hit business hard, feel mall operators||KOLKATA: Footfalls and sales in malls plummeted a day after the state government announced complete lockdown twice a week, indicating a possible washout this weekend. Mall operators fear the two-day lockdown can lead to 75% drop in weekly business. Usually, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays contribute to 60%-65% of the week’s sales. But with a lockdown being announced on Thursday and Saturday this week, mall managers are apprehensive shoppers will not venture out on Friday and Sunday either. “The situation had just started to look up since last weekend, after the rather dismal sentiment in the first week of July, when there was confusion over a stricter lockdown that the government announced. But Sunday’s announcement of a total lockdown twice a week has dashed all hopes of revival,” said South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree. The mall had in the first four weeks of business recorded a footfall of 3 lakh shoppers and garnered revenue of Rs 20 crore. The lockdown also comes around the time retailers are scheduled to launch end-of-season sale. “Retailers are desperate for business. But with this lockdown reimposed and likely to continue in fits and starts for a month or more, it will be difficult to tempt customers with discounts,” said Ramesh Pandey, wholetime director of Ambuja Neotia that developed City Centre I and II. The two malls have recorded a footfall of 4.5 lakh and revenue of Rs 14 crore in the first month of reopening. While acknowledging the government will have to take measures to save lives and protect livelihood, Acropolis mall developer Sushil Mohta said the uncertainty caused by the lockdown’s return would lead to closure of several fashion brands and small retailers. While some mall operators are trying to provide support to retailers by waiving up to half of the rent, they said the renewed lockdown was sending retailers into panic mode. “It took a long while to convince the Centre that malls in India were geared to enforce preventive norms. In six weeks of operation, not a single case has been recorded in a mall. Customers were feeling confident about visiting malls but now, the total lockdown has made shoppers panic,” said Mohta. Acropolis recorded a footfall of 2.5 lakh and earned Rs 8 crore in the first month of operation post Covid. Sanjeev Mehra, vice-president of Quest, that clocked a revenue of Rs 25 crore and footfall of 2 lakh, admitted the situation was difficult but felt the industry needed to dig its heel and survive. “ I am sure if we work shoulder-to-shoulder with the government, the future will be much better,” said Mehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/renewed-restrictions-will-hit-biz-hard-feel-mall-operators/articleshow/77095773.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Fear of virus spread keepsChellanam people off camps||Kochi: Even though the district administration had opened relief camps in Chellanam to accommodate people affected by sea-erosion, residents have been boycotting them due to fear of contracting Covid-19 from the congested facilities. Moreover, residents said they preferred to stay at home as the premises of one of the schools opened as a relief camp was also flooded. Many also boycotted the camp to protest against authorities’ ignorance to their five-year long plea demanding comprehensive solution to sea erosion in the region. The general relief camp was opened on the first floor of St Mary’s High School and the camp for elderly was opened on the ground floor. The camp identified for quarantined people has been set up at St Xaviers School, Kandakadavu. “Very few people have shifted to relief camps. Some of them returned after spending a night. The compound of St Mary’s High School was fully-flooded and the water entered some of the rooms as well. Residents said shifting to such a flooded camp will not make their situation any better,” said Chellanam panchayat president Mercy Josey. “The St Mary’s school has always been the sole shelter for Chellanam residents whenever it flooded. However, this time, even the school premises were flooded. It shows the intensity of sea erosion. Our house is just 30m from the sea and it could be carved out anytime. On Monday, there was water rose to the level of our bed. Whenever we closed our eyes to sleep, the rumbling sound of waves force us to stay awake,” said Antony Arukulasheril, a resident near Velankanni church. Meanwhile, the district administration has started putting more geobags in flood-affected regions. Around 1,000 geobags of two-metre length and one-metre width will be filled with the help of irrigation department and residents. The chief minister has asked the collector to start food kit distribution in the area and a community kitchen as well. But residents said placing more geobags will be waste of money as thousands of bags installed prior to monsoon were broken and washed away by waves. “We don’t need any more geobags as the sand used in the bags have now filled our houses. The only solution is a strong rock wall along the coast and breakwaters in the sea,” said Juliet Alungal, a resident of Companypady.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fear-of-virus-spread-keepschellanam-people-off-camps/articleshow/77094744.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Aarogyasri cover for high-end Covid drugs||Visakhapatnam: The government has decided to allow the usage of high-end drugs and conduct of repeated radiological investigations, depending upon the severity of cases, under Aarogyasri scheme. This is in addition to the already announced per-day packages for Covid-19 treatment. As per the order released on Monday, the additional amount would be paid based on the utilisation evidence submitted by Covid hospitals. If the chest X-ray is inconclusive, a CT scan can be repeated to assess the extent of the lesion and healing process as per medical requirements. The cost of a CT scan payable may be fixed at Rs 2,500, the order states. The order also mentioned some indicative drugs such as Remdesivir, Favipiravir, Meropenem and Tocilizumab. Aarogyasri hospitals should submit the required evidence for usage of the drug along with the treating doctor’s justification for use on the patient. They should also produce the bill and image of the vial or drug, containing the serial number and bar code. The government recently announced per-day packages for private hospitals for treatment of critical and non-critical Covid cases, which will also be covered under Aarogyasri scheme. While the hospitals will get Rs 3,250 for treating non-critical cases per day, daily packages for critical cases range from Rs 5,480 to Rs 10,380 depending on the severity of the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aarogyasri-cover-for-high-end-covid-drugs/articleshow/77094775.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Sarpanch, brother held for taking bribe||Udaipur: ACB arrested a sarpanch and his brother for taking bribe of Rs 1.11 lakh from a contractor in Banswara on Tuesday. The ACB team from Udaipur laid the trap and caught Bari village sarpanch Bahadur Maida (33) red-handed while taking the bribe from complainant Rampal Singh outside the Housing Board Colony on Tuesday. The officials later nabbed the sarpanch’s elder brother Mukesh (35) too for his alleged involvement in bribery. Both accused are residents of Bari village in Chhoti Sarvan panchayat samiti of Banswara. “The complainant runs a company by the name of Geo-Technical Services based at Navi Mumbai who had received a contract worth Rs 3.5 crore for soil investigation before railing erection work at the Banswara Nuclear Power Plant. He had to complete the work by July, however, his workers were not being allowed to work at the project site in the village by Bari sarpanch and his brother for past six months,” CI Harishchandra Singh Chundawat told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanch-brother-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/77096626.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Gurgaon||726 Covid-19 recovery cases, 604 new patients and 9 deaths in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: A record 726 Covid-19 recoveries cases were reported in Haryana on Tuesday, against 604 fresh infections, pushing the state’s case count to 20,952 and 27,462 respectively. As nine more people died due to coronavirus, the state’s toll rose to 364. Of the latest fatalities, two each were reported from Faridabad, Rohtak and Karnal districts, and one each from Jhajjar, Palwal and Panipat. The state’s recovery rate is now 76.29% and the doubling rate of infections is 23 days. There are 6,164 active cases, which include 193 critical and 155 on oxygen support. The new cases were reported from 10 districts, with Gurugram having the maximum of 121 cases. It was followed by Faridabad (111), Panipat (94), Ambala (55), Sonipat (41), Karnal (33), Palwal (28), Jhajjar and Panchkula (19 each), Rewari (16), Kurukshetra (13), Nuh (12), Rohtak and Yamuanangar (10 each), Bhiwani (8), Fatehabad (4), Jind (3) and Sirsa (2). Kaithal, Charkhi Dadri and Hisar did not report any case. Meanwhile, 70,888 persons have completed the quarantine period in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/726-covid-recovery-cases-604-new-patients-9-deaths-in-hry/articleshow/77104102.cms||Manvir Saini
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||726 Covid-19 recovery cases, 604 new patients and 9 deaths in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: A record 726 Covid-19 recoveries cases were reported in Haryana on Tuesday, against 604 fresh infections, pushing the state’s case count to 20,952 and 27,462 respectively. As nine more people died due to coronavirus, the state’s toll rose to 364. Of the latest fatalities, two each were reported from Faridabad, Rohtak and Karnal districts, and one each from Jhajjar, Palwal and Panipat. The state’s recovery rate is now 76.29% and the doubling rate of infections is 23 days. There are 6,164 active cases, which include 193 critical and 155 on oxygen support. The new cases were reported from 10 districts, with Gurugram having the maximum of 121 cases. It was followed by Faridabad (111), Panipat (94), Ambala (55), Sonipat (41), Karnal (33), Palwal (28), Jhajjar and Panchkula (19 each), Rewari (16), Kurukshetra (13), Nuh (12), Rohtak and Yamuanangar (10 each), Bhiwani (8), Fatehabad (4), Jind (3) and Sirsa (2). Kaithal, Charkhi Dadri and Hisar did not report any case. Meanwhile, 70,888 persons have completed the quarantine period in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/726-covid-recovery-cases-604-new-patients-9-deaths-in-hry/articleshow/77095774.cms||Manvir Saini
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||Pyare Mian to be produced in court today||Bhopal: Local newspaper owner Pyare Mian, who is accused of raping and sexually exploiting minor girls, will be produced before the court on Wednesday, from where he may be taken on remand again for interrogation. The minor survivors have revealed that Pyare Mian used to brandish a pistol in front of them in a threatening gesture to buy their silence. Pyare was taken to his flat in posh Ansal Apartment society in Shyamla Hills on Tuesday evening by special investigation team (SIT) . The minor survivors were taken to his flat in Vishnu Hitech City in Shahpura for spot verification where the recreation of crime scene was done. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said he girls have disclosed that Pyare Mian used to keep a pistol with him and he used to brandish it in front of them. Whenever they refused to follow his order, he used to take out the gun and threatened to kill them if they didn’t follow orders. Police are looking for the gun. Thota said that Pyare’s five-day remand ends on Wednesday, so he will be produced before the court. Police will seek his remand again for investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-mian-to-be-produced-in-court-today/articleshow/77095787.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region adds 2,403 cases as tally crosses 56,000||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region recorded over 2,000 cases for the second day in a row, on Tuesday. The 2,403 new cases pushed the region’s overall tally to 56,416. These included 1,452 cases from Pune Municipal Corporation limits, 560 from areas under Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction and 391 new patients from rural areas and cantonment areas. With Tuesday’s addition, the caseload in PMC limits stood at 37,435, while PCMC’s total positive cases climbed to 12,557. The region reported 55 deaths on Tuesday, pushing the overall toll to 1,442. A report released by PMC said that 805 patients were discharged on Tuesday after they were declared recovered. This took the total number of patients that recovered from the contagion to 24,246. As on Tuesday, there were 15,434 active cases in PMC limits. Of these, 616 patients were critical and 99 were placed on ventilator support. The swab collection and rapid antigen test count stood at 6,222. The oldest among the those who died at Sassoon general hospitals and government-run hospitals was a 90-year-old man from Upper Indiranagar. The others included an 80-year-old man from Bibvewadi, a 54-year-old man from Sadashiv Peth, an 82-year-old resident of Kothrud, a 54-year-old NIBM Road resident, a 46-year-old woman from Somwar Peth, a 71-year-old from Lohegaon, a 73-year-old man from Yerawada, a 78-year-old man from Tingrenagar, a 55-year-old Wanowrie resident, a 45-year-old man from Kharadi, a 41-year-old male resident of from Kondhwa, a 64-year-old woman from Nana Peth, a 72-year-old woman from Parvati, a 70-year-old resident of Dattawadi and a 65-year-old from Yerawada. Further, twelve of the 14 patients who succumbed to the contagion in private hospitals were senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-metropolitan-region-adds-2403-cases-as-tally-crosses-56k/articleshow/77096167.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 22, 2020||Pune||5,500 recover so far in July in Pimpri Chinchwad||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Over 5,000 people in Pimpri Chinchwad have recovered from Covid-19 in the first three weeks of July, official data showed. As per the data of the health department of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, 5,228 patients have recovered from the contagion in July so far, while the total number of recoveries stood at 7,090 till Tuesday evening. PCMC officials attributed the healthy recover rate to the fact that around 80% of the cases were asymptomatic and 40% were in the 22-39 age group. A civic body official the 22-39 age group has the highest number of cases and also the most recoveries. “This age group has better immunity and mostly no co-morbid conditions which facilitates recovery,” the official said. “The increasing number of Covid-19 care centres and the option of home isolation are also some of the major factors behind the better recovery rate. Around 1,000 positive patients have opted for home isolation and their health status is regularly monitored by the health department,” said the official. The official said that the number of cases surged in July as the number of tests increased, leading to an early detection of positive cases and effective contact-tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5500-recover-so-far-in-july-in-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/77096169.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Police halt carjackers’ ride, seize 62 high-end SUVs||Lucknow: Tightening the noose around the pan-India gang involved in the theft of high-end SUVs and luxury cars, Lucknow police on Tuesday arrested seven people and recovered 62 vehicles from them. Earlier on June 21, cops had arrested five members of the gang and recovered 50 SUVs and luxury cars. Lucknow police has claimed that with the total count of vehicles touching 112, this is the biggest ever haul of SUVs and luxury cars seized in any other state in India. Cops said Mumbai police had busted a gang and seized 102 SUVs which was the highest in the country till now. “Seven aides of prime accused Mohammed Rizwan have been arrested after a month-long tracking by surveillance cell of the deputy commissioner of police (east),” Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey said. He said the arrested men have been identified as Satpal Singh, Manoj Kumar, Enul-Haq, Vikas Jaiswal, Israr, Zia-ul Haq and Vinod Sharma. “Over 2,000 SUVs have been stolen by the gang and its members are still absconding. So far ,we have recovered 112 vehicles and arrested 12 people,” he said. Joint commissioner of police, crime, Nilabja Choudhury said one of the accused, Vinod Sharma, was also a member of Shweta Gupta gang which was run by a woman in Prayagraj district. “Gupta was an MBA who worked as a clerk in a bank. She stepped into the world of crime in 2007 and started running an interstate gang of auto-lifters,” he said. Sharma told cops that the gang members used to visit hotels of kingpin Rizwan in Bangkok and planned for next operation. According to police, pictures of gang members holidaying in Bangkok was also recovered,” the officer said. Explaining modus operandi, ACP, Vibhuti Khand, Swatantra Singh said the gang used two techniques to steal SUVs. “They used to steal the registration number plate of vehicles damaged in natural calamities and other details like engine number. Then they stole another vehicle of the same make in other state and replaced its details with that of the vehicle stolen earlier,” he said. “The other way to steal vehicles was that the gang purchased cars damaged in road accidents which were declared as total loss by the insurance companies after spot inspection. The gang would use the registration number and chassis number of these cars to replace the details of stolen cars and sell it to gullible customers,” he said. Police said other members of the gang were being tracked and would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/police-halt-carjackers-ride-seize-62-high-end-suvs/articleshow/77096173.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||Two arrested with opium worth Rs 75 lakh||Bareilly: Two drug peddlers with 1.234 kg opium were arrested from near a school here on Monday night. Police said the value of opium is Rs 75 lakh in the international market. A police team was checking suspected vehicles near a school in Bhojipura, when they caught the peddlers. Police said they recovered 1.234 kg opium and a motorbike from them. The accused were identified as Veerpal and Bhure. Shailesh Pandey, senior superintendent of police, said, “Both were booked under Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-arrested-with-opium-worth-rs-75-lakh/articleshow/77094804.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Early call-time, double shifts in Bengali serial shootings||KOLKATA: From Wednesday, actor Pallavi Sharma, who has been playing the popular role of Jaba Sengupta in Susanta Das’s ‘Ke Apon Ke Por’ (KAKP) for four years now, will have to report on the sets at six in the morning. This is at least two hours before her regular call-time since shooting of Bengali serials resumed in June. This revised call-time has been issued after the state announced mandatory two days of complete lockdown in a week. On Monday, Das, producer-writer of KAKP, along with ‘Krishnakoli’, ‘Alo Chhaya’, ‘Titli’ and ‘Sarbamangala’, had a meeting with the unit of all his serials. “Earlier, we would have given a call-time at 7 am. So, shooting would begin at around 8 am. But now, I have told all actors and technicians that they need to report at the studio by 6 am. Shooting will continue till 8 pm,” Das said. On an average, 20-22 minutes of footage is required per episode. Under new circumstances, Das wants each day’s shooting to generate at least 30 minutes of footage. Effectively, that would mean 150 minutes of footage with five days of shooting. But, not everyone is going for an earlier call-time. Arabinda Dasgupta, vice president television wing of SVF Entertainment that produces ‘Joy Baba Loknath’, ‘Prothoma Kadambini’ and ‘Chunni Panna’, said shooting with double units began for two of his serials on Tuesday. “We are working with a double unit that is shooting parallel tracks for ‘Prothoma Kadambini’ and ‘Chunni Panna’. Second unit directors are helming the shooting of double units. On each day, we expect to generate 35 to 40 minutes of footage,” Dasgupta said. Sunday offs will now be a thing of the past, said producer Sani Ghosh Ray from Acropolis Entertainment that produces ‘Phirki’, ‘Irabotir Chupkatha’, ‘Sanjher Bati’ and ‘Dhrubo Tara’. Writer- creative director Leena Gangopadhyay, who is part of Magic Moments that produces ‘Sreemoyee’, ‘Mohor’, ‘Nakshikantha’ and ‘Kora Pakhi’, said shooting schedules of her production are being tweaked around. Meanwhile, meticulous planning has helped the unit to shoot smoothly even after Surajit Bandopadhyay, who has played an important character in ‘Kora Pakhi’, tested positive on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/early-call-time-double-shifts-in-tolly-serial-shootings/articleshow/77095772.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 22, 2020||World||Donald Trump willing to work with China on Covid-19 vaccine for US||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump expressed a willingness on Tuesday to work with China or other countries to bring a successful coronavirus vaccine to the United States, despite rising tensions between Beijing and Washington. "We're willing to work with anybody that is going to get us a good result," Trump said, when asked if the administration would collaborate with China on a vaccine for Americans, whether China is first to develop one or not. The remarks came a day after researchers said a vaccine against the coronavirus developed by China's CanSino Biologics Inc (6185.HK) and China's military research unit appeared to be safe and induced immune responses in most subjects in a closely-watched mid-stage study. The CanSino candidate is one of a handful of vaccines that have shown some promise in early human testing. Others gearing up for such trials include vaccines from U.S.-based Moderna Inc (MRNA.O) and Germany's BioNTech SE (22UAy.F), in partnership with American drugmaker Pfizer Inc (PFE.N). Data from a combined early/midstage trial of a vaccine candidate being developed by researchers at the University of Oxford and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca (AZN.L) was also released on Monday. Trump has long blamed China for mishandling the deadly coronavirus pandemic, which originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan and charged across the United States, killing more than 140,000 Americans and raising the stakes for a quick and viable vaccine. "I think we're going to have some very good results. We're already in testing. Nobody thought that would be possible," he said. "I think you're going to see something over the next fairly short period of time - maybe very short period of time - having to do with therapeutics and vaccines that are very good," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/donald-trump-willing-to-work-with-china-on-covid-19-vaccine-for-us/articleshow/77097129.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Town halls in Mattancherry, Palluruthy to become FLCTC||KOCHI: With west Kochi region in Kochi corporation, which is near to the coastal areas of Ernakulam, reporting three Covid-19 deaths and more positive cases, the local body has initiated the process of converting town halls at Palluruthy and Mattancherry into first-line Covid treatment centres (FLCTC). The first 28 divisions of Kochi corporation fall under west Kochi region, which is generally considered a backward area in Ernakulam. Sources said that the FLCTCs will be ready in a couple of days. Shyamala S Prabhu, the councillor representing Cheralai (Division 7), said around 100 beds have been set up at the dining hall of the townhall. “It is informed that more beds would be placed in the main hall. There are five toilets for women and four for men. More e-toilets would be installed, and separate facilities would be provided for doctors and security staff. Nurses will have separate cabins,” she said. The funds are being funded by the state government through the district administration. The Kochi corporation had already taken up repair works of the building. Thampi Subramaniyam, the councillor who represents Palluruthy (Division 19), said the FLCTC at Palluruthy town hall will have 70 beds and seven toilets. He said that beds have already been brought to the town hall. Partitions have been installed. Also, cabins for staff have been set and pedestal fans have already been brought to the centre. He said it is expected that there would be one doctor and two nurses, who are appointed through national rural health mission. Residents of Palluruthy and neighbourhood are dependent on Palluruthy Government Hospital for treatment. “If this hospital gets converted into an FLTC, people would not have a place to seek treatment for other illnesses. They will be left with no option but to head for bigger hospitals located in the heart of the city,” said Thampi. The government hospitals at Karuvelipady and Fort Kochi have already been converted into Covid treatment centres. Former chairman of Kochi corporation’s health standing committee T K Asharaf, who represents Mattancherry division in the corporation council, said: “Thuruthi native E K Harrisson (51) who died on June 19 due to Covid is in fact a resident of Nampyapuram near Palluruthy.” Citing the case of an infected person of Fort Kochi Veli (Division 27), who was tested Covid positive, former Kochi mayor K J Sohan said, “He is originally from Iraveli (Division 3) but then moved to Fort Kochi Veli. He worked at a construction site at Iraveli. He has been in contact with many people in the region and at least two persons at Iraveli has been moved to hospital because of this.” “Residents, at least members of nine residents’ associations, have raised objection against setting up the FLCTC at Mattancherry town hall. Mattancherry and its neighbourhood are thickly populated. If a Covid positive patient violates norms and runs out, s/he could spell a disaster. Residents are worried,” said Asharaf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/town-halls-in-mattancherry-palluruthy-to-become-flctc/articleshow/77094785.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ernakulam market witnesses low footfall on Day 1||KOCHI: Ernakulam market, which reopened on Tuesday after nearly three weeks, wore a deserted look with low customer footfall. Only 1,060 customers turned up to buy goods from shops, only 50% of which were allowed to open. The market was closed on July 1 after Covid-19 cases were reported from there. The district administration had on Monday given nod to open 50% of shops on alternative days on the left and right side of roads from south to north and east to west to control crowd. Customers can enter the market at 11am through two entry points where counters have been set up to collect their details. Temperature of customers is assessed using thermal scanners and sanitizer is given to clean hands. The entry points are at Broadway South and Press Club road. The exit point is where Market road meets Banerji Road. Traders said goods, including onion and potato, had perished. “I have two godowns in the market. Police had allowed me to remove 400 sacks of onion from the market when the district administration imposed lockdown. But they did not allow me to remove onion and potato from another godown. I had stocked onion worth Rs 10 lakh and 50% of it perished. Around 50 of 118 sacks of potato also perished. I suffered a loss of Rs 7 lakh. If the administration had given us at least 12 hours to remove the perishable items, I would not have suffered such a heavy loss,” said Nazeer K A of national traders of Ernakulam market. Meanwhile, some shops closed a few hours after opening. “Retail customers use small vehicles to transport rice from my shop. As police did not allow such vehicles inside, I had no customers. So, I closed my shop early,” said Venkatesh Pai of Diwakar & Company. However, traders association officials said there was confusion all over as byroads were closed. But police denied their claim. “As byroads in the market were closed customers could not visit shops on these roads. Some traders raised objections regarding blocking byroads inside the market. Though the number of customers was very less, we hope it will pick up in the coming days,” said G Karthikeyan, president of Kerala merchants chamber of commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-market-witnesses-low-footfall-on-day-1/articleshow/77094786.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Fear of coronavirus spread keeps Chellanam people off camps||KOCHI: Even though the district administration had opened relief camps in Chellanam to accommodate people affected by sea-erosion, residents have been boycotting them due to fear of contracting Covid-19 from the congested facilities. Moreover, residents said they preferred to stay at home as the premises of one of the schools opened as a relief camp was also flooded. Many also boycotted the camp to protest against authorities’ ignorance to their five-year long plea demanding comprehensive solution to sea erosion in the region. The general relief camp was opened on the first floor of St Mary’s High School and the camp for elderly was opened on the ground floor. The camp identified for quarantined people has been set up at St Xaviers School, Kandakadavu. “Very few people have shifted to relief camps. Some of them returned after spending a night. The compound of St Mary’s High School was fully-flooded and the water entered some of the rooms as well. Residents said shifting to such a flooded camp will not make their situation any better,” said Chellanam panchayat president Mercy Josey. “The St Mary’s school has always been the sole shelter for Chellanam residents whenever it flooded. However, this time, even the school premises were flooded. It shows the intensity of sea erosion. Our house is just 30m from the sea and it could be carved out anytime. On Monday, there was water rose to the level of our bed. Whenever we closed our eyes to sleep, the rumbling sound of waves force us to stay awake,” said Antony Arukulasheril, a resident near Velankanni church. Meanwhile, the district administration has started putting more geobags in flood-affected regions. Around 1,000 geobags of two-metre length and one-metre width will be filled with the help of irrigation department and residents. The chief minister has asked the collector to start food kit distribution in the area and a community kitchen as well. But residents said placing more geobags will be waste of money as thousands of bags installed prior to monsoon were broken and washed away by waves. “We don’t need any more geobags as the sand used in the bags have now filled our houses. The only solution is a strong rock wall along the coast and breakwaters in the sea,” said Juliet Alungal, a resident of Companypady.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fear-of-virus-spread-keeps-chellanam-people-off-camps/articleshow/77094792.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 22, 2020||Kanpur||Residents flout lockdown rules, shops open in some areas of Kanpur||KANPUR: The lockdown rules were openly flouted by the people on the first day of lockdown in ten police station areas of the city on Tuesday. The district administration has imposed lockdown in ten police stations areas of the city to check the spread of coronavirus as the city has crossed the 200 mark in just one day on Monday. Shopkeepers in some areas opened their shops despite the lockdown. The ten police stations where lockdown has been imposed are Chakeri, Kalyanpur, Naubasta, Barra, Kidwai Nagar, Govind Nagar, Kakadeo, Kotwali, Nawabganj and Swarup Nagar where, as per the orders of the district administration, only shops selling essential commodities have been allowed to open. In the morning, shops and other commercial establishments opened like other days. At Govind Nagar vegetable market, a big crowd gathered to buy vegetables which were later dispersed by the police. Before noon, the main roads wore a deserted look but in the afternoon people gathered in the lanes. Similar was the scene in Naubasta, Barra and Kidwai Nagar areas of the city. Though cops had barricaded the Arya Nagar crossing but still people were seen moving on roads which forced the cops to challan the violators and asked them to pay fine. Police also took out a bike flag march near Kotwali. SP (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal told the shopkeepers to close their shops bullion market, Shiwala market and Meston Road.However, shops under Moolganj police station in Meston Road were allowed to open. Police took legal action against some shopkeepers under Shastri Nagar police station who opened their shops despite the lockdown. Police would take strict measures from Tuesday to make the lockdown successful, said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/residents-flout-lockdown-rules-shops-open-in-some-areas-of-city/articleshow/77094795.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Police in Jhansi use camera to book social distancing offenders on the spot||JHANSI: As the number of Covid positive cases in the city are on the rise, Jhansi police have come up with a van with camera installed in it to catch those who are violating the safety protocol for Covid-19 and are booking them on the spot. A van has been specially customised for the purpose. It is fitted with a high resolution camera which can catch images up to distance of one kilometre and can revolve at 360 degree radius. The van has all the required equipment including a computer and a printer. The van is placed in busy market areas, especially across Sipree Bazar, Sadar Bazar and Manik Chowk. Here, the police personnel keenly observe through the monitor the shops and movement of people. Whenever they find a group of people gathering in a particular shop through the camera, they reach the shop and slap a challan on it. The pedestrians moving in the market without mask are penalized in the same way. So far, over two dozen shops have been challaned and several persons have been booked with the help of this new camera-mounted-vehicle. Talking to TOI, SP (city) Rahul Srivastav said that he himself has been travelling in the vehicle and keeping a constant watch on the congested areas. The images captured are live proof of those violating protocol, and makes it easy to book the offenders on the spot. “This is probably the first time that such stringent measures are being taken. Many are reluctant to follow the safety rules despite continuous reminders. By doing this, they are posing threat to other people as well as to themselves. In view of the growing number of Covid cases and the reluctance of several residents towards social distancing, we thought to implement this idea of a camrea-mounted-van to book offenders on the spot,” said Srivastav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-in-jhansi-use-camera-to-book-social-distancing-offenders-on-the-spot/articleshow/77094802.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Virus poses no additional risk in pregnancy: Doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: While the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has said there does not appear to be an increased risk of miscarriage or complications such as fetal anomalies for women infected with Covid-19, definitive medical studies on the subject are still awaited. TOI spoke to some city-based doctors on the impact of Covid-19 on pregnancy, based upon their observations of the risk posed to pregnant women and chances of transmission to the baby. Dr D Hemalatha, medical superintendent of Government Victoria Hospital for Women and Children, said, “From the cases we dealt with, we did not find any instance of transmission of the virus from the pregnant mother to the infant even though that possibility cannot be ruled out. Since it is a pandemic, nothing can be said specifically about the new virus without long-term studies.” Dr Hemalatha also suggested feeding formula milk to the infant rather than breastmilk if the mother displayed Covid-19 symptoms. Dr B Radhika, consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist at Kims Icon Hospital, said, “The coronavirus pandemic increases the risk of perinatal anxiety and depression. Hence, it is important take care of the mental health of pregnant woman to reduce stress, fear and anxiety. Pregnant women are advised to attend antenatal care, with minimum visits at 12, 20, 28 and 36 weeks of gestation and opt more for tele-health services. They should also take all safety and hygiene measures.” In a recent study, nine pregnant women who were infected with Covid-19 and displayed symptoms, delivered babies that were unaffected by the virus. The virus was neither present in the amniotic fluid, the babies’ throat, nor in the breast milk, Dr Radhika said. While probable, the risk of passing on the infection to the foetus appears to be very low at present. Meanwhile, in a separate incident, a baby boy was delivered under Cesarian section at the Government Victoria Hospital for Women and Children on July 11. A mandatory Covid-19 test (rapid antigen test) prior to the delivery showed negative results. However, noticing the mother displayed Covid-19 symptoms, doctors again sent her swab sample for an RT-PCR test on July 13. The test results came out to be positive on July 19. Though the mother and newborn were shifted to VIMS after she tested positive, doctors and nurses at Victoria Hospital continue to work without going into quarantine. Dr D Hemalatha Devi, superintendent of Victoria Hospital, said, “Almost daily we get around 250 to 300 outpatients at our OPD and 25 to 30 new in-patient admissions. At any given point of time, 200-250 patients remain admitted. Doctors and staff cannot afford to go in quarantine every time they come in contact with a suspected case or perform C-section. Till our test results arrive, as per government instructions, we are taking safety precautions, wearing PPEs, N95 masks and attending to duties. Only if results come positive, then the doctor or staff will go into isolation. So far, one house surgeon has tested positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/virus-poses-no-additional-risk-in-pregnancy-docs/articleshow/77094812.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Ekm market witnesses low footfall on Day 1||Kochi: Ernakulam market, which reopened on Tuesday after nearly three weeks, wore a deserted look with low customer footfall. Only 1,060 customers turned up to buy goods from shops, only 50% of which were allowed to open. The market was closed on July 1 after Covid-19 cases were reported from there. The district administration had on Monday given nod to open 50% of shops on alternative days on the left and right side of roads from south to north and east to west to control crowd. Customers can enter the market at 11am through two entry points where counters have been set up to collect their details. Temperature of customers is assessed using thermal scanners and sanitizer is given to clean hands. The entry points are at Broadway South and Press Club road. The exit point is where Market road meets Banerji Road. Traders said goods, including onion and potato, had perished. “I have two godowns in the market. Police had allowed me to remove 400 sacks of onion from the market when the district administration imposed lockdown. But they did not allow me to remove onion and potato from another godown. I had stocked onion worth Rs 10 lakh and 50% of it perished. Around 50 of 118 sacks of potato also perished. I suffered a loss of Rs seven lakh. If the administration had given us at least 12 hours to remove the perishable items, I would not have suffered such a heavy loss,” said Nazeer K A of national traders of Ernakulam market. Meanwhile, some shops closed a few hours after opening. “Retail customers use small vehicles to transport rice from my shop. As police did not allow such vehicles inside, I had no customers. So, I closed my shop early,” said Venkatesh Pai of Diwakar & Company. However, traders association officials said there was confusion all over as byroads were closed. But police denied their claim. “As byroads in the market were closed customers could not visit shops on these roads. Some traders raised objections regarding blocking byroads inside the market. Though the number of customers was very less, we hope it will pick up in the coming days,” said G Karthikeyan, president of Kerala merchants chamber of commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-market-witnesses-low-footfall-on-day-1/articleshow/77094778.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||CM: Speed up work on projects||Hyderabad: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed officials to complete the process of mobilising funds for irrigation projects. He said that along with completing the works to supply 3 tmcft of water through Kaleshwaram project daily, works on Palamuru-Rangareddy, Sitarama projects and Sammakka barrage must be completed soon. The CM held a review meet at Pragathi Bhavan on irrigation projects. “The projects will supply water to 1.25 crore acres by supplying 4 tmcft water from Godavari and 3 tmcft water from Krishna daily,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-speed-up-work-on-projects/articleshow/77095780.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets 381 cases, 2 deaths; tally near 11k||Chandigarh: Punjab moved closer to 11,000 mark as it got 381 fresh cases of Covid-19, including two deaths, on Tuesday. With this, the tally of positive cases rose to 10,889. Also, 271 patients were discharged after recovering rom the virus. So far, 7,389 patients have recovered in the state, 263 have died of it, and 3,237 are still under treatment. Sangrur recorded the highest number of cases, 74, with 27 of them being police personnel and 26 mill workers. Patiala got the second highest number of cases, 69, of which 44 were contacts of positive cases and the health department could not trace transmission history in 19 cases. Ludhiana grabbed the third spot by recording 69 cases, followed by Amritsar, where 56 people were found to be infected with the virus. There were 33 new cases In Jalandhar, 25 in Mohali, 14 in Ropar, 10 in Gurdaspur, eight each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Moga, five each in Mansa, Bathinda and Tarn Taran, two each in Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur, and one each in Barnala and Kapurthala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-gets-381-cases-2-deaths-tally-near-11k/articleshow/77095778.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Khadki cantonment board gets Rs 2.3 crore for Covid fight||PUNE: The number of beds at the Khadki Cantonment Board’s (KCB) Covid care centre is all set to go up from 32 to 72 and at the dedicated Covid health centre from 38 to 54 following a much-needed financial boost from the state government. On Monday, the KCB received Rs2.26 crore from district collector Naval Kishore Ram under the state disaster relief fund for increasing bed capacity at the two facilities and hiring doctors and nurses. Ram told TOI, “We have been helping Pune, Khadki and Dehu Road cantonments to enhance their existing health care system by increasing bed capacity and other necessary facilities.” “On an average, we are recording 15 fresh Covid-19 cases every day,” KCB chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh said. KCB is in the process of hiring more nurses, lab technicians and doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/khadki-cantt-gets-rs-2-3-crore-for-ncov-fight/articleshow/77096179.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Don’t deny treatment to symptomatic patients, collector tells pvt hospitals||Trichy: In the wake of the complaints that patients with symptoms of Covid-19 were denied admission by private hospitals in the absence of tests results, Trichy collector S Sivarsau has asked the hospitals to consider all cases as infected patients until the results are out. At a review meeting on Monday with the doctors of the hospitals that treat Covid-19 patients and the private laboratories authorised to do the testing, the collector condemned such practices and strongly advised the private hospitals. “The practice of denying treatment is highly condemnable,” he said in the meeting. The collector said that some private hospitals insisted on producing Covid-19 test results from patients who have severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) for admitting them. “They should admit them as Covid-19 patients until the results are revealed. If they test positive, they can continue their treatment as per the protocol. It should be strictly followed,” the collector told ToI, adding that no patient should be neglected citing the lab results. On the other hand, the private hospitals cited the shortage of reserved beds as a reason to deny patients without results. Trichy Corporation and the public health department collect nasal swabs of contacts and those with the symptoms in the door-to-door screening and fever camps. The swabs are being tested at the laboratory at KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College (KAPVGMC) in Trichy. As the turn-around-time (TAT) of the Covid-19 results got long due to the high number of samples, Trichy district administration got around 1,500 backlog samples tested at a private laboratory in a neighbouring district on Monday. On Tuesday, the collector said, 1,250 samples were tested at KAPVGMC. “If needed, 1,000 more samples will be tested at a private laboratory to clear the backlog. We will ensure that test results are out between 24 hours and 36 hours from government lab after clearing the backlog,” he said. The collector also appreciated the doctors and the hospital administration for handling the pandemic situation effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dont-deny-treatment-to-symptomatic-patients-collector-tells-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/77096207.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Dairy farmers to continue their stir as talks with minister fail||KOLHAPUR/NASHIK: The dairy farmers’ stir has escalated with more farmers joining the agitation at many places in the state. Farmers’ leaders, who met state animal husbandry and dairy development minister Sunil Kedar seeking fiscal assistance, have decided to continue the stir. In Kolhapur, milk supply to several cities, including Pune and Mumbai, was affected due to the protest called by the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana. At several places, the farmers spilt milk on the road. They also stopped the vans supplying milk to the dairies and opened the tap of the tankers carrying milk to the cities. Eventually, the dairies in Kolhapur and Sangli had to seek police cover for transporting milk to Pune and Mumbai. However, due to the protest, large quantities of milk got wasted. Raju Shetti, the leader of the farmers' outfit and former MP who led the agitation, said, “We have some basic demands. First, the state government should pay Rs 5 per litre to the farmers to compensate for the losses they are facing due to reduced procurement price by the dairies. Currently, the dairies are paying between Rs 17 and Rs 19 per litre, which is much less than the fixed price of Rs 28 per litre.” He added, “Our second demand pertains to the central government policies. The central government has approved the import of 10,000 tonne of milk powder from other countries. This will impact the local dairies that have already huge stocks piled up. Our third demand is to waive the goods and services tax (GST) on milk products. The last two demands will help revive the dairy business and automatically place dairies in the position to pay the farmers.” In Nashik, the Dudh Udpadakh Saethkari Sangharsh Samiti has taken a decision to continue the agitation. Ajit Navale, a farmer leader and the chief if the Samiti, said, “We had a meeting with state animal husbandry and dairy development minister Sunil Kedar on Tuesday. He did not make a commitment to transfer Rs 10 per litre to the bank accounts of dairy farmers who have been incurring losses. The meeting served no purpose.” “The minister was aware of our demand and he should have done his homework before meeting us. He told us that he would place the demand before the cabinet,” added Navale. Meanwhile, for the second consecutive day, dairy farmers in the Akole taluka dumped milk on road. According to Mahesh Navale, a senior member of the Samiti, dairy farmers dumped milk on the road at 12 villages in the taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dairy-farmers-to-continue-their-stir-as-talks-with-minister-fail/articleshow/77096178.cms||Abhijeet Patil
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Will keep supply lines open: Traders||Kolkata: Since inter-state and intra-state goods movements have been exempted from the lockdown, traders are ruling out the possibility of supply line issues. “Since the lockdown is from 6am to 10pm, the vegetable wholesale market operation will not be affected. Wholesale markets usually operate after 11pm. So, the supply line issues that we had apprehended earlier are unfounded. There will be no problem for the customers to have fresh vegetables on Friday or Sunday mornings,” said Kamal Dey, member, market task force and president of Bengal Vendors’ Association. At Posta market, the hub of the city’s essentials and staples, the work of loading and unloading will continue on Thursday as the goods movement is allowed. Only trade will be closed. “We will take this opportunity to sanitize the market,”said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary, Posta Merchants’ Association. Most of the associations are using this as an opportunity to sanitize the markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-keep-supply-lines-open-traders/articleshow/77095791.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab’s first plasma bank opens in Patiala||PATIALA: Punjab’s first plasma bank has been made operational at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. Punjab cabinet minister for medical education and research O P Soni, who inaugurated it on Tuesday, said a successful trial of plasma therapy done here had paved the way for setting up the facility. Terming it as another milestone in the treatment of Covid-19 patients under Mission Fateh, he said any person, who has recovered from Covid-19, can donate his/her plasma here barring co-morbidity patients and pregnant women. He said that in June, this hospital had got an upgraded VRD laboratory after an expenditure of Rs 56 lakh to expand its current testing capacity of 3,000 to 7,000. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, who participated in the inaugural ceremony via video conferencing, said the government had fulfilled another commitment in healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/states-first-plasma-bank-opens-in-patiala/articleshow/77100791.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s first plasma bank opens in Patiala||PATIALA: Punjab’s first plasma bank has been made operational at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. Punjab cabinet minister for medical education and research O P Soni, who inaugurated it on Tuesday, said a successful trial of plasma therapy done here had paved the way for setting up the facility. Terming it as another milestone in the treatment of Covid-19 patients under Mission Fateh, he said any person, who has recovered from Covid-19, can donate his/her plasma here barring co-morbidity patients and pregnant women. He said that in June, this hospital had got an upgraded VRD laboratory after an expenditure of Rs 56 lakh to expand its current testing capacity of 3,000 to 7,000. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, who participated in the inaugural ceremony via video conferencing, said the government had fulfilled another commitment in healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/states-first-plasma-bank-opens-in-patiala/articleshow/77095789.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shirur to get more health facilities||PUNE: Three dedicated Covid-19 health care centres will soon come up at Shirur, Ranjangaon and Shikrapur. In addition, four Covid-19 care centres (CCCs) are being set up at Nhavare, Malthan, Mandavgan Farata and Koregaon Bhima, all in Shirur tehsil, district collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI on Tuesday. This decision was taken at a meeting between state labour minister Dilip Walse Patil, Pune zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad and Pune rural police superintendent Sandeep Patil. “Collectively, the upcoming facilities will add 500 hospital beds, including about 35 beds with oxygen and ventilator support systems. Also, the rural hospital in Shirur will get oxygen pipeline in the next few days,” Ram said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shirur-to-get-more-health-facilities/articleshow/77096182.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rise in dowry harassment cases||HYDERABAD: Incidents of dowry harassment and domestic violence have risen and at least five dowry deaths have been reported this year in the state, police said on Tuesday. Due to this, police is urging victims to reach out to them. “We get several cases of harassment from spouses, including cases of dowry harassment. We have observed that women victims of domestic violence seek help only after the situation has gone out of hand. They should seek help as soon as they sense trouble,” said Mamatha Raghuveer, founder, Tharuni NGO. Activists say that many women are forced to return to their spouses even after facing dowry harassment. “Many women are asked to bear the abuse and go back to their husband by family and even cops due to societal pressure. In both poor and rich families, demanding and accepting dowry is still common,” said Jameela Nishat of Shaheen. an NGO. On Monday, a 25-year-old housewife from Khairatabad had committed suicide allegedly due to dowry harassment by her husband and in-laws. Last year, Hyderabad had witnessed 11% increase in dowry-related deaths, with 19 deaths recorded. “There is a wrong notion about police. We have been working to provide support to women who are facing such harassment,” said Swati Lakra, Additional DGP , Women Safety Wing, Telangana police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rise-in-dowry-harassment-cases/articleshow/77095798.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Civic body launches ‘Mission Nashik Zero’||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation on Tuesday launched a ‘Mission Zero Nashik’ under which they would increase testing in the city to chase Covid-19 from the city NMC has decided to increase testing present 500-700 samples to around 1,500 samples per day, including 500 RT-PCR tests and remaining antigen tests as part of the mission. The mission was inaugurated by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal in the presence of municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game, city mayor Satish Kulkarni, MP Bharti Pawar, local MLAs and public representatives. Bhartiya Jain Sanghatna has provided 20 mobile clinic vans in the city to examine the co-morbid patients. Bhujbal said that Nashik has emerged as the major hotspot of Covid-19 in the state after Mumbai and Pune. “The fight against coronavirus will continue until a vaccine is developed and it is not possible to control the pandemic without public participation.” He reiterated that lockdown is not an alternative and people should collectively fight against the Covid-19 and maintain safety protocols. Kulkarni said there is a need for collective efforts to beat Covid-19. “Hence, we have launched a mission Nashik zero with the help of social organizations and public representatives,” he said. Game said Nashik is one of the few cities where maximum tests have been conducted and therefore they could find more patients. “We have increased the tracing of high-risk contacts of patients and co-morbid patients. Moreover, we have also increased the number of tests,” he said. He said that they have also increased the number of beds in NMC and private hospitals as the number of patients go up. Shantilal Mutha, president of Bhartiya Jain Sanghatna, said they had had conducted health check-up of over 16 lakh people through mobile clinics at 48 locations in the state. Meanwhile, Bhujbal and Game also visited a city-based hotel, which has been converted into a 100-bed Covid care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-launches-mission-nashik-zero/articleshow/77096187.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt crisis: HC breather for Pilot camp till Friday, but Gehlot readies counter-strike||JAIPUR: Amid the crisis over survival of his government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot called a cabinet meeting at his residence on Tuesday. The meeting’s official agenda was to review the state’s Covid-19 situation and financial crisis, but sources said the cabinet discussed the present political crisis too and gave nod for calling a special session of the state assembly to pre-empt the opposition’s alleged moves to topple the Gehlot government. In a related development, the Rajasthan High Court completed hearing on the Sachin Pilot camp’s joint petition challenging the Speaker’s disqualification notices, reserving its decision till July 24. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty, ‘requested’ the Speaker not to act on the notices till its order on Friday. Later, the Speaker’s office issued a statement that action on notices to the 19 MLAs has been suspended considering “judicial propriety and dignity”. Rajasthan crisis live updatesSources said the CM too would wait until the high court’s judgment on Friday before requesting governor Kalraj Mishra to call the assembly’s special session. Among the options other than seeking a trust vote directly, the government was considering bringing a bill during the special assembly session and issuing a whip to its MLAs to support it. The government needs to seek assembly approval for the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 that was notified in May to ensure compliance of directions related to the Covid-19 pandemic. A whip for the bill/ordinance would make it mandatory for the dissident legislators to attend the assembly proceedings or face disqualification. Read AlsoSachin Pilot sends legal notice to Congress MLA Malinga over horse-trading chargeSachin Pilot, who has been sacked as deputy CM of Rajasthan and PCC president, has served a legal notice to Congress MLA Giriraj Singh Malinga for his statement that Pilot had offered him money to join the BJP. A message on Pilot's official WhatsApp group said Tuesday night that he has served“The government would prefer to see the dissident MLAs disqualified before going for a trust vote because it presently rests on a thin majority in the 200-member house. Disqualification of 19 MLAs would bring down the majority mark from 101 to 92,” said a veteran Congress strategist involved in the current crisis. Minus the dissidents, the Congress tally in the house would be 88. It has claimed support of five MLAs from other parties and 10 independents, taking the figure to 103. Watch Rajasthan crisis: No authority can interfere till Speaker takes decision, says CP Joshi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-breather-for-pilot-camp-till-fri-but-gehlot-readies-counter-strike/articleshow/77096189.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New regime aims to bring discipline in public places||KOLKATA: The effectiveness of the two-days-a-week lockdown in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus can be known only after the restrictions are imposed but health experts expect an immediate impact, that of instilling discipline among people, many of whom have stopped following all Covid-preventive norms, especially of late. “Look at people in public places. They seem to have forgotten all preventive protocols that are keys to stopping the transmission of the virus. The renewed lockdown could remind them that the virus was very much around and it might instil a sense of fear or awareness in them, forcing them to follow the norms,” said infectious diseases control specialist at CMRI Hospital Debkishore Gupta. Health experts also felt the lockdown could reduce the disease burden, free up hospital beds and break the chain of transmission to certain extent. But the its effectiveness in containing the spread of the virus would be known only after a few weeks of the implementation of the bi-weekly restrictions. “This is a temporary, trial-and-error measure, during which we expect the disease burden or the infection rate to come down. But to be more definite, we need to study the trend after the lockdown is enforced,” said senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee, who is also on the board of experts formed by the state government to fight the pandemic. “When contact tracing of about 30% people who have tested positive for Covid cannot be made, it means there is community transmission. So far, community transmission seems confined to certain areas or pockets. We need manifold approaches to arrest the rising trend in transmission.” Mukherjee has been saying that community transmission has begun for a few weeks now. But doctors also pointed out that Bengal at present could not afford a complete sustained lockdown as that would again push people into deeper economic distress. “On July 10, about 11.2% of the samples tested were positive and on July 21, it was 17.3%, accounting for a rise of about 6%. Hospital occupancy rate also went up by 10% in 11 days,” said Diptendra Sarkar, surgical oncologist at SSKM. “In addition to breaking the chain of transmission to some extent, the two-day lockdown will allow the administration some time to free up hospital beds.” Experts, however, feared that if the administration did not ensure a lockdown in true sense, it would not have the right impact. “We also have to ramp up testing, achieving at least 25,000 tests a day, using other methods, such as anti-body testing, along with current methods. Otherwise, such lockdowns could prove counter-productive,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, senior vice-chairman at Medica Superspecialty Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-regime-aims-to-bring-discipline-in-public-places/articleshow/77095827.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Anujith’s organs give new life to eight people||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On September 1, 2010, Anujith and his friends had saved the lives of hundreds of people when they found a crack in the railway track near Kollam and alerted the speeding train by waving their bags running half a kilometre on the tracks. It had hit the headlines the next day, and now the same Anujith has provided life for eight people even in his death. His organs were donated to them. Anujith met with an accident at Kottarakara on July 14 and was rushed to taluk hospital there and later to Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. He was shifted to a private hospital as his condition worsened. He suffered brain death on Monday night. His wife and sister took the initiative to donate his organs and expressed the willingness to the Kerala Network of Organ Sharing (KNOS). His heart was harvested and was airlifted to Kochi to transplant on 55-year-old Sunny Thomas from Tripunithura, admitted to a private hospital there. The KNOS officials had approached the health minister for airlifting the heart to Kochi. The minister who spoke to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan secured the permission to utilize the service of the chopper owned by the state. The organ was airlifted by Tuesday afternoon. Apart from the heart, two kidneys, eyes, small intestine and two of his hands were also donated for different patients.  The small intestine and the hands were taken to Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in Kochi for transplanting to patients admitted there. Anujith was working as a driver in a private firm and following lockdown he started working as a salesman in a shop. He is survived by wife Princy and three-year-old son. He is the son of Sasidharan Pillai and Vijayakumari of Irumbanangadu, Ezhukon, Kottarakara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/anujiths-organs-give-new-life-to-8-people/articleshow/77094805.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||Online cattle sale opposed, govt urged to rethink move||Nagpur: Even as Muslim organizations and cattle traders opposed the state government advisory on online cattle sale to celebrate the upcoming Eid-UL-Zuha, the Kalamna APMC late on Monday night ordered closure of the animal market till the festival is over. APMC administer Rajesh Bhusari said they only implemented the July 17 GR mandating closure of all animal markets in the state. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s health department, too, ruled out providing different spots for selling goats citing the same GR. As per the home department GR, Muslims have been asked to avoid gathering in large numbers in view of the pandemic beside the online sale advisory. However, organizations want the government to reconsider the move. Traders said local administration must provide different spots across the city to physically sell goats and sheep. They also want the Mominpura goat market to restart for the Eid period. Jamiat Ulema Hind Nagpur (JuH) district president Hafiz Masood Ahmed said the government guidelines are unacceptable. “We have made it clear that there is no alternative to qurbani (animal sacrifice). Though the government is discouraging even individual qurbani in view of Covid-19, no such call has been given from ulema (clerics) to abstain from the practice,” he said. Regarding online sale and purchase of cattle, Ahmed said, “There are several conditions regarding the health and fitness of the qurbani animal which can’t be guaranteed or checked if bought online.” Jamia Arabia Islamia Nagpur, too, said that the community members must offer sacrifice of animals. The organizations insisted that distancing norms would be followed at sale points. Goat trade agent Atiquee Qureshi said, “The sudden closure led to big losses to sellers from Jabalpur and Mandla who had set out to sell goats at APMC,” he said. He added that the NMC must provide different selling spots like it offered to vegetable growers. Amid the demands from religious organizations and traders, some community members feel it would be better to follow the government norms. Lawyer Mohammad Fazal feels the norms should have been notified a bit early. “In a pandemic situation, the life of human beings is paramount. Festivities can wait,” he said. MIM’s Shakeebur Rahman said online sale is a good idea. “It will help avoid spread of Covid. The sale of animals is necessary from the rural economy point of view. Many farmers depend on Eid sale. It must be encouraged,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-cattle-sale-opposed-govt-urged-to-rethink-move/articleshow/77095786.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Diabetic woman, 75, dies in HP; 33 +ve||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported its 10th Covid-19 death late on Monday night. A 75-year-old woman from Cholthara in Sarkaghat area of Mandi district succumbed to coronavirus infection at Shri Lal Bahadur Shatri Government Medical College at Ner Chowk in Mandi district. She was also suffering from diabetes and kidney ailment. The state also reported 33 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, including 13 from Sirmaur district, seven each from Solan and Kangra, three from Shimla, two from Hamirpur and one from Kullu. In addition, 10 positive patients — six from Solan, three from Hamirpur and one from Kangra — recovered. Total number of positive cases in the state has now increased to 1,664, of which 560 are active while 1,077 have recovered. Of the total positive cases tested so far, 15 have migrated out of state, 10 have died of Covid-19, while two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district occurred due to non-Covid reasons. A total of 1,19,200 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 1,16,963 have tested negative, while results of 593 samples are awaited. The deceased woman from Cholthara was detected Covid-19 positive on July 16, along with her daughter-in-law. She was admitted at medical college in Ner Chowk. As she was diabetic and suffering from kidney ailment, her condition deteriorated on Monday night resulting in her death. In Sirmaur, of all the positive cases, 12 were from Govindgarh Mohalla of Nahan town which in last one week has emerged as the pandemic hotspot in the district. Among the positive cases is an 8-year-old girl and 11-year-old boy, five women and three men. In Solan district, seven positive cases have been reported from a textile unit in Nalagarh. In Kangra, a 28-year-old man Biara (Andretta) who had arrived from Maharashtra by air; a 42-year-old man from Jamanabad, who had arrived from Delhi in a taxi, and 31-year-old man from Maila village of Jaisinghpur, who had arrived from Pithoragarh, Uttarakhand, and were in institutional quarantine, have been tested positive. A 33-year-old Army personnel from Rakkar, who had arrived from Nagaland on July 9 and was in home quarantine, has tested positive. A 38-year-old man and his 32-year-old wife and their 8-year-old son, residents of Bassa Gudiyala, have also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/diabetic-woman-75-dies-in-hp-33-ve/articleshow/77095797.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Poaching rose in last 2 months, says report||Vijayawada: There has been a substantial rise in instances of poaching in the last two months despite the lockdown, according to a recent report by Wildlife Trade Monitoring Network. In Andhra Pradesh, at least 12 instances of poaching have been reported. Speaking to TOI, principal chief conservator of forests N Pradeep Kumar acknowledged there has been an increase in small-time poachers during the lockdown. “One such case was reported in Anantapur, where locals killed animals for consumption. We don’t have sufficient regular staff but we have 2,592 people, including tribal and fire watchers and several other campers, working with us on an outsourced basis who do an efficient job in curtailing poaching,” Kumar told TOI. Forest officials pointed out that poaching in the state is more for local trade rather than consumption. However, instances of sport hunting have been reported this year. On May 24, forest officials caught two persons for killing a spotted deer at Ummadidevarapalli village in Krishna district. Prior to that, officials caught another 20 persons for hunting Indian bisons for consumption on the state borders in Papikonda National Park. In terms of illegal wildlife trade, scales of pangolins, locally known as ‘alugu’, are popular in both Telugu states. Recently, forest officials rescued a pangolin from a gang of poachers in Edlapadu forest in Guntur and arrested two persons. The alleged poachers had posted a picture of the pangolin on the internet after they learnt that the scales were in huge demand in China and Thailand. Forest officials point out that some of the local villagers are venturing into poaching to compensate for the loss of income during the lockdown. “By and large organised hunting and poaching has been deterred in AP. There are some notorious hunters and we have kept a vigil on their movements,” a senior forest official told TOI. Officials have also set up base and satellite camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/poaching-rose-in-last-2-months-says-report/articleshow/77094831.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 22, 2020||Pune||Bajaj Finance net profit in first quarter falls by 19%||Pune: Consumer durables financier Bajaj Finance posted a 19% fall in Q1 net profit at Rs962 crore as the bulk of consumer durables stores, from where it finances white goods like televisions, air-conditioners and mobile phones, were shut for much of the past three months. The company said that it was “considerably affected” by the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdowns. The company said that though the amount under moratorium decreased to 15.7% of its total assets under management (from 27% as on April-end) 2020), it has made an enhanced provision of Rs1,450 crore on top of the Rs900 crore it made during the previous quarter to deal with the emerging challenges, taking the total provision for Covid-19 to 10.8% of the consolidated moratorium book (Rs21,705 crore).As the moratorium period was extended till August 31, the country’s largest financier of consumer durables deferred resumption of its lending business to July 2020. Including other segments where the company deferred restarting business, over 60% of its total lending was yet to start as on June-end. The company said that the new loans acquired during the quarter fell by 76% to 1.75 million, while assets under management grew by 7% to Rs1,38,055 crore. It said that it had a liquidity surplus of Rs17,700 crore as on June end, 2020.Bajaj finserv Q1 net up 44%Bajaj Finserv, the holding company that represents the financial and insurance business of Pune-based Bajaj Group, posted a 44% increase in its Q1 net profit at Rs 1,215 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bajaj-finance-net-profit-in-first-quarter-falls-by-19/articleshow/77095792.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 22, 2020||Nashik||149 health workers infected during course of duty in Nashik||NASHIK: Doctors, nurses, ward boys and other medical staff working on the frontline for the past four months to treat the Covid-19 patients are also falling prey to the contagion. A health official from the office of deputy director of health (Nashik division) said that a total of 149 health workers have tested positive for Covid-19. Also, six health professionals have succumbed to the disease of which three are from Nashik, one from Dhule, two from Jalgaon. “We are putting in sincere efforts to ensure that the doctors, health workers and para medical staff treating Covid-19 patients and those in the work of controlling the spread of infection were equipped with proper protection gear,” the official said, adding that no doctor who tested positive for Covid-19 has succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/149-health-workers-infected-during-course-of-duty/articleshow/77096183.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Societies turning vacant flats into isolation hubs get go-ahead||PUNE: Some housing societies have started to set aside vacant flats to isolate or quarantine discharged patients, asymptomatics and those with very mild Covid-19. One patient, who was discharged from hospital recently, said he quarantined himself in a vacant flat in a large housing society in the outskirts of the city. Members of another gated complex said they may turn their club house into a Covid-19 care unit. Last week, guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare allowed gated complexes to set up Covid-care centres to help residents who are asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic or with mild symptoms. Pune Collector Naval Kishore Ram said the administration will fully support such societies. “We want such societies to help out. These units will be treated as isolation centres,” he said. Commissioner of cooperative housing societies, Anil Kawade, also backed the move by housing societies. “Awareness is key. If societies have the space, they can help their neighbours,” he said. KC Garg, secretary of the Pimpri Chinchwad CHS Federation, said industrial warehouses in the PCMC areas could also be turned into larger isolation units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/societies-turning-vacant-flats-into-isolation-hubs-get-go-ahead/articleshow/77096186.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 22, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 43 drive to Chanod for gambling; held||VADODARA: In the times of coronavirus pandemic when the government has banned large gatherings, around 43 people from different areas of Vadodara city gathered at a community hall in Chanod for gambling and having liquor party. A team of cops led by deputy superintendent of police raided the hall of Kharva community based on information about the gathering. Police said that a commotion ensued when they entered the hall, but soon all accused were made to sit at a distance from each other. According to police, all accused were in inebriated condition and they had come all the way to Chanod from Vadodara for gambling. Cash amounting to Rs 49,162, 18 vehicles including auto-rickshaw, car and scooters and 31 mobile phones were seized. Along with 43 accused, the president of the community hall Sanjay Kharwa was also booked. He has been declared as absconding as he was not present when the raid took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/43-drive-to-chanod-for-gambling-held/articleshow/77094238.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vijayawada||No current booking darshan tokens||Tirupati: The enforcement of lockdown in Tirupati till August 5 has forced the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to suspend issuance of time-slot darshan tokens under current booking quota. However, those who have booked the tickets online under advanced booking quota will continue to avail darshan facilities in Tirumala. The TTD has decided against suspending pilgrim worship at the hill temple despite the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases across the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-current-booking-darshan-tokens/articleshow/77094855.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||Buldhana district extends full lockdown till August 21||Nagpur: Buldhana has become the first district in Maharashtra to announce a month-long lockdown from July 21 to August 21. Buldhana has been under complete lockdown from July 7. District collector Suman Chandra has declared the month-long extension, with total curfew to continue till August 21.Interestingly, the state government is yet to formally declare lockdown related rules and regulations beyond July 31. But, the decision in Buldhana clearly shows that the lockdown is set to be extended even to August in the state. Buldhana has 786 cases and 22 deaths due to Covid-19 so far. Recovery rate in Buldhana is 54.7%.On July 6, Buldhana had 300 cases of Covid-19. As cases were increasing, district administration announced complete lockdown from July 7. However, 486 cases and nine deaths were reported during the lockdown. Now, the lockdown will continue for another month.Directives issued by the district collector read that all shops, industries and businesses will remain open from 9am to 3pm daily from Monday to Friday. A complete lockdown will be observed on Saturdays and Sundays up to August 21. Only outlets of milk, vegetables, newspapers and emergency services like hospitals and medical stores will remain open during the weekend lockdown. Hefty fine will be imposed on those wandering without emergency in the lockdown.Restriction on inter-district travel will also continue in Buldhana. Permission and pass from the incident commanders (BDOs) will be necessary for such travel. Those violating the lockdown rules will face action under IPC, Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act.Lockdown rules- Shops open between 9am to 3pm on weekdays - Complete lockdown on weekends, only hospitals and medical stores will remain open- Vegetable and milk supply will be ensured in restricted morning/evening hours - Fuel pumps in city limits closed, highway pumps will function 24X7- Inter-district movement allowed with passes issued by authorities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buldhana-district-extends-full-lockdown-till-august-21/articleshow/77096120.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Pbi varsity promotes intermediate students||Patiala: The Punjabi University on Tuesday announced to promote students of intermediate classes but is yet to take a decision on final year or terminal semester/class students. A press release issued by the university stated that as per the Punjab government guidelines, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, regarding the conduct of exams in government and private universities and their affiliated colleges, they have promoted all intermediate class students, who are registered for the next semester/class. But, these students should have already submitted duly filled examination form for the May 2020 examination. tnn If at any time a student is found ineligible to sit in the May 2020 exam, his/her promotion will automatically stand cancelled. “The admission of promoted students to the next semester or class will be provisional, which will be regularised on the fulfilment of all the criteria or conditions relating to admission to the next semester or class. The modalities or criteria to award grade/marks/CGPA for the May 2020 examination, to the promoted students are being worked out and will be uploaded soon on the university website,” said university examination in-charge professor J I S Khattar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pbi-varsity-promotes-intermediate-students/articleshow/77095808.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Mobile thief sets self ablaze in front of PS||Hyderabad: A cell phone theft accused set himself ablaze in front of the Chandrayangutta police station on Monday night. Police quickly doused the flames and rushed him to Osmania Hospital for treatment. He is said to be out of danger. Mohammed Shabbir, 25, from Chandrayangutta, was brought to the police station after he was caught snatching a phone from a person travelling on a two-wheeler on Monday evening. “Shabbir is a repeat offender. He was convicted in similar offences earlier,” Chandrayangutta inspector Rudra Bhaskar said. According to police, a theft case was registered after which he created nuisance. Police let him off and directed him to report on Tuesday. “He came back drenched in petrol, holding a small bottle half-filled with petrol and threatened to lit himself if we don’t return the stolen phone to him. Before we could talk him out, he set himself ablaze,” the officer added. Inspector (detective) Prasad Varma along with other policemen rushed to douse the fire. “Shabbir was rushed to hospital with 30% burn injuries,” the inspector added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mobile-thief-sets-self-ablaze-in-front-of-ps/articleshow/77095810.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Pune||Over 2.5L citizens screened in PMC, PCMC limits for Covid-19||Pune: Over 2.5 lakh people — two lakh in Pune civic limits and another 50,000 in the jurisdiction of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation — underwent the Covid-19 test till Sunday, indicating a sharp rise in daily testing in both the corporation areas off-late. The civic officials claimed that large number of tests were being conducted for quicker control over the Covid-19 spread. They stressed it would help in early detection and quick recovery, thereby reducing the mortality rate in Pune. The daily screening in the Pune municipal limits has gone up from 400 per day in March to around 3,800 daily in July, after the introduction of the rapid antigen test. The total number of citizens screened crossed the two lakh-mark on Sunday night in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s jurisdiction. According to the PMC data, a total of 3,815 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total tests to 2.02 lakh. Nearly 5% population in the PMC limits has been tested in the past four months. “The PMC has added a number of centres to carry out the antigen tests. The results of rapid tests are out within half-an-hour, so it is possible to conduct more tests per day,” said a senior official. He said the authorities were focusing on reducing the death rate, which has now dropped to 2.7%. It was over 4% in March. A large number of tests is a must to reduce the mortality rate further. According to the PMC, the Union government had sent teams from the health department for checking the status of coronavirus spread in the PMC limits in April, May and June. The experts in those teams also recommended an increase in testing. Contact tracing and detection of comorbidity are the focus areas while selecting people for tests. The PMC has taken several steps to improve its testing capacity, including tying up with private labs for additional testing facilities. Mobile testing vans were used to provide tests at the doorsteps of citizens. Ward office-level swab collection centres were also set up. Shantanu Goel, the additional commissioner of the PMC, said, “We have given emphasis on more and more screening as a strategy. Massive contact tracing and testing were done even during the recently imposed strict five-day lockdown.” In the PCMC limits, as many as 52,410 tests were conducted till July 19 evening. The testing started on March 13. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the number of daily tests had been increased gradually over the past few weeks. In recent times, the number of daily tests reached around 3,000. The tests are being conducted in private and government-run facilities. “We need to start conducting syndromic surveillance in the community,” said epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-2-5l-citizens-screened-in-pmc-pcmc-limits-for-covid-19/articleshow/77096192.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Old RTC buses turn mobile toilets||HYDERABAD: Old RTC buses converted into ‘She mobile bio-toilets’ have been introduced in Khammam. The mobile toilets will be parked at public places so that women can use them. While Khammam will have four such buses, three will be in use in Wyra, Madhira and Sathupalli municipalities. Transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said a total of 140 permanent toilets have been planned to be constructed in Khammam. “By August 15, a toilet for every 1,000 population will be constructed,” he said. With MAUD minister KT Rama Rao suggesting that ‘toilet on wheels’ should be introduced, the initiative was first rolled out in Narayanpetwhere a ‘She toilet’ was introduced in Kosgi municipality. Officials said the RTC toilets will be driven to places like parks, markets, places of tourist attraction or to places of gatherings so that women could use them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-rtc-buses-turn-mobile-toilets/articleshow/77095806.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||No ‘Merchant of Venice’in UP Board course this year||Lucknow: Class 12 students enrolled in UP Board schools will not have William Shakespeare’s play ‘The Merchant of Venice’ in their English course in the new academic session. Reason: Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board (UPSEB) has cut 30% of syllabus for classes 9-12 as schools have remained closed since March due to Covid pandemic. The curtailed syllabus for all subjects for classes 9-12 was released by UPSEB late on Monday. Among the topics cut for Class 12 are ‘Ninda Ras’ by satirist Harishankar Parsai and Kaikeyi’s repentance song by Maithili Sharan Gupt; challenges of the Congress system and political party dominance in independent India; Harappan civilisation, and Partition: History and nationality, sectarianism and division of 1940 in ‘division based on physical sources’. UPSEB has also dropped the US hegemony in world politics, security in contemporary world, and globalisation which were part of the chapter, ‘Contemporary World Politics’. UPSEB secretary Divya Kant Shukla said the syllabus has been shortened to make up for the academic loss caused due to Covid. “We have only deleted the topics from the examinations and not from textbooks. So if students want they can still study the dropped topics,” Shukla told TOI. Shukla said the Board has done its best to retain relevant and important topics. For instance, if there were four poems of Suryakant Tripathi ‘Nirala’ in the Hindi textbook, we kept two and dropped the other two from this year’s syllabus, he explained. The 30% of the topics removed from class 10 civics syllabus includes content on democracy, caste, religion and sexual issues. In mathematics, chapters like circle, probability, some trigonometry applications, parallel series and polynomials have been dropped. In English syllabus for Class 10, Torch bearers and our Indian music, poem, ‘The Nation Builders’ by RW Emerson have been removed. Supplementary reading, ‘My Greatest Olympic Prize’ by Jesse Owens, too, is omitted. From Class 10 social science syllabus, information about major national parties and regional parties of India have been removed. In science course for class 10, topics such as properties of metals and non-metals, classification of elements into the periodic table, electromagnetic effects, electrical effects, natural resources and our environment have been dropped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-merchant-of-venicein-up-board-course-this-year/articleshow/77096191.cms||Isha Jain
July 22, 2020||Goa||Over 2,700 file objections to railways double tracking||VASCO/MARGAO: Over 2,700 people from across the state have filed objections with the deputy collector of Mormugao to the land acquisition proceedings for the double tracking by the railways. The objections are filed individually and collectively too. ‘Goyant Kollso Naka’ (GKN) an anti-coal umbrella organisation and Navelim Civic and Consumer Forum were among the organisations which filed their objections. Convener of GKN Anthony D’Silva said, “Authorities asked public to come to Vasco to see the plans. Twice we have come and what is shown to us is in parts. We demand the entire plan from Vasco to Hospet to be tabled before us. But that doesn’t seem to be existing in deputy collector’s office. People are scared to travel to Vasco due to pandemic and the lockdown. There are lakhs objecting to it.” A member of GKN, Deepika D’souza said, “We have met people from across Goa and lakhs of people wanted to file objections, but could not do so due to the Covid-19 restrictions. But it is clear that the double tracking project and other coal related projects will not be allowed by the vigilant citizens.” It may be recalled that twice the land acquisition inspection by railway officials had to be cancelled amidst public protests at Cansaulim. The notification published in a local daily on July 17 read, “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub section (1) of section 20A of the Railway Act, 1989 (24 of 1989),the Central government after being satisfied that for the public purpose, the land, the brief description of which has been given in the schedule annexed hereto if required for the execution of the special railway project, namely Hospet-Hubli-Tinaighat-Vasco-da-Gama’ doubling, in the state of Goa, hereby declares its intention to acquire such land”. Navelim Civic and Consumer Forum, in their objections, said that double tracking would increase coal pollution level in Navelim, that no public purpose will be served by the project which is “purely for the transportation of coal for private corporations to increase their profits”. “Over 100 of the 189 panchayats of Goa have resolved that coal handling in Goa must stop. The double tracking is also going to destroy the Western Ghats and the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park, along with the habitats of tiger and other protected species. The coal handling for private profit of a few corporations is totally against national and global interests,” Joseph Vaz, secretary of the Forum said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-2700-file-objections-to-railways-double-tracking/articleshow/77096197.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Poor barber’s daughter scores 99.5% in Class XII||MANSA: Jaspreet Kaur, the daughter of a poor dalit barber of Bajewala village of Punjab’s Mansa district has shown that no goal is impossible if one works consistently towards it. Saddled with poverty and without any external help in the form of tuitions or any guidance at home, she studied hard and brought laurels to her family and school by securing 99.5% marks in the Class XII examinations of Punjab School Education Board in the humanities stream. While no merit list has been prepared this year, Jaspreet’s top score of 448 out of 450 marks puts her in the toppers’ league in the state. This feat does not make life any easier for Jaspreet. She plans to work to support her family while continuing with further studies. She wants to become an English teacher after completing her masters and M Phil. But before that she wants to enrol for Elementary Teachers Training (ETT) and clear Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) so that she can become eligible for some job. Jaspreet, who stays with her family of five in an old two-room house, was crestfallen when she scored 79% marks in her Class X examination. Can achieve my goals, says Mansa girlShe knew her family could not afford tuitions, so she invested in hard work. "To accomplish my aim I studied for longer hours and solved every problem on my own, and if I found something tough, my school teachers helped me. After getting good marks, I feel I can accomplish all my goals," a beaming Jaspreet told TOI. She said she will now support her family and guide her younger sister who is in Class X. Her father Baldev Singh said he has been running a barber’s shop for the last 24 years and does not earn much. He said, "As I was not able to afford to educate all my three children, my son left studies two years ago and assists at a sweet shop. We had hoped that Jaspreet may get around 80% marks, but never thought she would get over 99%. We feel all sufferings have evaporated with her single stroke."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/poor-barbers-daughter-scores-99-5-in-class-xii/articleshow/77092953.cms||Neel Kamal
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||SI ‘beats up’ youth over false charges||Hyderabad: In an alleged case of police high-handedness, a youth was beaten up by a sub-inspector of Bahadurpura police station. Victim Mohammed Aziz’s brother Kareem alleged that a tiff took place between two people near Aziz’s mobile repair shop, following which Aziz intervened and sent them away. “He was not even involved in the fight. SI Madhu asked him to come to the police station and beat him up. Aziz was bleeding due to the assault,” he said. Bahadurpura police, however, denied the allegations saying that the man was called to the police station only for questioning.A case was registered against Aziz underIPC section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt). “The allegation is false,” said Bahadurpura inspector Durga Prasad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/si-beats-up-youth-over-false-charges/articleshow/77095816.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district crosses 10,000-mark||Nashik: Nashik district on Tuesday crossed the 10,000-mark with the addition of 364 new Covid-19 cases, including 182 from the city. With this, the total number of patients in the district swelled to 10,025. The district also reported 14 Covid casualties on Tuesday. Six of the 14 deaths were reported from Nashik city. The death toll in the district stands at 412, including 216 deaths from Nashik city. Moreover, 380 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the district on Tuesday, including 294 patients from Nashik city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-district-crosses-10000-mark/articleshow/77096194.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Swab collection units in sight as per local need||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation plans to set up swab collection centres as per local requirements, in addition to 22 swab collection centres that are already functional. For instance, PMC recently set up one such centre at SNDT college on Karve Road after cases on Paud Road and Karve Road increased. Officials said new facilities would be similarly be set up in areas where cases are reported in high numbers. Earlier, most of the centres were set up within or near micro-containment zones. “Now that the virus is sprading in other areas, we have decided to set up centres based on on local need,” the official said. The administration has also deployed a team of 10 officers to ensure availability of basic facilities at these centres. Each officer would be responsible for two or three centres. Many local elected representatives, who have been demanding swab collection centres in their localities, have said administration should ensure adequate staff at facilities to prevent chaos. Yogesh Sasane, a corporator from Hadapsar, said more people were coming to get tested. PMC conducted over 2 lakh tests, including rapid antigen tests, so far. Daily swab collection has increased to over 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swab-collection-units-in-sight-as-per-local-need/articleshow/77096195.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya awaits deluge of devpt from Modi visit||Ayodhya: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate several development projects to Ayodhya, including a 251m tall statue of Lord Ram on Saryu banks after completion of ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ramjanmabhoomi. The prime minister’s bounty for the ancient temple town would also include development of Sita Lake at a cost of Rs 200 crore and 400-acre New Ayodhya blueprint with 12 overbridges, concrete roads and a modern railway station. “With a magnificent Ram temple coming up in Ayodhya soon, Prime Minister Modi along with state government will re-model the ancient pilgrimage town’s infrastructure around a smart city. From civic makeovers like laying underground power lines, constructing a modern sewage system to widening roads to constructing an international airport, Ayodhya will be catapulted to the global tourism map, while retaining its intrinsic religious character,” Ayodhya MLA Ved Prakash Gupta told TOI. Besides the micro makeover like concretization of roads, lanes and drains, at least 50 big-ticket projects are in the pipeline. These include a modern bus station with a sprawling parking space, an international airport with direct flights to Europe and the US, eye-theme park based on the life of Lord Ram and an international Ramayana Museum, said Gupta. “The prime minister’s visit will change the destiny of Ayodhya,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-awaits-deluge-of-devpt-from-modi-visit/articleshow/77096202.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 22, 2020||Hyderabad||IFS officers seek action against ‘rude’ collector||Hyderabad: The Indian Forest Service Association, Telangana state chapter, has demanded that action be taken against Kumaram Bheem Asifabad collector Sandeep Kumar Jha for his alleged rude behaviour towards an IFS officer. In a representation to chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Tuesday, the association said the incident involved IFS officer B Prabhakar. It urged the CS to take action against the collector based on a report of the DFO. The incident took place on July 18. Forest department sources said the issue pertained to allocation of land for construction of a Rythu Vedika. Prabhakar, DFO of Adilabad, had reportedly told the collector that a piece of land that the district administration was asking for was a forest land and it may not be possible to give it for construction of a Rythu Vedika. Prabhakar and Sandeep did not respond to TOI’s messages. Forest officials said they had received a complaint against the collector .tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ifs-officers-seek-action-against-rude-collector/articleshow/77095814.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Constable assaulted at Nashik Road||NASHIK: A constable attached to the Nashik Road police station was among the few police personnel who were attacked by a Niphad resident at the police station premises on Sunday. An offence in this regard has been registered against the concerned person. Police said that the Niphad resident had parked his two-wheeler at the police station premises. At the same time, constable Avinash Jundre and other policemen arrived at the police station after patrolling their route at around 11.30 pm. When they questioned the concerned the biker about parking his bike in the police station premises, the latter verbally abused them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/constable-assaulted-at-nashik-road/articleshow/77096198.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||He added hues of amity, ‘tehzeeb’ to Holi revelry||Lucknow: During the summer of 1969, veteran BJP leader Lalji Tandon and prominent Hindi writer Amritlal Nagar decided to add the colours of brotherhood and Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb in Lucknow’s Holi. Since then, the bylanes of Chowk have been capturing the true essence of Lucknow with the camaraderie of rambunctious revelers taking out the ‘Holi ki Baraat’(procession of Holi) through over a dozen areas of old Lucknow. During the celebrations, Muslims welcome Hindus by sprinkling ‘itar’ (perfume) on them and covering the roads with flower petals. According to the residents of Chowk, the idea behind starting the tradition of ‘Chowk ki Holi’ was to promote Hindu-Muslim amity for which Lucknow is known since the times of Nawabs. “Earlier, Holi celebrations used to acquire negative connotations and celebrations were marred by people indulging in sludge-slinging, eve-teasing and indecent behaviour,” Riddhi Kishore Gaur, who has been participating in the festival for many years and was close to Tandon, recalls. “Babuji (Tandon) decided to ban playing with water during Holi and asked people to arrange colours, flowers, dhols, horses and camels for the celebrations. Later in the evening, kavi sammelan (poetic meet) was organised by Amritlal Nagar and Babuji,” adds Gaur. As historian Yogesh Praveen puts it, Tandon was ‘Lucknow Ka Ashiq’. “Chowk is the heart of Lucknow and Lalji never left his ancestral home in located in the area. He remained there, moved through ‘Chowk ki galiyan’ (bylanes of Chowk) and contributed a lot in its development. In real sense, he loved his city and the city loved him,” says Praveen. Besides starting the tradition of Holi procession, Tandon contributed immensely to keep alive other age-old traditions of Ramlila ahead of Dussehra and ‘dangal’ (wrestling) on Naag Panchami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/he-added-hues-of-amity-tehzeeb-to-holi-revelry/articleshow/77096214.cms||Aditi Singh
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||IMS creation to get a boost after NWG submits report to IMA||Nagpur: The long pending demand for creation of the Indian Medical Services (IMS) on the lines of IAS and IPS will get a boost after the National Working Group (NWG) submitted its report recently. Existed during British era, the IMA served during two World Wars and continued its services till India’s independence in 1947. The demand for its creation gained ground after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic across the globe.The NWG, led by senior academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra, has handed over the report to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) president Dr Ranjan Sharma. In 2017, the IMA had constituted a study group under Dr Mishra for making analytical recommendations on IMS’ rejuvenation.The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding IMS for health care professionals in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Stressing on the need for improving India’s health care infrastructure, the federation said IMS was the need of the hour as medicos from various specialities can devise effective strategies for controlling such deadly diseases in the future.The NWG recommended that the IMS would be in the form of a cadre, specialized in character for the dispensation of health care services, including those in the domain of public health, except medical education, as per the All India Services Act, 1951. The service conditions would be as prescribed by the Union Ministry of Personnel and Training in tune with those applicable to other cadres like IAS, IPS and IFS.Explaining the operation of the IMS, the NWG said it would be akin to and on par with those as applicable to IAS with reference to terms, service conditions, postings, modality of recruitment, and allotment of cadre. “The entry would be exclusively for those possessing minimum MBBS qualification from a recognized medical college and examining university.“IMS’ core scope is to create a specialized breed of administrators who would undertake better management of health care system, including public health with ease, elegance and desired innovation in larger public interest as a part of cadre under All India Civil Services,” Dr Mishra told TOI.The formation of such health cadre was first recommended by the Health Survey and Planning Committee in its report in 1961, but nothing progressed after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ims-creation-to-get-a-boost-after-nwg-submits-report-to-ima/articleshow/77095807.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Petrol and diesel prices go up in highest price rise in south||VIJAYAWADA: With the latest hike in fuel prices, petrol and diesel have become costlier in Andhra Pradesh compared to the other southern states. The state is among the top five with highest fuels prices in the country. The price of petrol reached Rs 86.7 in the state after the latest hike in Value Added Tax (VAT) and diesel price stands at Rs 82.31. While the price of petrol is the fifth-highest in the country, diesel price stands third among all states. The state government has reverted to the tax regime that was in force during 2015 to 2018. Value Added Tax (VAT) on both petrol and diesel has been increased by Rs 1.24 and Rs 0.93 respectively. The state government is collecting 31% + Rs 4 as VAT on petrol and 22.25% + Rs 4 on every litre of diesel. While the percentage tax varies with the base price of the fuel, the state government is collecting Rs 4 per litre on both petrol and diesel as a fixed component irrespective of the base price. The state government has justified its decision on grounds of revenue loss because of the lockdown. In a GO, it stated that State Owned Revenues (SOR) have dried up by 70.5% in April on a year-on-year basis. While SOR stood at Rs 4,480 crore in April 2019, it fell to Rs 1,323 crore in April 2020, which is 29.5% of the previous year’s revenue. In order to offset the revenue loss, the state proposed to increase fuel prices on the lines of other states. The decision has drawn sharp reactions from the opposition. P Madhu, state general secretary, CPI(M), said in a statement that the hike will have a cascading effect on all sectors which are already facing severe financial crisis. He said instead of putting pressure on the Union government to reduce prices, increasing taxes cannot be justified and demanded the revision be rolled back to ease the burden on the common man. Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners’ Association (APLOA) also expressed displeasure over the price hike. General secretary of APLOA, Y V Eswar Rao, said they have been asking the state government to lower taxes and the central government to cap diesel price at least for six months to revive the transport sector. “While not considering our request, the governments at state and the Centre continue to impose higher taxes on fuel which will impact the sector in these critical times,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/petrol-and-diesel-prices-go-up-in-highest-price-rise-in-south/articleshow/77094896.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nashik||57 micro-containment zones merged in Maharashtra's Sinnar||NASHIK: After a spike in Covid-19 cases, the administration has merged 57 micro-containment zones into one large containment zone in the Sinnar tehsil town for stricter implementation of the lockdown. An area of 3km-radius, which has 57 micro-containment zones, in the town has been sealed off. All commercial establishments, except those providing essential commodities like milk, groceries and medicines, will remain closed till further orders Archana Pathare, the incident commander and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) for Niphad and Sinnar, issued the order in this connection on Tuesday. “There has been a rise in the number of cases in Sinnar tehsil town. There are 57 micro-containment zones and it was difficult for the district administration and the police to monitor the lockdown implementation in all the zones. Therefore, we have merged the micro-containment zones,” said Pathare. The decision about sealing a 3km-radius area in the town was taken during a meeting of the SDM with local traders. Meanwhile, 60 positive Covid-19 cases were reported in the Sinnar taluka on Tuesday, taking the tally of patients to 398. Of them, 280 patients have already recovered. Now, there are 107 active patients in Sinnar taluka. There have been 11 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/57-micro-containment-zones-merged-in-sinnar/articleshow/77096208.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra promises to help loss-making milk farmers as protests continue||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government on Tuesday said it will soon announce a scheme to help loss-making milk farmers who are protesting and demanding a subsidy. A meeting was held between farmer leaders and animal husbandry and dairy development minister Sunil Kedar, who said the state had procured over five crore litres of surplus milk at the rate of Rs25 per litre under its scheme from April. “Some dairy farmer representatives demanded a subsidy of Rs5, while some sought Rs10. Some demanded a subsidy for exporting (milk) powder, while others wanted money to be sent directly to farmers’ accounts,” he said. The minister said the government will work out a scheme focussed on farmers. Farmer groups said they will continue the agitation till their demands are met and a meeting will be held on Wednesday. Farmers have been protesting in the dairy belt of western Maharashtra and districts like Ahmednagar seeking subsidy to bridge losses due to a dip in milk demand due to lockdown. Swabhimani Shetakri Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti said milk demand had dipped by 40% in the state and farmers were left with a lot of surplus and unsold milk, and the government scheme to purchase surplus milk was inadequate. He said many co-operatives bought surplus milk and converted it into powder but the price of powder too crashed, and the dairies were staring at losses. “The state government’s stipulated price for one litre of cow milk is Rs27, but farmers are getting Rs17-18. To bridge the gap, a Rs10 subsidy has been demanded,” said Ajit Navale of Kisan Sabha. Demonstrations were held in Sangli, Kolhapur, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Beed and other districts for a hike in milk procurement prices by Rs5 and to press for other demands. The agitators, along with members of SSS stopped tankers passing through Sangli and Kolhapur districts, and emptied them on Pune-Bengaluru highway. Shetti also demanded cancellation of the Centre’s decision to import 10,000 tonnes of milk powder. He said milk business in the state had been affected due to central government policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-promises-to-help-loss-making-milk-farmers-as-protests-continue/articleshow/77095515.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Four months of lockdown with no sign of early exit||BHUBANESWAR: On March 22, the Centre observed the Janata Curfew throughout the country. It was also the day Odisha began its lockdown, three days before the Narendra Modi government announced its nationwide lockdown, and days ahead of other states taking similar action to fight Covid-19. Despite such proactive measures, the novel coronavirus continues to keep the state administration on tenterhooks, even four months later. From two Covid cases, Odisha’s positive count has now reached 18,757 with the state reporting 103 deaths in the past 120 days. Exerts feel the outcome has been a mixed bag for the state. While striving for social distancing during the lockdown to check the virus spread, the state took initiative to provide free diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19.  The government tied up with private hospitals and came up with standalone Covid hospitals in public-private-partnership mode, offering free care. The state now has around 6000 hospital beds and 450 ICU beds for Covid, which has ensured patients do not face shortage of hospital beds. The state has also created more than 64,000 beds in Covid care centres and Covid care homes to house patients with no symptoms and mild symptoms. One of the key reasons cited for having standalone Covid hospitals was to keep the existing hospitals free from infection. But as things stand today, dozens of existing hospitals are shut due to rising cases among healthcare professionals. Premier hospitals such as Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre, Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and AIIMS Bhubaneswar were forced to close their OPDs and restrict patient intake, affecting non-Covid care. Secondly, the state started registering foreign returnees who came on or after March 4, much before it was done elsewhere, and they were put in quarantine. And those who returned from other states, the government started registering them from May 3 onwards. “While registering the foreign returnees and their isolation helped contain the spread very effectively, the registration of migrants could not help much. Many migrants may have been infected in the institutional quarantine centres where they were packed in huge numbers,” said Hare Krushna Pradhan, a former consultant with World Health Organization. “The lockdown in state and in country could have been more scientific from the beginning. Instead of country-wide and state-wide lockdown, the strategy from the very beginning should have been targeting areas reporting positive cases, maintaining a better balance between life and livelihood,” Pradhan added. While the Centre has started unlock in phases, in the state the lockdown continues in different ways. Currently, while there is complete lockdown in four districts of Khurda, Ganjam, Jajpur and Cuttack as well as Rourkela city. Many districts are following weekend shutdown. Sambalpur has announced a complete shutdown for a week from Wednesday. Many parts of Koraput and the entire Nabarangpur district are shut for a week from Tuesday. Dr Siddhartha Sahu, an orthopaedic surgeon, said the outcomes have not quite followed the strategies. “While creating Covid hospitals was a pioneering initiative, not creating enough ICU beds may cost the state dearly. Registering migrants was a good initiative, but not enough tests were done on them,” he said, adding, “Lockdown is always a difficult choice, picking life over livelihood. Hope it benefits the maximum people, save more from the virus and take away fewer jobs.” Health minister Naba Kishore Das said the state has got benefits from the lockdown. “The effective social distancing measures have helped contain the spread. In hindsight, it is easier to say what could have been done better. But no one really knows much about the pandemic, hence, the strategy to fight it is also evolving every day,” Das said. Statistically, Odisha is better placed than the national parameters on many aspects though. Compared to the mortality rate of 2.4% at the all-India level, mortality rate in Odisha is 0.54%. Odisha’s positivity rate is 4.67% compared to the national average of 8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/four-months-of-lockdown-with-no-sign-of-early-exit/articleshow/77094929.cms||Ashok Pradhan
July 22, 2020||Surat||Clinic ransacked after doc denied treating woman||Surat: Two cops including a police-sub-inspector were injured in a clash with locals in Velda village in Nizar taluka of Tapi district on Tuesday.According to sources, the clash took place when locals ransacked a clinic in the village on allegations of the private practitioner allegedly refusing to treat a woman despite their repeated entreaties. After the woman died, the villagers gathered at the site and destroyed the property.“Local villagers approached Dr Jayesh Patil on Monday night seeking his help after a woman’s health deteriorated. But the doctor allegedly did not provide help which led to her death. The news about the doctor’s refusal spread in the village like wildfire and soon an angry mob gathered near his clinic. They ransacked Patil’s clinic and burnt the furniture and other medical equipment of his clinic on the road,” said a police official.Following the incident, police rushed to the spot and tried to pacify the agitated mob but they instead attacked the cops too, leading to the two cops including PSI R H Loh getting injured in the melee. “The injured personnel were rushed to the Community Health Centre at Nizar where they are under treatment and stated to be out of danger,” cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/clinic-ransacked-after-doc-denied-treating-woman/articleshow/77094969.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon stakeholders help admin to boost Covid treatment at rural hospitals||NASHIK: Industries, banana farmers association, social organisations and elected representatives have come forward to help the Jalgaon district administration to boost infrastructure at rural government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. District collector Abhijit Raut told TOI that the administration has started the process of setting up of 600 oxygen beds in these hospitals. About 180 of them have already been activated so far. “These facilities are being created with the complete financial support of these stakeholders of Jalgaon. The elected representatives have given their MP/MLA funds. Many industries have provided funds under corporate social responsibility. Different outfits too have chipped in. This gesture has helped the administration to divert its own funds to set up Covid-19 ICU beds at these same hospitals,” added Raut. The setting up of the oxygen and ICU beds at these hospitals is a win-win situation for both patients and the two main Covid hospitals of the district based at Jalgaon city. “Serious patients need not travel from rural parts to the main Covid-19 hospitals in Jalgaon city. It will also help in easing the pressure of the big Covid hospitals in Jalgaon city,” added the district collector. Jalgaon district is one of the most severely Covid affected districts in the state. The infection is evenly spread across the district. Of the over 8000 positive cases so far, about 2550 are active cases at present. Covid +ve man commits suicide A 33-year-old male patient allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at a quarantine centre at Pachora taluka on Monday. His swab test report confirmed that he was Covid positive on Tuesday. District officials said that the victim was under depression. The authorities are investigating how could he end his life at the quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-stakeholders-help-admin-to-boost-covid-treatment-at-rural-hosps/articleshow/77096217.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Surat||One more hospital for nCov patients||Bharuch: The management of Patel Welfare Hospital run by the Bombay Patel Welfare trust of the city started admitting patients to special Covid-19 hospital from Monday onwards. The trust, after consultation with district administration, has invested Rs 65 lakh to equip the hospital with required medical equipment including 10 ventilators, 6 high flow nasal cannula (HFNC), and oxygen facilities at 10 beds. The hospital has 64 beds for Covid patients, of which 60 are occupied on the first day of the facilities, said Salimbhai Fansiwala, chairman of the trust. The old charitable institution has 32 doctors in different speciality branches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-more-hospital-for-ncov-patients/articleshow/77094957.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Flights on lockdown days: Airport and flyers keep fingers crossed||KOLKATA: Even as airport and airline officials said all 41 flights would operate as scheduled on Thursday, speculations were rife over the state government considering a ban on flight operations in Kolkata on lockdown days. Though there was no confirmation forthcoming from the state secretariat, sources said the government could write to the civil aviation ministry on Wednesday to cancel all flights scheduled to and from Kolkata on Thursday, Saturday as well as next Wednesday to ensure total compliance to a complete lockdown. Earlier in the evening, airport and airlines officials said airport operations would continue uninterrupted as it was an emergency service. The airport had functioned during the nationwide lockdown as well as state lockdowns like the one in Tamil Nadu. Bagdogra airport officials, too, said the facility would remain operational. “All airlines have said they will maintain normal operations during the lockdown in Bengal on Thursday and Saturday. We have written to the state transport secretary to ensure adequate transport for passengers and hope arrangements will be made,” an airport official said. The transport department indicated a skeletal bus service would be provided for passengers. It will make the details on taxis available after a meeting with cab operators on Wednesday. Kolkata airport had been operational all through the lockdown, catering to multiple cargo flights and repatriation of foreign citizens. When passenger flights resumed on May 28, buses and cabs were facilitated by the government. “Both airport and airline staff will use their own transport to go to airport. But transport will be required for flyers landing here. Taxis are essential for passengers with luggage to reach home,” the official explained. A transport department official said buses between the city and the airport will be operated by WBTC. Elsewhere in the city, WBTC will operate a skeletal service for emergency sector workers. Some private vehicles ferrying patients or people working in emergency services will be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flights-on-lockdown-days-airport-and-flyers-keep-fingers-crossed/articleshow/77095832.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra promises to help loss-making milk farmers as protests continue||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government on Tuesday said it will soon announce a scheme to help loss-making milk farmers who are protesting and demanding a subsidy. A meeting was held between farmer leaders and animal husbandry and dairy development minister Sunil Kedar, who said the state had procured over five crore litres of surplus milk at the rate of Rs25 per litre under its scheme from April. “Some dairy farmer representatives demanded a subsidy of Rs5, while some sought Rs10. Some demanded a subsidy for exporting (milk) powder, while others wanted money to be sent directly to farmers’ accounts,” he said. The minister said the government will work out a scheme focussed on farmers. Farmer groups said they will continue the agitation till their demands are met and a meeting will be held on Wednesday. Farmers have been protesting in the dairy belt of western Maharashtra and districts like Ahmednagar seeking subsidy to bridge losses due to a dip in milk demand due to lockdown. Swabhimani Shetakri Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti said milk demand had dipped by 40% in the state and farmers were left with a lot of surplus and unsold milk, and the government scheme to purchase surplus milk was inadequate. He said many co-operatives bought surplus milk and converted it into powder but the price of powder too crashed, and the dairies were staring at losses. “The state government’s stipulated price for one litre of cow milk is Rs27, but farmers are getting Rs17-18. To bridge the gap, a Rs10 subsidy has been demanded,” said Ajit Navale of Kisan Sabha. Demonstrations were held in Sangli, Kolhapur, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Beed and other districts for a hike in milk procurement prices by Rs5 and to press for other demands. The agitators, along with members of SSS stopped tankers passing through Sangli and Kolhapur districts, and emptied them on Pune-Bengaluru highway. Shetti also demanded cancellation of the Centre’s decision to import 10,000 tonnes of milk powder. He said milk business in the state had been affected due to central government policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maha-promises-to-help-loss-making-milk-farmers-as-protests-continue/articleshow/77104442.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||Anjunem dam 79% full, 2 gates opened||KERI: The water resources department on Tuesday opened two gates of the Anjunem dam as the water level touched 89.1m making it 79% full. Chief engineer Shrikant Patil and other senior officials were present at the dam. Executive engineer M P Huddelgaddi said, “To release excess water we have opened two gates and water was discharged at the rate of 1.3 cumecs. We have already informed village panchayats as well as officials about releasing of water.” The catchment area of the dam did not receive rain on Teesday morning. Till date the area has received ,2310mm of the monsoonal rain. When there is low tide generally, WRD releases excess water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anjunem-dam-79-full-2-gates-opened/articleshow/77096260.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 22, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Four months of lockdown with no sign of early exit||BHUBANESWAR: On March 22, the Centre observed the Janata Curfew throughout the country. It was also the day Odisha began its lockdown, three days before the Narendra Modi government announced its nationwide lockdown, and days ahead of other states taking similar action to fight Covid-19. Despite such proactive measures, the novel coronavirus continues to keep the state administration on tenterhooks, even four months later. From two Covid cases, Odisha’s positive count has now reached 18,757 with the state reporting 103 deaths in the past 120 days. Exerts feel the outcome has been a mixed bag for the state. While striving for social distancing during the lockdown to check the virus spread, the state took initiative to provide free diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19.  The government tied up with private hospitals and came up with standalone Covid hospitals in public-private-partnership mode, offering free care. The state now has around 6000 hospital beds and 450 ICU beds for Covid, which has ensured patients do not face shortage of hospital beds. The state has also created more than 64,000 beds in Covid care centres and Covid care homes to house patients with no symptoms and mild symptoms. One of the key reasons cited for having standalone Covid hospitals was to keep the existing hospitals free from infection. But as things stand today, dozens of existing hospitals are shut due to rising cases among healthcare professionals. Premier hospitals such as Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre, Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and AIIMS Bhubaneswar were forced to close their OPDs and restrict patient intake, affecting non-Covid care. Secondly, the state started registering foreign returnees who came on or after March 4, much before it was done elsewhere, and they were put in quarantine. And those who returned from other states, the government started registering them from May 3 onwards. “While registering the foreign returnees and their isolation helped contain the spread very effectively, the registration of migrants could not help much. Many migrants may have been infected in the institutional quarantine centres where they were packed in huge numbers,” said Hare Krushna Pradhan, a former consultant with World Health Organization. “The lockdown in state and in country could have been more scientific from the beginning. Instead of country-wide and state-wide lockdown, the strategy from the very beginning should have been targeting areas reporting positive cases, maintaining a better balance between life and livelihood,” Pradhan added. While the Centre has started unlock in phases, in the state the lockdown continues in different ways. Currently, while there is complete lockdown in four districts of Khurda, Ganjam, Jajpur and Cuttack as well as Rourkela city. Many districts are following weekend shutdown. Sambalpur has announced a complete shutdown for a week from Wednesday. Many parts of Koraput and the entire Nabarangpur district are shut for a week from Tuesday. Dr Siddhartha Sahu, an orthopaedic surgeon, said the outcomes have not quite followed the strategies. “While creating Covid hospitals was a pioneering initiative, not creating enough ICU beds may cost the state dearly. Registering migrants was a good initiative, but not enough tests were done on them,” he said, adding, “Lockdown is always a difficult choice, picking life over livelihood. Hope it benefits the maximum people, save more from the virus and take away fewer jobs.” Health minister Naba Kishore Das said the state has got benefits from the lockdown. “The effective social distancing measures have helped contain the spread. In hindsight, it is easier to say what could have been done better. But no one really knows much about the pandemic, hence, the strategy to fight it is also evolving every day,” Das said. Statistically, Odisha is better placed than the national parameters on many aspects though. Compared to the mortality rate of 2.4% at the all-India level, mortality rate in Odisha is 0.54%. Odisha’s positivity rate is 4.67% compared to the national average of 8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/four-months-of-lockdown-with-no-sign-of-early-exit/articleshow/77105138.cms||Ashok Pradhan
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Mohali ranks 11th as 93% govt school students pass Class XII||MOHALI: Government schools in the Mohali district have improved the overall pass percentage of class XII results with 93.16 per cent this year. The results were declared by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Tuesday. Mohali has seen an increase of 3.3% as compared to 89.86% pass percentage last year. Mohali has dropped by three positions in the district-wise performance in class XII results and stands at 11th position in the state this year. It was at the 8th position last year. The Mohali district had jumped one place and ranked 8th in class XII results declared by the PSEB. It had an all-time high pass percentage of 89.86% in 2019 as the district consolidated its position by improving from 71.80% in 2018 and 56.64% in 2017. In 2018, Mohali had jumped 11 places to be ranked at 9th position. This year, Ropar district has topped the list, followed by Faridkot and Ferozepur districts. Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar said, “We concentrated on enhancement of teachers’ ability through capacity building and regular monitoring of students’ performance subject-wise, in Mohali. Students, who faced difficulty in subjects, teachers paid extra attention in improving that subject and this resulted in the overall improvement of students’ in academics.” For class XII, the Mohali district recorded 93.16% results as 6,410 students passed out of the total 6,881, which is 3.3% better than the last year, when the district recorded 89.86% result with 5,423 students passing out of the 6,035. Farmer’s son tops in PatialaTaranvir Singh of Government Senior Sec School, Sanaur, bagged the first position in Patiala district by scoring 445 out of 450, while Arshdeep Kaur of Uksi Sainiya and Asha Rani of Senior Sec School, Teyipur, bagged the second position in the district by scoring 444 marks. Taranvir’s father Kirpal Singh is a farmer and his elder sister is undergoing studies in BA. Taranvir said, “I dream of becoming an IAS officer. I had worked hard, but the credit goes to my teachers and parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-ranks-11th-as-93-govt-school-students-pass-class-xii/articleshow/77094912.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Class XI admissions: Day 1 full of technical glitches in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Day one of class XI admissions was full of technical glitches and problems. The link for registration to class XI was expected to be made available to students on the UT education department’s official website at 11 am on Tuesday. However, due to technical glitches, students could not access the link as it got crashed. Despite this, a total of 2,800 students registered on Day 1. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, said it was a good response. As complaints by students started pouring in, the UT education department posted a notice regarding registration process for admission to class XI wherein it was stated that the link for registration would be made available at 3pm. However, it was only after 4pm that the website started functioning. According to the officials of the UT education department, students can register till 2pm on July 30. A candidate can submit application along with all the required scanned documents after making payment online by July 31, 2020. The prospectus for the same is available at www.chdeducation.gov.in. After the link became operational, students faced problems in the payment section. A student requesting anonymity said, “In the morning, the link did not work and finally in the evening when I registered and reached the payment page, I was asked for ‘unique payment ID’ as given by the education department and I did not know what to fill in it. So, I have raised a query on the helpline.” Many students called counsellors for help as they were unable to fill the form on their own and feared of going to shops for filling the same. They were asked to contact the help desks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/class-xi-admissions-day-1-full-of-technical-glitches/articleshow/77094911.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali cops net Rs 14 lakh fine for no masks in 19 days||By: Piyush Sarna MOHALI: The Mohali police have challaned 2,879 people for roaming in the district without wearing a mask and have collected Rs 14.39 lakh as fine in only 19 days i.e. from July 1. Superintendent of police, city, Harvinder Singh Virk, said, “The police are doing their job from day one and have been challaning violators. The public too needs to step up and be vigilant.” The officials said the police control room was too receiving complaints from people regarding those roaming without mask or not maintaining social distancing in their areas. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 200, which was later increased to Rs 500. Starting from May 21, when the police officials started penalising violators for not following instructions, till July 19, a total of 5,535 people have been penalised and the police officials have collected a total of Rs 23.51 lakh as fine. Officials said shopkeepers in the district are taking every precaution and have installed sanitisers at the entrance of their shops and don’t allow people to enter the shop without a mask. One of the cops, who remains on duty to find people roaming without mask, said, “People who travel in four-wheelers without wearing masks are the ones who argue the most. They claim that they are of the same family so why should they wear masks as they stay together in one house. They have to follow the norms of the government. Earlier, when the fine was Rs 200, people refrained from arguing, but now that the fine is Rs 500, instead of following the norms, people argue more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-cops-net-14l-fine-for-no-masks-in-19-days/articleshow/77094913.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College to help students facing financial woes||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to provide financial help to students facing monetary issues owing to the coronavirus pandemic. Around 10 to 12 students had approached the PEC director office to waive off the fee for the next semester considering the financial problems of their families. The semester will be from July to December, for which financial help will be provided to the students. Last month, PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi’s e-mail was flooded with requests from students that their fee should be waived off. The director got back, stating it was not feasible to waive off the fee across the board considering the fund crunch the institute is facing due to the reduction in the budget. But the institute can consider giving financial help to those who cannot pay full fee, he said. Sanghi said it has been decided that the institute faculty and alumni will be asked to share the burden of the fee, so that no student’s semester will be affected. He said that he himself is planning to share the amount after a decision will be taken about students whom the institute will help. . PEC has not received their first quarter instalment of Rs 5 crore by the UT administration for April to June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pec-to-help-students-facing-financial-woes/articleshow/77094914.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State reports 720 new cases and one death||Thiruvananthapuram: Compared to the past two days, there was a slight decrease in the total number of new cases reported in the state on Tuesday. As many as 720 cases were reported with Thiruvananthapuram topping the chart with 151 cases. One death was reported in the capital, taking the total death toll to 45. Of the new cases, 528 are contact cases among which source of contact is unknown in 34; 82 are those who arrived from abroad and 54 from other states. And 17 healthcare workers, 29 DSC jawans, four ITBP personnel, four KSE employees and a KLF employee were also infected. The deceased is Victoria (72) from Pulluvila. At present, 8,056 cases are being treated. Test results of 274 patients were declared negative. CM Pinarayi Vijayan said the system of admitting all persons who test positive, even if they are asymptomatic, will continue as number of cases are manageable and a chain of first-line treatment centres are being set up. Several private hospitals have also started treating patients, he added. "As per statistics till Sunday, 20,404 beds have been readied in 187 Covid FLTCs. By Thursday, there will be 742 CFLTCs with 69,215 beds," he said. "All FLTCs will have OP facility from morning to evening and telemedicine facilities. There will be proper arrangements for providing uninterrupted water and power to centres along with food for all patients," he said. Dismissing allegations that there were flaws in Kerala’s strategies to contain Covid-19, Vijayan said the low mortality rate in a society like Kerala where population density is high and elderly population is significant indicates that strategies adopted by state were successful. "While case fatality rate in Kerala is only 0.33, the corresponding figure for Delhi is 3, Gujarat is 4.4 Tamil Nadu is 1.5, Maharashtra is 3.8 and Karnataka 2.1," he said. The details of those infected through contact are 144 in Thiruvananthapuram, 79 in Kollam, 72 in Ernakulam, 36 each from Palakkad and Kasaragod, 35 in Kottayam, 33 from Kozhikode, 30 in Alappuzha, 29 in Malappuram, 21 in Pathanamthitta, six in Wayanad district, five in Kannur and two in Thrissur. The infected healthcare workers are five in Kannur, three each from Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam, two in Kollam and one each in Thrissur, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kasaragod. District-wise distribution of new cases is as follows: Kollam (85), Ernakulam (80), Malappuram (61), Kannur (57), Alappuzha and Palakkad (46 each), Pathanamthitta and Kasaragod (40 each), Kottayam and Kozhikode (39 each), Thrissur (19) and Wayanad (17). As many as 1,62,444 persons were placed under surveillance, of which 1,54,167 are under home/institutional quarantine and 8,277 are admitted in designated isolation facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-reports-720-new-cases-and-one-death/articleshow/77094982.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||HC lets man walk free after finding flaw in trial court verdict||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has indicted a trial court for acknowledging only the evidence of those witnesses that reiterated the prosecution’s case the basis of conviction in a narcotics case and sentencing a man to 10 years imprisonment. The high court took strong exception to the trial court’s failure in appreciating the submissions made before it vis-à-vis the legal position and acquitted the man on charges of illegally transporting contraband ganja, after he had spent six-and-a-half years in jail. The man, Sanjay Kumar Behera, was named accused in a case registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Handapa police station on January 24, 2014, the day two bags loaded with 50 kg ganja were seized from his possession. After trial, he was convicted in the narcotics case and sentenced to 10 years in prison with a fine of Rs 10 lakh by the court of additional sessions-cum-special judge, Angul, on May 4, 2016. The man had filed a criminal appeal against the trial court verdict in HC the same year. Advocate Sanjib Kumar Swain and advocate Sudhir Kumar Patra argued on his behalf in a case of false implication. A single judge bench of Justice S K Panigrahi held that the trial court had proceeded on a single track and merely relied upon the evidence of those witnesses which reiterated the prosecution’s case in order to reach a quick conclusion and render a guilty verdict. “The trial court ought to have taken note of other facts and circumstances of the case which have the quality of a deafening silence and point unerringly at another probability,” Justice Panigrahi observed in his July 17 order, a copy of which was available on Tuesday. On perusal of evidence, the high court held that the trial court had glossed over material irregularities during search and seizure operation and inconsistencies in the prosecution’s case that had resulted in non-compliance of the statutory safeguards provided under the NDPS Act. “It is settled law that in cases where the legislation provides for stringent and harsh punishments, when there is a possibility that another view may be possible, where a benefit of doubt might accrue to the accused, in such case it is imperative that those should be examined with extra care and caution,” Justice Panigrahi observed while setting aside the trial court conviction and sentence. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-lets-man-walk-free-after-finding-flaw-in-trial-court-verdict/articleshow/77094958.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price touches all-time high||Ahmedabad: Rising cases of Covid-19 infections and consequent safe-haven investments continued to push prices of gold and silver up to record highs. Gold price in the Ahmedabad market, rallied to an all-time high of Rs 51,300 per 10g on Tuesday, growing by Rs 500 in a single day against Monday’s Rs 50,800 per 10g. Even silver price showed a sharp rise touching a 7-year high of Rs 57,400 per kg. In fact, silver prices rose by Rs 4,900 in a single day from Monday’s Rs 52,500 per kg. Analysts said that price of gold and silver went up in the international market over concerns of the adverse effect of Covid-19 pandemic on the global economy. “While central banks are heavily investing in gold, safe haven investments in gold have gone up amid expectations of more stimulus from governments globally, causing yellow metal price to rise. Side by side, the demand for silver also grew not just as a safe-haven investment, but also at the industrial level and in the form of exchange traded funds (ETFs), causing price to rally,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). “In days to come, gold price is expected to remain upwards, given the uncertainty of the economic situation globally,” Acharya added. Rising prices of gold however, have a detrimental effect on the demand for gold jewellery, which has taken a hit since a long time. According to jewellers, sale of gold jewellery has come crashing. “The demand for jewellery has declined by more than 80%. Of this, fresh purchases are bare minimum, as most customer come with previously purchased gold to exchange it for fresh jewellery. If this scenario continues, the demand will barely be there and many more jewellery showrooms will be forced to shut,” said Rohit Choksi, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). “We expect that the government must take measures to reduce the basic customs duty on gold from the existing 12.5% so that the prices come down and the demand revives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-touches-all-time-high/articleshow/77095833.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Babuji solved problems with a hearty laugh||Lucknow: His inimitable oratory, his hospitality and the guffaws—veteran politician and former governor of Madhya Pradesh Lalji Tandon is etched in the public memory of Lucknow, with whose people he shared a major part of his life. For some, he was the soft-spoken ‘Babuji’, and for many Muslim families in Old City, he was the most secular face among leaders. On Tuesday, when the 85-year-old passed away due to multiple organ failure at a hospital, the city saw hundreds of mourners who had something or the other to share about the doyen of Lucknow. Journalist Pradeep Kapoor, who often sat with Tandon at Indian Coffee House, shared an anecdote from when the coffee house was shut down due to non-payment of electricity bills and sales tax. Kapoor, former mayor Dauji Gupta and others went to Tandon’s house in Chowk to seek his intervention. “After listening to us, he called up then district magistrate and vice-president of Lucknow Development Authority and ordered them to reopen the coffee house within 15 days. When the place was reopened, we organised a big function to mark the day. He was a regular visitor at coffee house,” he added. Riddhi Gaur, who was close to Tandon said he always stayed connected to his roots, even when he was serving as the governor of Madhya Pradesh and Bihar in 2018. “He made a huge contribution in the city’s development—whether it is Atal Convention Centre, or roads. In 1975, when Victoria Park was being used for fairs, cricket players asked Babuji if it could be given to sports administration and converted into a stadium. The park was under LDA and with Babuji’s efforts, it was converted into a stadium. Today it is known as Chowk Stadium,” Vinod Khanna, a close associate. Tandon’s love for food and delicacies of Lucknow was well-known. Suman Bihari (75) of Ram Asrey, where Tandon spent most of his evenings, said, “He would come walking from his house in Sondhi Tola, relax on a bench outside our shop, ask for water first, and then his favourite ‘malai paan’.” “He never said no to a problem which the residents told him about. He listened with a patient ear and always found a solution,” he added. Ashish Tripathi of Chowk’s famous Raja Thandai recalled how Tandon and former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee always found time to have a flask full of ‘thandai’ whenever the latter would visit Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/babuji-solved-problems-with-a-hearty-laugh/articleshow/77096232.cms||Aditi Singh
July 22, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab to approve building plans for independent floors||CHANDIGARH: Punjab local government department on Tuesday allowed approval of building plans for G+2, G+3 and S+4 independent floors under the Punjab Municipal Building Byelaws 2018 and subsequent amendments which provide for independent floors. Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra said the instructions were issued to all urban local bodies regarding this order and they have been asked to immediately implement it. The decision would help the department fetch more than Rs 60 crore through various charges which would be paid by the builder. It will also help small builders who are facing big financial crunch due to Covid-19. Mohindra said it was found that some urban local bodies were not clearing the building plans of G+3 and S+4 on the pretext of a previous letter. It is now clarified that there is no ban on G+3 and S+4 building plans and they will be given clearance in accordance with Punjab Municipal Building Byelaws 2018 as amended from time to time, including the amendments notified in 2019. The minister clarified that no ban ever imposed on G+2, as far as G+3 and S+4 are concerned the building byelaws are very clear on this. He said that in all these approvals there would be no violations of the building byelaws and the project must be registered with the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-to-approve-building-plans-for-independent-floors/articleshow/77098285.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to approve building plans for independent floors||CHANDIGARH: Punjab local government department on Tuesday allowed approval of building plans for G+2, G+3 and S+4 independent floors under the Punjab Municipal Building Byelaws 2018 and subsequent amendments which provide for independent floors. Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra said the instructions were issued to all urban local bodies regarding this order and they have been asked to immediately implement it. The decision would help the department fetch more than Rs 60 crore through various charges which would be paid by the builder. It will also help small builders who are facing big financial crunch due to Covid-19. Mohindra said it was found that some urban local bodies were not clearing the building plans of G+3 and S+4 on the pretext of a previous letter. It is now clarified that there is no ban on G+3 and S+4 building plans and they will be given clearance in accordance with Punjab Municipal Building Byelaws 2018 as amended from time to time, including the amendments notified in 2019. The minister clarified that no ban ever imposed on G+2, as far as G+3 and S+4 are concerned the building byelaws are very clear on this. He said that in all these approvals there would be no violations of the building byelaws and the project must be registered with the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-approve-building-plans-for-independent-floors/articleshow/77095838.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab to approve building plans for independent floors||CHANDIGARH: Punjab local government department on Tuesday allowed approval of building plans for G+2, G+3 and S+4 independent floors under the Punjab Municipal Building Byelaws 2018 and subsequent amendments which provide for independent floors. Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra said the instructions were issued to all urban local bodies regarding this order and they have been asked to immediately implement it. The decision would help the department fetch more than Rs 60 crore through various charges which would be paid by the builder. It will also help small builders who are facing big financial crunch due to Covid-19. Mohindra said it was found that some urban local bodies were not clearing the building plans of G+3 and S+4 on the pretext of a previous letter. It is now clarified that there is no ban on G+3 and S+4 building plans and they will be given clearance in accordance with Punjab Municipal Building Byelaws 2018 as amended from time to time, including the amendments notified in 2019. The minister clarified that no ban ever imposed on G+2, as far as G+3 and S+4 are concerned the building byelaws are very clear on this. He said that in all these approvals there would be no violations of the building byelaws and the project must be registered with the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-to-approve-building-plans-for-independent-floors/articleshow/77098284.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Trichy||2-year RI awaits those conducting child marriages: Trichy collector||Trichy: The Trichy district administration has warned of two years rigorous imprisonment to those indulging in child marriages after several cases were reported during the lockdown.The district recorded 74 cases of child marriages from April this year, as per data available with the district social welfare officer (DSWO). The increase in number of cases prompted the DSWO to appeal to the collector to issue warning against the perpetrators, that leave the physical and mental health and future of the children in peril. Acting on the report submitted by DSWO A Thamim Munisha, collector S Sivarasu said that marriage for a bride below 18 years and for bridegroom below 21 years will be considered an offence under The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. In a statement, he said that the parents of the child, guardian, organiser of the marriage, attendees of the marriage and those failing to stop the marriage can be prosecuted under the Act. The collector also made it clear that they can be sentenced to two years of rigorous imprisonment or imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh or both. Of the 74 cases of child marriage, 15 were reported only after they were conducted but the DSWO officials managed to bring it to the police and get the cases registered. The remaining were either stopped on the day of marriage or well before schedule. “Despite creating awareness for years, people are not bothered about their children’s lives. Stating some avoidable reasons, they force the girls into marriage unmindful of the consequences,” Munisha told TOI on Tuesday, adding that due to this their school education is ruined. Girls being subjected to child marriage are in the age group of 14 to 18 years while the bridegrooms are anywhere from 25 to 40 years.People are under the impression that they can clandestinely solemnize child marriages during the lockdown. However, information from neighbours and relatives to Child Line helpline 1098 is exposing their plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-year-ri-awaits-those-conducting-child-marriages-trichy-collector/articleshow/77096220.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Leopard rescued at Palse village near Nashik||NASHIK: A 1.5-year-old female leopard was rescued from a farm in Palse village on Tuesday, 10 km from the Nashik Road area of the city. The forest department had installed a cage at the farm last week after the villagers complained of spotting the big cat in the area. Accordingly, forest department officials set up a trap and trapped the big cat. A health check-up of the leopard was conducted by a veterinary doctor who said that the animal is in good shape and will soon be released into the wild after official procedure. With this, four leopards have been rescued in the last 20 days from Niphad and Nashik talukas of the district. On July 15, a six-year-old male leopard was trapped into a cage in Kolgaon village in Niphad taluka of the district. On July 13, another six-year-old male leopard was trapped in the early hours at Samangaon village, around 8km from the Nashik Road area of the city. Earlier on July 2, a five-year-old female leopard was trapped into a cage in Jakhori village, around 6 km from Samangaon village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leopard-rescued-at-palse-village-near-nashik/articleshow/77096221.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Edu department to conduct online training for FYJC admissions||NASHIK: The Nashik education department will be conducting a day-long online training session on Wednesday for the forthcoming first year junior college (FYJC) admissions. Pravin Patil, deputy director of the education department (Nashik region), has issued a circular about the training session involving staff of secondary schools, junior colleges and students, who would be taking admissions in junior colleges, along with their parents. Last year’s FYJC admission coordinator Vaibhav Sarode along with two in-charge of admission guidance centres, Yogesh Kale and Yogesh Mahajan, would conduct the training sessions. “This training session will focus on how the students need to fill the part I & II of the admission forms without any error for admissions in junior colleges,” an education department official said, adding that the staff of the educational institutes have to guide the students in this exercise if they face problems. The first training session would be for principals, teaching and non-teaching facility members of 171 secondary schools. This session would start from 12 noon. The second session from 2 pm would involve principals, teaching and non-teaching facility of 60 junior colleges. And the third one from 4 pm would be for students and their parents. “The department has already been provided with the links and QR code to all the education institutes that will enable them to join the online training session,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/edu-department-to-conduct-online-training-for-fyjc-admissions/articleshow/77096218.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Why experts believe new cases may decline in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Union health ministry’s report on the serological surveillance in Delhi shows a fair number of people in the capital has been exposed to the novel coronavirus already, Dr S K Sarin, who is part of the committee monitoring the outbreak in the capital, said on Tuesday. He said herd immunity had developed in many people and, therefore, new cases were likely to decline in the coming days. The capital recorded 1,349 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to over 1.25 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 3,690. Dr Sarin, who is the director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), said the sero-survey conducted on 26,000 people in 83 districts in the country in May, which didn’t include Delhi, showed less than 1% of the population was exposed to the virus. “It seems the disease has spread fast in Delhi. Many people were asymptomatic and, therefore, they couldn’t be picked up in routine testing,” he added. According to Dr Sumit Ray, head of critical care medicine at Holy Family Hospital, the data is reflective of the ground situation. “New cases have certainly gone down over the past few days. Hospitals aren’t witnessing heavy rush for beds. So, it is possible that in many areas people have develop herd immunity,” he said. Dr Ray said the ministry should put out details of the survey report in public domain and it should be published in a peer-reviewed journal for scientific analysis. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Monday that Delhi was past its peak, but warned against lowering the guard. “We must continue infection control measures and containment activities to prevent resurgence of cases as has been seen in many cities across the world,” Guleria had said. Home isolation, increased testing and bed capacity, and plasma therapy have been key to Delhi’s success in fighting Covid-19, said Dr Arun Gupta, the president of Delhi Medical Council. “We are conducting more than 44,000 tests per million, which is among the highest in the country. Also, home isolation and monitoring of patients have helped reduce the panic,” he added. The effect of decline in new cases of Covid-19 in Delhi is also reflected in the rate of hospital admissions. Data shows 11,958 out of the 15,475 beds reserved for novel coronavirus patients are lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-experts-believe-new-cases-may-decline/articleshow/77096241.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Hearing on CBD voter’s list claims withheld||NASHIK: The hearing on the claims and objections filed by residents of the cantonment board area of Deolali over the preliminary electoral rolls prepared by the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has been withheld until further orders from the government. Senior officials said the hearing has been withheld due to the ongoing pandemic. The CBD has prepared the preliminary electoral roll, which was published on July 1. Residents who had claims pertaining to their names to be entered in the electoral roll or objection to the inclusion of their names were appealed to file them in a prescribed format via email till July 20. Subsequently, a hearing was to be held. However, as per the instructions from the defence ministry, the hearing has been withheld until further notice, said the officials. The electoral rolls published last year had 35,105 names. This time around, the preliminary voters’ list has only 31,043 names. This means 4,062 names have been removed. The maximum number of objections were from Wards 1 and 7, said the office-bearers of the CBD. Corporators said there are cantonment lands and government lands in the jurisdiction of the CBD. Names of people who have constructed properties on government land were omitted from the voters’ list. However, their objections or claims could be satisfied only after a day is finalised to take up the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hearing-on-cbd-voters-list-claims-withheld/articleshow/77096236.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two-wheeler registrations dip 50% in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Liquidity shortage and consequently, a weakened consumer confidence has impacted the demand for two-wheelers and four-wheelers in Gujarat. While two-wheeler demand declined by 50% in Gujarat with 41,209 vehicles registered in June this year against 82,259 vehicles registered in June 2019; car sales too dipped by 26% plunging from 16,863 cars to 12,432 during the same period, according to data by Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA).  The market for two-wheelers is adversely hit because customers are facing major income shortfall, according to industry players. “The overall spending capacity of individuals has weakened because of the uncertain economic situation. Most have faced a pay-cut or some have even lost jobs and due to the uncertain situation, people are not spending money easily. Due to this, potential buyers have deferred their purchases and only those who genuinely need a two-wheeler have come to purchase,” said Pranav Shah, director, FADA, Gujarat. June vehicle registrations also reflected sales numbers during Rath Yatra. “There was no sentimental buying on Rath Yatra, despite rolling out offers. In fact, people had timed their purchases on an auspicious day,” Shah further added. In fact, for two-wheelers, the decline in sales in Gujarat is steeper than pan-India de-growth. In India, two-wheeler demand declined by 41% down from 13 lakh in June 2019 to 8 lakh in June 2020. Industry sources also said that two-wheeler sales are low because of strict norms by financing companies in clearing loan applications.. The situation is no different for four wheelers as well, even though car sales have shown lesser de-growth against last year, as compared to two-wheelers. Industry players said that with BS-VI variants being rolled out by companies, the prices of both cars as well as two-wheelers have gone up and so has the cost of ownership with the rise in fuel prices. “The demand was decent on Rath Yatra and customer footfalls have improved over a period of time. The demand for entry-level and mid-segment car has remained good and we have to ask customers to wait. In July, the demand has improved,” said Rajnish Arora, CEO of an Ahmedabad-based car dealership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/liquidity-crunch-hits-two-wheeler-demand/articleshow/77095841.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Civic Infrastructure Of Lucknow Has His Stamp All Over||Lucknow: When Lalji Tandon became a cabinet minister for the first time in 1991, he carried the expectations of lakhs of people from the state capital. After all, he had risen from the grass-roots in the city and people cutting across caste and religion, would consider him one of their own. He didn't disappoint and many development projects that the city has now were planned during his multiple tenures as the urban development minister -- the foremost being the upgradation of civic infrastructure of the city. The team of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee as the city MP and Tandon as the urban development minister was a blessing for the city, say old-timers. Even when Tandon was not a minister, he worked as a representative of Vajpayee to execute his projects as the MP, be it Gomti riverfront project, which improvised during SP government later -- or widening of road across the city. It was Tandon under whose first tenure, the blue-print of second water works in Balaganj was conceptualized. Commissioned in 1994, the second water works channelized 96 million litres of fresh water per day to the old city area. “His closeness with the people in the old city area was never a secret and he worked for the people of the region,” said senior BJP leader Amit Puri, who contested from Lucknow west after Tandon quit the seat to contest Lok Sabha elections from Lucknow in 2009. He also played a key role in rolling out 23 km long Shaheed Path — another key project of Vajpayee — which was aimed to connect four national highways passing through Lucknow. “It was Tandon and Rajnath Singh (the then road transport minister) who drew out the broad contours of the Shaheed Path Project conceptualised to ease out traffic congestion,” said Lucknow BJP unit general secretary Pushkar Shukla. Another key contribution of Tandon to Lucknow was the Scientific convention centre built on the Sardar Patel Hostel grounds (sports ground) at the end of Shamina road in Chowk. Built with the help of MPLAD funds of Vajpayee, the centre was given a special focus by Tandon during his stint as urban development minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/civic-infrastructure-of-lucknow-has-his-stamp-all-over/articleshow/77096246.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Mumbai||Uran gets it fill of water for a year||Navi Mumbai: MIDC-owned Ransai dam, which supplies around 35MLD water to Uran township, ONGC, defence installation, Nhava Sheva and 22 gram panchayats in Uran taluka, started overflowing on Monday. Residents will now get uninterrupted water supply as the dam now has its full storage of 10 million cubic metres. Since the dam swelled significantly mid-monsoon with catchment expanse getting good rainfall daily, MIDC will stop sourcing 5MLD water from Cidco. The rainfall in the dam catchment area on July 21 stands at 864mm this season, which is considered more than 50% of the season’s rainfall in the area. MIDC deputy engineer Ranjit Biranje said, “There will be no weekly shutdown and consumers will get uninterrupted supply as we have enough stock. Due to shortage in summer, we augmented our system with 5MLD from Cidco.” The water is flowing over the dam’s overflow mark of 116 feet with persistent rainfall in the catchment area for a month, which pushed the season’s total to 864mm. “This year, the dam overflowed during the regular period, a positive sign for good storage during the entire season,” said Biranje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uran-gets-it-fill-of-water-for-a-year/articleshow/77095518.cms||B B Nayak
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Police inform people of methods used by cyberfrauds||NASHIK: With more and more reports of cybercriminals cheating people of their money coming in, the cybercrime police in the city have come out with an awareness drive to tell educate people about the means being employed by criminals. Devraj Borse, a senior PI of the cybercrime police station, said that while some 75 cases were registered with them this year, about 55 of them were related to cyberfrauds. In several cases, the conmen, pretending to be Indian armed forces personnel, had put up online advertisements for sale-purchase of sites. Such fraudsters usually win the trust of their targeted victims and take details of their bank accounts, debit/credit cards or e-wallets, only to swindle them. Many other criminals call up the victims saying that the KYC of their e-wallets had expired. Calls are made or messages are sent to the victims’ cellphones to trick them to share their bank details. Police said the conmen also make use of spy apps and force the victims to download screen-sharing apps. Police said the conmen were also uploading their own phone numbers as service providers of various agencies on internet search engines. People end up calling such fraudsters and share their confidential information. While selling/purchasing any used vehicle on an online portal, people must first ensure that the vehicle is seen physically. They should not trust identity cards or canteen cards sent as proof of being Army personnel. If one gets a call for updating KYC from an e-wallet company, caller and e-mail address or landline number of the company must be verified. Also, never download any screen-sharing app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-inform-people-of-methods-used-by-cyberfrauds/articleshow/77096244.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Trichy teacher, VAO accused of cheating people of lakhs||Trichy: A block resource teacher (BRT) and village administrative officer (VAO), on Tuesday in Trichy district, were accused of running a micro-finance company and cheating people by getting lakhs of money from them. Many victims were teachers in government schools and were lured by attractive returns for their investment with the company but they later escaped with their money, sources said. At least 10 people approached the district collector on Tuesday and sought action against the duo for cheating them through ‘Make Yourself’ micro-finance company. One among the victim, M Vairaperumal, 40 from Melapatti in Karur district whose wife is working as a teacher in a government school in Trichy, said that the company was being run by Sivanesan, who is working as BRT in Andanallur and Selvaraj, a VAO. “I was asked by Sivanesan to give Rs 1 lakh and assured Rs 500 as returns on a daily basis except for weekends and government holidays. Further he assured to return Rs 1 lakh after a year,” said Vairaperumal. Believing him, I had deposited Rs 47 lakh. However, for the last four months, there has been no communication with him. While we traced his contacts a few days back and spoke to him, now he is refusing to have taken money from me, said Vairaperumal. The district collector S Sivarasu asked them to approach the superintendent of police, Trichy and lodge a complaint. Sivanesan and Selvaraj could not be reached even after repeated attempts over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-teacher-vao-accused-of-cheating-people-of-lakhs/articleshow/77096243.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cybercrime flourished during lockdown in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: More than 120 people in Visakhapatnam have fallen victim to cybercrimes during the Covid-19 lockdown. Fraudsters have duped people on the pretext of selling electronic gadgets and vehicles at cheaper rates across the city. The cybercrime police station in Visakhapatnam is receiving five to six complaints of cyber-fraud every week. 30-year-old Roshan Kumar (name changed) recently lost over Rs 80,000 when he tried to buy a high-end bike through an online classifieds forum. The seller introduced himself as a resident of Vizag and army personnel. Roshan sent the amount via an e-wallet and the seller promised to send over the bike in two days. But that was the last time, Roshan heard from the seller and all his calls went unanswered. Speaking to TOI, RVRK Choudhary, inspector of cybercrimes police station in Vizag, said that online fraud increased during the lockdown. He said people’s lack of awareness about using e-commerce platforms is one of the factors leading to an increase in such cases. Most culprits are from other states. And in many situations, the money cannot be retrieved, the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cybercrime-flourished-during-lockdown-in-vizag/articleshow/77094973.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 15% of symptomatic cases gave false negative in first antigen test||NEW DELHI: Only 15% of symptomatic individuals who tested negative for Covid-19 in rapid antigen testing conducted in Delhi were found to be positive in a second confirmatory RT-PCR test, the health ministry said on Tuesday. The health ministry said over 3.63 lakh samples were tested by the RAT method between June 18 and July 21. Of these, 6.33% tested positive for Covid-19. Of those that tested negative, 2,294 cases were symptomatic and re-tested with RT-PCR for confirmation and around 15% of them were found Covid-19 positive, said Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty. The government pointed to the latest data on Delhi to address concerns whether Covid cases were slipping out of the net as persons testing negative in the antigen format — and who are asymptomatic — are not being subjected to an RT-PCR test. The relatively low rate of confirmations of “symptomatic negatives”, the government indicated, meant the strategy is sound. Testing all negatives, as initially considered, might result in wasteful testing. Some experts, however, maintained that the risk from a false negative is high. “The symptoms do not manifest immediately and antigen test may not be able to catch the viral load with exact specificity at an early stage,” an epidemiologist said. According to ICMR’s protocol, any sample testing negative through RAT will have to be mandatorily retested with RT-PCR if the person demonstrates symptoms. Bhushan said those testing negative with no symptoms are to be monitored for a few days. If they develop symptoms, they are to undergo RT-PCR tests. The strategy has been framed keeping in mind that antigen tests are helpful in early detection, officials said. This comes in the wake of rising concerns that many samples testing negative under RAT are not confirmed through RT-PCR, raising the risk of false negatives which might be resulting in a euphoria over falling number of cases in many states. On Tuesday, TOI reported that in Delhi, around 18% of negative rapid antigen results tested positive under RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/15-of-symptomatic-cases-gave-false-ve-in-first-antigen-test/articleshow/77096247.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 22, 2020||Madurai||TOI reports: HC seeks status report on delay in test results||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the special monitoring officer for Madurai and dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) to file a status report to the queries raised by it on Monday after taking suo motu cognizance of the news articles published in the Times of India with regard to the delay in announcing the results of Covid-19 tests.A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam, which was hearing the suo motu plea on Tuesday, also raised an additional query as to whether private hospitals are insisting on Covid-19 tests before admitting patients in emergency cases and sought a response in this regard. Earlier, during the course of the hearing, the additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian submitted that so far samples were collected from 1,07,167 people in Madurai district of which 8,358 had tested positive.He submitted that there are six equipment, 150 lab technicians and 19 microbiologists to carryout testing at the GRH and 120 doctors including postgraduates to treat Covid-19 patients.The AAG said that there are 1,461 beds in the GRH and superspecialty hospital of which 738 are vacant. There are a total of 2,720 beds available at the four Covid care centres of which 2,225 beds are vacant. This apart, there are 878 beds in private hospitals in Madurai of which 696 are occupied.He stated that there are two gasifiers at Thathaneri and Moolakkarai to cremate the bodies of those who die due to Covid-19 as per protocol. After hearing, the court gave the directive.The Madurai bench had initiated suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) based on the news reports titled ‘Communication delay between labs, health dept., adds to woes’ and ‘Delayed results may be giving virus time to spread faster, fear officials’ published in TOI Madurai edition on July 19 and July 20 respectively.The court had sought for a direction to the respondents to answer several queries including whether the district administration and health officials are fully geared up to do periodical tests and reasons for delay in announcing the results of tests taken in respect of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/toi-reports-hc-seeks-status-report-on-delay-in-test-results/articleshow/77096252.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Campaign launched for elderly population||Visakhapatnam: In a bid to take special care of the geriatric population during the pandemic, ‘Surakshit Dada Dadi, Nana Nani campaign’ or Safe Avva Tatha Campaign was launched at Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. The Centre’s Niti Aayog in collaboration with district administration and nodal NGOs of various districts is launching this programme. In Andhra Pradesh, it is being launched at Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and YSR Kadapa districts. As part of the campaign, around 100 volunteers will be trained who will call and check on the well-being of the senior citizens in the district. Each volunteer would be assigned to the senior citizens residing in a particular mandal or area. The IEC material contains key messages, dos and don’ts, norms to follow to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Director of district nodal NGO Nature SB Balaraju said, “As per 2011 Census, the district has approximately 10 lakh senior citizens who will benefit. As part of the programme, five helpline call centres will be used by volunteers to contact vulnerable senior citizens to enquire about their wellbeing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/campaign-launched-for-elderly-population/articleshow/77094996.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Three months on, leopard death probe heading nowhere||AURANGABAD: The investigation ordered by the forest department into the death of a male leopard in Paithan taluka of Aurangabad district has headed nowhere even three months after the shocking incident. The big cat had died within hours after getting trapped from a farm in Paithan taluka on April 12. Deputy conservator of forests (Aurangabad division) SP Wadaskar on Tuesday said that few individuals are yet to record statements before the probe panel. “We had summoned few people to record their statements. While statements of some of them have been recorded, a few others are yet to come forward,” Wadaskar said, adding that necessary formalities would be expedited soon in order to complete the probe by end of July. The forest officials were under fire for alleged ill-planning during the trapping of the leopard which is believed to have caused its death. The forest department authorities did not use a tranquiliser dart to catch the leopard and relied on primitive practice of using nets during which the animal incurred injuries and trauma. Amid widespread outrage over the death of the young leopard, the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court took cognisance of the incident and filed suo motu public interest litigation. Advocate Chaitanya Dharurkar, who is the amicus curie in the case, said the matter was expected to come for subsequent hearing on June 10, but it got delayed due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-months-on-leopard-death-probe-heading-nowhere/articleshow/77096248.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 22, 2020||Delhi||24,000 oximeters distributed so far: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday tweeted that till date 24,279 pulse oximeters had been distributed by Delhi government among a large number of Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms under home isolation. “This provided great comfort to them and helped save many lives (sic),” the tweet added. Home isolation has been an effective tool employed by Delhi government to ensure that Covid facilities didn’t get overwhelmed with cases where patients had mild or no symptoms. A pulse oximeter is a device that can be clipped on to the fingertip to measure the oxygen level in the body of the patient infected with the novel coronavirus. Normally, the oxygen concentration in a person’s blood is between 95% and 100%. If the oxygen level falls below 90%, immediate hospitalisation is required. The novel coronavirus attacks the respiratory system of a person and a Covid-19 patient starts feeling breathlessness. Sources in Delhi government said that 75,000 pulse oximeters had been ordered and about 46,000 had been returned by the patients. Each device costs the government Rs 1,300, an official claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-24k-oximeters-distributed-so-far/articleshow/77096256.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||Convict in Rajiv case attempted suicide: Lawyer||VELLORE: Nalini Sriharan, one of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, attempted suicide inside the Vellore special prison for women on Monday night, her lawyer P Pugalenthi said on Tuesday, reports Karal Marx. However, both police and prison department officials refuted Pugalenthi’s statement, saying that Nalini had only threatened to commit suicide. They said her health condition is good. Nalini has been in prison for more than 28 years. Officials said Nalini had been harassing a fellow woman inmate. The inmate had recently complained to the prison officials, following which a warden conducted an inquiry on Monday. But Nalini refused to cooperate and threatened to commit suicide if the officials continued to question her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/convict-in-rajiv-case-attempted-suicide-lawyer/articleshow/77097136.cms||Karal Marx
July 22, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cops get 500 'anti-Hindu' YouTube videos blocked||CHENNAI: Following the arrest of four people involved with YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam, the Central Crime Branch police (CCB) has got more than 500 videos removed from public view. The YouTubers are accused of passing derogatory remarks against Hindu deity Murugan and the devotional song Kanda Sashti Kavacham in a recently uploaded video. A special team viewed the videos and decided on the course of action. “The 500 videos are hidden from public view,” said a CCB officer. Sources said the channel has not been blocked as the letter to YouTube requesting the same didn’t get a response yet. The blocked videos had anti-Hindu content. Following the recent video, a complaint was registered and Youtuber Surendran Natarajan was arrested at Ariyankuppam in Puducherry. His associate M Senthilvasan of Velachery was arrested in Chennai on Thursday. On Monday, Somasundaram of Otteri and Guhan of Maraimalai Nagar were nabbed. Police said Somasundaram is the channel’s cameraperson and Guhan the video editor. A court sent both men to jail. The CCB had registered a case under IPC Sections 153 (intent to cause riot), 153(A)(1)(a) (causes disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities), 295(p) (defiling a place of worship), 505(1)(b) (likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public), 505(2) (makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report). BJP members across the state protested against the channel for spreading content, which they said hurt their religious sentiments. During a protest in Chennai led by Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan, he demanded that authorities take action under the National Security Act for “disparaging remarks” against the deity. The CCB police have filed a petition seeking custody of Surendar Natarajan and Senthilvasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-get-500-anti-hindu-youtube-vids-blocked/articleshow/77094995.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chennai||Greater Chennai Corporation begins pruning roadside trees||CHENNAI: In addition to battling Covid-19, Greater Chennai Corporation has begun pruning roadside trees as part of its monsoon preparedness. A corporation official said the work is carried out every year in July and August using a self-propelled machine attached with a saw. The equipment can be used for pruning branches at a height of more than 10 feet. The civic body had completed the work in some parts of south Chennai including Greenways Road, Durgabhai Deshmukh Road, Indira Nagar, MG Road in Shastri Nagar, Third Avenue in Besant Nagar and Besant Avenue. “We start with roads that are part of bus routes,” the official said, adding that these roads are given importance as heavy branches pose a threat to vehicles and unsuspecting pedestrians. After these roads are covered, the corporation will move on to interior road. B Ilango of Jayam Tree Translocations and Tree Pruning said most flowering trees, which grow at a faster pace, need to be pruned periodically and more so during rainy days. These trees are exotic ones, he said. Another important work that has to be completed after pruning is the application of fungicides. This will help in fresh growth of branches. Periodical pruning of branches helps the tree stay upright by taking off weight from the crown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-begins-pruning-roadside-trees/articleshow/77095009.cms||P Oppili
July 22, 2020||Chennai||'Sale of fish at Kasimedu harbour restricted to 5 hours'||CHENNAI: Fish sale at Kasimedu harbour will be restricted to five hours, from 3am to 8am, said fisheries minister D Jayakumar on Tuesday. This curb is among a 14-point charter issued to prevent crowding at the fishing harbour. The area is already off limits to the general public and is meant only for vendors. Yet, a huge crowd was seen at the market last Saturday, forcing the administration to take action. According to the charter issued by Jayakumar, only 70 mechanised boats can set sail for fishing on a given day and the catch from only 50 boats will be allowed for sale at the harbour. Only vehicles of wholesale traders will be allowed into the market and around 600 small-time fish traders will be allowed. These small and medium-level fish vendors will be allowed in four groups of 150 each and only after one group finishes purchase will the next be permitted, said an official release. Only those with the right identity cards and tokens will be allowed inside the harbour and boats that venture into the sea are required to record their departure and arrival time along with particulars of the boat with the fisheries department. Boats arriving after 8am will not be allowed to sell their catch on that particular day. Their catch will be slotted for sale only the next day, according to the new regulations. Boat owners and mechanics will be required to carry out repair work on their boats only after sale ends at 8am. Zonal authorities with the city corporation said they have held a meeting with fishermen committee representatives and the market management committee is also at work. With markets shut on Sunday, Saturdays see huge crowds, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/min-sale-of-fish-at-kasimedu-harbour-restricted-to-5-hours/articleshow/77095011.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Provide monetary aid to dress pressers: PIL||Cleared Madurai: A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam on Tuesday sought response from the state government on a plea filed before Madras high court urging the government to provide Covid-19 monetary assistance to unregistered dress pressers and washermen in the state. K P Manikandan, a dress presser based in Madurai said nearly 2.5 lakh people were involved in dress pressing in the state whose livelihood had been affected in the past four months. Though there is a welfare board for washermen, dress pressers are not included in it because of their nature of work. The government had distributed Rs 1,000 Covid-19 monetary assistance twice to registered unorganised workers, they could not avail of it as they were unregistered. Several unregistered washermen were also not provided the relief, they said seeking relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/provide-monetary-aid-to-dress-pressers-pil/articleshow/77096270.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers protest outside Union minister’s office||Jalandhar/Hoshiarpur: Farmers staged protests outside the office of Union minister and Hoshiarpur MP Som Parkash in Hoshiarpur and residence of Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary in Jalandhar on Tuesday to protest against agriculture marketing-related ordinances and Power Act. They described the ordinances as anti-farmer, saying these would serve the interests of big corporates in the long run. In Jalandhar, the farmers protested for around six hours, throwing traffic out of gear as the MP’s residence is on main road between Nakodar Chowk and Kapurthala Chowk. They said their protests would only grow with time. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-protest-outside-union-ministers-office/articleshow/77095844.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||CPI leader moves HC to form sand corporation||Madurai: State secretary of the CPI, R Mutharasan has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) before the Madras high court urging the state government to form Tamil Nadu Sand Corporation on the lines of Tasmac to excavate and sell sand through the corporation. In his petition, Mutharasan stated that illegal sand mining is rampant in the state by obtaining permission to quarry savadu, ubari, vandal soil from government and agricultural lands. This had caused irreparable damage to the ecosystem. He stated that extensive illegal mining is taking place at places such as Thiruppuvanam, Manamadurai in Sivaganga district. Though it was brought to the notice of the authorities, no steps were taken. He also stated that illegal sand mining in Cauvery, Vaigai and Palar river basins have affected the speed and flow of water. Illegal sand mining has also resulted in water scarcity due to which several cultivable lands have turned into dry land in Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Pudukkottai, Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Tuticorin districts. Mutharasan stated that Rule 38-A of the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1959, provides for quarrying of sand by the state government. In an attempt to prevent illegal sand mining, the state should effectively implement Rule 38-A by forming a Tamil Nadu Sand Corporation. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Tuesday, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam ordered notice to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cpi-leader-moves-hc-to-form-sand-corporation/articleshow/77096267.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Tandon, Atal’s Man Friday, Passes Away||Lucknow: Madhya Pradesh governor and one of the senior most BJP leaders, Lalji Tandon — who had the reputation of being Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s man Friday in UP — passed away in Lucknow after prolonged illness on Tuesday morning. He was 85. Tandon — a former Lucknow MP and a minister -- was admitted to Medanta hospital on June 11 following a liver ailment. “Tandon’s condition continued to deteriorate and his liver and kidney stopped functioning following which he was put on a life support system. He died at 5.35 am in the morning,” said Medanta director, Dr Rakesh Kapoor. Tandon was cremated in the evening at Gulala Ghat in the old city area. Tandon's son Ashutosh Tandon, a cabinet minister in the Yogi government, appealed to people to pay homage to his father from their residence and follow social distancing norms in the wake of the Corona pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his condolence, tweeting: “Shri Lalji Tandon will be remembered for his untiring efforts to serve society. He played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. He made a mark as an effective administrator, always giving importance to public welfare. Anguished by his passing away.” Modi termed Tandon as a leader who was well-versed with Constitutional matters. “He enjoyed a long and close association with beloved Atal Ji. In this hour of grief, my condolences to the family and well-wishers of Shri Tandon. Om Shanti,” Modi said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, said that the country lost a great public figure, an able administrator and a social worker. “My deep condolences with the family,” Yogi tweeted. The CM also announced a three-day state mourning in respect of Tandon, besides declaring a holiday on Tuesday. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya cancelled his scheduled visit to Ayodhya after learning about Tandon's. Lucknow MP and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and MP CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan too flew down to Lucknow to pay tribute to Tandon at his Chowk residence. An affable politician, whose popularity cut across party lines -- like his mentor's -- Tandon was also the Rakhi brother of BSP chief Mayawati who also expressed her grief terming him as a `popular' and a `cultured' leader. Having an elaborate political career, Lalji Tandon came in contact with Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) at a young age of 12 years. It was during his association with the RSS that he came in touch with former PM and five time MP from Lucknow (1991, 1996, 1998, 1999 and 2004) Vajpayee. In fact, Lalji Tandon replaced Vajpayee in 2009 Lok Sabha elections after the latter retired from active politics following health concerns. Tandon was one of the key BJP figures in Uttar Pradesh. Starting as a party corporator from the old city area of Chowk in Lucknow where he was born to Shiv Narayan Tandon and Annpurna Devi on April 12, 1935, Lalji went on to become a cabinet minister for urban development during Kalyan Singh government in 1991 for the first time. Thereafter, he held the post several times during BSP-BJP governments and BJP-led NDA government in late 90s. It was during his tenure as the urban development minister that most of Lucknow's current development projects were planned. Earlier, he was a member of UP Legislative Council for two terms, first in 1978–84 and then in 1990–96. Subsequently, he was elected to the UP assembly for three terms, 1996–2009, and remained the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly between 2003 and 07. His name was linked to an unfortunate incident too when 21 people were killed on his birthday on April 12, 2004 when he was distributing free saris and a stampede broke out. In 2009 Lok Sabha elections, Tandon replaced Vajpayee as the BJP candidate from Lucknow and was elected by defeating his Congress rival Rita Bahuguna Joshi by a margin of over 40,000 votes. Tandon was succeeded by the present Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in 2014 general elections. Eventually on August 23,, 2018, Tandon was appointed as governor of Bihar where he remained till July 28, 2019. He was subsequently appointed as the 22nd Governor of Madhya Pradesh, replacing Anandiben Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tandon-atals-man-friday-passes-away/articleshow/77096274.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chennai||‘Custodial torture’ case transferred to CB-CID: Tamil Nadu govt||MADURAI: The state government on Tuesday informed the Madras high court that the director general of police (DGP) had issued proceedings to transfer investigation to the CB-CID in a case where a man died due to alleged custodial torture by the Sathankulam police personnel. Taking cognizance of the state government’s submission, justice R Pongiappan adjourned the case to Wednesday for further hearing. The court was hearing the petition filed by S Vadivu, a resident of Sathankulam who sought probe into the death of her son Mahendran who died due to custodial torture. The petitioner also sought to provide police protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/custodial-torture-case-transferred-to-cb-cid-govt/articleshow/77100622.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Custodial torture’ case transferred to CB-CID: Tamil Nadu govt||MADURAI: The state government on Tuesday informed the Madras high court that the director general of police (DGP) had issued proceedings to transfer investigation to the CB-CID in a case where a man died due to alleged custodial torture by the Sathankulam police personnel. Taking cognizance of the state government’s submission, justice R Pongiappan adjourned the case to Wednesday for further hearing. The court was hearing the petition filed by S Vadivu, a resident of Sathankulam who sought probe into the death of her son Mahendran who died due to custodial torture. The petitioner also sought to provide police protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/custodial-torture-case-transferred-to-cb-cid-govt/articleshow/77100621.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Buzz about cabinet reshuffle gets louder||Gandhinagar: The one question that dominated discussions at the ceremony on Tuesday where C R Paatil took over as the new Gujarat BJP president was whether there will be a change of guard in the government as well. As Paatil’s appointment took most state party leaders by surprise, no one in the state BJP has any definitive information of a change of guard in the state government or a major reshuffle of portfolios. However, veteran party leaders who have long experience of working with PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah say a change in leadership in the organisation is usually accompanied with a change in guard in the government. “The present government has completed two-and-a-half-years in office and a reshuffle is due. Only PM Modi and Amit Shah know whether the CM and deputy CM will stay or will be replaced. Even if the CM and deputy CM continue, there will definitely be a major cabinet reshuffle,” a senior leader said. On Tuesday, the roads and buildings department, which manages the ministerial enclave, began sprucing up and renovation of vacant bungalows, which further fuelled speculation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/buzz-about-cabinet-reshuffle-gets-louder/articleshow/77095849.cms||Kapil Dave
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Help! My husband has not come to see my daughter’||Ahmedabad: On Sunday, thw181 helpline received a call where the caller, a young woman, pleaded the counsellors to convince her husband to visit her, and their 12-day-old daughter. “For Sumita, 30, a resident of Vastral, it was a major shock — as she had left her first husband for Nirav,” said the counsellor. When the counsellors questioned her, Sumita said that she was living in Nadiad with her husband. Nirav was son of their landlord and used to collect rent. Sumita and Nirav came closer as Sumita divorced her husband and gave custody of their two children to him. “Her trouble started as Nirav’s family was against the union, fearing social infamy,” said a counsellor, adding that Nirav rebelled and married to Sumita as the couple shifted to Ahmedabad. A year on, Sumita got pregnant and decided to go to her parents’ home. During this time, Nirav’s family convinced him to sever ties, Sumita told the counsellors. “We called the family and informed that they could be booked under multiple sections. They then agreed to send Nirav ,” said a counsellor. tnn (Names changed to protect identities)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/help-my-husband-has-not-come-to-see-my-daughter/articleshow/77095846.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Tree falls on biker during afternoon rain||Kolkata: A biker in his 30s had a close shave after a roadside tree beside Victoria Memorial collapsed on him on Tuesday afternoon. He was riding along Hospital Road next to the racecourse and it was raining when the accident took place. The tree missed his head and most parts of his body but the bike was damaged. Cops said heavy rain over the past few weeks had possibly loosened the soil, leading to the tree collapse. Weather officials said there was 16.7mm rainfall till 8.30pm. However, since the intensity of the showers was not very heavy through the evening, not much water had accumulated on city roads. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tree-falls-on-biker-during-afternoon-rain/articleshow/77095848.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nashik||NHAI marshals to conduct patrolling at pedestrian subway at Dwarka||NASHIK: The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has deployed a team of marshals for patrolling the Dwarka subway so that pedestrians at the junction can freely use the subway without any threat to their security. NHAI officials said that the team would conduct patrolling during the day as well as night time so that citizens do not face any problems while using the subway. The subway beneath Dwarka junction is quite a huge one. Pedestrians prefer not to use it and usually try to cross the road negotiating the heavy-traffic. As a result, the subway has hardly been brought to use ever since it was constructed seven years back. At the time of its inauguration, the NHAI had assured to deploy security personnel and ensure proper illumination to prevent any untoward incidents and encroachments. However, as time passed, the subway was left unattended with no illumination system as well as security. Over the past few months, the city police has decided to come up with a permanent solution for the teething traffic congestion problem at the Dwarka junction. As part of this, while heavy transport vehicles have been banned at this junction during peak hours, police has also got a road signal operational at the junction with regular feedback with the concerned department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nhai-marshals-to-conduct-patrolling-at-pedestrian-subway-at-dwarka/articleshow/77096263.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 22, 2020||Madurai||‘Custodial torture’ case transferred to CB-CID: Tamil Nadu govt||MADURAI: The state government on Tuesday informed the Madras high court that the director general of police (DGP) had issued proceedings to transfer investigation to the CB-CID in a case where a man died due to alleged custodial torture by the Sathankulam police personnel. Taking cognizance of the state government’s submission, justice R Pongiappan adjourned the case to Wednesday for further hearing. The court was hearing the petition filed by S Vadivu, a resident of Sathankulam who sought probe into the death of her son Mahendran who died due to custodial torture. The petitioner also sought to provide police protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-torture-case-transferred-to-cb-cid-govt/articleshow/77096262.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Migrant workers returning in style||BENGALURU: A group of 60 migrant workers landed at the the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) a few days ago on a flight from Patna, strengthening a developing trend of workers ‘flying down’ to resume jobs they had lost during the lockdown or find new ones. All 60 were first-time flyers and their Seva Sindhu registration showed they had left Bengaluru on a Shramik train during the lockdown. The trend is said to be orchestrated by construction agents at the behest of builders, who are desperate to complete over 500 building projects in city. Sources at KIA said in the last two weeks, migrant workers have been arriving in batches on domestic flights from Patna, Delhi and Lucknow. “They are all first-time flyers who left on Shramik trains which were run free of cost by the government,” said a BMTC official on special duty at KIA. Over 2,000 workers have flown back in the last few weeks alone, all going into home isolation after furnishing local addresses to airport authorities. “In most cases, the addresses are under-construction buildings in Sarjapur, Whitefield and other parts of Bengaluru,” said another government staffer on health duty at KIA.  Sources say some builders who have collected payments from customers are desperate to finish projects which have been stalled since March. “The trend of flying back workers will continue till train services resume,” said K Mahantesh, general secretary of Karnataka State Building and Other Construction Workers Federation. “Local construction agents are promising workers attractive pay and are coaxing them to return to Bengaluru. Airfares aren’t much of an expense for builders.” An estimated 3.8 lakh migrants left the state following the nationwide lockdown and nearly 2 lakh were construction labourers working on 558 unfinished sites. Those returning by air are believed to be less than 2% of those who left. Watch Bengaluru: Labourers return by air to finish pending construction works||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/desperate-for-complete-projects-builders-are-flying-migrant-back/articleshow/77095067.cms||Petlee Peter
July 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||SI suspended for tonsuring man in PS||Rajahmundry: The government suspended a police sub-inspector on Tuesday for beating up and tonsuring the head and moustache of a Dalit at a police station in East Godavari district. The government also ordered an inquiry into the incident. A case has been registered against the police official under the SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act. The incident took place inside Seethanagaram police station under Rajahmundry urban police district. Taking serious note of the incident, Eluru range DIG KV Mohan Rao suspended the sub-inspector, Shaik Feroz Shah. He added that severe penal and departmental action would be taken against police personnel found involved in the act. Korukonda circle inspector Pawan Kumar Reddy told TOI that the Dalit youth, Indugamilli Vara Prasad of Munikudali village in Sithanagaram mandal, was called to Seethanagaram police station by in-charge SI Feroz Shah based on a complaint lodged against him. The SI reportedly beat up Vara Prasad severely and also got his head and moustache tonsured inside the police station. Senior police officials have condemned the incident. The department is planning to invoke provisions of the SC/ST Act on other personnel involved in the incident. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/si-suspended-for-tonsuring-man-in-ps/articleshow/77095047.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses plea seeking to permit temple car festival||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday dismissed a plea which sought to permit the Aadi temple car festival of the Sundaraja Perumal temple at Alagarkoil in Madurai district. The court was hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by B Stalin, an advocate from Melur. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Tuesday, special government pleader V R Shanmuganathan submitted that the state government had issued a GO dated June 30 which has issued standard operating procedures for religious places. He stated that permission was given to permit only devotees in small temples subject to norms. Since the Sundaraja Perumal temple falls in the A grade category, procession cannot be allowed as it would be impossible for the revenue and police officials to prevent the outbreak and to maintain law and order. The counsel for the temple submitted that the administration, which had taken into consideration the sentiments of the people had taken a decision to take the urchavar idol of the deity on a procession. If feasible, live telecast would also be done.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam observed that by considering the grave potency of Covid-19, various guidelines have been issued by the central and state governments for its containment. The judges observed that maintaining social distancing and wearing masks have become standard norms and the public are expected to follow these norms. Taking into consideration that the authorities have to abide by the GO, the judges said that no positive direction can be given in this regard and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-to-permit-temple-car-festival/articleshow/77096284.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Following protest, Thrissur collector pulls FB post||Thiruvananthapuram: Thrissur collector S Shanavaz believed he was on to something when, in a Facebook post, he said the service of healthcare workers who have tested positive for Covid-19, but are asymptomatic, will be utilized in first-line treatment centres in the district. But, no sooner had Kerala Government Medical Officers Association and Indian Medical Association slammed the decision, terming it “inhumane” and “unscientific”, than he climbed down from his position. “In Thrissur, first-line treatment centres are being set up. It is aimed to depute those health workers including doctors who have been tested positive and have no or mild symptoms or no other major health issues, to treat the patients who are coming to FLTCs. If the service of these health workers including that of doctors are utilized in such centres, then there will not be any shortage of manpower,’’ Shanavaz said in his post. “We condemn the post written by the district collector. It is surprising that a responsible person of the government has come with such a decision when the state government itself has condemned the hospitals of other states who are putting the Malayali health workers who have been tested positive on duty. It is inhumane and unscientific,’’ said Dr G S Vijayakrishnan, state secretary of KGMOA. “The district collector had mentioned in the post the decision has been taken with the support of the IMA. We have not given any consent for any such illogical moves. During a meeting on July 20 the district collector had suggested posting the doctors who have contracted the infection and turned Covid positive. But this was objected by the IMA during the meeting itself. It is purely unscientific to ask the doctors on isolation period to treat the patients,” said Dr Joy Manjila, district president of IMA, Thrissur. KGMOA opposes officials taking such decisions without seeking the opinion of health experts and doctors who are in the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, said Dr Vijayakrishnan. Kerala Government Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA) state secretary Dr Nirmal Bhaskar said authorities cannot take such unscientific decisions which can have serious ramifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/following-protest-thrissur-collector-pulls-fb-post/articleshow/77095081.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid warrior doctor’s home attacked||KOLKATA: A family member of a doctor residing near Sarsuna College in Behala was allegedly assaulted with the spoke of a motorcycle by five men after locals objected to the doctor returning to his house after work every day. The victim’s gold chain was also snatched. According to Sarsuna police, five persons have been detained and a case of hurt has been registered. Police said the doctor was the senior official at a hospital at Maheshtala in South 24 Parganas. “He returns home at night after work and recently a few people from the neighbourhood of Bombaibagan Lane objected to this. They claimed that since the doctor was handling Covid patients, there was a chance of him transmitting the virus to the neighbours. They kept pressuring the family to ask the doctor to stay somewhere else. Initially, the doctor’s family ignored the demand. But on Tuesday afternoon, these men gathered again and allegedly used abusive language against the doctor,” said an investigating officer When the doctor’s brother came out to protest, he was assaulted by the accused. They also allegedly broke whatever they could find in front of the house’s main gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-warrior-doctors-home-attacked/articleshow/77095852.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Commerce seat allotments in limbo due to impasse||Ahmedabad: The fate of scores of candidates are now in suspended animation, after all members of the admission committee for commerce courses at Gujarat University resigned. The allotment of seats for the first round of admissions is to be held on Wednesday. It seems unlikely that the seat allotment can be conducted smoothly, said sources in GU. The deans of various faculties have been handed the responsibility of carrying out the work of the admission committee. This decision has not gone down well with many deans, sources added. Members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) have been holding demonstrations against the selection of the committee members and outsourcing of part of the admissions work to a private agency. All the nine members, including the convener of the committee resigned on Monday, saying they feared for their safety from the agitators and the GU authorities turned a blind eye to their concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/commerce-seat-allotments-in-limbo-due-to-impasse/articleshow/77095851.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||Police FIR political vendetta to suppress my liberty: Pratima Coutinho||PANAJI: BJP government has destroyed the credibility of the police who are acting like its political wing, Congress said on Tuesday while reacting to the chargesheet filed against Mahila Congress chief Pratima Coutinho for hurting religious sentiments. “Wherever there is a BJP government in the country, including Goa, they have destroyed the credibility of police. This FIR and consequent chargesheet questions the credibility of the police,” Congress spokesperson, advocate Yatish Naik told presspersons, calling it a ‘political’ FIR. He added that the competence of the home department is there for all to see when it comes to drugs cases, crime against women, thefts, unlawful activities, murder and corruption cases. “Police are acting like the political wing of BJP. They have earned the reputation of being caged parrots. Police are identifying those talking against them,” Naik added. Coutinho told media persons that the speed at which the chargesheet was filed was ‘shocking’ and added that it was being done to suppress her views and subdue her. “This is only a political vendetta. They’re trying to take away my liberty and freedom of speech and I condemn it. I term it murder of democracy. Nobody can kill my liberty and take away my expression of speech,” she said, adding, that she was fighting for a public cause and trying to highlight the rising petrol prices and exorbitant electricity bills. GPCC general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said if the police had to act with such speed on crimes, Goa would have been an example for other states . He pointed out numerous cases wherein no offence was taken to religious sentiments being hurt and said the BJP was selectively targeting people based on religion. Party spokesperson Agnelo Fernandes said the entire Congress is behind Coutinho and her team and apologised if the party had hurt any religious sentiments.“Why would a group of Hindu women try to hurt sentiment of their own brethren? This is nothing but revengeful politics,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pratima-police-fir-political-vendetta-to-suppress-my-liberty/articleshow/77096299.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Vajpayee’s protege who also inherited his legacy||Lucknow: In 1996, when BJP stalwart Atal Bhari Vajpayee was contesting from Lucknow in Lok Sabha elections, he was facing a stiff challenge from Bollywood star Raj Babbar. Babbar had the backing of not only the Samajwadi Party, but a local business group was also supporting him and had invited several mega stars from Mumbai to Lucknow to campaign for him. Tandon, on whose request Vajpayee had shifted to Lucknow, was baffled by a high-profile campaign of Babbar. Tandon was leading the campaign for Vajpayee with limited resources as he was busy campaigning for party candidates across the country. In a clever move, Tandon held ‘nukkad sabhas’ (corner meetings) and at every meeting, he used to narrate an interesting story to win people’s hearts. In a dramatic manner, Tandon would start: “Once a tawaif (danseuse) was contesting an election against one Shamsuddin, a well-read nobleman in Lucknow. Shamsuddin used to go among his voters daily and request them to vote for him in typical Lucknow style: ‘Dil deejiye dilruba ko, per vote Shamsuddin ko (Enjoy the company of a danseuse, but please vote for me).’ At last, Shamsuddin emerged victorious at the hustings and the ‘tawaif’ had to taste defeat.” Tandon’s hint was clear. Finally, his efforts yielded results and Vajpayee won with a huge margin. That election onwards, Tandon, a trusted lieutenant of Vajpayee, ensured that he continued his winning streak. Vajpayee, too, had full faith in Tandon’s political acumen. Behind the former PM’s smooth and almost unchallenged five consecutive wins was Tandon’s key role as a known face in the city’s literary, political, cultural and social circles. During Vajpayee’s stay in Lucknow, much before he became PM, he used to visit Tandon’s Chowk residence to have breakfast of ‘puri-kachaudi and jalebi’. And when Vajpayee would not be able to visit, Tandon would go to his guest house with his ‘Chowk special’ breakfast. It was Tandon’s charisma that thousands of Muslims accompanied Vajpayee when he used to visit collectorate for nomination. When Vajpayee became PM, Tandon was a bridge between the state and the Centre. Like PM Narendra Modi, Atal had not opened a mini-PMO in his constituency, but Tandon was a one-man office for him. When Vajpayee had left Lucknow due to his falling health after 2004, Tandon would visit him in his Delhi residence regularly to spend some emotional moments with his mentor. Now, Lucknow had lost its two charismatic personalities—Vajpayee and his protege Tandon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vajpayees-protege-who-also-inherited-his-legacy/articleshow/77096296.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Hotels get green signal to run, with many red marks in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday issued orders permitting hotels to operate in the capital, except for containment zones. Weekly markets will be allowed to function on a trial basis for a week starting Monday. Standard operating procedures (SOP) on preventive measures have also been issued for both. In a meeting of DDMA chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday, an approval was given for opening of hotels and weekly markets, but not gyms. In an order signed by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on Friday, all district magistrates and district deputy commissioners of police have been asked to ensure strict compliance with SOPs issued by the Union health ministry and take penal action against offenders for not wearing face masks, not maintaining social distancing norms and spitting in public places etc. Hotels will also have to ensure thermal screening and keep sanitiser dispensers at the entrance and only those with face masks will be allowed inside. The number of people using elevators at any point of time will be restricted and escalators will be used with one person each on alternate steps. The SOP mandates contactless processes such as QR Codes, digital payments, online forms for check-in and check-out. At restaurants inside hotels, social distancing has to be maintained and disposable menus, cloth napkins and digital payments will have to be provided. Facilities like gaming arcades and children play areas will remain closed. Hotel guests will have to preferably communicate over intercoms and room service will be provided with adequate social distancing. In case of a suspect or confirmed case, the person has to be isolated and the nearest medical facility immediately informed. After a guest leaves, the room has to be sanitised. One weekly market per day per zone in areas under all three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board have been allowed on a trial basis between August 24 and 30 from 4pm to 10pm. However, all containment zones have been kept out of these areas. Since weekly markets get frequented by a large number of people for shopping and food, strict SOP on preventive measures have been issued. As generic preventive measures, high-risk groups — senior citizens, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years — have been advised to stay home. Various other rules such as wearing face masks, maintaining physical distancing of six feet as far as possible, use of hand sanitisers wherever feasible and no spitting will have to be followed at these markets. Each vendor will be allowed to use 6x4-feet area, while there can’t be more than two persons per stall and no joining of stalls will be allowed. Vendors have to wear face masks and keep hand sanitisers ready for buyers, mark spots for social distancing and can’t allow more than two buyers at any point of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hotels-get-green-signal-to-run-with-many-red-marks/articleshow/77683820.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Hawk’s eye on isolated cases outside sealed zones in Delhi||NEW DELHI: While the number of containment zones in Delhi is 689, almost an equal number of areas that have seen isolated cases have been identified by district authorities in the capital. Aggressive screening and testing is being carried out to ensure these areas don’t become Covid-19 clusters. The number of containment zones has been going up in Delhi as bigger areas are being re-demarcated into smaller blocks, but apart from these zones where movement is heavily restricted, district authorities are keeping a hawk’s eye on the nearby “buffer zones” and areas with isolated cases as well. These measures are being taken since a fresh plan was laid down by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) on July 9 to augment rapid antigen detection tests in the city. The district authorities were asked to identify and test high-risk individuals living in areas that have isolated Covid-19 cases for over 28 days. This is apart from the screening being done in containment and buffer zones. Aggressive testing among “special surveillance groups” comprising drivers, domestic workers, plumbers, electricians, carpenters, mechanics, delivery persons etc, was also started at the same time. “In containment zones, movement is heavily restricted. Exit is not allowed for any resident except for medical emergencies and entry is limited to only essential service providers. Though no such restrictions are in place for the buffer zones or areas with isolated cases, we are carrying out screening and testing aggressively in these areas too,” said a north district official. “As soon as we get report of an isolated case, door-to-door screening of residents is carried out in the entire lane. Tests are done of those who are found to be symptomatic or those who are high-risk individuals with comorbidities,” he said. “All protocols for these procedures are strictly followed and in buffer zones or areas with isolated cases, we can’t take a chance and leave those who might have come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients. It is possible that Covid-19 patients might have come in contact with neighbours or relatives and everyone has to be screened,” he added. “All the guidelines of the revised policy are being followed in our district. Apart from buffer zones, areas with isolated cases have also been identified and wherever we are getting isolated cases, we are surveying that area,” a central district official said. “The number of areas identified, however, is dynamic and can go up or down. Screening and testing are a continuous process,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hawks-eye-on-isolated-cases-outside-sealed-zones/articleshow/77096282.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 22, 2020||Delhi||More on plate: Mutton prices may come down in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Mutton prices are finally likely to come down as the only slaughterhouse of the city and the main livestock market at Ghazipur will restart functioning from Wednesday. The abattoir was closed four months ago because of the novel coronavirus-induced crisis. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said that disinfection of the area was being carried out and the slaughterhouse would restart functioning from Wednesday. “The livestock market had briefly opened on Monday. Both the units will be fully functional from Wednesday,” Jain said. An agreement on conditional operational lease extension has been reached between the corporation and the private concessionaire who runs the slaughterhouse. The lease of the company had expired in August last year itself. Traders operating in the market say that while meat sales in the ongoing Sawan month remain low, they expect them to pick up in the coming days because of Eid. The Ghazipur slaughterhouse was shut down on March 24. Since then, the city has been facing acute shortage of meat. Mutton prices on online portals had even touched Rs 1,500 per kilogram and were now in the range of Rs 1,100-1,200 per kg on various delivery platforms. Gulfam Qureshi, who heads the local livestock market at Ghazipur, said that the lease-related matter has been sorted and both buffalo and goat-sheep sections have been reopened. “Around 1,200 traders and many farmers from neighbouring states will benefit from the reopening of the abattoir,” he added. Qureshi said that sales on Monday were low due to the ongoing festival. “Twenty two trucks of goats and sheep and seven trucks of buffaloes have arrived from UP, Rajasthan and Haryana. Eid is coming and it will help revive a large number of livelihoods,” he added. The market is spread over 7.5-acre area and there are more than 200 licensed major traders. “Social distancing norms and masks have been made mandatory. We are also trying to keep the footfall in control,” Qureshi said. Delhi Meat Merchant Association head Mohammad Arshad Qureshi said that all machinery will be cleaned before the abattoir resumes functioning on Wednesday. Meanwhile, EDMC mayor said that they had called tenders twice during last year but just single bids were received by the current operator only. “Third tender is being called. We have relaxed many conditions so that more parties can participate in the process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-on-plate-mutton-prices-may-come-down/articleshow/77096289.cms||Paras Singh
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||GTU students can pick 1 of 3 exam formats||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Technological University students in final-semester undergraduate, postgraduate, and diploma courses will have to choose any one of the three exam options till July 23. The options were made available from Tuesday, when the university issued a circular laying down the guidelines for Summer 2020 exams for all affiliated colleges. The students can take online exams starting July 30, or pen-and-paper exams to be held from August 17, or special exams to be conducted in September. The dates for the September exams are yet to be announced. All exams will follow the MCQ (multiple-choice questions) format. Students who do not select any of the three options will by default be considered for the special exams in September which will be in the pen-and-paper format. Students who opt for the online MCQ exams will have to first compulsorily take trial tests, the dates of which will be announced soon on GTU’s official website. Candidates can take the online MCQ exams using laptops, desktops, tablets, or cellphones. A consistent internet speed of 512kbps is recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-students-can-pick-1-of-3-exam-formats/articleshow/77095853.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corporation focusing on areas with 30 and more cases||Madurai: With the number of cases rising in wards like Ponmeni, Anaiyur, Ellis Nagar, Kochadai, Kannanendal, Reserve Line, Chinna Anupanadi and Villapuram Puthunaga, the Madurai corporation is giving special attention to them. All these wards had 50 or more active Covid-19 positive cases as on Monday.The total number of active cases surpassed 2,000 and stood at 2,053 on Monday. Officials from corporation’s health department said that special attention is being given to areas where the number of Covid-19 case are more than 30. Corporation is also continuing to collect about 2,500 to 2,800 samples for the past one week. “The infection rate has been coming down steadily and recently started clocking less than 3%, which has been brought in some sort relief. However, we have not taken out our focus,” a health official said.Efforts such as increase in the number of fever camps, contact tracing and extensive testing is helping the corporation bring down the positive cases. Only 76 cases were reported in corporation limits on Monday. There is a visible decline in number of positive cases in all zones, particularly in zone 4, which reported just 14 cases on Monday.Among the four zones, zone one has highest number of active positive cases at 593, which is followed by zone two with 590 cases, zone three with 472 and zone four with just 398 cases as on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corporation-focusing-on-areas-with-30-and-more-cases/articleshow/77096304.cms||V Devanathan
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Nashik division Covid recovery rate up by 10%||NASHIK: In just over a month’s time, the recovery rate of Covid-19 positive patients in Nashik division has increased by 10% as per the data with the office of the deputy director of health. Health officials said that as the rapid anitgen tests are being conducted all over the division, the number of patients could rise on one hand, however, early detection would mean faster treatment and better recovery rate. As of June 20, there were a total of 21,303 Covid-19 patients in Nashik division and approximately 14,000 have been discharged so far, taking the recovery rate to 65%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-divn-recovery-rate-up-by-10/articleshow/77096291.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 22, 2020||Delhi||Why delay in paying salary to teachers, Delhi HC asks corporation||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday questioned the delay by North Delhi Municipal Corporation in paying full salaries to its teachers engaged in Covid-19 duty. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad pointed out that even after taking into account the claim of the corporation that most dues had been cleared, it was evident that salaries for the months of May and June had not been cleared. The high court’s poser came after the civic body said it has paid salaries to all 9,000 teachers on its rolls, till March and the 5,406 of them put on Covid-19 duty, have been given their dues for April. Even as the corporation assured the court that salaries of the remaining teachers for April will be released by the end of July, the court said this will still leave the months of May and June and ordered both — the Delhi government and north corporation — to file fresh status reports by July 31, giving the updated status of release of funds or salaries in respect of the teachers employed by the civic body in its schools. It will next take up the matter on August 5. The hearing witnessed both agencies indulging in blame game, with the corporation accusing Delhi government of not releasing grant-in-aid to the civic body due to which it is unable to pay the salaries of its employees, while the state government maintained that the grant payable by it to the civic body for release of salaries to its teachers was Rs 147 crore for the first quarter of this year, that is, from April to June and it has already been released in three monthly tranches. As for the grant-in-aid required to be released by Delhi government for the second quarter (July to September), the government said the payment of Rs 49.17 crore for July will be released by the end of this month. The rest of the money in two tranches of the like amount will be given at the end of August and September, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-delay-in-paying-salary-to-teachers-hc-asks-corpn/articleshow/77096292.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Dehradun||Pvt hospitals now allowed to treat Covid patients, 210 cases new cases surface||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally shot up to 4,849 on Tuesday after 210 fresh cases surfaced on the day. In view of the surge in cases, the state government on Tuesday announced that private hospitals in the state will now be allowed to treat coronavirus cases. To treat Covid-19 infected patients, the private hospital will have to get themselves registered under the Clinical Establishment Act with the government. Such private facilities will, however, be able to charge only a set minimum purchase price for masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, and other safety gears. Till now, only the government hospitals were allowed to cater to coronavirus patients in Uttarakhand. According to the orders issued by secretary (health) Amit Negi, the private hospitals that want to get enrolled for Covid-19 treatment will have to comply with the rules laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the state, and the Centre. “The private hospitals will need to have a separate Covid-19 ward, with each bed having an oxygen facility. Also, there must be separate entrance and exit doors for Covid-19 cases. The hospital must have 24X7 availability of medical staff, including paramedics. Even specialised doctors must be available on call. The hospital must have an ICU with each bed attached to a ventilator,” said secretary Amit Negi, who maintained that hospitals will not be able to charge anything extra apart from the original rates set for the treatment of the disease. Meanwhile, death of a Covid-19 patient was also reported from Doon Hospital on the day. The death summary of the patient was awaited till the time of filing this report. A total of 56 Covid-19 infected patients have died in Uttarakhand so far. The health department informed that among the 210 positive cases reported in the state on Tuesday, the maximum of 65 were from Dehradun. Haridwar also reported 52 new cases, followed by 34 new cases from Udham Singh Nagar. “In the biggest jump in Covid-19 cases in the hill districts, Tehri Garhwal reported 21 cases, followed by 16 cases in Uttarkashi, five from Almora, and two from Champawat. Nainital also reported 15 fresh cases,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. On the day, 3,875 new samples were collected from various districts across the state. With this, the pending sample reports became 11,077 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pvt-hospitals-now-allowed-to-treat-covid-patients-210-cases-new-cases-surface/articleshow/77093154.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Furore in Punjab over Tripura CM’s ‘anti-Sikh’ comments||CHANDIGARH: Political parties in Punjab slammed Tripura CM Biplab Deb for his ‘anti-Sikh, anti-Jat’ comment, though he later apologised saying those were “thoughts of some people”. AAP leader and Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said, “BJP has always practised hate and communal politics. Such remarks raise deep questions on BJP’s intent on Punjab. He should be sacked and BJP should apologise for such shameful display of thought by its CM.” Congress MLA from Amritsar West Raj Kumar Verka said it showed the BJP’s ‘anti Sikh and anti-Jat’ mindset. “It should apologise and send a notice to the CM. A person in such a position should not have made such a statement.” Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa added, “Tripura CM needs to refresh his knowledge before commenting on any community. He has no rights to pass insensitive comments on Sikhs and Jats.” “I got to know he has apologised but it would have been better if he had done his homework before using such words. He should know about (Sikh) history and think before speaking,” he added. In Amritsar, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said Deb’s was statement unfortunate as Sikhs had made many sacrifices for the country. “Punjabis and sardars are saviours of the nation and have a glorious history,” he said. Earlier, Deb’s speech had gone viral on social media where he was heard saying that Sikhs and Jats are both strongly built but have “low intellect” and that they can be countered on intelligence if not physical prowess. Deb went on to say Bengalis are known for their sharp intellect. Taking to twitter, Deb wrote on Tuesday, “I had mentioned thoughts of some people about Punjabis and Jats during an event at Agartala Press Club. My intention was not to hurt any community. I am proud of both Punjabi and Jat communities. I have spent a lot of time among them myself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/furore-in-pb-over-tripura-cms-anti-sikh-comments/articleshow/77095866.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||18 dead in south TN, 9 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: For the first time in more than a month, the total number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 has surpassed the number of active cases in the southern districts. Of the total 31,780 cases recorded so far in the 10 southern districts, 16,480 (51.6%) have been discharged against 14,906 (46.9%) active cases. Eighteen more deaths took the total toll to 394 and the death rate in the region is 1.24%. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded its highest single day spike of 426 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the tally to 7,603. It also recorded nine deaths in three districts taking the toll to 90. In the past four days, the region witnessed more than 400 cases. The deaths were recorded in Trichy (6), Ariyalur (2), and Karur (1), according to the state media bulletin. While three of them were below 60 years, the rest of them were aged above 60. The deaths happened between July 19 and July 21. In the south, the deaths reported in the bulletin on Tuesday include a 49-year-old woman from Theni with chronic kidney disease and a renal transplant recipient admitted to a private hospital in Madurai. A 71-year-old man from Tirunelveli district admitted to the Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital on Sunday died the same night. Result showing his positivity was declared on Monday. In Theni, a 75-year-old woman with breast cancer who has undergone modified radical mastectomy admitted to the Theni Medical College Hospital died on Monday. A 63-year-old man from Madurai having carcinoma rectum died at Government Rajaji Hospital on Sunday. A 65-year-old man from Sivagangai with bed sore and a fractured femur admitted to the Sivagangai medical college hospital on Saturday died on Sunday. On Tuesday, the region added 1,408 fresh cases with Virudhunagar reporting 360 and Tuticorin 269. Virudhunagar collector R Kannan said only 140 positive cases reported on Tuesday are for fresh samples while the remaining 220 cases are backlog. Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri said that they test around 1,500 samples a day, out of which 269 tested positive on Tuesday. He added that the total backlog should be around 300 to 400 samples. Madurai with 158 cases was in the 4th place in the south on Tuesday after Kanyakumari (159). The district monitoring officer for Covid-19, B Chandramohan, said the positive cases were among the results declared for 4,008 samples, which recorded a positivity rate of 3.9% for the day. Theni (131) is the only other district with more than 100 cases on Tuesday. Ramanathapuram (78), Tirunelveli (77), Sivagangai (77), Tenkasi (54) and Dindigul (45) recorded less than 100 cases. After a day of reduction in the cases on Monday, the cases again shot up in Trichy, which recorded 127 cases. The steady rise of cases kept Trichy on top of the list of eight districts. As of Tuesday, 2,470 cases were reported in the district. Thanjavur recorded 71 cases taking the tally to 1,316. Tiruvaur had 73 cases making the tally to 1,014. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Nagappattinam (42), Pudukottai (40), Ariyalur (37), Karur (24), and Perambalur (12).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/18-dead-in-south-tn-9-in-central-dists/articleshow/77096320.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Epitome of city’s cultural pluralism, unity in diversity||Lucknow: Lalji Tandon was an embodiment of Lucknow's Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. He was respected by one and all. Though he was associated with Jansangh and later on BJP his popularity transcended political parties. He was a known figure in the city’s cultural gatherings, literary sittings and social circles. His signature 'chaat' parties at his Sondhi tola residence in a narrow lane of Chowk marked his ability to socialise. “Lalji Tandon was a father figure and guardian,” tweeted additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal, who had worked with him as director, DUDA in his urban development ministry and then as district magistrate. Caring little which party was in power in the state, Sehgal would often drive down to Tandon’s residence to spend some time with him. The historic Coffee House in posh Hazratganj in Lucknow was Lalji's favorite place where he used to meet veteran journalists, literary figures, including Bhagwati Charan Verma, Amrit Lal Nagar and Yashpal and political personalities such as Vir Bahadur Singh and even Chandra Shekhar. They all loved his company and together they discussed social, political and cultural issues. It was Lalji Tandon who as urban development minister revived the famous Coffee House in 2002. From a grassroots worker of RSS and Jansangh in early 50s, Lalji Tandon started his over 60-year political journey with the corporator's post and went ahead to become an MLA, MLC and then an MP. Tandon’s demise has left Lucknow shattered and saddened. Lucknow would now hardly find anyone who cares so much for his city. He was the voice and face of Lucknow. Vacuum caused by Lalji Tandon’s death would never be filled. In fact, Navneet Sehgal’s tweet sums up the mood of Lucknow who has lost a father figure and guardian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/epitome-of-citys-cultural-pluralism-unity-in-diversity/articleshow/77096325.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 22, 2020||Madurai||DMK holds black flag protests against exorbitant power bills||Madurai: Members of the DMK protested against the electricity tariff hikes in the state by hoisting black flags outside their homes and offices. In Madurai, the protests were held in Iyer Bungalow, in front of the DMK north district secretary P Moorthy’s house and office. Protests were also held in front of the houses of other DMK functionaries like P Velusamy and Thalapathy, with the protesters observing social distance during the protest. Panchayat presidents from the DMK also participated in the protest. District panchayat president Surya Kala led the protest in Kalikappan village, in front of her house. Similar protests were held in Rajagambiram, Kadachanendhal and other places.The protesters said that the AIADMK government continued to burden people by increasing taxes including property tax and hiking bus fares. Now people were being forced to pay exorbitant power bills. In Virudhunagar, the protest was held in front of the house of KKSSR Ramachandran in Ramamoorthy Nagar while Thiruchuzhi MLA Thangam Thennarasu led the protest held in Mallankinaru in the district. In Ramanathapuram, a protest was held in front of the town bus stop led by DMK urban district secretary, Karmegam. In Kadaladi in the district, the protest was held in front of the TNEB office, with former minister Sathyamoorthy presiding over it. In Dindigul, DMK general secretary, I Periyasamy staged the protest along with members of the party in Govindapuram. Former minister K R Periyakaruppan led the protest in Sivaganga. Black flag protests were also staged in other southern districts including Theni, Tuticorin, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-holds-black-flag-protests-against-exorbitant-power-bills/articleshow/77096313.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Vadodara||Two more die, toll increases to 65||Vadodara: The total number of Covid-19 deaths in the city and district rose 65 with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirming that two more patients succumbed. Since Monday evening, 75 new cases have been reported from the 548 samples tested. The total number of cases in the city and district have gone up to to 3,757. The highest number of cases, 18 each, were reported from the west and north zone. This was followed by the east zone where 11 cases were reported and the south zone where eight cases were reported. As many as 20 new cases were reported in Vadodara district outside VMC limits. These included cases from Dabhoi, Sindhrot, Waghodiya, Savli, Undera, Nandesari, Koyli, Sokhda and Padra. Sixty-one persons were discharged from various hospitals as well as home isolation in the city. This took the total number of persons discharged from various hospitals in the city to 3,063. The number of active cases from the city and district now stands at 629 including 37 on ventilators or BiPAP machines and 131 breathing with oxygen support. Hospitals to increase capacity of ICU, ventilators Seven leading private hospitals that head a cluster of smaller private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment will be increasing their capacity of ICUs, ventilators and oxygen beds by August 1. This was decided in a video conference on Tuesday in the wake of the increasing needs of the city and surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-more-die-toll-increases-to-65/articleshow/77094266.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Dehradun||Devasthanam Board biggest step in state, to ensure proper management||Dehradun: Welcoming the high court decision on the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday said that it was not a matter of victory or loss for anybody, but a step to ensure proper management and state-of-the-art facilities for devotees visiting the shrines. Rawat said, “The Devasthanam Board is the most reformative step taken in the state ever since it was formed. Even the Congress government under the then CM ND Tiwari had mooted the plan but it could not materialise.” He added that the board is not an attempt to go against the traditions or deprive the priests of their privileges but only a measure to facilitate proper management while giving their rightful due. The CM said, “We saw a turnout of 36 lakh for the Char Dham Yatra last year. A majority of these people come from various parts of the country and even abroad. The board has been formed to provide better facilities to those in the state and for those who take part in the yatra. The high court’s decision is a stamp of approval for the state government.” “For years, priests and locals have preserved the sacred traditions of the Char Dham. When around 50,000 to 60,000 devotees took part in the yatra in 1905, they provided them all the facilities and acted as their guardians. They even provided food and lodging when the pilgrims were stranded for days on end. Hence, there is no question of the legitimate rights of priests being ignored. I have personally seen how the locals and priests help the devotees,” he added. “We need to further improve the system in place. That is why the Devasthanam Board becomes even more important for Uttarakhand.” Rawat noted that a few meetings of the board have been held already and the government would soon announce more members for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/devasthanam-board-biggest-step-in-state-to-ensure-proper-management/articleshow/77093251.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||95-year-old beats virus, earns praise from Naveen||Berhampur: A 95-year-old man of Chakunda village in Ganjam district’s Sorada block recovered from Covid-19 in just 10 days. He attributed the recovery to the hospital care and his indomitable spirit. Barring some age-old ailments, Udayanath Bisoyi, did not have any co-morbidites and was discharged from the hospital on July18. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik congratulated Bisoyi for bringing a ray of hope to the fight against coronavirus. “Congratulation to nonagenarian Udayanath Bisoyi from Ganjam district on successfully winning the battle against Covid-19. Your win will inspire others to stay strong as Odisha fights this pandemic,” Naveen tweeted on Tuesday. District collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said he would be in home isolation for two weeks under regular check-up. “This is a unique example of the efforts made by our doctors. His willpower to live pulled him through,” Kulange said. Bisoyi had contracted the disease from one of his family members. He tested positive on July 9. He was initially taken to a Covid care centre at Sitalapalli but was later shifted to a Covid hospital on July 10 when his oxygen level dropped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/95-year-old-beats-virus-earns-praise-from-naveen/articleshow/77095094.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Investigator assures HC that murder charges will be invoked||Ahmedabad: The Vadodara police on Tuesday assured the Gujarat high court that murder chargers would be invoked against six policemen of Fatehgunj for custodial death of Telangana’s Shaikh Babu Nisar.However, investigating officer in this case, S G Patil told the high court about adding murder charges after some tough questioning about the investigation and charges invoked in this case by the judges. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria had on Monday sought an explanation from the investigating officer as to why Section 302 of IPC has not been invoked in the custodial death case and the officer was content with slapping section 304 of IPC, culpable homicide not amounting to murder.According to advocate Imtiyaz Kureshi, who represents Nisar’s son Shaikh Salim in a habeas corpus petition, the investigating officer submitted to the court on Tuesday that he would add Section 302 of IPC in the charge against the policemen, if the court ordered so. To this, the judges told him that he is probing the case and he is very well versed with the facts, and yet he should not wait for the high court to direct him what he should be doing. After the investigator assured of addition of murder charges in this case, the judges asked the public prosecutor to address the court during the next proceeding a week later on what are the provisions of paying compensation to kin of the victim in such a custodial death case. The prosecutor is expected to make submissions on compensation aspect keeping in mind the recent amendment in laws.Last month, Shaikh Salim filed habeas corpus petition in the HC seeking custody of his father, who had mysteriously disappeared on December 10, 2019 after he was taken to Fatehgunj police station for questioning in connection with a theft case. Cops continued to put up a defence claiming that Nisar was allowed to go in the evening after questioning. But when the HC asked for more details, Vadodara police lodged an FIR earlier this month against six policemen, including the then Fatehgunj police inspector for illegally detaining Nisar and torturing him.But the policemen were not booked under Section 302 of IPC and petitioner’s lawyers raised this issue during the hearing on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/investigator-assures-hc-that-murder-charges-will-be-invoked/articleshow/77095873.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Edu dept rubbishes reports on selective reopening of schools||Thiruvananthapuram: General education department has rubbished reports that government was preparing for selective reopening of schools by September, after Onam. "We haven’t taken such a decision as it won’t be wise to assume about the situation in August and beyond," said director of general education Jeevan Babu. School reopening date will be decided considering ground realities in state and general guidelines from state and central governments, he added. There were reports that government might explore the possibility of reopening schools in places where the prevalence of Covid cases is comparatively low and such an approach could be implemented after August. A statement, purportedly from the education department, had claimed that general education department may whittle down school syllabus if schools remain shut beyond September. Even as officials and the office of the minister concerned termed the claims unfounded, sources said the government had indeed shared such a thought with national disaster management authority last week. "An official, who attended the NDMA meeting, when asked about possible reopening of schools in Kerala had said that it could be after August. But the officer was sharing a general assumption, not a decision’’, said a senior official in the department. However, NDMA later published a list of possible reopening dates of schools across the country and Kerala figured in the list of states that planned to open schools by the end of August. NDMA had even asked the government to seek the feedback of parents on whether they agree with the government’s plan. "State government hasn’t taken a decision on school reopening. So, there is no question of seeking parent feedback on reopening dates. As of now, the Centre has asked all states to keep schools shut in July. Considering ground realities and the advisories from Centre, we will take further decisions in due course," said general education secretary A Shajahan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/edu-dept-rubbishes-reports-on-selective-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/77095132.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Pandemic brings work in Karnataka govt offices to a halt||BENGALURU: Work in government offices — barring some revenue-earning departments and those directly involved in the fight against the virus — has virtually come to a standstill. With many employees diverted to Covid-related work, citizens are finding it impossible to get their problems resolved. A simple thing like getting an income certificate has become a Herculean task. With more than one lakh government officials deputed on Covid duty, elected representatives, activists and residents say the entire administration has gone into hibernation. “We have been hearing constituents complain about pensions being delayed or not being paid out over the past six months,” said former Congress minister and MLA Krishna Byregowda. “We would have liked to raise the issue, but the government appears to be faltering even in addressing the health crisis. It’s a clear indicator that administration has collapsed.” For example, when residents approached east zone BBMP officials with civic problems, they were asked to come back after the Covid-19 crisis was over. A resident said every time he visited the corporation office to check the status of his application, he was turned away. Activists say it appears officials are on “paid holiday”. An official said nearly 50% of the 6.5 lakh state government employees are involved in Covid work. “We can understand if new schemes or projects can’t be implemented, but existing works are also not being carried out,” said activists, alleging officials are taking advantage of the situation. An RTI activist said, “Many officials who aren’t on Covid duty are neglecting their responsibilities and staying at home. Some aren’t turning up due to fear of contracting the virus. People should demand and get their work done.” IAS officers admitted they were aware of the problem. “Only a few officials in each department are on Covid duty. However, seeing an opportunity to shirk work, the others stay at home citing health reasons,” said officers. As a result, drain and road work, issuance of certificates and clearance of water supply applications are being delayed. “People waiting for approval for their homes are the worst affected as they have to get clearances from several departments,” they added. Also, since the government has put a freeze on development works due to funds crunch, regular administration appears to have been affected. While top government officials claim pandemic-induced curbs on movement have reduced regular administration work across the 38 government departments, some say fear of the virus has stopped most of the activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-brings-work-in-karnataka-govt-offices-to-a-halt/articleshow/77095134.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai med college tests record 1 lakh samples||Madurai: Madurai Medical College has tested over one lakh samples so far at the rate of 4,000 samples a day using innovative technologies, an achievement for the college at a crucial period of the pandemic. A 20-member team has been working round-the-clock in the laboratory to churn out the results, says Dr C Sugumari, virology department in-charge at the college. She said the sample load has been high in recent days with as many as 5,000 or more landing at the laboratory a day. In the beginning of June, MMC had two RT-PCR machines and RNA tests were done manually. As the number of tests increased exponentially, two more RT-PCR machines were added and capacity was ramped up to 2,000. One more RNA extractor was procured and with this they were able to increase testing to 2,500 samples a day. However, as the number of samples coming in increased, the microbiology department laboratory came up with innovations and expanded the number of tests. Monitoring officer for Covid-19 in the district, Dr B Chandramohan, said it was a “super-optimal utilisation of resources’’ to test a record 4,000 samples. One RNA extractor can extract 95 samples in 90 minutes. With two machines, they are able to extract 190 samples which are then ready for PCR run — all in addition to the manual extraction already going on. He said that with the help of Madurai Kamaraj University and other sources, five RT-PCR machines were mobilised, which means that the capacity was developed for running 470 samples in 90 minutes by using the latest kit. Thus the capacity has been increased to process 500 to 600 samples every 3 hours. In the last 24 hours, a record 4,000 plus samples were processed for the first time in the history of the lab by working continuously in shifts, thus achieving a total one lakh seven thousand Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-med-college-tests-record-1-lakh-samples/articleshow/77096339.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Aurangabad||State gets notice on appointment of panchayat admin||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Monday issued a notice to the government and other authorities concerned following a petition challenging the state government’s move to appoint administrators to the gram panchayats whose tenure is to end.According to the government resolutions (GR) issued by the rural development department on July 13 and 14, these appointments are to be made on the recommendations of the respective guardian ministers.Devdutta Palodkar, the lawyer representing petitioner Anil Punja Salve and and several others who challenged the GRs, said, “This action is malafide and suffers from colourable exercise of powers and utter non-application of mind. The decision is contrary to the constitutional mandate and also guidelines set out by this Hon'ble High Court in writ petition no.6405/2005.’’ Several other petitions on similar grounds have been filed and are being represented by senior counsel P M Shah, N P Patil, Rahul Karpe, Nitin Gaware and Snehal Jadhav. Following the petitions, the bench comprising Justices S V Gangapurwala and R G Awachat ordered issuance of notices to the respondents and placed the hearing of these petitions on August 7.“The GRs empower Chief Executive Officer(CEO) of Zilla Parishad of each district to make an appointment of the administrator. The said appointment is required to be made on the advice of the guardian minister of every district. The appointment would continue till holding of first meeting of the newly elected body of panchayat. The CEO is also empowered to remove the administrator on the ground of misconduct etc. A provision of appeal to the state government against the decision of the CEO has been made,’’ states the petition filed by Salve. The petitioners pointed out that “such appointment which would continue till the constitution of newly elected body would influence the constitutional mandate of conducting free and fair elections.’’ They also referred to a 2005 high court decision when on account of the unprecedented floods, the elections were postponed and the administrative bodies of outgoing members were appointed as administrators. “This was objected by the state Election Commission which insisted upon the appointment of government officers/zilla parishad employees as administrators. The high court had upheld the contention of the state election commissioner,’’ said Palodkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-gets-notice-on-appointment-of-panchayat-admin/articleshow/77093264.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 22, 2020||Goa||BJP lauds Goa for ‘effective’ Covid management||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday informed BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda that Goa is the best state in the country in terms of Covid-19 testing and recovery. Nadda, on his part, congratulated the Goa government for its effective management of the pandemic in Goa. At a virtual meeting of BJP office-bearers, Sawant spoke on the various steps taken by the government for the management of the disease such as the dedicated hospital, Covid care centres, testing labs, etc. He also urged party workers to highlight the achievements of the state government and collectively work to fight the pandemic in cooperation with the government and Covid warriors. Nadda too asked party office-bearers to connect with the people at the booth level by disseminating information regarding the government’s work vis-a-vis Covid-19 management in the state. The national party president praised the state BJP, under the leadership of Sadanand Shet Tanavade, for various service activities undertaken by party workers during the lockdown. He also said BJP is the only party in India which kept its organisational and service work during the pandemic. While Tanavade highlighted the efforts by workers in organising service activities and party programmes, Sawant highlighted the implementation of various schemes for the benefit of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-lauds-goa-for-effective-covid-management/articleshow/77096345.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Shields up as corona crisis deepens||BHOPAL: The Union health ministry warning against use of N95 masks with valved respirator has lead to confusion in the state capital. The Centre has said that N95 masks are detrimental as the valves do not prevent the virus from escaping out of the mask. The ministry has prescribed the use of home-made protective cover described on the website on the ministry. “The presence of an exhalation valve reduces exhalation resistance, which makes it easier to breathe (exhale)” according to the US CDC. Reactions to the directives have been swift. “This will create a panic situation. Globally, it is believed that N95 type masks are the safest. Is there any scientific study backing the DGHS circular? Are we to believe that homemade masks are safer than N95 masks?” said Amulya Nidhi, representative of NGO, Swasth Adhikar Manch. “Masks with respirators were supposed to be the best bet at avoiding the infection. If N95 masks are not good, then what are the other options?” questioned Rakesh Singh, a chemist at Hamidia road. “Thousands of N95 masks have been sold and we have stocked up anticipating demand,” he added. When contacted, health department officials did not respond. Off the record, one official said, “Rational use of protective gear is something we adhere to. Not all need N95 masks. Maintaining basic social distancing and hygiene is the way forward for the general public.” He explained that if correctly worn, the filtration capacity of N95 masks exceeds those of the triple-layer medical masks. Since these provide a much tighter air seal than the triple-layer medical masks, they are designed to protect the wearer from inhaling airborne particles. The letter to all states and union territories was sent on Monday by Dr Rajiv Garg (DGHS, health ministry). “N95 mask is detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of coronavirus,” Dr Garg said. He also cited government guidelines on homemade face masks. Dr Garg stated, “It has been observed that there is inappropriate use of the N-95 mask (particularly with valved respirator) by the public other than designated health workers. In this regard. I would like to draw your attention to the advisory on the use of homemade protective cover for face and mouth available on the website of MoHFW. It is to bring to your knowledge that the use of valved respirator N-95 masks is detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of coronavirus as it does not prevent the virus from escaping out of the mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/what-else-if-not-n-95-asks-bhopal/articleshow/77095150.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Aurangabad||HC acquits 2 for sending youths for terror training||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court recently allowed criminal appeals by two men who were sentenced by a Jalgaon court to 10 years of imprisonment under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code in 2017 for their involvement in sending some suspects for terror training to Kashmir.While quashing and setting aside the Jalgaon court’s order, Justice R G Awachat observed: “On close scrutiny of the evidence in the case, it is found to be a case of no evidence against the appellants herein.”The two from Jalgaon were members of the banned SIMI (Students Islamic Movement of India). The trail court had acquitted the two appellants of 10 other charges, including waging war against the nation. It had, however, convicted them under Section 120-B of IPC for absconding till their arrest in 2006. Parvej Khan Riyazodding Khan (40), and Asif Khan alias Junaid Abdulla Basheer Khan (35) had approached the high court separately through lawyers Joydeep Chatterji and Asfiya N Ansari respectively, challenging the trail court verdict.Justice Awachat observed: “I have carefully scrutinised the evidence of all the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution to bring home the charge against the appellants. I have also gone through the impugned judgment to find that the trial court reproduced the evidence of all the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution and without assigning any reason, convicted the appellants.”The HC added: “The judgment and order of conviction and sentence dated April 1, 2017, passed by the additional sessions judge, Jalgaon in sessions case No.173/2006, convicting the appellants for the offence punishable under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code is hereby set aside. Both the appellants are acquitted of the offence punishable under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code. Both the appellants have been in jail. They be set at liberty forthwith, if not required in any other case.”A chargesheet was filed against 16 accused, including the two appellants who were shown to be as wanted. They were accused of sending youths to take training from terrorist groups in Jammu and Kashmir in handling sophisticated weapons and making bombs. It was found that they and their associates were active members of SIMI.The trial was, however, conducted in the case of 10 accused who had been arrested and five of them were acquitted. The two appellants were later arrested in 2006 and a supplementary chargesheet was filed against them. The trial court had on April 1, 2017 acquitted the two of all the charges, except the one under Section 120-B of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-acquits-2-for-sending-youths-for-terror-training/articleshow/77093318.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Man hacked to death on brother’s death anniv||Sivaganga: A 27-year-old man was hacked to death by a gang due to previous enmity. The incident took place on Monday night in Anuppanadi in Madurai, when the victim, identified as M Muthukumar from Mudhuvanthidal village near Thirupuvanam in Sivaganga district, was pasting posters to commemorate his elder brother’s death anniversary. Muthukumar, a daily wage labourer had come to his sister Sivasakthi’s house in Gatelock Road in Mela Anupanadi for his brother Chellapandian’s 6th death anniversary, which fell on Tuesday. At around 11.30pm, when Muthukumar, along with his friends Shankar and Sudalaimani, were sticking the posters at Uppukara Road, a gang of seven including Saravanan, Senthil and Suresh surrounded and hacked him to death. He collapsed with multiple injuries and died on the spot. On being alerted, a police team shifted the body to the Government Rajaji Hospital. According to police sources, Chellapandian had murdered one Abbasmani in 2014. Abbasmani’s friends took revenge by killing him when he came out on bail the same year. In response, Chellapandian’s brothers Muthukumar and Settu Manikandan murdered Chellapandian’s friend Sathya, suspecting that he had helped their enemies. Sathya’s friends Vinoth, Saravanan, Senthil, Suresh, Kannan, Manikandan and Jegadeesan murdered Muthukumar to avenge for their friend’s death. Based on a complaint from Sivasakthi, a case was registered with the Teppakulam police station under various sections of IPC including 302 (punishment for murder). Vinoth, Saravanan, Senthil and Suresh have been picked up by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-hacked-to-death-on-brothers-death-anniv/articleshow/77096353.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||3 accused cops taken to Sathankulam||Tuticorin: Former Sathankulam police constables Samidurai, Chelladurai and Vail Muthu, who were taken under custody by the CBI for three days from Monday evening, were taken to the Sathankulam police station for inquiry on Tuesday afternoon. The CBI team also went to the house of victims Jeyaraj and Beniks in Sathankulam and conducted inquiries with their kin including Jayasingh and David, Beniks’ uncles. Former woman police personnel, who had worked in the station, were among those who were questioned at the station. The probe went on for nearly five hours till around 6.30 pm, after which the team returned to Madurai with the three constables. Meanwhile, talking to reporters in Tirunelveli on Tuesday, chairman of the state minorities commission, T John Mahendran said that the commission has sent a notice to the Tuticorin district collector and the deputy inspector general of police for Tirunelveli range asking for an explanation on the custodial deaths of Jeyaraj and Beniks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-accused-cops-taken-to-sathankulam/articleshow/77096347.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||After 10-day monitoring, 1 more week of isolation||Lucknow: A day after allowing home isolation for asymptomatic patients, the Uttar Pradesh government revised the Covid-19 discharge policy on Tuesday to formalize the provisions for monitoring the health of patients under various categories. As per the policy, the office of the CMO will monitor the health of every patient in home quarantine for a period of 10 days. If no symptoms appear for 10 days, then the patient would be deemed recovered and monitoring would stop. However, such patients will have to stay under home isolation for another seven days. The policy also said that there is no need for a follow up test of such a patient. But if the patient shows symptoms during the 10-day period, then depending on the age and comorbidity of the patient, he/she will be admitted to Level 1/2/3 hospital. Health officials revealed that the policy change was a need of the hour to accommodate the new rule of home isolation of asymptomatic patients. “Many states have a large burden of population under home isolation. In UP too, about 75% of the patients are asymptomatic and after the policy coming into place, those testing positive after July 20 will stay at home. The discharge protocol has been notified to eliminate any scope of ambiguity,” said a senior officer. The terms and conditions for discharge of patients in the other categories including – asymptomatic patients under facility treatment, mild, moderate and severe cases – are largely the same as described in the previous order issued on June 20. Like before, asymptomatic patients under facility treatment will be discharged without any test, ten days after being diagnosed with the infection if no symptoms appear during this period. Those with mild, moderate and severe symptoms will be allowed to go after a minimum 12 days of hospital stay provided they do not show any symptoms for three consecutive days and the test comes negative for the novel coronavirus infection. The follow up tests in all categories will be done through the TrueNat machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-10-day-monitoring-1-more-week-of-isolation/articleshow/77096341.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 22, 2020||Trichy||6 BDU constituent colleges yet to start online UG admissions||Trichy: While arts and science colleges including the government colleges have started issuing online applications for admissions to various under graduate programs, six constituent colleges under Bharathidasan University are yet to begin the process.While there is no online platform made available by the university for the aspirants to apply for the programs in the colleges, teachers fear that seats may go vacant if the admission process is delayed further.For the first time, applications are received only online across the arts and science colleges in the state. While government-aided and self-financing colleges are receiving online applications through their college websites, a dedicated portal has been created to submit applications for students who are willing to join 109 government arts colleges.Bharathidasan University too has started inviting online applications for its five-year integrated programs apart from B Tech programs through its website, but six constituent arts and science colleges under Bharathidasan University may have to wait for some more time.Speaking to TOI, registrar G Gopinath said that they are in the process of developing a software to invite online applications for the six constituent arts and science colleges. He said that the process is likely to be completed in a couple of days as the software is in the testing stage.A faculty member from a constituent college said that when the admission process has already started in other colleges, any further delay may affect the prospects of the college in filling all the seats. The faculty member said that the university should have taken the initiative early to ensure that online applications are invited by the constituent colleges along with other colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-bdu-constituent-colleges-yet-to-start-online-ug-admissions/articleshow/77096351.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Change of guard in state BJP, distancing safeguard slips||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government pushes for social distancing to control Covid, but the precautions were forgotten during Tuesday’s ceremony in which C R Paatil took over as the state BJP president. All BJP MPs and a majority of its MLAs and office-bearers and about 2,000 party supporters thronged the venue of the ceremony, Gujarat BJP’s headquarters Kamalam. BJP workers stood close to each other even when CM Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel, and other leaders arrived. Ministers were seen clustering together. The top leaders removed their masks to speak to the media. Party workers also failed to maintain social distancing as they rushed to greet Paatil who has taken over from Jitu Vaghani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/change-of-guard-in-state-bjp-distancing-safeguard-slips/articleshow/77095892.cms||---
July 22, 2020||India||Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon, Atal’s man Friday, dies at 85||LUCKNOW: Madhya Pradesh governor and one of BJP’s senior-most politicians, Lalji Tandon — who had the reputation of being Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s man Friday in UP — passed away in Lucknow after prolonged illness on Tuesday morning. He was 85. Tandon — a former Lucknow MP and minister — was admitted to hospital on June 11 with a liver ailment. “Tandon’s condition continued to deteriorate and his liver and kidney stopped functioning following which he was put on a life support system. He died at 5.35am,” said Medanta director, Dr Rakesh Kapoor. PM Narendra Modi extended his condolence with a tweet: “Shri Lalji Tandon will be remembered for his untiring efforts to serve society. He played a key role in strengthening BJP in Uttar Pradesh. He made a mark as an effective administrator, always giving importance to public welfare. Anguished by his passing away.” UP CM Yogi Adityanath, too, said the country lost a great public figure and an able administrator. He also announced a three-day state mourning, besides declaring a holiday on Tuesday. An affable politician, Tandon was also the ‘Rakhi brother’ of BSP chief Mayawati who also expressed grief terming him as a “popular and cultured” leader. Tandon was one of the key BJP figures in UP for a long time. In 2009 LS polls, Tandon replaced Vajpayee as BJP candidate from Lucknow and was elected. Eventually on August 23, 2018, Tandon was appointed Bihar governor where he remained till July 28, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandon-atals-man-friday-dies-at-85/articleshow/77097165.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chandrakant Raghunath Paatil takes charge of Gujarat BJP||GANDHINAGAR: Lok Sabha member from Navsari, Chandrakant Raghunath Paatil, on Tuesday took charge as Gujarat BJP president and urged BJP workers to facilitate the reach of central and the state government schemes to people across the state. Paatil asked the cadre to use technology to reach out to the masses. He took charge from Jitu Vaghani in the presence of chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, MPs and MLAs and other party leaders at the state BJP headquarters, Kamalam.  Paatil thanked PM Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and the Gujarat BJP for giving him the opportunity. “I mostly used sat in the last chairs during party meetings and now I am on the dais. This can happen only in the BJP, where there is a democratic way of choosing the leadership. BJP’s success lies in collective leadership,” he said. Paatil said his immediate priority will be to ensure the BJP wins all eight assembly byelections and the subsequent elections. “Defeating the Congress is not the only priority. Reaching out to the masses with the welfare schemes of the central and state government through party workers is my key priority. My focus will be on use of technology to reach out to the masses during this pandemic,” he said. “Of the 400 schemes PM has launched so far, we can directly help people through 60 central schemes. We can create a long-lasting positive impression in their minds. We will work in that direction,” said the three-time MP. He added that, “Unlike Congress workers, BJP workers are on the ground to help people affected by the coronavirus.”  Referring to protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at Shaheen Bagh in Delhi earlier this year, Paatil said though the protest had the “backing of Congress”, it created a negative impression about the BJP. “The Congress was behind Shaheen Bagh (anti-CAA protest). Rahul Gandhi also gave statements,” he alleged, adding, “But, just think for a moment, such statements created a negative impression about us among the masses.”“Those who were forced to take another route and travel an additional three to four kilometres due to the protest at Shaheen Bagh would blame the government, not the Congress, for the inconvenience,” he said. CM Vijay Rupani expressed confidence that the BJP will form the government in Gujarat for a record seventh time in 2022, when the party will fight the state assembly polls under Paatil. Nitin Patel, deputy CM and outgoing state party president Jitu Vaghani lauded Paatil’s contributions as a grassroots worker. New chief hailed: ‘Savaya Gujarati’ After facing criticism over the appointment of a non-Gujarati leader, C R Paatil, as the state party president the Gujarat BJP launched a social media campaign on Tuesday. The campaign is titled ‘Savaya_Gujarati_CRPatil’. The term ‘Savaya Gujarati’ is used to hail non-Gujarati residents who have contributed more than the average Gujaratis for the welfare of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paatil-takes-charge-of-state-bjp/articleshow/77095902.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Many students seek help from facilitation centre to apply online||Madurai: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic this year, all applications for admissions to government arts and science colleges across the state had been made completely online. The online portal, www.tngasa.in, became fully functional from Monday. Many students in Madurai district, on Tuesday, were also found approaching the district facilitation centre (DFC) at Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women for help to apply for courses online.“We act as a help desk and guide students to apply online by using their smart phones or laptops. Phone number of DFC co-ordinators are also available on the website using which they can contact us to clear any doubts. If in case, the students don’t even have a phone, we will help them apply if they come to the college or they can go to their nearest e-seva centre,” said Baby Rani, co-ordinator, Sri Meenakshi Government College. Students are not being encouraged to physically come to the college campus. However, for the few students who still come, all precautionary measures like sanitization, masks and temperature screening are followed.On the website, students would have to first register as user and fill in the details of the registration application. Only then, students would be able to apply to their college and course of choice. “It is easy to apply if the students have all necessary personal details, documents, certificates, and their debit/credit card. We will help out as much as we can for even steps like making online payment or creating email ID, which not everyone may know,” said P Meenakshi, co-coordinator at the college. After registration, certificates and documents can be uploaded later from July 25.At the same time, college professors are also worried about how far the online admission system will be effective. “We have so many students coming from nearby villages and remote areas without internet access and it is difficult for them to travel as public transport is not available now. Even as the government is making online applications as accessible as possible, it remains to be seen if we get as much applications and admissions as before,” said a retired principal of a government arts and science college. The last date for applying is July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-students-seek-help-from-facilitation-centre-to-apply-online/articleshow/77096360.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Many testing voluntarily or for surgeries seen Covid +ve||Madurai: More patients who are set to undergo medical procedures or are getting themselves tested are turning Covid-19 positive in Madurai district now compared to the start of July. On the other hand, the number of influenza-like illness (ILI) cases with no direct contact and travel history is seeing a marginal decline compared to number of contacts of Covid-19 patients.According to data with district health officials, as many as 401 people have tested Covid-19 positive in the district between July 1 and 20 under the category ‘others’. They include those with ILI symptoms who are to undergo emergency or elective medical procedures and those who underwent ‘self-testing’. “At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), as of now, we are testing only patients who are set to undergo medical procedures, including labour, if they are symptomatic or have travel or contact history. Even in such cases, one or two are turning Covid-19 positive every day. So, we want there to be relaxations in norms for testing so that all those set to undergo elective and emergency procedures or deliveries can be tested,” said Dr K Senthil, state president, Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA). He said that such patients often have co-morbid conditions and hence are high risk. Doctors from private hospitals as well are calling for relaxation of testing norms as many are forced to turn away even their patients who are showing ILI symptoms immediately to GRH.‘Self-testing’ includes asymptomatic individuals who strongly suspect they may have been in contact with a Covid-19 patient or is from a containment area. However, they do not fall under primary or secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients. Health officials said that ‘self-testing’ is being allowed only for a few who are insistent. The number of Covid-19 cases categorised under ‘others’, which is seeing a gradual rise, saw a marginal increase in total from 189 (July 1-10) to 212 (July 11-20)Data also showed a marginal decline of ILI cases when compared to contact cases compared to the start of July. On the other hand, nearly double the contacts of Covid-19 patients tested Covid-19 positive between July 11-20 compared to the period between July 1-10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-testing-voluntarily-or-for-surgeries-seen-covid-ve/articleshow/77096358.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Reserve 50 beds for us: KIMS staff||HUBBALLI: Staff at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) are demanding that the institution reserve at least 50 beds for them, since some of them who caught the infection in the course of duty were left stranded without beds. The institution is the lone government hospital treating Covid-19 patients in the district. At least 30 staff, including interns, post graduate students, nurses, lab technicians and doctors have been infected, sources said, but the hospital has no beds available. A doctor said an intern working in the Covid ward tested positive two days ago, but could not get a bed. The intern had to wait till a patient was discharged. “We’ve been asking the director to create separate infrastructure to treat Covid health workers, but our demands have fallen on deaf ears,” said another doctor. “We cannot get a bed in the hospital where we have been working tirelessly to save lives. Discussions on the issue have been on for the last two months, but nothing has materialised.” Because they have no place to go, many of those infected stay in their hostel rooms, where they could end up infecting others. Dr Ramalingappa Antartani, Kims director, said the administration plans to use the newly built cardiology block to house and treat staff. “Work on installing oxygen pipeline and other infrastructure is going on and it will be ready in a week,” Antartani said. He said another 500 beds will be added to treat Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/reserve-50-beds-for-us-kims-staff/articleshow/77094959.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
July 22, 2020||Bengaluru||BIEC lacks staff, water and sanitation: Congress||BENGALURU: The Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) Covid care centre (CCC) — touted as the largest in the country, has neither healthcare workers nor basic amenities, but the government is set to launch the 10,100-bed facility on Friday, Congress alleged. Siddaramaiah, opposition leader in the legislative assembly, who visited the facility on Tuesday, said it did not have doctors, nurses or para medical staff and it also lacked water supply, drainage and toilets. “This centre, which will become operational from Friday, will require at least 2,000 health staff, but none have taken charge yet,” Siddaramaiah said. “The government should have first ensured adequate doctors, nurses and para medical staff and group D employees to run the facility smoothly. Instead, it focused on renting beds at exorbitant costs.” Siddaramaiah also alleged that the problem of contractors supplying beds on hire-purchase schemes to the CCC hasn’t been resolved. The government initially planned to rent beds at Rs 800 per set (it includes 21 items), but decided to purchase seven and hire 14 items after it received flak over exorbitant rentals. Many online furniture rentals offer beds for Rs 1,000 a month. In his address to the state on Tuesday, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said he decided to cancel renting the bed sets as soon as he realised that the rent of Rs 800 per day was too high. “[DK] Shivakumar [KPCC president] is worried mattresses used by Covid patients will be distributed for use in our government hostels after the pandemic cloud clears, but I assure him they will be burnt and only cots will be distributed among our primary health care centres,” the CM said. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah also said Monday’s press conference jointly addressed by health minister B Sriramulu and deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan to deny charges of corruption was more like an exercise to hide facts than present proof with accurate data. In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah said, “They have not answered any of my questions which were raised earlier. I will respond in detail on Thursday once I receive a written explanation from the government. It's not just about the procurement of medical equipment, I had even asked for data about food kits, PDS distribution, beds procured, quarantine centres and isolation wards. Where is the data for that?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/biec-is-empty-shell-lacks-staff-water-and-sanitation-congress/articleshow/77095162.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nashik||Housing societies requested to set up Covid care centres||Nashik: Large residential societies and social organisations have been requested by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to set up Covid care centres (CCCs) within the housing societies for the isolation of patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms by adhering to all government norms.Such Covid care centres, however, will not be allowed to isolate the senior citizens, children below 10 years of age and patients with comorbid conditions. The NMC has taken this decision as per government guidelines.Social organisations and big residential societies that choose to set up these CCCs will have to appoint a caretaker at the centre, said the NMC officials. Around 85% of all Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic and get cured without requiring medical assistance. Only 15% of the patients need hospitalisation and just 5% of them need ventilator support. As per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), asymptomatic patients can stay at their homes provided they have adequate space and facilities. “We have already started home isolation facilities for asymptomatic patients in the city,” the officials said. However, asymptomatic patients who don’t have facilities at their homes are being treated in Covid care centres of the municipal corporation.Around 250 asymptomatic patients are currently recuperating at their homes, said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/housing-societies-requested-to-set-up-covid-care-centres/articleshow/77072745.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Bhopal tops July chart, new hotspots emerge||BHOPAL: Over 10,500 fresh infections were reported in the state in the first 21 days of July. And of these, over 50% of the cases — 5612 — were reported from only four districts — Bhopal (1723), Indore (1516), Gwalior (1387) and Morena (986). Alarmingly, the number of active cases have increased by three folds from 2,625 on July 1 to 7,082 on July 21. And again only these four districts — Indore (1560), Bhopal (1232), Gwalior (725) and Morena (387) — account for 55% or 390 of the total active cases of the state. The state not only experienced a spurt in new cases in July, but also reported 184 deaths. Indore and Bhopala alone saw 115 of the 184 deaths in first three weeks of July. Indore reported 70 deaths, averaging more than 3 deaths per day in July while Bhopal reported 45 deaths, averaging 5 deaths in every two days. Barring Bhopal and Indore — the Covid hotspots of MP — the other districts where maximum number of new infections were reported are Gwalior, Morena, Jabalpur, Khandwa, Khargone, Shivpuri, Tikamgarh, Bhind and other districts. Districts like Gwalior, Morena and Tikamgarh share borders with neighbouring states. Studies by district administration in Morena and Gwalior have found that the spurt in Covid cases in the district was due to influx of people from neighbouring states as restrictions were relaced due to Unlock. There is another aspect to the increase in number of cases, say officials, adding that the testing capacity in the state has also been ramped up in July. While only 3.65 lakh persons were tested for Covid-19 between March 24 to June 30, 2.5 lakh tests have been conducted in first three weeks of July. Of the 3.5 lakh samples that were tested till June, 13,593 people tested positive — which translates to 3.7 positivity rate. Of the 2.5 lakh samples tested in July, 10,502 persons were tested positive — which amounts to 4.2 positivity rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-tops-july-covid-chart-new-hotspots-emerge/articleshow/77095159.cms||Amarjeet Singh
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||No reservation for guest faculty: HC||Chandigarh: A plea seeking reservation in the appointments of guest faculty teachers in the Haryana education department has failed to find favour from the Punjab and Haryana high court. The HC has refused to extend the benefits of reservations in engagement of guest faculty teachers. The court observed that the reservation, if any, would be against regular sanctioned posts only and the engagement of guest faculty teachers can only be seen as an ad hoc/interim measure. The HC also relied on the fact that no recruitment process is conducted by the state to engage guest faculty teachers. Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa of the HC passed these orders while dismissing the petition filed by Karnal resident Subhash Chander and others. The three petitioners, who belong to the Scheduled Castes (SC) category, sought directions to the education department, Haryana to grant to the petitioners benefit of reservation in the matter of appointment of guest faculty teachers. During case hearing, the counsel for petitioners accepted that as of date, no recruitment process has been initiated for appointment of guest faculty teachers in the state. After hearing the matter in detail, the HC held that the prayer raised in the instant petition does not merit acceptance. “Such view is being taken for the two counts--- During the course of hearing, counsel concedes that as of date, no recruitment process has been initiated for appointment of guest faculty teachers. Sans a recruitment process having been initiated by the respondent/education department, the question for grant of reservation, be it to any category, does not arise. Even otherwise, there would be no vested right with the petitioners to claim reservation. Suffice it to observe that reservation, if any, would be against regular sanctioned posts. The engagement of guest faculty teachers can only be seen as an ad hoc/interim measure. There is no merit in the instant petition and the same is dismissed,” observed the HC while dismissing the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-reservation-for-guest-faculty-hc/articleshow/77095896.cms||Ajay Sura
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Rajasthan DGP writes to Hry over MLAs||Chandigarh: With the alleged attempt to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government by several MLAs headed by Sachin Piliot continuing, Rajasthan director general of police (DGP) has urged his Haryana counterpart for cooperation in investigations. The communication is consequent to the delayed access given to the Rajasthan police team headed by an SP-level officer who visited the hotel in Manesar where the Rajasthan MLAs allegedly checked in. The team of the special operations group (SOG) came to question the MLAs in connection with the two FIRs registered in Rajasthan after they went missing and announced that they would desert the party. Although the team was given access, they returned empty-handed as there was no MLA. This raised many eyebrows, especially over the deployment of a heavy force of Haryana Police outside the resort. Both cases are directly linked to the runaway MLAs of Rajsthan who were alleged to be camping inside a luxury hotel in Manesar. The current communication from Bhupender Yadav, DGP Rajasthan, addressed to Manoj Yadava, DGP Haryana, has been received at Haryana police headquarters. “This was a routine communication from Rajasthan seeking our help for their teams in the cases registered there,’’ said Yadava, declining to comment further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rajasthan-dgp-writes-to-hry-over-mlas/articleshow/77095897.cms||Manvir Saini
July 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maintain record of every plasma unit issued, FDA tells blood banks; cap on processing fees on the cards||Mumbai: The state Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued tighter guidelines to blood banks for the dispensation of convalescent plasma that is in demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Moreover, discussions have also been held about regulating the processing charges for plasma after instances of patients being charged exorbitant amounts across the country was widely reported. The FDA said that the onus will be on blood banks to maintain detailed records of every unit of plasma issued by them. “We would want them to keep a photocopy of the doctor’s prescription asking for plasma and a detailed record of the person collecting it including identity proof and contact number. This is only so that we can scrutinize later whether the units have gone to genuine patients,” said D R Gahane, joint commissioner (drugs), FDA. Around 14 blood banks in the city have got FDA licence to prepare the convalescent plasma from a recovered patient’s blood. But Gahane said, the in-house blood banks of Nair and HN Reliance hospitals were the only ones with sizeable units in their possession. “Nair has collected around 100 units, while Reliance hospital has 70-80 units. But both these hospitals were part of trials so most of their stock is being used there,” he added. The off-label or emergency use of plasma was allowed by the health ministry on June 13, but most banks have not been able to start preparing the blood product due to some technical specifications laid down by the Drug Controller General of India. About the processing charges, Gahane said platelet apheresis is fixed at Rs 11,000. “However, additional precautionary measures and tests have to be carried out for plasma, in which case the cost incurred could be slightly more. We are still having discussions with banks,” he said. FDA officials, however, said that they haven’t received any official complaints of overcharging or fraud related to plasma. A doctor, requesting anonymity, said, “That’s partly because city doctors are using it conservatively.” —Sumitra Deb Roy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maintain-record-of-every-plasma-unit-issued-fda-tells-blood-banks-cap-on-processing-fees-on-the-cards/articleshow/77095906.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Farmer alleges harassment from finance company||Trichy: A farmer in Trichy district has lodged a police complaint against loan recovery agents of a private finance company in Trichy for harassing him mentally as he was unable to remit his EMI.I Muruganantham, 34, a native of Kuruvampatti near Vathalai, said he availed a loan of Rs 1.90 lakh from the company to buy a tractor in 2019. Since he was not able to earn anything in the last three months, he could not remit an instalment. Muruganantham said that for the past few days loan recovery agents have been visiting his house daily and threatening him with dire consequences if he did not pay. Recently, one of them sent him a WhatsApp message saying they were ready to waive his loan if he produced his death certificate, Muruganantham alleged.“I got Rs 1.90 lakh loan from the finance company in Trichy and bought a second-hand tractor in 2019. I had to remit Rs 31,800 once in three months with interest. I have repaid Rs 90,000 and a sum of Rs 1 lakh is due. Even though I handed a letter to the company appealing for a three-month grace period to repay my loan due, some people have been visiting my house and threatening me to pay it immediately”, he said. The finance company did not respond despite attempts by TOI to contact them. Chellappa, inspector of police, Vathalai, told TOI that they had received a complaint from Muruganantham and he had asked the collection agents to appear before him for inquiry on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmer-alleges-harassment-from-finance-company/articleshow/77096364.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Has Suresh Kumar offered to resign?||Chandigarh: Speculations were rife on Tuesday about Punjab’s chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar offering to resign. He is known to be a close confidant of chief minister Amarinder Singh and had expressed willingness to put in his papers earlier also. Sources said Kumar is believed to have conveyed his decision two days back. However, there was no official confirmation of Kumar’s resignation. When contacted, media adviser to the CM Raveen Thukral denied that any decision to quit had been received from Kumar. Kumar remained the fulcrum of the bureaucracy and has been involved in all key decisions so far. Incidentally, the speculations follow 1987-batch IAS officer Vini Mahajan’s appointment as the new chief secretary last month. Earlier, following similar speculations about Kumar’s ‘resignation’, the Punjab government had on September 7, 2019, issued a statement to clarify that he had not quit. However, the denial had come after two days of Kumar’s ‘decision to quit’ remained the talk of the secretariat. Various possible reasons were attributed to Kumar’s ‘unhappiness’ after being handpicked by Amarinder for the top job. Earlier, in August 2017, Kumar had reportedly offered to resign after the Punjab and Haryana high court notice to the Centre and Punjab governments on his appointment as chief principal secretary. In the petition, it was contended that there was no provision in the rules for bestowing the rank of a cabinet secretary on a retired officer. He was delegated powers to oversee the functioning of the principal secretary to the CM, which was a cadre post, it was argued. It is believed that Amarinder had persuaded him to stay on at the top post on both the previous occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/has-suresh-kumar-offered-to-resign/articleshow/77095898.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Two more students who appeared for KEAM exam test positive||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : One more student who appeared for the Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical (KEAM) entrance examination in the city tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of such infected students here to three. Another student who attended the examination in Kozhikode has also come down with the coronavirus. The capital city, which has the highest number of active cases in the district, is dealing with positive cases from a mass event for the first time in four months. Nearly 49 contacts of the three students are being monitored by the district health team for possible symptoms. Immediate contacts, family members as well as those who have come in direct contact with the students, who are now under treatment, are being monitored for symptoms. The exam was held on July 16 and the three took the examination at the Valiyathura, Thycaud and Karamana centres. The Kozhikode student, who hails from Olavanna, had appeared at the Malabar Christian College centre. The student’s father had arrived from the Gulf in March and has also contracted the disease. The district administration has asked all those who attended the examination along with the student to stay under observation. The student’s relatives have also been placed under quarantine. Over 10,000 students attended the entrance exam across 38 centres in the capital. The most worrying concern for the health team is that a parent who brought a student for the exam at the centre at Cottonhill School has also tested positive. He is a resident of Muttathara. The contact tracing team has failed to make any progress and the district administration has appealed to all those who had been at the school on the day of examination to self-monitor for symptoms. The district health team is also apprehensive about an outbreak among parents who had assembled at some examination centres. With clusters already emerging from markets, slums, coastal areas and institutions another one is the last thing the city could afford. Earlier, the district team had begun contact tracing of a few persons after it was reported that an Italian tourist who was tested positive at Varkala had attended the Attukal pongala. The KEAM cases triggered strong reactions from the opposition. Shashi Tharoor MP posted on Facebook that the state was paying the price for the government’s unwise decision to hold the examination amid the lockdown despite appeals from students and himself. K S Sabarinadhan MLA said positive cases among students who attended KEAM evoke grave concerns. “An entire city and its residents are reeling from anxiety owing to distorted decisions of the state government. You should have avoided this,” he said in a Facebook post. (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-more-who-appeared-for-keam-exam-test-positive/articleshow/77103188.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 22, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Two more students who appeared for KEAM exam test positive||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : One more student who appeared for the Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical (KEAM) entrance examination in the city tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of such infected students here to three. Another student who attended the examination in Kozhikode has also come down with the coronavirus. The capital city, which has the highest number of active cases in the district, is dealing with positive cases from a mass event for the first time in four months. Nearly 49 contacts of the three students are being monitored by the district health team for possible symptoms. Immediate contacts, family members as well as those who have come in direct contact with the students, who are now under treatment, are being monitored for symptoms. The exam was held on July 16 and the three took the examination at the Valiyathura, Thycaud and Karamana centres. The Kozhikode student, who hails from Olavanna, had appeared at the Malabar Christian College centre. The student’s father had arrived from the Gulf in March and has also contracted the disease. The district administration has asked all those who attended the examination along with the student to stay under observation. The student’s relatives have also been placed under quarantine. Over 10,000 students attended the entrance exam across 38 centres in the capital. The most worrying concern for the health team is that a parent who brought a student for the exam at the centre at Cottonhill School has also tested positive. He is a resident of Muttathara. The contact tracing team has failed to make any progress and the district administration has appealed to all those who had been at the school on the day of examination to self-monitor for symptoms. The district health team is also apprehensive about an outbreak among parents who had assembled at some examination centres. With clusters already emerging from markets, slums, coastal areas and institutions another one is the last thing the city could afford. Earlier, the district team had begun contact tracing of a few persons after it was reported that an Italian tourist who was tested positive at Varkala had attended the Attukal pongala. The KEAM cases triggered strong reactions from the opposition. Shashi Tharoor MP posted on Facebook that the state was paying the price for the government’s unwise decision to hold the examination amid the lockdown despite appeals from students and himself. K S Sabarinadhan MLA said positive cases among students who attended KEAM evoke grave concerns. “An entire city and its residents are reeling from anxiety owing to distorted decisions of the state government. You should have avoided this,” he said in a Facebook post. (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/2-more-who-appeared-for-keam-exam-test-positive/articleshow/77103187.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Two more students who appeared for KEAM exam test positive||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : One more student who appeared for the Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical (KEAM) entrance examination in the city tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of such infected students here to three. Another student who attended the examination in Kozhikode has also come down with the coronavirus. The capital city, which has the highest number of active cases in the district, is dealing with positive cases from a mass event for the first time in four months. Nearly 49 contacts of the three students are being monitored by the district health team for possible symptoms. Immediate contacts, family members as well as those who have come in direct contact with the students, who are now under treatment, are being monitored for symptoms. The exam was held on July 16 and the three took the examination at the Valiyathura, Thycaud and Karamana centres. The Kozhikode student, who hails from Olavanna, had appeared at the Malabar Christian College centre. The student’s father had arrived from the Gulf in March and has also contracted the disease. The district administration has asked all those who attended the examination along with the student to stay under observation. The student’s relatives have also been placed under quarantine. Over 10,000 students attended the entrance exam across 38 centres in the capital. The most worrying concern for the health team is that a parent who brought a student for the exam at the centre at Cottonhill School has also tested positive. He is a resident of Muttathara. The contact tracing team has failed to make any progress and the district administration has appealed to all those who had been at the school on the day of examination to self-monitor for symptoms. The district health team is also apprehensive about an outbreak among parents who had assembled at some examination centres. With clusters already emerging from markets, slums, coastal areas and institutions another one is the last thing the city could afford. Earlier, the district team had begun contact tracing of a few persons after it was reported that an Italian tourist who was tested positive at Varkala had attended the Attukal pongala. The KEAM cases triggered strong reactions from the opposition. Shashi Tharoor MP posted on Facebook that the state was paying the price for the government’s unwise decision to hold the examination amid the lockdown despite appeals from students and himself. K S Sabarinadhan MLA said positive cases among students who attended KEAM evoke grave concerns. “An entire city and its residents are reeling from anxiety owing to distorted decisions of the state government. You should have avoided this,” he said in a Facebook post. (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2-more-who-appeared-for-keam-exam-test-positive/articleshow/77095189.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 22, 2020||Goa||15 ITI instructors get new postings||PANAJI: The directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship has transferred 15 Group C officials working at various government industrial training institutes (ITIs) with immediate effect. Vocational instructor (fitter) Naresh Talkatkar has been transferred from Panaji ITI to Margao ITI. Vocational instructors (theory) Digambar Sawant from Panaji ITI and Americo Rodrigues from Farmagudi ITIs will replace each other. Head clerk at Cacora government ITI Bernardo Costa has been transferred to Canacona ITI. Maintenance mechanics Vasu Naik and Santosh Rao working at Farmagudi and Mapusa ITIs respectively have been posted in Mapusa ITI and Farmagudi ITI respectively. Storekeepers Jitendra Gaude and Das Babal Gaude in Cacora and Sattari ITIs have been posted in Sattari and Cacora ITIs respectively. LDCs Joaquim Da Costa, Pravin Virdikar, Srinivas Shinde and Ramesh Kale have been posted from Vasco, Canacona, Mapusa and Pernem to Margao, Margao, Pernem and Bicholim ITIs. Workshop attendant Manik Naik has been transferred from Margao to Canacona. Peons Rajesh Naik and Clarina Barreto have been posted from Farmagudi and Cacora ITIs to Margao ITI. Director Dipak Desai who passed the orders stated that officials must be relieved immediately to enable them to report to their new place of posting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/15-iti-instructors-get-new-postings/articleshow/77096367.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Before total lockdown, containment zones dip from 32 to 28||KOLKATA: Forty-eight hours before Kolkata goes into the twice-a-week lockdown mode to break the virus chain, the city saw a drop in the number of containment zones on Tuesday. According to the latest containment list, Kolkata now has 28 containment zones, down from the 32 that were updated 96 hours ago. While the city has been able to get rid of 10 zones, six new were added to the list. Amid this omission and addition of containment zones, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police special teams are gearing up to ensure a total lockdown as was announced by the state home secretary on Monday. According to a KMC official, the lockdown this time will be on the lines of the national lockdown that was clamped from the midnight of March 24. There was an element of surprise among the names that were dropped from the list. Behala, which has had two containment zones consistently, now officially has none. Chakraberia, in Bhowanipore, too, is now officially out of the list. Even though these south Kolkata localities could get rid of the containment tag, it is north Kolkata that showed the maximum progress, with containment zones like Beliaghata, Phoolbagan and Kankurgachhi along with Girish Park walking out of the list. KMC and police stated none of these areas reported new cases in the past 72 hours. Covid-positive patients who were admitted to hospitals from these areas are now recovering, said a KMC official. On the flip side, the city added six new zones to the list. The worst-hit area was Alipore that added two new areas to its already existing two. Apart from Tagore Castle Street in the north, all other new containment zones are in the south, including Fort Oasis Tower II, Ramweshwaram Apartment on Elgin Road and Govindapur Road close to Jodhpur Park. The development comes on a day police and KMC strategized their response to the complete lockdown on July 23. According to the plan, Lalbazar will deploy more men in uniform to ensure that only those exempted for essential services are on the road between 6am and 10pm. All individuals who move between 10pm and 5am without a valid reason will face legal action. “This time, we will not let any shop or markets — except medical shops — to open. We will not allow any people assembling at any corners,” said an IPS officer. The KMC administration, on its part, has two specific goals. “It will provide an opportunity to conduct a total sanitization drive at some markets and buildings. This apart, we will also bring as many containment areas under a mandatory swab testing network as possible,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/before-total-lockdown-c-zones-dip-from-32-to-28/articleshow/77095182.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Kurukshetra University defers meeting on sharing of manuscripts||KURUKSHETRA: The meeting of Kurukshetra University (KU) committee constituted to discuss sharing of rare manuscripts from Jawarharlal Nehru Library (JNL) with Gita Gyan Sansthanam (GGS) of Swami Gyananand, a private institute, was postponed on Tuesday, varsity officials said. Committee head and KU dean, academic affairs Prof Manjula Chaudhary said, “We did not hold the meeting on Tuesday as it has been postponed. We will plan it for some other day.” After the issue was reported, a number of scholars and retired professors associated with the university’s faculty of Indic studies opposed the sharing of priceless heritage, putting pressure on officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ku-defers-meeting-on-sharing-of-manuscripts/articleshow/77104013.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 22, 2020||Vadodara||11 docs infected as warriors also fight lack of facilities||Vadodara: Raising concerns regarding health of warriors who are in the frontline in the battle against Covid-19, as many as 11 resident doctors of SSG Hospital have tested positive in the last two days.Sources said that while six resident doctors of a single unit of orthopaedic department have tested positive, five others from paediatric department have also tested positive.The number of resident doctors testing positive at SSG Hospital, Central Gujarat’s biggest government hospital, has seen a sharp rise in last one week. Although the authorities are yet to compile and make public the exact number of resident doctors who have tested positive so far, sources said the number of such infected residents and consultants could have well surpassed 30 in the pandemic.Last month, a majority of resident doctors and consultants who had tested positive were the ones who were sent on deputation to Ahmedabad civil hospital.But now, even those resident doctors who are not assigned Covid-19 duties are testing positive. Even family members of a resident doctor working with the orthopaedic department, have also tested positive.Sources said all resident doctors are being referred to different hospitals. Absence of a uniform policy or arrangements by the hospital administration and the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is also adding to the woes of infected resident doctors. “We are struggling to make proper arrangements for them,” a senior doctor told TOI. “On one hand, we have to continue our OPDs, OTs, handle even non-Covid patients and on the other hand we are turning handicapped for want of resident doctors, who are the backbone of this hospital. Unlike Ahmedabad, they are not provided proper accommodation.” Last month, the resident doctors had made representation before hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Rajeev Daveshwar demanding hotel accommodation like Ahmedabad. “After that, they made an arrangement with a private resort. But it is on the outskirts of the city. and we were told to make our own travel arrangements,” said a resident doctor.Despite repeated attempts, Daveshwar could not be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/11-docs-infected-as-warriors-also-fight-lack-of-facilities/articleshow/77094385.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Chargesheet against 6 in liquor theft scam||CHANDIGARH: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the liquor theft scam of Kharkhoda filed a chargesheet against Bhupender Singh, sacked policeman Jasbir Singh, excise inspector Dhirender Singh and three others, including two policemen and an employee of the excise department. The chargesheet has been filed in a case of theft registered at Kharkhoda police station. Three cases were registered. SIT filed the chargesheet well on time so that the accused do not take bail on the account of the chargesheet not being filed. Sources said the investigating agency, in its chargesheet, elaborated on the role of the accused in the cases of theft and sale of liquor from the godown. In a related development, the departmental probe against 11 policemen has reached the final stage and departmental action will be finalised before July 31. Incidentally, July 31 is also the deadline for the 3-member special enquiry team (SET) constituted by the home minister and headed by a senior Haryana bureaucrat. SIT sleuths on Tuesday formally submitted the charhesheet to the office of the district attorney so that it could be filed before the court concerned. On May 1, Haryana police registered an FIR at Kharkhoda police station after around 10,000 cases of IMFL stocked in the excise department godown went missing from the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chargesheet-against-6-in-liquor-theft-scam/articleshow/77095905.cms||Manvir Saini
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ollywood recalls thespian Mohanty’s life and films||Bhubaneswar: Bijay Mohanty’s untimely death has left the state in shock and disbelief. Bijay, who had a larger than life image both in the reel and real life, was a natural actor who exhibited an array of emotions on screen. Known for his stellar work in hundreds of films, the actor will remain in the hearts of his fans and well-wishers. Bijay’s screen presence as a gangster making rings of smoke in his first released film ‘Naga Phasa’ was unmatched. He changed the way villains would be portrayed in Odia films. So powerful was his performance in a negative role that he played a series of antagonists in films like ‘Swapna Sagar’, ‘Maa Mamata’, ‘Danda Balunga’, ‘Dora’, ‘Sahari Bagha’ and ‘Kie Jite Kie Hare’, where he overshadowed the heroes. “In the 70s, fresh talent entered the Odia industry. Films were made with Odia stories. They struck a chord with the masses. Bijay was one of the most promising finds of that golden era. He even brought uniqueness in the remake films of the 90s. He was so excited when I offered him ‘Kali Shankar’ in 2008,” said director and actor Prasana Nanda. Bijay left the audience spellbound in his character roles but he was equally powerful as the hero. Be it innocent ‘Bhagia’ of the classic ‘Chha Mana Atha Guntha’, ‘Benu Bhai’ in Kaberi, ‘Jagan’ in ‘Jaga Hatare Pagha’ or in films like ‘Hakim Babu’, ‘Ei Ama Sansara’, ‘Mamata Mage Mula’, ‘Pua Heba mo Kala Thakura’ and ‘Suna Panjuri’, he imbued his characters with dignity and pathos. He was also impeccable playing mythological characters in ‘Nala Damayanti’ and ‘Manika’. A reserved and soft-spoken man, he acted in more than 30 films with his wife Tandra Ray . The two formed one of the most iconic on-screen and off-screen couples in the Odia film industry. “I have been seeing him since I was a child and would visit sets with my father. After my first take as lead in ‘Jhia Mora Jagata Jeeta’, he kept his hand over my head and said I will go a long way. He has always been very affectionate. A teacher is a teacher and he would give me tips on how to improve,” said actor Anu Chaudhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ollywood-recalls-thespian-mohantys-life-and-films/articleshow/77095210.cms||Minati Singha
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra University defers meeting on sharing of manuscripts||KURUKSHETRA: The meeting of Kurukshetra University (KU) committee constituted to discuss sharing of rare manuscripts from Jawarharlal Nehru Library (JNL) with Gita Gyan Sansthanam (GGS) of Swami Gyananand, a private institute, was postponed on Tuesday, varsity officials said. Committee head and KU dean, academic affairs Prof Manjula Chaudhary said, “We did not hold the meeting on Tuesday as it has been postponed. We will plan it for some other day.” After the issue was reported, a number of scholars and retired professors associated with the university’s faculty of Indic studies opposed the sharing of priceless heritage, putting pressure on officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ku-defers-meeting-on-sharing-of-manuscripts/articleshow/77095900.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: With 2 new pockets on list, Alipore one of worst-hit Covid zones in city||KOLKATA: Alipore, is now officially one of the worst-hit Covid zones in the city. The new containment list released on Tuesday has four Alipore areas on the containment list. While Judges court Road and Raja Santosh Road made it to the list 72 hours ago, two premises on Ashoka Road and Burdwan Road have now been earmarked as high-risk areas. The latter two are home to towering condos and bungalows. These are not the only addresses in Alipore that have found mention in the containment list in the past one month. Belvedere Road and Alipore Road have remained on the list for weeks. The KMC Covid-combat team believes the area’s proximity to other worst-hit areas and the fact that thousands visit the offices and courts in Alipore have contributed to the risk factor. Add to it the presence of several slums close to high-rises. A case in point is the address on Judges Court Road that found its way into the containment list about two weeks ago, managed to remain out of the list for four odd days and now is back in the list. “The cases recorded in one portion of the building got resolved and the patients returned home. But now, some residing in another portion have been infected,” said a police officer. According to locals like Akhil Govila, the use of the complex by some outsiders who came there for work needs to be looked into. “There has been some remodelling since the last four months. Labourers kept moving in and out of it without social distancing,” claimed another resident. Both KMC and police have denied the claims. According to KMC officials, a number of measures have already been taken in the Alipore area, including gathering of Covid information at the ward level, better coordination between KMC and police, enforcing social distancing at offices and restricting the spread of Covid to the slums. “We have our team of workers working in the slums as well as the housing complexes. Our mobile vans are collecting swab samples from these areas at regular intervals,” said a KMC health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-2-new-pockets-on-list-alipore-one-of-worst-hit-covid-zones-in-city/articleshow/77095246.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s July Covid tally crosses 50,000, toll races past 1,000-mark||Bengaluru: In just 20 days of July, the number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities in Karnataka crossed 50,000 and 1,000, respectively, even as the pace of recovery dipped. Seventy-seven per cent of Karnataka’s total 67,420 cases — 52,178 — were reported in the first 20 days of July. Of them, 28,672 (55%) were from Bengaluru. Similarly, 1,162 (83%) of the 1,403 deaths have been witnessed this month, with Bengaluru accounting for more than half. Data analysed by TOI show while July has seen a record number of recoveries — 15,877 and 6,413 in Karnataka and Bengaluru, respectively — the pace at patients are recuperating has reduced over the past few weeks. Between April 30 and May 31, Karnataka added 2,664 new cases and reported 1,058 discharges (40% of the new cases). This was in line with the natural cycle of recovery — 14 to 28 days — as recoveries in cases from the last two weeks of May spilled over to the next month. Similarly, between May 31 and June 30, recoveries were 55% (6,637) of the new cases (12,021), but between June 30 and July 20, the rate was just 30% — 15,877 of 52,178, indicating a decline in pace, even though July reported the highest number of discharges in absolute terms. Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, and Karnataka Covid task force, said: “The dip in pace of recovery indicates an increase in rate of acute cases. Earlier, most patients recovered quickly, but now, there’s a high proportion of cases in hospitals and we’ll have to wait for them to recover, which will take longer.” Going by the war room data, those recovering are spending an average of 13 days in hospital now, compared to about 12 days on average in the second week of June, which is not significantly different. “The average number of days would be brought down because there would be many asymptomatic patients from June who are also recovering now. If one looks at only patients with symptoms, the time could be more than 15 days,” an official said. Dr MK Sudharshan, member, state task force, said it’s important to distinguish between Covid infections (seen mostly in healthy adults and not worrisome) and Covid disease (infection progressing to a stage needing medical intervention) to be able to efficiently strategise. “Earlier, most cases were just infections where patients’ condition remained well under control with most not even developing symptoms. In the recent weeks, there have been more cases where the infection has progressed to the disease stage. These patients will naturally take longer to recover.” Babu stated it may be a few more weeks before the pace of recovery improves. He added: “In these initial weeks of the ascending phase, the pace of recoveries will be slow as we are also looking at testing more symptomatic people. A new equilibrium will be witnessed after two-three weeks, when recoveries will also begin to catch up with active cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnatakas-july-covid-tally-crosses-50000-toll-races-past-1000-mark/articleshow/77094897.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||Masks, temp checks and e-menus: How Covid-19 has changed the rules of eating out||BHOPAL: The city restaurants opened their gates for the public on June 8, however most Bhopalis are still a little skeptical about eating out. Those who have dined out or are planning to, say that they only visit the restaurants they frequented before the pandemic and trust. Restaurants too have stepped up their game in maintaining hygiene and are following the Covid guidelines to the T. “We cannot take Covid lightly. A misstep can cost us our reputation. Safety of our customers and our staff is of utmost importance,” said a restaurateur. One has to go through several stages of checks before even making it to the reception area. Customers’ body temperature is recorded, they have to sanitize their hands and only then enter the premises. Also, ‘no mask, no food’ policy is strictly followed. This adherence to the safety norms ahev given confidence to the foodies to eat out without the fear of infection. Kabir Maheshwari, a businessman who visited 1909 The Crown of Bhopal, rooftop restaurant at Minto Hall said, he was very satisfied to see the outlet’s ‘no touch’ service. “The staff first tested my temperature and asked me to sanitize my hands under the automatic hand sanitizer which is equipped with a sensor, so you don’t have to touch or press any button. We placed the order through a digital menu. All the waiters wore masks and gloves and I did not feel that I was putting myself at risk by eating at a restaurant,” Maheshwari said. Another customer, Shubham Jaat, who visited Wind n Waves, also appreciated the precautions the restaurant was following. “Along with taking my temperature and sanitizing my hands at the gate itself, the waiter showed me to a table which was far away from other occupied tables. They are very strictly following social-distancing, which is a good thing. The tables were also sanitized and I could order through a digital menu as well as pay online. I had a good experience and would love to go there again,” he said. Roli Shivhare, who along with three of her friends went to Indian Coffee House a few days ago, said she was impressed by the strictness of the management. “The restaurant only had tables for two. Since there were four of us, we asked if we could sit at the same table, but the manager refused. He said that if he obliged even one guest, he would have to do the same for others. I was very impressed by the adherence to rules,” said Shivhare. Manohar Dairy, another popular restaurant, is also taking a number of precautions, disposable menus being one of them. “Since we could not digitalize the menu, we now print a fresh menu on an A-4 paper every time a customer enters the restaurant. We throw the menu away once the customer leaves the restaurant and immediately sanitize the table and chairs,” said restaurant manager Debashish Ganguly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/masks-temp-checks-e-menus-how-covid-has-changed-the-rules-of-eating-out/articleshow/77095229.cms||Shuchita Jha
July 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Heavy rain lashes parts of Marathwada||AURANGABAd: Parts of Marathwada reported heavy showers in the 24 hours ending on Tuesday morning, bringing relief to the drought-prone region. The met department has forecast heavy to moderate rainfall over Aurangabad and parts of the region for the next 48 hours. Two revenue circles each in Jalna and Beed districts reported over 65mm showers. Pathri taluka in Parbhani district reported nearly 77mm rainfall. Other parts of the region have reported relatively low rainfall. Aurangabad district reported 5mm showers, Jalna 27mm, Beed 22 mm, Hingoli 10mm, Osmanabad and Parbhani 8mm, Latur 7mm and Nanded 6mm. The region has now received 128% of its expected rainfall since June, which is much better than the 70.5% average rainfall recorded during the corresponding period last year. Among the nine districts in Marathwada, Jalna now leads with 174% of the expected showers since June 1, Aurangabad 166% and Beed has reported 145% of the expected showers. Hingoli (138%), Parbhani (127%) and Latur (108%) districts have also registered surplus showers. Nanded district has reported 93% of the expected showers whereas Osmanabad has reported 92%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-marathwada/articleshow/77093401.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Renowned Urdu poet passes away at 95||AURANGABAD: Renowned Urdu poet from Jalna Ansari Shamsuddin passed away on Tuesday morning at his residence. He was 95. Despite having performed in different countries, Ansari made ends meet through door-to-door delivery of newspapers on his bicycle for the last 45 years. Born on January 26, 1931, Ansari got his due recognition when he shared the stage with comrade Maqdoom Mohiuddin at the then Sadanand Talkies (Now Sharda Talkies), in Nanded in 1950, where he recited more than 20 gazals. The performance at this event earned him the title of ‘Shams Jalnavi’ meaning ‘sun of Jalna’. He has two poetry and gazal books ‘Tamazaat’ and ‘Madhyan Ka Surya’, while a large number of works have not been published. Ansari also had the honour to recite his shayaris and gazals at the Red Fort, Delhi on a special invitation by the Government of India. He mastered the art of ‘Teen Tukde’, a type which is considered as one of the toughest forms of poetry and has about a 1,000 trophies to his credit.-Mohammed Akhef||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/renowned-urdu-poet-passes-away-at-95/articleshow/77093459.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||BJP MLA accuses party of corruption||Lucknow: BJP’s suspended Gopamau MLA Shyam Prakash on Tuesday embarrassed his party on Tuesday when he accused the government of being corrupt and extortionist. In April, Prakash was slapped with a notice and asked to explain his allegation of corruption in purchase of medical equipment in the fight against corona pandemic. Prakash was suspended from BJP after he did not reply to the notice. In a social media post, Prakash said he hasn’t witnessed corruption of the scale as in present time in his entire political career. “Maine apne rajnaitik jeevan mein itna bhrastachaar nahi dekha, jitna is samay dekh raha aur sun raha hun. Jisse shikayat karo wo khud wasooli kar leta hai (Those with whom complaints are lodged are resorting to extortion themselves),” he wrote in a Facebook post. Formerly with Samajwadi Party, Prakash joined BJP before 2017 assembly elections. A political turncoat, he has seamlessly moved to different political camps, including Congress and BSP. Reacting to the Gopamau MLA’s social media post, state BJP spokesperson Hero Bajpai said, Prakash doesn’t appear to be in the right frame of mind. “He had been suspended from the party three months ago for accusing the state government of corruption,” he said. Earlier, the BJP MLA had put the saffron party in a dock when he demanded refund of Rs 25 lakh meant for battling the pandemic. Prakash had accused the district administration of not informing him about how money allocated from his MLA Local Area Development Fund was being used. The amount was sanctioned by him for purchase of equipment to fight Covid. Prakash also said, he came to know through media reports about corruption in purchase of health equipment in Hardoi and kickbacks given to middlemen. Earlier, the ruling BJP served a show-cause notice on its lawmaker from Sitapur (Sadar) Rakesh Rathore over a viral audio in which he’s heard mocking Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to clap for frontline corona warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mla-accuses-party-of-corruption/articleshow/77096368.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||102 new cases; city tally crosses 4600||Bhopal: With 102 fresh infections, Bhopal’s Covid tally crossed 4,600 on Tuesday. Covid-19 infections in the city have doubled in the last week. Reflecting a severity, Char Imi, Rishi Nagar, Professor Colony, 45 Bungalows, SBI LHO, Arera Colony, Platinum Park (Mata Mandir) and Chuna Bhatti reported a new spike in infections. Saket Nagar reported five positive cases. Shivaji Nagar, Indus Town (Hoshangabad Road) and Indus City (Bhopal Railway station) reported two positive cases each. Fourteen out of 102 people diagnosed with Covide-19 were above the age of 60. An 82-year-old man in Songari was among the those who tested positive. On the otherside of the age spectrum, an 11-month-old girl in Saket Nagar was also diagnosed with the infection. Three people linked to a public sector bank LHO tested positive. Earlier in May, the same organisation was in lockdown for a few days after a number of people had tested corona positive. Arera colony, E-3, E-6 (Mira Nagar) and E-7 Arera Colony have also reported new cases. Two doctors from Gandhi Medical College (GMC) were also quarantined after testing positive. A medical intern also tested positive for Covid-19. Three members of a family were diagnosed with the infection. All three are under the age of 45. CI Colony (Jehangirabad) reported three positive cases, along with one new infection at STF police station. Berasia ward no-6 is under the scanner again, with fresh cases. Quarantine centre Ashoka Garden, a hotel, which has reported 15 cases previously, reported three fresh cases of COVID-19. Other locations where people were diagnosed with the infection includes Laharpur, Bagmugalia, Kunjan Nagar, Nayak Karmchari Society colony, Bawadiakalan, Neelkanth Colony, Damkheda (Kolar), Sagar Tower (JK Hospital), Piplani, CTO (Bairagarh), Prakash Parishar (BHEL) and Ayodhya Nagar, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/102-new-cases-city-tally-crosses-4600/articleshow/77095259.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Insurance racket: 2 accused granted bail||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to Pawan Bhoria and Mohit, who allegedly got cancer patients insured by different companies and later showed them as killed in accidents or dead by natural causes. “The petitioners have been in custody for the past more than one year and three months and the prosecution evidence is yet to start. It will take some time in conclusion of the trial and also in view of the fact that 20 co-accused of the petitioners, including doctors and police officials have been granted bail. The petitioners are directed to be released on bail. However, it will be open for the prosecution to apply for cancellation of bail of the petitioners in case they are found involved in any other case or misusing the concession of bail in any manner,” ordered the HC while granting them bail. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan passed these orders while allowing the bail plea filed by Bhoria and Mohit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/insurance-racket-2-accused-granted-bail/articleshow/77095907.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Church group offers to bury, cremate dead||Kochi: Sahrudaya, a welfare service forum under Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese of Syro-Malabar Church, has floated a volunteer group christened Sahrudaya Samaritans for Covid preventive measures as well as to bury Covid victims. The group floated jointly by priests and volunteers will offer their services for the burial or cremation of Covid victims in the diocese limits cutting across the barriers of caste and religion. According to those who head the volunteers group, around 150 people have already joined the group so far. “We will be rolling out the volunteers group in all of the 300-odd parishes under the diocese. There will be 8 to 15 volunteers in the group in each parish,” said Fr Jose Koluthuvally, convener, Sahrudaya Welfare Services. “The volunteers will follow all Covid protocols. There are 50 priests in the group. They will wear PPE kits and offer their service wherever required ,” Fr Jose Koluthuvally said. The health department has already imparted training to the volunteers. “There is a dearth of volunteers for disposing of bodies of Covid-19 victims in certain areas. The decision of such groups to volunteer for the cause is a welcome move,” said P S Sreenivasan, district health officer, who is also the nodal officer for disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims. Church authorities are planning to use the 150 volunteers who have already trained as coordinators in different parishes “Doctors with the health department have imparted training to 150 volunteers online. They trained the volunteers on how to bury bodies following Covid protocol. We have also videographed the entire session so that we will be able to train others who are yet to join as volunteers,” Fr Koluthuvally said. The group was launched following a dispute over the unavailability of the faithful to bury a nun who died of Covid near Aluva a few days ago. The group has already started offering their services in burying bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/church-group-offers-to-bury-cremate-dead/articleshow/77095307.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||Driver of UP’s 108 ambulance caught in ‘objectionable position’ with woman inside it, terminated||Rampur: A video purportedly showing the driver of UP’s 108 ambulance in an "objectionable position" with a woman inside the emergency vehicle is being shared widely on social media platforms, inviting widespread criticism. The service of the driver, who was hired on contract, has now been terminated by Rampur health authority. The ambulance was parked in Rampur District Hospital for emergency duties.Rampur’s chief medical officer (CMO) Subodh Sharma told TOI, “Action will also be taken against the company whose ambulances were being used by the hospital. The driver was not an employee of the district hospital. He was on contract. The company has informed us that he has been terminated from the job.”A local RTI activist Danish Khan had alerted the local administration and police about the video after which the action was taken.Khan said, “The ambulance was parked inside the Rampur District Hospital. Several employees were well aware about what was happening there.”According to Khan, the alleged incident took place on the afternoon of July 15. No police case has been filed in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/driver-of-ups-108-ambulance-caught-in-objectionable-position-with-woman-inside-it-terminated/articleshow/77093456.cms||Nazar Abbas
July 22, 2020||Mumbai||Favipiravir price lower in India than in other countries, says drug maker||Mumbai: Defending the pricing of its Covid-19 drug, FabiFlu (Favipiravir), to the drug regulator, Mumbai-based Glenmark Pharma on Tuesday said that it is lower in India compared to other countries, and as against therapies approved under ‘emergency use’. In its response to a notice from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking clarification on the pricing and claims of FabiFlu being effective for Covid-19 patients with comorbidities following a complaint from a member of Parliament, Glenmark Pharma said that both clinical trials and restricted use approval were preceded by multiple dialogues, deliberations and consideration before the subject expert committee set up the Union health and family welfare ministry. The price of Favipiravir (200mg) tablet is Rs 600 in Russia, Rs 378 in Japan, Rs 350 in Bangladesh and Rs 215 in China--based on trade data available for 200mg /tab from the respective countries and currency rates in respective countries equivalent to Indian rupee. The drug has been approved under ‘emergency use authorisation’ against Covid-19 in China, UAE, Russia, Bangladesh and Turkey. Recently, the company had lowered the price of FabiFlu by 27% to Rs 75 from Rs 103 per tablet. “The price reduction was made possible through our efforts to obtain better yield and better scale, and with both API and formulations manufactured at Glenmark’s own facilities in India,” the company said. The DCGI had also sought the company’s reply on “misleading and false claims” that Favipiravir is effective in Covid-19 patients with comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension. In its reply, Glenmark Pharma stated: “The alleged statement pertaining to co-morbidity in the press release dated June 20 was not derived from or alluded to Glenmark’s ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial. The reference to co-morbidity was clearly based on data from Japanese registry--the largest collection of real-world evidence on clinical use of Favipiravir in Covid-19. None of the product promotional literature or product information leaflet in the packaging makes any such claim that Favipiravir can be used in mild to moderate Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and heart disease.’’ “It is clear that Glenmark’s communication at the launch of the drug has been completely misread and/or quoted out of context which is harming our reputation,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/favipiravir-price-lower-in-india-than-in-other-countries-says-drug-maker/articleshow/77095912.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||After SCB hosp, Ganjam launches plasma therapy||Berhampur: Plasma therapy will soon be used in Ganjam district, even as the number of Covid infections in the district rose to 5,991 on Tuesday. A number of units of plasma, collected at SCB Medical College in Cuttack, were brought to the district on Tuesday. Initially, four persons will be administered plasma, said a doctor attached to the Covid hospital at Sitalapalli. “The doctors will administer plasma to patients depending on their condition,” said collector Vijay Amruta Kulange, who launched the treatment on Tuesday. “Plasma therapy has shown good results in other places. We hope this treatment will bring relief to patients here,” the collector said. Plasma has to be brought from Cuttack as the MKCG Medical College here lacks a plasma bank. “There is a need to establish a plasma bank at MKCG Medical College here,” said Sunil Kotta, a private practitioner. Earlier, the superintendent of MKCG, S K Mishra, had written to the state government for an apheresis machine, which separates plasma from blood, at the hospital blood bank. “We think a plasma bank will come up soon here as the government is giving a lot of importance to Covid control in Ganjam,” said the collector. The district administration is also making a registry of people eligible and willing to donate plasma. “As many as 34 people have come forward to donate plasma in the district. All 22 BDOs have been asked to find at least 10 donors each,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/after-scb-hosp-ganjam-launches-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77095260.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Five deaths, 179 new patients reported in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A total of 179 new patients were reported from different parts of Aurangabad district on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases to 4,720. As many as five deaths were also reported that took the number of casualties to 400. According to a district health official, out of the total 11,420 people reproted from across Aurangabad, 6,300 have been treated and discharged. On Tuesday, 123 people reported psoitive from the limits of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) where the antigen testing was being conducted. As many as 46 new patients were reported from rural parts of the district, including 10 who were found at different entry points of the city. Meanwhile, those who died at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) included a 38-year-old man from Civil Colony and a 65-year-old woman from Deogaon Rangari in Kannad taluka. Others included, a 51-year-old woman from Nyannagar Garkheda, 70-year-old woman from Chetnanagar Harsul and an 83-year-old man from the Padegaon area of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-deaths-179-new-patients-reported-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77093470.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||Divar’s famed son, Lankan missionary Fr Jacome, immortalised in a statue||PANAJI: A life-size statue of Fr Jacome Gonsalves, an illustrious 18th century missionary of Goan origin, was installed in his over 400-year-old ancestral house in Divar on Tuesday. Gonsalves worked in Sri Lanka with another famous son of the soil, St Joseph Vaz. Parish priest of Our Lady of Piety Church Fr Jose Dias unveiled the statue at a simple ceremony marking Gonsalves’ 278th death anniversary. The ceremony was arranged by the organising committee for the cause of canonisation of Gonsalves. The statue, placed on the first-floor balcony, overlooks a junction of which one road, leading to the Ribandar ferry point, was named after Gonsalves in 2016. “For the people, he is already a saint for his impressive work. But he has to be declared a saint. This is a long-drawn church procedure. We are supporting his canonisation process,” Dias said. Having left home in 1705, Gonsalves never returned. He joined Vaz as a missionary of the Congregation of Oratory of the Holy Miraculous Cross. On the island nation, Gonsalves is known as “father of Catholic literature in Sri Lanka”, as he wrote around 30 books, including 22 in Sinhala. His sainthood process too has been initiated in Bolawate, Sri Lanka, where he was buried after his death on July 17, 1742. The Our Lady of Divar High School is run from the priest’s house. The statue installation was supported by former students and the repair works carried out by the organising committee under the guidance of Dias and headmistress Edvida Gonsalves. Railings and paintings of the pre-primary classes were done by former students Freddy Ferrao and artist Lino Pereira. The house also features two paintings of Gonsalves which have been done by Mexican artist Sharmila Rebello||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/divars-famed-son-lankan-missionary-fr-jacome-immortalised-in-a-statue/articleshow/77096378.cms||Paul Fernandes
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Don’t adopt turn system in water release: Farmers||Trichy: Farmers from delta districts have urged the PWD to release water from Kallanai without adopting the turn system as they are facing water shortage to carry out kuruvai cultivation . They also urged the state government to get water due for Tamil Nadu from Karnataka. President of All Farmers Associations’ Coordination Committee PR Pandian said that the Tamil Nadu government should appeal to the chairman and members of Cauvery Water Management Authority to visit all the dams and catchment area of Cauvery river in Karnataka to find out the present water storage level there. “Tamil Nadu government targeted to raise kuruvai in around 3.5 lakh acres in the delta. However, no sufficient water, thousands of acres located in the tail-end area are remaining idle as farmers could not take up even preparatory works”, he alleged. Already the water level in Mettur reservoir had been fast declining. And it could not cater to the needs of even kuruvai cultivation. Farmers need to cultivate samba too. Without getting water from the neighbouring state as per the Supreme Court order, it would be difficult to achieve the target this year, he opined. While stating the proposal of RBI taking control over cooperative banks, Pandian urged the state government to safeguard cooperative set up which was firmly built by farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dont-adopt-turn-system-in-water-release-farmers/articleshow/77096370.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Dehradun||Two minor boys drown in US Nagar||Rudrapur: Two minor boys from Paiga village of Kashipur died after drowning in a pond on Monday evening, said the Paiga outpost police incharge Ashok Fartyal. The deceased were identified as Aasif (13) and Robin (9), according to the police. The kin of the deceased took the bodies without postmortem examination and no case was registered. Families of both the victims hail from Moradabad. “On Monday evening, Aasif along with his neighborhood friend Robin had gone out for a bath in the local pond. Robin did not know how to swim. When he started drowning, the other one jumped in to help him but both of them drowned. The people nearby rushed them to the hospital but the doctors declared them brought dead,” said Fartyal. The kin of the two deceased did not want the bodies to be sent for autopsy examination and took the bodies for cremation in Moradabad after police consent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-minor-boys-drown-in-us-nagar/articleshow/77093546.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 22, 2020||India||Have faith in judiciary, says Vikas Dubey’s wife||NEW DELHI: Slain don Vikas Dubey’s wife Richa on Tuesday said she has faith in the judicial system and hoped she would get justice, in her first public interaction since her husband was shot dead by UP police in an encounter on July 10. Speaking to reporters at her home in Lucknow, she narrated what happened after the midnight bloodbath in which eight cops were killed by Dubey and his cohorts and spoke about her marriage with the gangster. “Around 2am, I got a call from my husband. He asked me to flee our Lucknow home immediately as several people had been killed in Bikru. I kept running till I found shelter at a friend’s place. That was the last time I spoke to him,” she said. She said during the lockdown, cops would have lunch and dinner at their residence and stayed back overnight. “Cops used him and then destroyed him,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-faith-in-judiciary-says-vikas-dubeys-wife/articleshow/77097171.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Trichy||TN: Cop fires in air as rival groups of illegal sand miners clash in Pudukottai district||TRICHY: Police had to fire in the air to disperse a violent crowd of about 200 people belonging to two groups of illegal sand miners who attacked each other with machetes and sickles at Posampatti village in Pudukottai district on Tuesday. At least 25 people have been taken into custody after 11 people including a sub-inspector of police sustained injuries. The groups which originated from differences over mining sand from the local village pond were clashing over derogatory WhatsApp messages posted against one leader. At the centre of the plot were Paramasivam and Sellaiah, relatives-turned arch rivals belonging to the backward class Vallambar community, who lead the groups. Families of these two men, who were influential in the village, developed rivalry after one group began tipping the police when the other mined sand from the water bodies in their village. Things turned bitter when Sellaiah lost the recently held panchayat union councillor election, said a senior police officer. Paramasivam group was instrumental in ensuring his defeat and there have been wordy duels among the two groups over the last few months. The post was long held by members from vallambar community but this time it was won by a candidate from the mutharaiyar community. The rivalry turned violent on Monday evening when a group of Sellaiah supporters went to Paramasivam’s house. They alleged that he had circulated derogatory message against Sellaiah in WhatsApp groups. A verbal spat turned into scuffle and members of both the families started hitting each other, said the police. While Paramasivam and his wife sustained injuries, they lodged a complaint with the K Pudupatti police and got admitted to hospital. Two police personnel who were deployed in the village after the incident on Monday evening informed sub inspector Saravanan that a large crowd had gathered in the village with weapons. Police said when sub-inspector Saravanan from K Pudupatti police station reached the spot around 11 am, over 200 people armed with weapons were fighting. Now undergoing treatment at the government hospital after suffering injury to his limbs while attempting to pacify the crowd, he said he had to open fire as the crowd was turning violent. The crowd paused on hearing the gun shot but at least 10 people from both sides were already injured and rushed to hospital including Saravanan. The situation was brought under control after additional police personnel were rushed to the spot. Pudukottai district superintendent of police L Balaji told TOI that Saravanan fired in the air to prevent casualty among the clashing crowd and save lives of the police personnel. Police security was beefed up with H M Jayaram, inspector general of police, central zone and DIG Z Annie Vijaya arriving to take stock of the situation. Over 60 police personnel, six inspectors, three DSPs headed by an additional deputy superintendent of police (ADSP) were deployed to keep the situation under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cop-fires-in-air-to-control-200-clashing-illegal-sand-miners/articleshow/77096384.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Dehradun||Surrender or face encounter, US Nagar SSP warns bounty criminals||Rudrapur: Daleep Singh Kunwar, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of Udham Singh Nagar, on Tuesday issued a warning for the bounty criminals in the district saying either surrender within 15 days or face an encounter. SSP Daleel Singh Kunwar, while talking to the media, said that there are 45 bounty criminals in the district and they should surrender either in the court or at concerned police stations. “We have decided to give them a 15-day ultimatum, starting from Wednesday, to surrender. They will be sent to jail as per the legal procedure. But in case, these criminals do not surrender, we will start a crackdown against them,” SSP Kunwar said. He, however, added that police will not hesitate in conducting encounters if that's what it takes to nab these criminals. The official was quick to add that these will not be fake encounters but legit ones. The statement by the top cop of the district has raised many eyebrows. Chandra Prakash, advocate at the district court, said that police have the responsibility of maintaining law and order. “Such a statement from an SSP is contempt of law. It clearly shows that police farces encounter raids,” he added. Another lawyer at sessions court Mansi Pahwa said that the statement from SSP is like issuing a death threat to bounty criminals. “There are courts to decide their fate. It’s not the SSP's job to punish them. The police duty is to arrest them and present them before the court,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/surrender-or-face-encounter-us-nagar-ssp-warns-bounty-criminals/articleshow/77093555.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 22, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly police partially demolish house of drug lord carrying Rs 1 lakh bounty||Bareilly: Police on Tuesday partially demolished the house of notorious gangster Taimur Khan alias Bhole in Behara village of Faridpur tehsil in Bareilly district. Taimur carries a bounty of Rs 1 lakh announced by UP and Delhi Police, and is absconding in several cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and is identified as one of the top 10 criminals of Bareilly district, with several cases of attempt of murder, drug smuggling etc registered against him across several UP districts.Taimur started his journey in the underworld by smuggling prohibited narcotics to other states like Delhi, Rajasthan and Punjab. Delhi crime branch had twice nabbed him, but on both occasions he managed to get bail and escape.Though several policemen were spotted inside the house when the boundary wall of the house was being demolished, cops denied they had received a demolition order.SHO of Faridpur police station, Dhananjay Singh, told TOI, “Taimur has built four houses and purchased nearly 250 acres of agricultural land in the area, from money earned by smuggling drugs. We are trying to gather information about his illegal properties. The order for their seizure would be taken from court. Taimur is absconding, which is why we raided his house, but we didn’t find anyone. The house was locked.”He added, “After speaking with locals, we came to know how Taimur had destroyed the lives of many youths by pushing them into smuggling. Many of them are now in jail. Taimur runs an organised business and prepares high quality smack, which is supplied to states like Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan. We’re trying hard to nab him at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-police-partially-demolish-house-of-drug-lord-carrying-rs-1-lakh-bounty/articleshow/77093551.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||NMC termination notice to tainted garbage operator||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has issued notice to garbage operator AG Enviro Infra Projects Pvt Ltd asking why their contract should not be terminated. The action is fallout of irregularity exposed by West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre. As per approval given by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, deputy commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradeep Dasarwar issued the notice. “As per contract, we will have to give 90 days’ to the operator for checking its irregularities and improving services. We will take next step after considering their reply and performance,” Dasarwar said. AG Enviro looks after collection of garbage from households in Zone 1 to 5 and transportation upto Bhandewadi dumping yard. Pune-based BVG India Limited is given responsibility of zone 6-10. The civic body had executed an agreement with the two companies for 10 years on November 16, 2019. Thakre, also president of City Congress Committee, along with corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar and former corporator Prashant Dhawad had visited NMC’s Bhandewadi dumping yard on June 28. They intercepted four garbage-laden trucks and found 60% mud was mixed with 40% garbage. The trucks were weighed at weighbridge at the entrance of dumping yard and cleared for unloading. They also took the statements of drivers of four trucks in video in which the latter accepted they were carrying mud and stones with garbage. Later, they also visited the places where mud was being mixed with garbage and recorded videos. TOI had reported NMC was okaying trucks claiming to carry 6-6.5 tonnes garbage while only 3-4 tonnes can be filled in each. Following Thakre’s expose, NMC had first issued notice to AG Enviro asking for an explanation. The operator had denied any such irregularities. Citing reply as unsatisfactory, NMC slapped a fine of Rs 25 lakh on the operator. Shiv Sena leader Nitin Tiwari had levelled similar allegations against BVG India on May 24. NMC is yet to take any action on the it. NMC sources told TOI, AG Enviro has lodged a complaint with Wathoda police station against the drivers of four trucks and related staff. “Copany is claiming it did not ask its staff to lift or mix mud and stones with garbage. The operator alleged conspiracy and put the blame on employees,” sources said. Thakre has demanded the NMC to register complaint against AG Enviro with police as now irregularities have been endorsed by the civic body. ------------------------------------------ In A Nutshell * NMC pays garbage operators by weight of garbage collected * NMC weighs garbage in trucks at the entrance of Bhandewadi dumping yard * Two operators are together paid around Rs 5-6 crore per month * West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre found upto 60% mud being mixed with garbage to increase weight *Thakre demanded FIR against two operators, recovery of loss and termination of contracts * Two notices were issued to AG Enviro followed by fine of around Rs 25 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-termination-notice-to-tainted-garbage-operator/articleshow/77095910.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling racket: NIA takes Sarith to collect evidence||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The prime accused in the gold smuggling case P S Sarith was brought to Thiruvananthapuram by NIA sleuths for evidence collection on Tuesday morning. The NIA team took him to 14 different places in the state capital as part of the procedure. The evidence collection started from co-accused Sandeep Nair’s house at Aruvikkara. He was later taken to the flat at Ambalamukku where Swapna Suresh lived. Later, the NIA team took him to two places at Kuravankonam, hotels at Ulloor and Nadavanam. He was then taken to the flat near Secretariat where the NIA suspects the conspiracy was hatched. From there he was taken to a DTP centre in Statue where he had allegedly forged the documents and seal of the UAE consulate. The evidence collection at the house of P S Sarith at Thiruvallom took almost an hour. From there he was taken to the house Swapna earlier lived in PTP Nagar. He was then taken to the cargo complex at the airport by the NIA sleuths. However, the details of the evidence collection are not known since the NIA sleuths kept most of their movements as top secret. The NIA had on July 18 brought the other two accused in the case, Swapna and Sandeep, to various locations in Thiruvananthapuram for evidence collection, including their residences and the flat near the Secretariat. Meanwhile, the state police chief has ordered a probe into the alleged links a senior police association officer has with Sandeep. The probe has been ordered in the wake of reports that this police officer had helped Sandeep when he was taken into custody by Mannanthala police earlier. Earlier, NIA officials had questioned S R Jayaghosh, the personal security officer of UAE consul general, in connection with the gold smuggling case on Monday. Jayaghosh is under treatment after an unsuccessful suicide bid. The questioning was to find out his role in the gold smuggling through diplomatic channels. It is learnt that Jayaghosh accepted that he had accompanied Sarith to the airport to collect the baggage addressed to the consulate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-takes-sarith-to-collect-evidence/articleshow/77095364.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Dubey’s wife breaks silence, says cops used & killed him||Lucknow: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s wife, Richa, on Tuesday reposed faith in the judicial system and expressed hope she would get justice in her first public interaction since her husband was shot in an encounter 11 days ago. Speaking to reporters at her Krishnanagar residence in Lucknow, she recollected the sequence of events leading to the midnight bloodbath in which eight cops were killed. “Around 2 am, I got a call from my husband. He asked me to flee our Lucknow home immediately as several people had been killed in Bikru. I kept running till I found shelter at a friend’s place. That was the last time, I spoke to him and since then went by media reports for updates,” she told reporters. She, however, did not disclose the exact location where she hid before being picked up by police and questioned. She also said that during the pandemic-triggered lockdown, policemen would have lunch and dinner at their Bikru residence and even stayed back overnight. “Cops used him and then destroyed him. I have full faith in the Constitution and justice will prevail,” she said. Disclosing the softer side of the gangster, she said, “He may have been a criminal, but was a caring husband and a father. He loved his two children. Every month, we received Rs 40,000 as expenses. My elder son, Shantanu, is studying medicine in Russia and my younger son, Akash, scored 90% in his class 12 exams. He’s dead, but my hopes are still alive.” Recollecting her good times with the don, she said, she first met Vikas in 1990. “Dubey was a good friend of my brother, Raju Nigam, who got our marriage solemnised,” she said. Also, he was active as gram pradhan and would solve disputes in the village. “His was the last word in Bikru,” she told reporters. “Due to his criminal profile, we decided to build a house in Lucknow in 2004, where our children would be away and aloof from the dirt. He wanted them to study and lead a better life,” said Richa, sobbing uncontrollably. She also recounted her uneasy relationship with her mother-in-law, Sarla Devi, and how Dubey would always honour his parent’s wishes. “If anybody pleaded before Sarlaji or my father-in-law, Vikas would not act against them,” she told mediapersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dubeys-wife-breaks-silence-says-cops-used-killed-him/articleshow/77096390.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 1k each to 35 lakh families, relief for tourism & industry||Jaipur: Amid the political crisis, a meeting of the state council of ministers chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday decided to give Rs 1,000 to 35 lakh needy families affected by the lockdown. It will cost the state exchequer Rs 351 crore. The meeting also approved financial and non-financial relief measures for tourism and allied industries besides discussing various issues related to Covid situation, agriculture and cooperatives.The state government had earlier given ex-gratia of Rs 2,500 to these families during lockdown. The beneficiaries include BPL, state BPL Antyodaya and building and other construction workers who were not covered under social security schemes. The meeting discussed the condition of tourism and hotel business which have been badly hit by the pandemic. The meeting approved a proposal to extend benefits for another year to the units of tourism, hotel and multiplex sector under Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme(RIPS)-2019. The units which will start operations between July 1 and December 31 and also whose eligibility period remains after December 31, 2019 would get benefits under the scheme. The period of reimbursement of SGST payable and deposited by the tourism industry (hotel and tour operators) under the package has been extended from three months to one year (April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021). The RIPS will include the tourism sector as a priority sector (thrust sector), with the provision that this sector will get additional benefit of interest grant and capital grants besides the general benefit payable in RIPS-2019. The cabinet has also approved a relief package of about Rs 220 crore through RIICO to give relief to industries. Under this, 100% relaxation in interest on lumpsum deposit of service fee and rent till December 31, 2020, penalty for delay for starting the activity on the allotted plot will be waived. The meeting decided that out of the amount of Rs 2.25 crore allotted under MLA Local Area Development Fund every year, the legislator will spend Rs 1 crore every year for the next two years on development of medical facilities and the remaining amount on development work according to local needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1k-each-to-35-lakh-families-relief-for-tourism-industry/articleshow/77096377.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||Governor Satya Pal Malik, CM Pramod Sawant condole MP governor’s death||PANAJI: Governor Satya Pal Malik and chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday condoled the death of Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tondon. “I am distressed to learn about Tondon’s demise. He was one of the seniormost leaders of BJP, extremely experienced, a great administrator, polite and very friendly,” Malik said, adding, “When I relinquished office as governor of Bihar, it was Tondon who took over.” Tondon was closely associated with former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and was the incharge of his election cell, Malik said. “It is sad to see that leaders from his generation are gradually vanishing from the world, which I consider as a great loss to the nation. I convey my heartfelt condolences to his bereaved family,” he said. “Saddened to learn about the passing away of Madhya Pradesh governor and a senior BJP leader Tondon. His immense contribution to public life will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to his family in this hour of grief,” the chief minister. said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/malik-cm-condole-mp-governors-death/articleshow/77096400.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||8 deaths in Vid, including 6 in Nagpur alone||Nagpur: After a day of respite, when more patients were discharged than new Covid patients admitted in Vidarbha, July 21 saw the region reporting 314 new cases while only 213 patients recovered in the 11 districts. Vidarbha now has 9,776 Covid-19 cases, with 6,512 recovered and discharged.Alarming rise in number of Covid-19 deaths continued with 8 deaths reported in a day on Tuesday. Out of these, six were reported in Nagpur alone and one each from Wardha and Amravati. Total death toll of Vidarbha reached 271. Out of these, 113 deaths happened in 21 days of July.Nagpur district registered six deaths — highest ever for the district in a day on Tuesday. A 45-yr-old man from Kanhan and a 51-yr-old man from Kamptee died at Mayo hospital. A 40-yr-old man from Trimurti Nagar who was brought dead to GMCH on July 20 tested positive on Tuesday. Another man from Nandanwan, who came in gasping state at GMCH casualty on July 20 and died during treatment, also tested positive on Tuesday. An elderly couple from Reshimbagh who died on July 20 tested positive later in the day taking Nagpur’s Covid-19 death toll to 61.In Amravati, a 40-yr-old woman died during treatment taking death toll of district to 42. In Wardha, a 54-year-old woman from Tilak Chowk (Gol Market) died at Kasturba hospital.Vidarbha reported 314 new cases, 144 of them in Nagpur. Amravati (68), Buldhana (31), Washim (22), Yavatmal (14), Akola (12), Gadchiroli (11), Wardha (4), Chandrapur (4), Bhandara (3), and Gondia (1) — all 11 districts in the region reported cases.On the other hand, 213 patients recovered in a day. Barring Wardha, ten districts reported recoveries. These include Nagpur (42), Amravati (34), Buldhana (32), Akola (25), Chandrapur (21), Yavatmal (19), Gadchiroli (14), Washim (13), Gondia (9), and Bhandara (4). Now, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 66.6%, which is better than state’s 55.7% and national average of around 63%.AMRAVATI: Chikhaldara, the only Covid free tehsil of the district until now, reported cases of a 64-year-old male and a 27-year-old female on Tuesday. The district witnessed 68 cases on Tuesday to go past 1,400 cases mark to 1,416. The death of a 40-year-old female last night took the district’s Covid toll to 42. With 34 discharged, recovered patients went up to 898, leaving 476 active cases. Of the 68 new cases, 19 were from rural parts with Pur Nagar in Bhatkuli tehsil contributing five.In city, hotspot Badnera took its tally to 142 with four cases while Taj Nagar saw its 17th case. Civil Lines reported its third case, Hamalpura its eighth while Namuna Lane had two cases to take its count to four. Siddharth Nagar saw three cases while Yashoda Nagar and Vilas Nagar took their count to six and three respectively with a case each.Hanuman Nagar today had three cases to take its tally to 11 while the highest cases, eight, of the day came from two families in Bhaji Bazar, taking the locality’s count to 11.WARDHA: A 54-year-old woman died during treatment, and four more coronavirus patients were detected, and a person was discharged on Tuesday. The total patients in district were 83 and current active patients are 37.A 54-year-old woman from Tilak Chowk (Gol Market died at Kasturba hospital. She was a cancer patient and also had diabetes, high blood pressure and high thyroid. Four new patients were also diagnosed, including a 54-year-old deceased woman and her 28-year-old daughter-in-law. Two elderly men aged 70 and 74 in Kakada village in Karanja tehsil also tested positive in rapid antigen test.CHANDRAPUR: With addition of four more patients the Covid-19 figure has risen to 309. Officials claim 64 of them have come from outside the district. After testing total 13,372 samples, 12,286 samples have tested negative while 747 results are awaited. Four patients tested positive with antigen tests. So far 184 Covid-19 patients have been cured and 125 are being treated.Four new patients found on Tuesday include a Tamil Nadu returnee youth from village Mendki and two contacts of Ranbothli in Brahmapuri tehsil, and a Nanded returnee teenage girl from Tekamandwa in Jiwti tehsil.YAVATMAL: District recorded 14 new patients on Tuesday while 19 patients were discharged. There are 151 active patients now. Of 14 patients on Tuesday, 9 are men and 5 women. On Tuesday, 23 swab reports were awaited. The district administration has imposed lockdown from July 22 midnight in Pusad and a part of Digras, where patients are increasing.WASHIM: While 13 patients recovered and were discharged from Washim, 22 new patients were reported. Total cases surpassed 400-mark and reached 413. Recoveries also crossed 200-mark to 208. The toll till now is 9, with 196 patients under treatment. The administration will start free rapid antigen testing for all citizens willing to get tested. Test centres have been started at all tehsil places from 11am to 5pm daily. Free rapid antigen tests will be conducted here and result given within an hour.AKOLA: Rapid antigen tests are being conducted in large numbers in Akola. More than 800 tests were conducted on July 21 too. With 12 new patients and 25 recovered, Akola’s case count reached 2,184. These include 1,779 recovered patients and 104 deaths. Now, 301 patients are under treatment. Guardian minister Bachchu Kadu is expected to decide on restrictions on famous Kawad Yatra in Akola.BULDHANA: After becoming first district in state to announce lockdown until August 21, Buldhana registered 31 new cases and total reached 786. These include 430 recovered and 22 deaths.GONDIA: With 9 recoveries, number of recovered patients in Gondia crossed 200 mark. A resident of Gondia tehsil who had returned from Ratnagiri was found positive. Now, Gondia has 236 cases, with 210 recoveries and 3 deaths. Number of patients under treatment is 23.BHANDARA: Three men from Tumsar tehsil tested positive in Bhandara on July 21 taking total Covid-19 cases beyond 200. With four patients recovered and discharged, Bhandara now has 202 cases, with 158 recovered and 2 deaths. GADCHIROLI: Two CRPF Jawans were among 11 new Covid-19 cases reported on July 21. Total cases reached 354 including 173 recovered and 1 death of a local citizen in Telangana. Total 180 patients are under treatment, including some 50 patients from other states or districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-deaths-in-vid-including-6-in-nagpur-alone/articleshow/77095925.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||NU makes religion field mandatory in forms again||Nagpur: Three years after making it optional, the Nagpur University (NU) has made filling the religion column in online forms compulsory again. Applicants were taken aback when they could not proceed with their online undergraduate forms upon trying to skip the column. As part of its online reforms and considering the ongoing pandemic, NU has introduced mandatory online registration for UG courses at affiliated colleges from this academic year. The registration has started on its portal rtmnu.university. However, candidates are unable to go beyond filling personal details in case they prefer to not disclose their religion. The religion column is followed by a category where one can declare their socio-economic status, which is needed to avail different government schemes. In 2017, NU had received flak from students and activists when it had made it mandatory to declare religion in the university online enrolment form, which was filled at the college level. Unlike then, the university has not repeated the earlier blunder of including only a couple of religions in the drop-down menu. Yet, activists and students feel there is no need for the university to maintain a record of students’ religion, as category details are enough to avail quotas or schemes. Activist Ashu Saxena said that she was opposed to the mention of caste, surname and religion in any form. “If at all it is needed, it must be left to the individual’s discretion and should not be mandatory. The religion column should be removed right away or at least made optional,” she said. Saxena, who had written to then vice-chancellor SP Kane to modify the column in enrolment form in 2017, said even humanity can be a religion. “But will it be accepted officially,” she asked. Lawyer-cum-activist Ankita Shah said there are numerous religions in the world and it was not possible to verify if the authorities are seeking that information. “As far as I know, no government benefit is extended based on a candidate’s religion. I am opposed to a column for caste too. The candidate’s caste can be asked privately to decide reservation and scheme benefits,” she said. Shah said making the religion column mandatory also hints at a narrow mindset. “This means the university is not aiming to attract foreign students. Because of the presence of a compulsory religion column in the form, a foreigner may not fill it,” she said. Recalling the 2017 case, Saxena said the then NU administration had readily admitted to the glitch and made it optional when she and her applicant son approached officials. “Students must not shy away from raising their voice,” she said. NU student Bhushan Waghmare said it is the student’s prerogative to mention religion or keep it confidential. “Indian nationality is enough,” he said. Save Merit Save Nation-Maharashtra president Dr Anil Laddhad said, “The column must be removed. What difference does it make? Is this data being gathered for politics?” he said. Officiating pro-VC SR Chaudhari said the data is regularly sought by the minority department. “We had discontinued the practice, but as we could not give gender-wise and faculty-wise data to the department, it was started again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-makes-religion-field-mandatory-in-forms-again/articleshow/77095915.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 22, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Man held for issuing fake government papers||ERODE: A 40-year-old man, who was running a computer centre in Punjaipuliampatty, was arrested on Tuesday for issuing fake government documents. Crime branch officials seized government rubber stamps along with fake signature specimen from his shop during a raid. The accused, K Ramasamy, 40, of Kavilipalayam, was running a computer centre in his village. M Tirumoorthy, 45, of Chinnankuttai village, had approached Ramasamy to help him file an online application for a land ownership certificate with the revenue department. Ramasamy applied online and handed over the certificate to Tirumoorthy in four days. Ramasamy took the certificate to the local village administrative officer (VAO). T Prabhu, the VAO, felt something was amiss when he saw the certificate. He later realised that the certificate was fake. “The certificate also carried a fake signature of the tahsildar,” the VAO said. Based on the VAO’s complaint, Ramasamy was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/man-held-for-issuing-fake-government-papers/articleshow/77100701.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Man held for issuing fake government papers||ERODE: A 40-year-old man, who was running a computer centre in Punjaipuliampatty, was arrested on Tuesday for issuing fake government documents. Crime branch officials seized government rubber stamps along with fake signature specimen from his shop during a raid. The accused, K Ramasamy, 40, of Kavilipalayam, was running a computer centre in his village. M Tirumoorthy, 45, of Chinnankuttai village, had approached Ramasamy to help him file an online application for a land ownership certificate with the revenue department. Ramasamy applied online and handed over the certificate to Tirumoorthy in four days. Ramasamy took the certificate to the local village administrative officer (VAO). T Prabhu, the VAO, felt something was amiss when he saw the certificate. He later realised that the certificate was fake. “The certificate also carried a fake signature of the tahsildar,” the VAO said. Based on the VAO’s complaint, Ramasamy was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-held-for-issuing-fake-government-papers/articleshow/77100703.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee pvt hosp shut for not reporting suspected deaths||Kamptee: Tehsildar Arvind Hinge has sealed a private hospital here after its administration allegedly failed to report several suspected Covid deaths, which are believed to have gone unreported in this cantonment town, 20 kms from Nagpur. Lately, Kamptee has turned out to be a major hotspot in the district with three deaths and 222 cases reported as on Monday evening. Of these, a whopping 196 have come in the last 10 days. The Kamptee tehsil now accounts for 35.07% of total cases, and 45% of the total under treatment among all 13 tehsils of Nagpur district, excluding the city. Excluding Nagpur city, the district has total 633 cases, including 42 from Kamptee Cantonment and 15 from State Reserve Police Force (SRPF). Hingna tehsil is another place with high cases — 131 — in the district, but in the last 10 days only 43 cases have been reported as compared to Kamptee’s 196. Besides Nagpur tehsil (61 cases) and Katol (72 cases), only Hingna and Kamptee have 20 or more cases in the district. Hinge, who is also Kamptee’s Covid incident commander, told TOI that the private hospital has been issued a show cause notice last Saturday. “It was not reporting suspected cases of Covid and also a death went unreported. We have asked them to sanitize the premises and get all staff tested,” he said. Asked if any other hospital was concealing suspected Covid cases in the town, Hinge said, “We will check them too.” Regarding spike in Covid cases, the incident commander said people were not forthcoming though the health officials have been conducting surveys for the last couple of months. Outcry by relatives of the deceased led to the sealing of the private hospital. Yet, they demanded strict action against other private hospitals too claiming that many corona deaths are allegedly not recorded. District collector Ravindra Thakare too held a meeting at the tehsil office on Monday. Later, addressing the aggrieved relatives gathered outside, he assured to set up an inquiry into the deaths at private hospitals though he made it clear “it was an individual’s responsibility if non-government facility was preferred”. The relatives have accused private hospitals here of fleecing them and not recommending Covid tests despite patients showing symptoms.  Allegations are also being made on private hospitals illegally carrying out Covid tests and giving favourable reports to influential people, which has worsened the situation. Relatives of a patient who passed away on Friday have submitted a complaint to local police against the sealed hospital accusing it of negligence and handing them a Rs3 lakh bill. Officials said private hospitals are also holding back patients, especially with pneumonia and other respiratory complications, by scarring them about government hospitals. “Per day Rs3,000 to Rs12,000 are charged from such patients to inflate bills. Despite symptoms, relatives are discouraged from getting tested as they will lose the patient to government hospital. In doing this, many died while a couple of them where shifted at last moment which confirmed they were corona patient,” they said. This caused rapid spread of diseases as suspected patients’s close relatives were never quarantined. A doctor, involved in carrying out last rites of Covid patients, told TOI that the situation is grim in Kamptee.  “Daily four to five deaths are happening. All of them were showing symptoms of Covid infection. The officials are covering up cases. On Tuesday night, a woman passed away and the family performed last rites within hours. Nobody is revealing cases because of fear of institutional quarantine,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptee-pvt-hosp-shut-for-not-reporting-suspected-deaths/articleshow/77095928.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||DGP writes to Del, Hry cops over ‘missing’ MLA||Jaipur: After the Special Operations Group’s (SOG) team went to Delhi and Manesar to look for MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Rajasthan DGP Bhupendra Singh wrote to DGP of Haryana and commissioner of police Delhi requesting assistance and support from them.However, they are yet to respond or assure the Rajasthan police of the same. The SOG team had gone to Manesar on Friday to locate Sharma despite sending subpoenas to his residences in Jaipur and Churu.Confirming the same, the DGP said, “The day after the SOG team reached, I wrote to the officials concerned to provide them with the necessary support though we have not heard back from them yet.”Meanwhile, the SOG team will remain there for a while in a bid to locate Sharma, claimed officials. “At present, our team has not been able to get in touch with the MLA and for now they will remain there till future course of action is decided”, said Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS. On Friday, the SOG had registered two FIRs after a complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi over perceived allegations to topple the government in Rajasthan. One of the two FIRs mentioned Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Sanjay Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. While the FIR mentions Singh, it does not say if it is referring to the Union minister though he (Gajendra Singh Shekhawat) released a statement in which he has refuted the claims made by Congress. Jain has been arrested in the matter. In the same matter, state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) also lodged an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act following which the agency sent notices to Sharma and former toursim minister Vishwendra Singh to record their statements. On Saturday, notice was also sent to Shekhawat via WhatsApp, email and telephonically to record his statement in the matter.The hearing for taking Jain’s voice samples has been scheduled for July 24. He is also to be produced in court on Wednesday as his 4-days remand will end. The court also rejected Bharat Malani bail plea on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dgp-writes-to-del-hry-cops-over-missing-mla/articleshow/77096380.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||CM’s tirade against his No. 2 surprises many||Jaipur: Amid the ongoing power struggle within the Congress party, chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s outburst against his former deputy Sachin Pilot has not gone down well with people.Gehlot had on Monday described Pilot as ‘useless’ and ‘worthless’. Last week, Gehlot had said just being ‘handsome’ with ‘good English’ was not enough in politics as one should be clean inside with ideological commitment to the party.Zainab Sikandar, writer-columnist in a tweet said, “Ashok Gehlot calling Sachin Pilot ‘nikamma’ (good for nothing) has really brought the toxicity within Congress out in the open. Congress is riddled with jealousy, envy and vendetta politics. And you expect them to win? Iss hamaam mein sab nange hain.”Another twitter user asked, “What will Gehlot call Pilot today?”Pilot and his supporting 18 Congress MLAs are holed up in a hotel in Manesar seeking the removal of the chief minister. Gehlot had alleged that Pilot and his supporters had hatched a conspiracy to topple his government in connivance with the BJP.Even common people feel that the political discourse should be decent and never stoop to such a level. “I am surprised by the language used by the chief minister against Pilot. Generally, he is very sombre and perhaps he is rattled by the rebellion by Pilot,” said Sunita Sharma, a school teacher.“Gehlot is a clever politician. Perhaps he is using such harsh words against Pilot to pre-empt any rapprochement with him. With Pilot’s exist, there is no competition within the Congress for Gehlot and he will get a free hand to run the show in the Congress,” said Alok Jain, a political observer.Whatever be the reason, people have never seen such aggression from the chief minister. He seems to be ready for a fight to the finish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cms-tirade-against-his-no-2-surprises-many/articleshow/77096383.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Man held for issuing fake government papers||ERODE: A 40-year-old man, who was running a computer centre in Punjaipuliampatty, was arrested on Tuesday for issuing fake government documents. Crime branch officials seized government rubber stamps along with fake signature specimen from his shop during a raid. The accused, K Ramasamy, 40, of Kavilipalayam, was running a computer centre in his village. M Tirumoorthy, 45, of Chinnankuttai village, had approached Ramasamy to help him file an online application for a land ownership certificate with the revenue department. Ramasamy applied online and handed over the certificate to Tirumoorthy in four days. Ramasamy took the certificate to the local village administrative officer (VAO). T Prabhu, the VAO, felt something was amiss when he saw the certificate. He later realised that the certificate was fake. “The certificate also carried a fake signature of the tahsildar,” the VAO said. Based on the VAO’s complaint, Ramasamy was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-held-for-issuing-fake-government-papers/articleshow/77095926.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s lakes have 50% less water than last year, but no cuts yet||MUMBAI: With two monsoon months for Mumbai over, seven lakes that supply water to the city have almost 50% less stock compared to 2019. But, the BMC has said that no decision on a water cut had been taken yet and they were monitoring the situation. The stocks in lakes on July 21 stood at a little more than 4 lakh million litres, which is 28% of the requirement. On the same day last year, it was 7.6 lakh million litres, or 52% of the required stock. Before that, the stocks stood over 11 lakh million litres. Even though Tulsi lake’s water level stands at 139.1 m (overflow level is 139.2 m), it is the smallest lake supplying water to the city, fulfilling only 1% of the city’s requirements. With no forecast for heavy rain in the coming days of the month, the low water stock, compared to previous years, is a cause for concern. Weathermen said a reason for city areas reporting more rain as compared to the interiors, where the catchment lakes are, was because cloud bands were strong near the coast. The constant influx of moisture from Arabian Sea leads to formation of clouds. As clouds move into the city, it gives parts of Mumbai’s suburbs significant rain, but they fizzle out before reaching the catchment areas. Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra also took to Twitter to raise concern over low lake levels on July 20, saying, “In a cruel twist of fate, lake levels in Mumbai remain perilously low despite the city having received its full quota of July rainfall. Apart from the fact that rainfall tapered off as it approached the lakes, there’s perhaps another cause. Found this narrative at http://numerical.co.in: “increased personal hygiene practices as well as added stay-at-home demands from running tap water to wash germs off fruits&vegetables... had perhaps led to increased water usage and subsequent depletion. Ironically, Covid 19 is raising per capita water needs to more affluent country levels. Not just Mumbai, but other Indian cities could face a crisis in water supply by next year... We will need to aggressively plan ahead to save water & augment resources.” Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu told TOI the city was still in the middle of the monsoon, and with India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast for a normal monsoon this year, they are hoping the situation will improve. “So far, no decision on water cuts has been taken for Mumbai, but we are closely monitoring the situation,” he said. On whether consumption of water by residential users owing to Covid-19 had been higher, he said it was possible considering all major commercial establishments in the past few months were shut, and yet with water stocks being low, there may have been increased usage by residential users to whom BMC supplies 155 litres of water per capita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citys-lakes-have-50-less-water-than-last-year-but-no-cuts-yet/articleshow/77095519.cms||Richa Pinto
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Railways plans to freeze 50% posts||CHANDIGARH: The Northern Railway has asked all divisions to submit a report on 50% posts that can be surrendered. In July, the railways had issued instructions to all the zones to review the policy of creation of posts, leading to the Northern Railway directive. In a letter issued by Ambala division to all the branch officers, the higher authorities have directed to freeze the creation of posts in all departments till further orders. In fact, a report has to be submitted by the departments on posts created in the last two years. Clear instructions have been issued that if recruitment has not been done against these posts, the branch should review the requirement and surrender them, official on the basis of anonymity said. Officials said only safety departments are exempted from reviewing their staff as safety cannot be compromised, and the rest have to submit the reports by this weekend, which further will be given to the Northern Railway to review the financial burden on the authorities. In May after receiving the first quarter grant, the Ambala division had started monitoring the staff for disbursing travel allowance to them in the fiscal year of 2020-21. Strict instructions have been issued by divisional railway manager (DRM) Ambala, to overcome the financial stress in view of the Covid-19. The communication sent to all heads stated that while deciding to call staff on national holiday for which a special allowance is given by railway, the officers should monitor how much staff should be called to whom payment of the allowance be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rlys-plans-to-freeze-50-posts/articleshow/77095356.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration backs Vivek Sheel Soni as new SSP, sends name to MHA||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has recommended 2011 batch IPS officer Vivek Sheel Soni’s name for the new senior superintendent of police (SSP) post reserved for Punjab cadre officers to the ministry of home affairs (MHA). On June 9, the administration had received a panel of three IPS officers from the Punjab government for the post comprising names of Kuldeep Singh Chahal (2009 batch), SSP, Mohali, Patil Ketan Baliram (2010 batch), AIG, counter intelligence, Amritsar, and Soni, SSP, Ludhiana rural. Nilambari Vijay Jagdale, a 2008 batch IPS officer, is holding the charge of Chandigarh SSP since August 22, 2017. A senior UT official said that with the approval of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, administration has forwarded the name to the central government. Terms of three officers of Chandigarh Police — DGP Sanjay Beniwal, SSP Jagdale and DIG Shashank Ahand, a Haryana cadre IPS officer — are going to end in the next six months. The post of SSP (Chandigarh) had remained with AGMUT cadre IPS officers from Delhi till 1990. It was given to Punjab, when terrorism was at its peak in the state and the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, that governs Chandigarh related matters, felt the need of better coordination between Punjab and the central government in view of the law and order situation. IPS Sumedh Singh Saini was the first full-fledged SSP Chandigarh of Punjab cadre from 1991 to 1994.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-backs-soni-as-new-ssp-sends-name-to-mha/articleshow/77095361.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Don’t act on disqualificationnotices, HC ‘requests’ Speaker||Jaipur: The 18 dissident Congress legislators led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot got another breather from Rajasthan High Court that on Tuesday ‘requested’ assembly speaker CP Joshi not to act on the disqualification notices issued by him till it passes an order on July 24.A division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta passed an interim order on the petition. “The court has said the matter be put up for necessary orders on July 24 and till then the speaker is requested to extend the time given to the petitioners for filing replies,” advocate Prateek Kasliwal, who represented Joshi in the court, told TOI. The high court completed hearing on the Pilot group’s petition challenging the speaker’s disqualification notices issued under the Constitution’s Schedule X for failing to attend party legislature meetings despite a whip. The legislators were originally required to respond by 1pm on July 17 but last week the court sought an assurance from the speaker to not act on the notices till 5:30pm on Tuesday. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had petitioned the speaker that 19 MLAs appeared to have voluntarily given up their membership by not attending two consecutive legislature party meetings on July 13 and 14 despite the party whip and thus attracted disqualification under the Constitution’s Schedule X.Senior counsels Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi appearing via video conferencing for the Pilot group argued before the division bench the legislators have neither defected nor given up their assembly memberships and as such the speaker was incorrect in invoking clause 2(1)(a) of Schedule X to issue them disqualification notices. It was argued that the speaker acted in haste issuing notices on the same day when the chief whip petitioned him and gave the MLAs just two days’ time instead of seven days to respond. The whip too was questioned saying it could be issued only when the assembly was in session and its violation only in the House could invite action under the anti-defection law. Pilot’s counsels argued that under Article 226 the high court had powers to intervene even before the speaker acted on the notices. Senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the speaker, argued that not only the petition was premature but the court also had no powers to intervene since the speaker had “exclusive, non-transferable and non-delegable authority” to adjudicate on disqualification of members. Singhvi said what conduct invites disqualification under Schedule X was the sole domain of the speaker. Senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, who represented chief whip Joshi, said the MLAs’ refusal to attend CLP meetings can be construed as a conduct of voluntarily giving up the membership. Chief justice Mahanty noted a contradiction in party’s stand, which considered refusal to attend CLP meetings as voluntarily giving up of memberships by the 19 MLAs but subsequently suspended two of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dont-act-on-disqualificationnotices-hc-requests-speaker/articleshow/77096386.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Ex-deputy CM’s support waning in his Tonk seat||Jaipur: Sachin Pilot may have the support of a section of MLAs in the power struggle with CM Ashok Gehlot, but he failed to gain en masse support from voters of his Tonk constituency. The voters, majority being Muslims, had given him one of the biggest victory (margin of 55,000) from this seat on December 11, 2018. However, last Saturday people in Tonk burnt his effigy for attempting to topple the Gehlot government and speculations of him joining the BJP.His nomination from Tonk at the eleventh hour had come as a surprise for the city residents. However, his landslide win was rejoiced by everyone believing that it is a beginning of the change the city was desperately looking for to revive its old glory. BJP fielded its lone Muslim candidate Yunus Khan from this seat, but miserably failed. But the charm of one of the most popular young politicians soon faded due to rare visits. “He doesn’t have a home address in Tonk and for everything one has to contact his close aides or line up in a queue outside his residence in Jaipur. But his latest step has betrayed every voter of his constituency,” said Mohsin Rasheed, state coordinator in the state minority department of the Congress. Burning his effigy and removing his posters from the city doesn’t mean loyalty for Gehlot. “It is an expression of disapproval for Pilot’s stand to destabilise a secular government. I can challenge if he contests the poll as an independent or on BJP ticket, the defeat is written on the wall,” said Raees Ahmed, an advocate based in Tonk Anjuman Khandan-e-Ameeriya , a body of erstwhile royal family of Tonk, had to clarify their stand to Jaipur that they are with Pilot until he is with Congress. Mohammed Ahmed Khan, head of AKA said, “The Khandan official stand is that they didn’t support Pilot and the power struggle. He is our Janasheen (beloved) until he is part of the Congress party.”Pilot’s biggest support came from Ali Ahmed, chairman of Tonk Municipal council, who agreed that Pilot had been sidelined in the party. “He was committed to fulfill the promises made to us but some people in the government created obstacles in his way. He was not even given the liberty or freedom to even make a local transfer,” said Ahmed. His support comes with a rider that he will support Pilot until he joins BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-deputy-cms-support-waning-in-his-tonk-seat/articleshow/77096392.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 22, 2020||Dehradun||4 gym owners held for violating Covid norms||Roorkee: Owners of four city-based gyms were held by local police on Tuesday for keeping their respective fitness centres open in violation of state government order relating to Covid-19. Later, the police released these accused on personal bonds but registered a case against them under appropriate sections. All these four gyms are located in the Civil Lines area. “We have registered a case against them under sections 51-B of the Disaster Management Act and section 188 (disobedience of order of lawful authority) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Rajesh Sah, in-charge of Civil Lines police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-gym-owners-held-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/77093643.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||Elderly shepherd abducted, murdered by neighbour||Nagpur: Rambhau Neware, 65, was kidnapped by a neighbour and his three aides on Monday from a field near Jamtha in Hingna over an old dispute between them. The senior citizen’s body, with the head and face smashed, was found at Wadner in Hinganghat taluka in Wardha on Tuesday. Police said Chhotu Hinge, arrested by Wadner police along with three others, allegedly murdered Neware over suspicion that he practised witchcraft, and had cast a dark spell on him. Hinge, who used to fall ill frequently, held Neware’s black magic responsible for his ill health. This presumption of Hinge led to frequent quarrels between the Neware and Hinge families. Neware, a shepherd, was tending to his animals in the field when he was abducted. His family was clueless since Neware did not return in the evening. A customer at a nearby pan kiosk was the first one to share some clues with the Newares. He told them someone had spotted a few men forcibly taking away the victim in a car. Neware’s son Rakesh approached Hingna police station to lodge a complaint of kidnapping. Though police had registered an offence of kidnapping, it’s not clear whether there was any serious effort to search for the victim. On Tuesday morning, Wadner police of Wardha district spotted the unidentified body in a nullah. Senior inspector Ashish Gajbhiye of Wadner police station said there was a chit in the victim’s pocket with a mobile number scribbled on it. “The mobile number belonged to a man who had met him a day ago at Jamtha,” said the PI. “It’s learnt that the man had left his mobile number with the victim to coordinate with him later for a marriage proposal. We then came to know that the body belonged to someone from Jamtha, following which he was identified with the help of Butibori and Hingna police,” said Gajbhiye. After talking to the family members, Gajbhiye and his team arrested Hinge, Sagar and two others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/elderly-shepherd-abducted-murdered-by-neighbour/articleshow/77095920.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||Diggy alleges corruption prevailing in MP, urges RSS chief to take note||Bhopal: Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday appealed to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to take a “confidential report” from his organisation functionaries on the conduct of ministers in the BJP government and alleged that corruption is prevailing in the state. Bhagwat reached Bhopal on Monday evening and is scheduled to be in the city for five days and meet RSS members. “Hearty welcome to RSS sarsanghchalak Dr Mohan Bhagwat to Bhopal city. Please take confidential report from your volunteers on the conduct and corruption of the BJP chief minister and ministers. Also, definitely seek information on the involvement of Shivraj ji (Singh Chouhan)’s family in illegal sand mining activities,” Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya said in a tweet. In another tweet directed to Bhagwat, Digvijaya said, “You must also inquire about the purchase of MLAs in Madhya Pradesh. Please clarify what the RSS thinks about this kind of a democratic system, the conduct of MLAs and appointment of ministers who are not legislators.” Reacting to Digvijaya’s tweets, BJP national vice-president Prabhat Jha said, “I am a swayamsevak of the RSS and also affiliated to BJP. I can say that Digvijaya Singh, despite so many years of experience in politics, still knows nothing about the RSS. That is why he gives such statements. He should at least know the basics of the RSS before making such tweets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diggy-alleges-corruption-prevailing-in-mp-urges-rss-chief-to-take-note/articleshow/77095375.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 22, 2020||Kochi||Subash Vasu, aide arrested in microfin case||Alappuzha: Crime branch team probing Rs 12.5 crore microfinance fraud case on Tuesday arrested SNDP Yogam Mavelikkara union former president Subash Vasu and secretary Suresh Babu. Later, they were released on bail based on the direction of Kerala high court. “The arrest was recorded by the crime branch at its Alappuzha office after a detailed interrogation. We interrogated them for over six hours. They appeared before us after the high court rejected their anticipatory bail application and directed them to present themselves at crime branch office,” said the investigation team.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/subash-vasu-aide-arrested-in-microfin-case/articleshow/77095387.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||June 2020 CESC bill may be around what you paid in June 2019||KOLKATA: The CESC electricity bill for the month of June is likely to be close to the amount the utility had billed in June 2019. But in the absence of a regulatory framework to determine what the bill of a particular month will be when meter has been read after a gap of three months, power industry experts say CESC will have to seek the approval of state electricity regulatory commission (SERC) for the special billing process before intimating consumers. According to experts, CESC can work out the June electricity consumption in multiple ways. The first would be to deduct the amount of units consumed in April and May last year from number of units consumed in three months — April, May and June — this year to determine the probable units consumed in June 2020. The second option would be to check the electricity consumption pattern in April, May and June 2019 and then split the units recorded for the three months this year in the same ratio. “Using this method, the bill can be split to three individual months: April, May and June. But to do so now will be complex as the bills for April and May have not only been generated but also paid,” a power industry veteran said. Neither method finds mention in the SERC regulation. According to the regulator, there are two ways of determining bills when meter is not read: charge consumers as per corresponding month’s bill the previous year or bill a consumer the average of previous six month’s consumption. CESC had used the former option to bill consumers for March before the regulator directed to switch to the latter option to compute bills for April and May. “Had bills for April and May 2020 been based on the corresponding months last year, they would have been a realistic reflection of the amount of electricity consumed in households during these months. Then the June bill would not have appeared inflated,” another expert pointed out. Computing the bill according to the previous six months’ average consumption led to a huge disparity in the provisional bills that were generated for April and May as the period including winter months (November-February) when use of AC and fans is less. With only a fraction of the actual consumption reflecting in the April and May bills, the rest got added to June’s consumption, leading to the fat bill. Experts point out that the commission’s regulation requires the utility to generate a final bill after meter reading takes place. “The difference between the units reflected during the latest meter reading and the previous meter reading prior to lockdown is the amount of electricity consumed during the period. From this, the provisional bills are adjusted to arrive at the final bill,” said a billing expert. While this is what reflected in the CESC June bill, protests led to the company announcing its withdrawal and declaring that it would keep the dues for April and May in abeyance while issuing a fresh June bill. “To do this, it will need SERC to approve the process of computing the June bill. That is necessary to avoid legal issues later,” a former advisor to SERC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/june-2020-cesc-bill-may-be-around-what-you-paid-in-june-2019/articleshow/77095372.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 22, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Agents ‘offer’ BCom seats, quote up to Rs 5 lakh||CHENNAI: In the current Covid-triggered uncertainty, with educational campuses off limits to students and parents, a network of middlemen is targeting those desperate for admission in top arts and science colleges. Promising seats in any college, these ‘agents’ demand anything from Rs 80,000 to Rs 5 lakh for a BCom seat, the most sought after, with an advance of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 for the ‘booking’. Following reports of a message about such a group doing the rounds on WhatsApp, TOI called the number mentioned. The man who answered said he was working for a consultancy and wanted details of the caller’s Class XII marks. “Due to the heavy competition, managements have increased donations this year. For a BCom seat in Loyola College, you may have to spend up to Rs5 lakh and those like Madras Christian College (MCC) and DG Vaishnav College, it may touch Rs 3.5 lakh. The higher the marks are, the lower the donation will be,” he said. A seat at Ethiraj College for Women, he said, would cost Rs2 lakh. It’s very simple, the agent said. “Before the college reopens, we will call you to the college. You have to pay the donation and fees to get admission. We have our people in colleges and have done several admissions previously.” But, most city institutions say they don’t accept donation/capitation fee, with one institution even putting out a warning in its prospectus. “We do not collect any capitation fee for admission. But, brokers collect money in our college name. We are trying to prevent it,” said Loyola College principal Thomas Amirtham. The college, he said, had automated the entire process, with aspirants ranked according to the details fed. Based on the roster system, the selection list is released for 50% of seats. “Every year, we fine-tune admission process to not provide space for middlemen or agents.” It is a very serious menace, said R Ganesan, principal of DG Vaishnav College, adding that these people cash in on the students’ fear, given the present crisis. “Many may get admission in the normal process. But, agents project as if they got the seats with their influence. Students and parents need to be careful,” he said, adding that they had complained to police against such people. A faculty member of Ethiraj College said they were monitoring social media for any such ‘information’ about the institution and added they had lodged a complaint last year in this connection. Madras Christian College detected a group of such agents in Pallavaram and is planning to lodge a complaint with the cyber crime police. “We don’t collect donations or encourage any third party in our admission process,” said principal P Wilson. Guru Nanak College principal MG Ragunathan said parents or students wanting to know about admission to a particular course can always contact the college. “They need not approach unknown persons,” he said. The college plans to release the rank list for all applicants to ensure transparency. Some colleges have deputed experts to monitor middlemen on social media including WhatsApp and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/agents-offer-bcom-seats-quote-up-to-rs-5l/articleshow/77099649.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 22, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Agents ‘offer’ BCom seats, quote up to Rs 5 lakh||CHENNAI: In the current Covid-triggered uncertainty, with educational campuses off limits to students and parents, a network of middlemen is targeting those desperate for admission in top arts and science colleges. Promising seats in any college, these ‘agents’ demand anything from Rs 80,000 to Rs 5 lakh for a BCom seat, the most sought after, with an advance of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 for the ‘booking’. Following reports of a message about such a group doing the rounds on WhatsApp, TOI called the number mentioned. The man who answered said he was working for a consultancy and wanted details of the caller’s Class XII marks. “Due to the heavy competition, managements have increased donations this year. For a BCom seat in Loyola College, you may have to spend up to Rs5 lakh and those like Madras Christian College (MCC) and DG Vaishnav College, it may touch Rs 3.5 lakh. The higher the marks are, the lower the donation will be,” he said. A seat at Ethiraj College for Women, he said, would cost Rs2 lakh. It’s very simple, the agent said. “Before the college reopens, we will call you to the college. You have to pay the donation and fees to get admission. We have our people in colleges and have done several admissions previously.” But, most city institutions say they don’t accept donation/capitation fee, with one institution even putting out a warning in its prospectus. “We do not collect any capitation fee for admission. But, brokers collect money in our college name. We are trying to prevent it,” said Loyola College principal Thomas Amirtham. The college, he said, had automated the entire process, with aspirants ranked according to the details fed. Based on the roster system, the selection list is released for 50% of seats. “Every year, we fine-tune admission process to not provide space for middlemen or agents.” It is a very serious menace, said R Ganesan, principal of DG Vaishnav College, adding that these people cash in on the students’ fear, given the present crisis. “Many may get admission in the normal process. But, agents project as if they got the seats with their influence. Students and parents need to be careful,” he said, adding that they had complained to police against such people. A faculty member of Ethiraj College said they were monitoring social media for any such ‘information’ about the institution and added they had lodged a complaint last year in this connection. Madras Christian College detected a group of such agents in Pallavaram and is planning to lodge a complaint with the cyber crime police. “We don’t collect donations or encourage any third party in our admission process,” said principal P Wilson. Guru Nanak College principal MG Ragunathan said parents or students wanting to know about admission to a particular course can always contact the college. “They need not approach unknown persons,” he said. The college plans to release the rank list for all applicants to ensure transparency. Some colleges have deputed experts to monitor middlemen on social media including WhatsApp and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/agents-offer-bcom-seats-quote-up-to-rs-5l/articleshow/77099651.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 22, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Agents ‘offer’ BCom seats, quote up to Rs 5 lakh||CHENNAI: In the current Covid-triggered uncertainty, with educational campuses off limits to students and parents, a network of middlemen is targeting those desperate for admission in top arts and science colleges. Promising seats in any college, these ‘agents’ demand anything from Rs 80,000 to Rs 5 lakh for a BCom seat, the most sought after, with an advance of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 for the ‘booking’. Following reports of a message about such a group doing the rounds on WhatsApp, TOI called the number mentioned. The man who answered said he was working for a consultancy and wanted details of the caller’s Class XII marks. “Due to the heavy competition, managements have increased donations this year. For a BCom seat in Loyola College, you may have to spend up to Rs5 lakh and those like Madras Christian College (MCC) and DG Vaishnav College, it may touch Rs 3.5 lakh. The higher the marks are, the lower the donation will be,” he said. A seat at Ethiraj College for Women, he said, would cost Rs2 lakh. It’s very simple, the agent said. “Before the college reopens, we will call you to the college. You have to pay the donation and fees to get admission. We have our people in colleges and have done several admissions previously.” But, most city institutions say they don’t accept donation/capitation fee, with one institution even putting out a warning in its prospectus. “We do not collect any capitation fee for admission. But, brokers collect money in our college name. We are trying to prevent it,” said Loyola College principal Thomas Amirtham. The college, he said, had automated the entire process, with aspirants ranked according to the details fed. Based on the roster system, the selection list is released for 50% of seats. “Every year, we fine-tune admission process to not provide space for middlemen or agents.” It is a very serious menace, said R Ganesan, principal of DG Vaishnav College, adding that these people cash in on the students’ fear, given the present crisis. “Many may get admission in the normal process. But, agents project as if they got the seats with their influence. Students and parents need to be careful,” he said, adding that they had complained to police against such people. A faculty member of Ethiraj College said they were monitoring social media for any such ‘information’ about the institution and added they had lodged a complaint last year in this connection. Madras Christian College detected a group of such agents in Pallavaram and is planning to lodge a complaint with the cyber crime police. “We don’t collect donations or encourage any third party in our admission process,” said principal P Wilson. Guru Nanak College principal MG Ragunathan said parents or students wanting to know about admission to a particular course can always contact the college. “They need not approach unknown persons,” he said. The college plans to release the rank list for all applicants to ensure transparency. Some colleges have deputed experts to monitor middlemen on social media including WhatsApp and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/agents-offer-bcom-seats-quote-up-to-rs-5l/articleshow/77099652.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||A day after attack, gang wanted to kill rival in Mayo||Nagpur: Local crime branch (LCB) of Nagpur rural police intercepted and arrested 10 members of the Golu Maliye gang on their way to murder their rival Ganesh Meshram and his wife Priyanka inside Mayo hospital, in the wee hours of Tuesday. Meshram and his wife fighting for life with bullet injuries sustained in an attack on their rented apartment at Shriniketan Colony on Monday by the Maliye gang. The LCB team, under SP Rakesh Ola, managed to round up the gang within a few hours of the murder attempt without any more casualties. The gang, which had gone to Parseoni for a feast and to lie low to evade arrest, was allegedly on it’s way back to the city. The gang apparently intended to enter Mayo hospital and kill the victims, as they had survived the first attack. The gang was also planning to murder a police informer, but LCB team under police inspector Anil Jittewar, Assistant PI Jitendra Vairagade, sub-inspectors Narendra Gourkhede, Javed Khan and Sachin Mate and others managed to round them up after laying a trap near Mankapur. It’s learnt rural police had already arrested Maliye, who had left the city and checked into a resort at Pench after hatching the plot. He had handed over the plan to Himanshu Chandrakar to execute it. Apart from Maliye, police had also rounded up Farukh Khan and Sobin Mokode, who are also in police custody, for their role in conducting a recce and providing information about Meshram’s whereabouts. After Maliye, Chandrakar, Khan and Mokode were taken into custody, police managed to nab the rest including Mohd Haider, who had opened fire on Ganesh and Priyanka in the presence of their five-year-old daughter. The gang had also held the firearm to the landlord’s head to silence her before heading to the first floor residence to attack Meshram. The Meshram and Maliye gangs have been after each other for the last couple of years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-day-after-attack-gang-wanted-to-kill-rival-in-mayo/articleshow/77095935.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 22, 2020||Jaipur||Dausa voters unhappy with ‘treatment’ meted out to Pilot||Jaipur: Prior to being a reserved seat, the parliamentary constituency of Dausa was the political bastion of the Pilots. Rajesh Pilot, his wife Rama and their son Sachin have all won elections from here. Those who have closely seen the venturing of late Rajesh Pilot and son Sachin into politics are shattered with the treatment given to the latter.Despite the fact that delimitations changed the faces of the elected representatives from Dausa Lok Sabha constituency, but the support and affection for Pilots remains undeterred. “Sachin Pilot has done work at the grassroots level. He deserved to be the chief minister. However, as a deputy chief minister too, he deserved equal respect. Whatever has happened is unfortunate and he should have been given his dues within the party,” said Vishwapriya Nagar, an 88-year-old lawyer who had witnessed the first Lok Sabha election won by Rajesh Pilot.Nagar added that Sachin was compelled to do what he is doing right now. “May be people are making foul statements against him and chief minister Ashok Gehlot is among them, Sachin has not said a single word against the party or against anyone. He is still maintaining that he is not going out of the Congress.”Echoing similar views, 72-year-old Ghanshyam Sharma, who is known to be very close to the Pilot family said, “Even if Sachin Pilot ji fought this election from Tonk, we used to seek his help even for trivial issues. While he was a minister at the Centre in Manmohan Singh’s government, people from Dausa were always welcome to Delhi. The way Gehlot and others in the Congress government are speaking against him is unfortunate. I would suggest that they should talk and sort out the issue.”Locals here are unhappy with the treatment given to Sachin Pilot. Many also claimed that they voted for Congress in the assembly polls to see him become the chief minister. “We voted for Congress to see Sachinji as our chief minister. Now, he is been termed as nikamma (incompetent). He had worked very hard to get the party in a good position in last assembly polls.”Sardar Jaspal Singh (58), who had seen Rajesh Pilot eating at his dhaba during the 80s said, “He is like a player who scored 100 runs and helped his country to win but the man of the match award goes to somebody. Gehlot has been a good politician and chief minister. It is time when as an elder within Rajasthan Congress family should talk to Sachinji and bring him home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dausa-voters-unhappy-with-treatment-meted-out-to-pilot/articleshow/77096395.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 22, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: Agents ‘offer’ BCom seats, quote up to Rs 5 lakh||CHENNAI: In the current Covid-triggered uncertainty, with educational campuses off limits to students and parents, a network of middlemen is targeting those desperate for admission in top arts and science colleges. Promising seats in any college, these ‘agents’ demand anything from Rs 80,000 to Rs 5 lakh for a BCom seat, the most sought after, with an advance of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 for the ‘booking’. Following reports of a message about such a group doing the rounds on WhatsApp, TOI called the number mentioned. The man who answered said he was working for a consultancy and wanted details of the caller’s Class XII marks. “Due to the heavy competition, managements have increased donations this year. For a BCom seat in Loyola College, you may have to spend up to Rs5 lakh and those like Madras Christian College (MCC) and DG Vaishnav College, it may touch Rs 3.5 lakh. The higher the marks are, the lower the donation will be,” he said. A seat at Ethiraj College for Women, he said, would cost Rs2 lakh. It’s very simple, the agent said. “Before the college reopens, we will call you to the college. You have to pay the donation and fees to get admission. We have our people in colleges and have done several admissions previously.” But, most city institutions say they don’t accept donation/capitation fee, with one institution even putting out a warning in its prospectus. “We do not collect any capitation fee for admission. But, brokers collect money in our college name. We are trying to prevent it,” said Loyola College principal Thomas Amirtham. The college, he said, had automated the entire process, with aspirants ranked according to the details fed. Based on the roster system, the selection list is released for 50% of seats. “Every year, we fine-tune admission process to not provide space for middlemen or agents.” It is a very serious menace, said R Ganesan, principal of DG Vaishnav College, adding that these people cash in on the students’ fear, given the present crisis. “Many may get admission in the normal process. But, agents project as if they got the seats with their influence. Students and parents need to be careful,” he said, adding that they had complained to police against such people. A faculty member of Ethiraj College said they were monitoring social media for any such ‘information’ about the institution and added they had lodged a complaint last year in this connection. Madras Christian College detected a group of such agents in Pallavaram and is planning to lodge a complaint with the cyber crime police. “We don’t collect donations or encourage any third party in our admission process,” said principal P Wilson. Guru Nanak College principal MG Ragunathan said parents or students wanting to know about admission to a particular course can always contact the college. “They need not approach unknown persons,” he said. The college plans to release the rank list for all applicants to ensure transparency. Some colleges have deputed experts to monitor middlemen on social media including WhatsApp and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/agents-offer-bcom-seats-quote-up-to-rs-5l/articleshow/77099646.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Agents ‘offer’ BCom seats, quote up to Rs 5 lakh||CHENNAI: In the current Covid-triggered uncertainty, with educational campuses off limits to students and parents, a network of middlemen is targeting those desperate for admission in top arts and science colleges. Promising seats in any college, these ‘agents’ demand anything from Rs 80,000 to Rs 5 lakh for a BCom seat, the most sought after, with an advance of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 for the ‘booking’. Following reports of a message about such a group doing the rounds on WhatsApp, TOI called the number mentioned. The man who answered said he was working for a consultancy and wanted details of the caller’s Class XII marks. “Due to the heavy competition, managements have increased donations this year. For a BCom seat in Loyola College, you may have to spend up to Rs5 lakh and those like Madras Christian College (MCC) and DG Vaishnav College, it may touch Rs 3.5 lakh. The higher the marks are, the lower the donation will be,” he said. A seat at Ethiraj College for Women, he said, would cost Rs2 lakh. It’s very simple, the agent said. “Before the college reopens, we will call you to the college. You have to pay the donation and fees to get admission. We have our people in colleges and have done several admissions previously.” But, most city institutions say they don’t accept donation/capitation fee, with one institution even putting out a warning in its prospectus. “We do not collect any capitation fee for admission. But, brokers collect money in our college name. We are trying to prevent it,” said Loyola College principal Thomas Amirtham. The college, he said, had automated the entire process, with aspirants ranked according to the details fed. Based on the roster system, the selection list is released for 50% of seats. “Every year, we fine-tune admission process to not provide space for middlemen or agents.” It is a very serious menace, said R Ganesan, principal of DG Vaishnav College, adding that these people cash in on the students’ fear, given the present crisis. “Many may get admission in the normal process. But, agents project as if they got the seats with their influence. Students and parents need to be careful,” he said, adding that they had complained to police against such people. A faculty member of Ethiraj College said they were monitoring social media for any such ‘information’ about the institution and added they had lodged a complaint last year in this connection. Madras Christian College detected a group of such agents in Pallavaram and is planning to lodge a complaint with the cyber crime police. “We don’t collect donations or encourage any third party in our admission process,” said principal P Wilson. Guru Nanak College principal MG Ragunathan said parents or students wanting to know about admission to a particular course can always contact the college. “They need not approach unknown persons,” he said. The college plans to release the rank list for all applicants to ensure transparency. Some colleges have deputed experts to monitor middlemen on social media including WhatsApp and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agents-offer-bcom-seats-quote-up-to-rs-5l/articleshow/77099645.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Agents ‘offer’ BCom seats, quote up to Rs 5 lakh||CHENNAI: In the current Covid-triggered uncertainty, with educational campuses off limits to students and parents, a network of middlemen is targeting those desperate for admission in top arts and science colleges. Promising seats in any college, these ‘agents’ demand anything from Rs 80,000 to Rs 5 lakh for a BCom seat, the most sought after, with an advance of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 for the ‘booking’. Following reports of a message about such a group doing the rounds on WhatsApp, TOI called the number mentioned. The man who answered said he was working for a consultancy and wanted details of the caller’s Class XII marks. “Due to the heavy competition, managements have increased donations this year. For a BCom seat in Loyola College, you may have to spend up to Rs5 lakh and those like Madras Christian College (MCC) and DG Vaishnav College, it may touch Rs 3.5 lakh. The higher the marks are, the lower the donation will be,” he said. A seat at Ethiraj College for Women, he said, would cost Rs2 lakh. It’s very simple, the agent said. “Before the college reopens, we will call you to the college. You have to pay the donation and fees to get admission. We have our people in colleges and have done several admissions previously.” But, most city institutions say they don’t accept donation/capitation fee, with one institution even putting out a warning in its prospectus. “We do not collect any capitation fee for admission. But, brokers collect money in our college name. We are trying to prevent it,” said Loyola College principal Thomas Amirtham. The college, he said, had automated the entire process, with aspirants ranked according to the details fed. Based on the roster system, the selection list is released for 50% of seats. “Every year, we fine-tune admission process to not provide space for middlemen or agents.” It is a very serious menace, said R Ganesan, principal of DG Vaishnav College, adding that these people cash in on the students’ fear, given the present crisis. “Many may get admission in the normal process. But, agents project as if they got the seats with their influence. Students and parents need to be careful,” he said, adding that they had complained to police against such people. A faculty member of Ethiraj College said they were monitoring social media for any such ‘information’ about the institution and added they had lodged a complaint last year in this connection. Madras Christian College detected a group of such agents in Pallavaram and is planning to lodge a complaint with the cyber crime police. “We don’t collect donations or encourage any third party in our admission process,” said principal P Wilson. Guru Nanak College principal MG Ragunathan said parents or students wanting to know about admission to a particular course can always contact the college. “They need not approach unknown persons,” he said. The college plans to release the rank list for all applicants to ensure transparency. Some colleges have deputed experts to monitor middlemen on social media including WhatsApp and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/agents-offer-bcom-seats-quote-up-to-rs-5l/articleshow/77095936.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt asks schools to send compliance report on fee structure within one week||KOLKATA: In its third letter to all schools, the West Bengal government on Monday sought a fresh compliance report within a week on the steps taken by schools on not increasing fees and not excluding students from online classes. The state sent its first letter on April 10 and the second on April 22. A few schools responded, others didn’t. The state on June 26 had sought MHRD’s intervention in the matter. School education secretary Manish Jain wrote to the Centre urging the issuance of an advisory on the fee issue. “This month, we sent a similar letter to government-sponsored schools after some complaints,” a source said. In Monday’s letter, Jain specified that fees for facilities like transport, library, computer laboratory, sports/ extra-curricular activities should not be charged. Instead, only proportionate fees for the rendered services should be levied. The school education department also clarified that no school should hike fees in the 2020-21 academic year. Nabarun De, principal, Central Modern School, Baranagar, said it had already sent the report to school commissioner Anindya Biswas. “We have mentioned that no student is being barred from attending online classes due to non-payment of fees. We have also not hiked fees. We have rather rolled back fee on all accounts over the 2019-20 fee structure,” he said, adding “We have assured the parents that no late fee will be charged for the time being.” At Don Bosco School, Park Circus, principal Fr Bikash Mondal said he will send the compliance report within a week. “In my earlier letter, I had mentioned that we were allowing all the students to attend online classes, but were charging late fees. We are sympathetically looking at any case of delay in fee payment. Moreover, in the 2020-21 academic session, we have not increased any fees,” he said. South Point School spokesperson Krishna Damani said that the school was in compliance with the order. “We shall send the report again. We have told parents that we shall levy 50% of the bus service charges till school resumes. We have not barred students from online classes over non-payment of fees. We are following up with individual parents who could not pay fees and requesting them to pay as much as possible,” Damani said. TH Ireland, principal of St James School, said that since the lockdown is going on, school is closed. “We have not received the July 20 circular from the state government. Even earlier, we did not receive any letter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-asks-schools-to-send-compliance-report-on-fee-structure-within-1-week/articleshow/77095389.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 22, 2020||Dehradun||Death toll in landslide rises to 7||Pithoragarh: The State Disaster Response Force and ITBP personnel recovered four more bodies from Tanga Munyal village in Munsyari on Tuesday taking the death toll in the previous day’s landslide to seven. According to sources, heavy rain and landslide has caused extensive damage in Bangapani region in the last two days, including several casualties. On Monday, SDRF personnel had recovered the bodies of three members of a family buried under the debris but were not able to trace the missing people in Tanga Munyal. Hence, they roped in the ITBP too on Tuesday and recovered four more bodies from a house damaged in the landslide. District magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said, “All the victims belong to the same family and were identified as Madhav Singh (70), Ganesh Singh (40), Heera Devi (34) and Roshan Kumar (17). The other affected people are being shifted to safe shelters.” He added that the rescue operation was severely hampered as most of the roads were damaged in the rain and landslides. Meanwhile, Dharchula and Munsyari received moderate rainfall on Tuesday. The disaster management authorities said that more than 17 roads in the district are still closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/death-toll-in-landslide-rises-to-7/articleshow/77093663.cms||Prem Punetha
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||Man held with three guns, knives||Nagpur: Jaripatka police have arrested Lawrence Countinho, a resident of Martin Nagar, and recovered three firearms and equal number of sharp weapons from him on Tuesday. With no crime record, Countinho is learnt to have collected these weapons to ward off a threat from a neighbour. Jaripatka police team under senior inspector Khushal Tijare is learnt to have received a tip-off through constable Sandeep Wankhede regarding Coutinho. As he was not opening the door, the police team led by sub-inspector Mahadev Naikwade and head constable Harishchandra Bhatt entered his room through a door in the gallery on the first floor. During the search, a firearm was recovered from socks, another behind the AC, and the third inside the almirah. The three knives too were found during the search. Police said Countinho is yet to reveal where he procured the weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-held-with-three-guns-knives/articleshow/77095922.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Bhopal||After testing -ve thrice, MLA tests Covid positive in Delhi||Jabalpur: A Congress MLA and former minister, whose three tests were negative earlier has now tested Covid-19 positive. The MLA had tested negative thrice in Jabalpur, but his kin took him to a private hospital in Delhi after his health deteriorated and he tested positive. The news created panic among Congress workers as a large number of supporters had visited the MLA when he was admitted to hospital. Congress’s Jabalpur city unit president, Dinesh Yadav said, “The MLA tested negative here but has now tested positive at a private hospital in Delhi. How this happened is a matter is investigation. We are, however, urging all people who have come into direct contact with the leader to be mindful, stay in quarantine and inform the authorities if they feel sick”. District officials are preparing a list of people who have come into contact with the MLA. Chief medical and health officer, Jabalpur, Dr Ratnesh Kurariya said, “Samples of 40 people, including kin, staff and other people closely associated with the leader have been taken so far. We are seeking the list of all people who have come into contact with him. They will be home quarantined, and if they have lack of space at their homes, they will be sent to institutional quarantine”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-testing-ve-thrice-mla-tests-covid-positive-in-delhi/articleshow/77095386.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Lucknow||Japanese firms keen on business ties with state, says minister||Lucknow: Japanese firms, evincing a keen interest in agriculture and food processing industry in the state, have assured the state government of raising big hatcheries and poultry farms that would assist farmers in enhancing yields as well as exports. This was disclosed by Indian ambassador to Japan Sanjay Verma in a video interaction with MSME and export promotion minister Sidharth Nath Singh here on Tuesday. Additional chief secretary of the department Navneet Sehgal and other officials were also present at the video conference which was termed as fruitful and productive by the minister. Earlier, similar exercises have been conducted with the US, the UK, Germany and Thailand with positive results. Microsoft has hinted at opening its campus with a capacity of 5,000 staff in Noida. This would be the biggest campus in the entire north India. In order to attract investments from Japan, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has constituted a Japan desk for regular perusal and monitoring of proposals. Talking to TOI, the MSME minister said that Miyachi Corporation has proposed to set up a fish hatchery with a capacity of 60 lakh seeds per hectare, while state farmers have a fishery which has a capacity of five lakh seeds per hectare. Japanese companies have also shown interest in setting up poultry farms. With the presence of Japanese companies, state farmers would be able to enhance production in their hatcheries. The minister further said that Tokachi Corporation of Japan has assured him of setting up a food processing industry and solar parks in the state. Energy produced from the solar park could be used for irrigation purposes, he added. Though it is at the early stage, the Japanese firms have also enquired about setting up plants for producing semi conductors and sought details of the land available around river basins as the production of semi conductors require huge availability of water, said Singh. The minister said that since Japan has limited land its companies are coming to the state which has adequate availability of land to offer them and their presence can also lead to technology transfer in electronics, food processing and agriculture sectors. The state has already earmarked a land bank of about one lakh hectares, including 85,000 hectares in eastern UP, to offer to foreign investors, the minister said, adding that apart from the land the state has adequate skilled and semi-skilled workforce. With this, said the MSME minister, who has been asked by the CM to attract investments to the state from different countries amidst fast-changing geopolitical situation in and around China, the state government has been assured by big companies of the US and EU that they would set up their units in UP. On July 22, the minister will hold a webinar with France.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/japanese-firms-keen-on-business-ties-with-state-says-minister/articleshow/77096410.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 22, 2020||Pune||After deluge last year, Pune close to being rain deficient in July||PUNE: July, so far, has been rainfall deficient for several districts including Pune, Satara and Nashik unlike last year’s flood situation during the same month. With just 10 days for the month to end, the rainfall quantum in these districts from July 1 to 21 has been meagre, causing a 25%-32% deficiency. The subdued monsoon during most part of the month has resulted in less than normal rain in seven districts of Maharashtra from July 1 to 21, including Pune, Satara, Nashik, Nandurbar, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Bhandara. When the rainfall quantum from June 1 is considered, all these districts, except Nandurbar and Gondia, show normal rains, though Satara had already begun recording negative departures from June 1 itself till now. Pune and Nashik are inching closer to being deficient. India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Tuesday said a short-lived revival could be witnessed in Maharashtra from July 23 to 25. Anupam Kashyapi, head (weather), IMD, Pune told TOI there have been no strong systems affecting the rainfall positively in the case of major parts of Maharashtra and some other parts of the country during July. Various smaller systems like upper air cyclonic circulations, oscillating, short-lived shear zones and a feeble offshore trough did appear during the month, but they did not result in much rainfall especially in Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha, he said “Rainfall during June was so good that many districts could escape deficiencies in July. In July too, these seven districts may have received less rainfall in the city areas, but rainfall in the region within a 50km radius outside was relatively better as ghat areas received isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall from time to time,” Kashyapi added. The offshore trough did not develop properly during July, while the monsoon trough shifting towards the foothills of the Himalayas for most of the month so far also resulted in deficient July rains in some districts. “We expect the monsoon to become active over Maharashtra again for a short period from July 23 to 25. A cyclonic circulation over Lakshadweep-Maldives area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea is gradually expected to move northwards. The westerly wind speed is also expected to pick up with more moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea which may cause a short period of rainfall revival in parts of the state,” he said. G P Sharma, president of Skymet Weather Services, told TOI that systems forming over the Bay of Bengal drive rain over Madhya Maharashtra, but these systems have been fewer this season which has caused July rainfall deficiency in some districts in the region. “Madhya Maharashtra is on the leeward side of the Western Ghats with districts like Pune, Sangli, Satara, Ahmednagar and Nandurbar in the rain shadow region. This means a rainfall deficiency of even 10-15% matters,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-deluge-last-year-pune-close-to-being-rain-deficient-in-july/articleshow/77096398.cms||Neha Madaan
July 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal colleges to start distributing forms in first week of August, fee reduction on cards||KOLKATA: The government and government-aided colleges across Bengal are set to distribute application forms to the various undergraduate courses from the beginning of August after the candidates receive the original marksheets on July 31. A large section of the colleges are also planning to provide relief to the students by reducing the semester fee or application fee as determined by the respective governing boards of colleges. One of the major reasons for colleges to delay the form distribution is to ensure transparency and better management. Though the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education has provided candidates with digital marksheets this year, which can be conveniently downloaded and updated on the application forms, most colleges are insisting on uploading the scanned copy of the original scorecards to ensure authenticity — as instructed by the state government. However, college authorities pointed out that several anomalies are detected when students do not upload the original marksheets and forged numbers are uploaded. As a result, the merit list has errors, which have to be later rectified once the candidates provide the original marksheets for verification. A government-aided college principal said, “This will prolong the application process. But to reduce mistakes, we plan to start after July 31,” said Vivekananda College principal Tapan Poddar. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar said that the college will begin distribution of application forms from the first week of August. “We have reduced the application fee from Rs 150 to Rs 125. Also, the students allotted hostels won’t be charged now,” Sarkar said. Indrila Guha, Principal of Basanti Devi College added that the forms are to be distributed from the first week of August onwards. Jaipuria College is also reducing the application fee this year. The proposal will be placed before the college governing body. “We are also considering decreasing the semester charges. But, it is subject to acceptance by the GB,” said a senior college official. At Vivekananda College, the average semester charges, including the tuition fee, is around Rs 3000 for BA, Rs 4500 for B.Sc and Rs 3000 for B.Com. The additional charges include the electricity cost, maintenance fee, laboratory charges, library fee, generator set cost and also a fee for the student union which is decided by the college governing body. “We are not able to reduce the tuition fee, which does to the government. But, we shall be saving some money in the college fund as the government is now paying the salary of the guest lecturers. Also, we desire to provide some relaxations to the parents and families since they are in economic distress due to the COVID situation. Considering all these factors, we will make various slabs and offer reduction,” said the principal of the college. Several private colleges have, however, started distribution of the application form. Colleges like Shri Shikshayatan College, Scottish Church College, St Xavier’s College (autonomous), Bhawanipur Education Society College and others have set their admission criteria and invited applications from the candidates. Bhawanipur Education Society College has reduced the semester fees. “We have reduced the semester fee for 2020-2021 academic session in all the courses run by the college. The library fees, sports fees, skill-building fees – facilities which a student can’t access that was earlier being charged, has been taken out from the first semester. However, if the problem persists, then the same reduction will be applied in the following semester,” said vice-chairman, the Bhowanipore Education Society College, Miraj Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-colleges-to-start-distributing-forms-in-first-week-of-august-fee-reduction-on-cards/articleshow/77095384.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 22, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Agents ‘offer’ BCom seats, quote up to Rs 5 lakh||CHENNAI: In the current Covid-triggered uncertainty, with educational campuses off limits to students and parents, a network of middlemen is targeting those desperate for admission in top arts and science colleges. Promising seats in any college, these ‘agents’ demand anything from Rs 80,000 to Rs 5 lakh for a BCom seat, the most sought after, with an advance of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 for the ‘booking’. Following reports of a message about such a group doing the rounds on WhatsApp, TOI called the number mentioned. The man who answered said he was working for a consultancy and wanted details of the caller’s Class XII marks. “Due to the heavy competition, managements have increased donations this year. For a BCom seat in Loyola College, you may have to spend up to Rs5 lakh and those like Madras Christian College (MCC) and DG Vaishnav College, it may touch Rs 3.5 lakh. The higher the marks are, the lower the donation will be,” he said. A seat at Ethiraj College for Women, he said, would cost Rs2 lakh. It’s very simple, the agent said. “Before the college reopens, we will call you to the college. You have to pay the donation and fees to get admission. We have our people in colleges and have done several admissions previously.” But, most city institutions say they don’t accept donation/capitation fee, with one institution even putting out a warning in its prospectus. “We do not collect any capitation fee for admission. But, brokers collect money in our college name. We are trying to prevent it,” said Loyola College principal Thomas Amirtham. The college, he said, had automated the entire process, with aspirants ranked according to the details fed. Based on the roster system, the selection list is released for 50% of seats. “Every year, we fine-tune admission process to not provide space for middlemen or agents.” It is a very serious menace, said R Ganesan, principal of DG Vaishnav College, adding that these people cash in on the students’ fear, given the present crisis. “Many may get admission in the normal process. But, agents project as if they got the seats with their influence. Students and parents need to be careful,” he said, adding that they had complained to police against such people. A faculty member of Ethiraj College said they were monitoring social media for any such ‘information’ about the institution and added they had lodged a complaint last year in this connection. Madras Christian College detected a group of such agents in Pallavaram and is planning to lodge a complaint with the cyber crime police. “We don’t collect donations or encourage any third party in our admission process,” said principal P Wilson. Guru Nanak College principal MG Ragunathan said parents or students wanting to know about admission to a particular course can always contact the college. “They need not approach unknown persons,” he said. The college plans to release the rank list for all applicants to ensure transparency. Some colleges have deputed experts to monitor middlemen on social media including WhatsApp and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/agents-offer-bcom-seats-quote-up-to-rs-5l/articleshow/77099650.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 22, 2020||Hubballi||Kudala Sangama sees sharp drop in footfall for second consecutive year||Bagalkot: Last year it was floods and this time it is Covid-19. Kudala Sangama, an important pilgrimage centre of Lingayats, where 12th century social reformer Basavanna spent his childhood and believed to have attained ‘lingaikya,’ has seen a sharp decline in pilgrims during Shravana month for the second consecutive year. About four lakh people used to visit the temple in Shravana every year to take holy dip at the confluence of Krishna and Malaprabha rivers. The spiritual discourses organised in the evening during the month were also quite popular. Last year too, the shrine had witnessed poor footfall due to floods as the pilgrimage centre submerged in water.This time, it is the fear of Covid-19 pandemic has kept the people away. Kudala Sangama Development Board (KSDB) has stopped abhisheka, tulabhara and all other rituals. Entry has been banned to Aikya Mantap. “Only darshan is allowed between 8am to 12 noon and 3pm to 5pm. Devotees are not even allowed to offer coconut, camphor,” stated one of priests at the temple.Shankar Madiwalar, a book stall owner, said that the temple submerged in river on August 9, 2019. “It badly affected our livelihood as the tourist inflow stopped. Just when we were recovering Covid-19 has come to haunt us,” he said. Most of the shopkeepers here have shut shop as they are unable to pay rent and many are on the verge of closing.Karasangayya Gudi, another shopkeeper, said that each one of them lost material worth Rs 2-3 lakh during floods last year. “We have requested the government to waive rent for six months and are waiting for a positive response. Our life has become miserable and we are seeking divine help,” he said. According to an estimation, about 100 shops had an average turnover of Rs 10,000 a day in Shravana. And the Kudala Sangama village would witness a business of Rs 3 crore in the holy month, including services like hospitality and transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kudala-sangama-sees-sharp-drop-in-footfall-for-second-consecutive-year/articleshow/77093714.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 22, 2020||Nagpur||Couple dies of Covid-19 within an hour of each other||Nagpur: A couple from Reshimbagh died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. The woman (60) died at home followed by man (66) at a private hospital within an hour of the death of former. Meanwhile, eight persons including a 75-year-old woman on dialysis who had tested positive for Covid-19 had to wait outside Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for admission for six hours. The district registered six Covid-19 positive deaths including the couple on Tuesday increasing the tally to 61. It is highest so far in the district in a single day since March 11. As per information available from doctors of Nagpur Municipal Corporation, man from Pushpanjali Apartment at Reshimbagh was admitted in a critical condition at private hospital situated at Jagnade square on Monday morning. He tested positive in the evening following which his wife and son also got tested from private lab. The woman was at home and also reportedly ill. Corporator Dr Ravindra Bhoyar came to know and asked NMC to send ambulance to shift her to GMCH. She died at around 11.30pm on Monday before ambulance could reach her home. An hour later, the man died at the private hospital. The reports of the woman came positive on Tuesday morning. This was the first couple in Vidarbha to die of Covid-19. Earlier, a father and son from Manish Nagar had died. NMC conducted funeral of the couple at Gangabai ghat. The son also tested positive following which the NMC for the first time conducted rapid antigen tests of people residing in 80 flats in the apartment. Three more persons from the building tested positive. A 40-year-old man from Trimurti Nagar was brought dead to GMCH on Monday and samples tested positive on Tuesday. A man from Nandanwan was admitted in critical condition at GMCH on Monday, died on Tuesday and his samples tested positive. A 45-year-old man from Kanhan was also brought dead to IGGMCH on Monday and his samples tested positive. A 51-year-old man from Kamptee was admitted at IGGMCH on July 17 as positive patient and and he died on Tuesday. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had time and again requested the people to get tests done and report to NMC or nearest hospital in case of any symptoms to prevent deaths. As far as GMCH’s issue is concerned, NMC had sent 8 positive patients in ambulance for admission in isolation ward at around 3pm. One of the patients was 75-year-old woman from Khamla who is on dialysis and a family with two-year-old child. The woman had tested positive at a private laboratory in morning and was taken to GMCH by her son. GMCH refused admission calling for reference from NMC. The two returned home and NMC sent an ambulance to pick her up at around 2pm. Still, she had to wait till 9pm in ambulance for admission. The son who also gave samples for testing had to be with his positive mother for six hours. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra said, “Such a thing never happened at GMCH. We have admitted positive patients with symptoms even efore they were referred by NMC. There seems to be some miscommunication between the staff of NMC and GMCH.” Sources in GMCH and IGGMCH told TOI they are facing serious inconvenience due to admission of large number of asymptomatic positive patients and NMC should increase the capacity of Covid Care Centre (CCC). The only CCC at MLA Hostel is now full. “Two hospitals are also facing shortage of staff due to duty on rotation basis and rise in non-Covid patients.” As per data available from office of Civil Surgeon, 249 positive patients were under treatment at GMCH on Tuesday followed by 229 at IGGMCH, 50 at AIIMS, 28 in private hospital, 327 in MLA CCC, 124 in Central Jail CCC and 103 were in process of admission. GMCH and IGGMCH are having capacity of 1,173 beds in isolation wards. Meanwhile, one of the fire station officers of NMC tested positive sending ripples among the staff members. Testing of all staff was assured on Tuesday but could not be done as entire team was busy at Reshimbagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/couple-dies-of-covid-19-within-an-hour-of-each-other/articleshow/77095945.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 22, 2020||Goa||‘Education dept staff will work overtime to ensure minimal delay in payment of salaries to schools’||Panaji: The new director of education Santosh Amonkar on Tuesday said that the salary of staff of aided schools for the month of July will not be delayed beyond 2 to 3 days.  Amonkar said his staff will work overtime on the weekend if needed to ensure that there is minimal delay in payment of salaries to employees of aided schools. “There may be a maximum delay in salaries by two to three days. There will not be a huge delay of say 15 days or so. We are taking care and we will even work on Saturday and Sunday. I have confirmed with our department’s accounts section and they have said that too much of a delay is not expected,” Amonkar said soon after taking charge as director on Tuesday. On Monday, Vandana Rao was transferred out from the post of director of education, following a controversial circular issued by her asking school managements of aided schools to pay the July salary of their staff. Rao had said that as one employee of directorate of education tested postive for Covid-19, staff of two sections were under home quarantine. The circular was withdrawn after chief minister Pramod Sawant intervened. A clarification circular had said that the state government itself will pay the July salary for staff of aided institutes, but there may be a delay due to directorate of education employees from the concerned section being under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/education-dept-staff-will-work-overtime-to-ensure-minimal-delay-in-payment-of-salaries-to-schools/articleshow/77095939.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Goa||Teachers meet new edu director, reiterate work from home demand||Panaji: As the new education director Santosh Amonkar took charge of the post on Tuesday, representatives of teachers’ and school heads’ associations handed a letter to him, reiterating their demand to implement the central government’s orders to allow teachers to work from home. The director assured teachers he would look into their demand on priority basis. The teachers in their petition stated that the directorate of education was violating central government orders and putting teachers’ lives at risk currently. “In pursuance of MHA guidelines dated June 29, and subsequent directives from the department of school education and literacy, Union ministry of human resource development dated July 6, we had made a number of representations to the directorate for allowing teahcers to work from home. However, till date no order has been passed in this regard,” states the petition to the director. The representation has been made by president of All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association Dattatreya Naik, president of higher secondary school teachers association of Goa Anant Pissurlekar, vice-president of Goa Headmasters’ Association Sanjay Shirgaonkar and president of principals’ forum Damodar Panchwadkar. “As the doors of number of schools are already knocked by the coronavirus, forcing teachers to attend schools regularly, even by public transport, where maintaining the health protocol is nearly impossible, is highly risky and unwarranted,” the letter to the director reads.  “No one has asked for any relaxation in work. Our request is only for change of place to do the same work. No school has provided network data or device for online teaching from school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-meet-new-edu-director-reiterate-work-from-home-demand/articleshow/77095944.cms||---
July 22, 2020||Kozhikode||Abused girl shifted to Kasaragod shelter home||Kozhikode: The girl, who was sexually abused by many people including her father, was shifted to Women and Children’s Home in Kasaragod on Tuesday. She was staying at her uncle’s house after complaining to police. But the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) found that the house was not safe for the girl. “The uncle’s house is just a few metres away from her own house and there is every chance that she will be influenced to retract her statement. Moreover, all the accused have not been arrested,” said P P Shyamala Devi, chairperson of CWC, Kasaragod. She said there was some reluctance from the girl’s relatives to shift her to the Women and Children’s Home. “But things went smoothly after police intervention,” she said. Shyamala Devi said there is serious lapse by two doctors who examined and did medical termination of pregnancy on the girl. “The girl was taken to a doctor after she missed her periods for two months. The doctor realized that she was pregnant. But without informing authorities, the doctor referred her to another physician for aborting the pregnancy,” she said. Police are aware of the role of the doctors and are likely to initiate legal proceedings against them. The name of the girl’s mother has also appeared in the FIR because she was aware of the girl’s abuse. The girl’s father, who is a teacher in the madrassa, and three others were arrested on Monday in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/abused-girl-shifted-to-kasaragod-shelter-home/articleshow/77095414.cms||---
